-- 
Stocks in Europe Tumble to 10-Week Low; Air France, SocGen Lead Decline

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-06T16:10:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/european-stock-index-futures-retreat-on-concern-global-growth-is-weakening.html
European stocks retreated for a
fourth straight day, pulling the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index to a 10-week low, amid growing concern the global economy
is weakening.  Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI)  and Societe Generale SA slid
more than 2 percent as a gauge of banks retreated to the lowest
since July.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,
Europe’s biggest airlines, fell after a trade group cut the
industry’s profit forecast.  The Stoxx 600 declined 0.6 percent to 272.16 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London , the lowest since March 22. The gauge has
fallen for five consecutive weeks, the longest stretch of losses
since July 2008, as U.S. manufacturing and jobs reports fueled
concern the economic recovery may falter and as speculation grew
that Greece will default on its debt.  “Investors feel like they are in something of a straight
jacket at the moment -- on the right arm you have European debt
concerns and on the left arm you have U.S. growth,” said
 Richard Hunter , head of U.K. equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc
in London. “Until we get past both of those concerns, it’s
difficult to see where a positive catalyst will come from.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 14 of the 16 western
European markets trading today. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  slid 0.3
percent, France’s CAC 40 lost 0.7 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE
100 climbed 0.1 percent as mining shares advanced. Sweden and
Ireland are closed for a holiday.  Greek Assistance  The European Union and  International Monetary Fund  last
week agreed to pay the next installment to Greece under last
year’s bailout, paving the way for an upgraded aid package that
includes a “voluntary” role for investors.  In Portugal, opposition Social Democrats ousted the ruling
Socialists in elections, putting  Pedro Passos Coelho  in charge
of enforcing austerity measures mandated by a 78 billion-euro
($114 billion) bailout. Coelho, who unseated Prime Minister Jose Socrates, said he would seek to forge a governing majority with
the third-place People’s Party to enact budget cuts that risk
worsening an economic slump and 12.4 percent unemployment rate.  UBI, the Italian bank that began a rights offer today,
retreated 4 percent to 4.60 euros, France’s  Societe Generale (GLE) 
declined 2.2 percent to 40.09 euros and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, slid 3.8 percent to
46.90 euros. A measure of banks had the biggest drop among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  Airlines Fall  Air France slipped 1.4 percent to 11.11 euros and Lufthansa
lost 1 percent to 14.54 euros. International Consolidated
Airlines Group, the parent of British Airways, fell 3 percent to
229.6 pence.  The International Air Transport Association cut its 2011
industry profit forecast by 54 percent because of higher oil
prices, political protests in the  Middle East  and North Africa,
and the Japan earthquake.  EON AG fell 2.2 percent to 18.42 euros and  RWE AG (RWE)  slid 0.8
percent to 37.88 euros. Analysts at Commerzbank AG reduced their
share-price estimates for Germany’s largest utilities by 10
percent “to reflect potential additional burdens” related to
the government’s decision to exit nuclear power.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Cabinet today approved an
energy overhaul package that seeks to phase out nuclear energy
by the end of 2022 and accelerate the country’s turn to
renewable resources, the chancellery said in Berlin.  Aegis Advances  Aegis Group Plc (AGS)  climbed 6.9 percent to 151 pence after the
U.K. buyer of advertising space said it is in talks about
selling its market research unit Synovate to French polling
company  Ipsos (IPS)  SA.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  advanced 1.5 percent to 56.25 euros after Phase
III Alsympca trial evaluating its investigational compound
radium-223 chloride in patients with castration-resistant
prostate cancer and bone metastases was found to significantly
improve overall survival.  Glencore International Plc gained 2 percent to 515 pence as
Deutsche Bank AG initiated coverage of the world’s largest
listed commodity trader with a “buy” recommendation, saying
the stock is undervalued.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  rose 3.6 percent to 17.96 euros as
analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc rated Germany’s
biggest private broadcaster “buy” in new coverage.  Separately, Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported that Permira
Holdings Ltd. is under no pressure to sell its stake in the
broadcaster, citing the head of the German operations, Joerg Rockenhaeuser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  