-- 
EU Banks’ Capital Deficit Means Greek Default Not an Option

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-06-07T08:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/european-banks-capital-shortfall-means-greece-debt-default-not-an-option.html
A failure by European regulators to
make banks raise enough capital to withstand a sovereign default
is complicating efforts to resolve  Greece ’s debt crisis.  The “fragilities” of Europe’s banking industry mean a
Greek default isn’t an option, European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in  New York  last
week. By delaying a decision some investors consider inevitable,
policy makers risk increasing the cost to European taxpayers and
prolonging Greece’s economic pain.  “European officials are trying to buy time for the
troubled economies to get their house in order and the banks to
be strengthened,” said Guy de Blonay, who helps manage about
$41 billion at Jupiter Asset Management Ltd. in  London .  While estimates of the capital shortfall vary, the
vulnerability of European banks to a sovereign shock isn’t
disputed. Independent Credit View, a Swiss rating company that
predicted Ireland’s banks would need another bailout last year,
found in a study to be published tomorrow that 33 of  Europe ’s
biggest banks would need $347 billion of additional capital by
the end of 2012 to boost their tangible common equity to 10
percent, even before any sovereign default.  European banks had $188 billion at risk from the government
debt of Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain  at the end of 2010,
according to a report this week from the  Bank for International
Settlements . European lenders held $52.3 billion in Greek
sovereign debt, with German banks owning the biggest share, the
BIS data showed.  ‘Voluntary’ Role  A year after the rescue that aimed to stop the spread of
the debt crisis, Greece remains mired in recession, shut out of
financial markets and saddled with Europe’s biggest debt load in
proportion to its economy. Moody’s Investors Service said June 1
that it sees a 50 percent chance of a Greek default. In a
Bloomberg survey last month, 85 percent of international
investors said Greece will probably default.  European officials are preparing a new aid package for
Greece that includes a “voluntary” role for investors after
the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  approved the fifth
installment of Greece’s 110 billion-euro ($160 billion) bailout
last week.  Policy makers in Europe have been debating how to let
private investors, including banks, join Greece’s bailout
without triggering a default. One option they’re considering is
asking investors to reinvest in new debt when existing bonds
mature, Rehn, 49, said last week.  ‘Kicking the Can’  Jean-Claude Juncker , 56, who leads a group of euro-area
finance ministers, floated the idea last month of a “soft
restructuring,” under which maturities of existing debt would
be extended. European Central Bank policy makers including Bank
of France Governor  Christian Noyer  have opposed that approach,
and Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings  said they would probably consider
it a default.  “They are kicking the can down the road,” said  Adrian Foster , head of financial market research for  Asia  at Dutch bank
Rabobank Groep NV in a Bloomberg Television interview on June 3.
“Politically, it’s not too attractive to be bailing out the
banks again should Greece default.”  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday gave his first
signal endorsing measures to encourage investors to buy new
Greek bonds to replace maturing securities. While Trichet said
he’s against imposing losses on creditors, he indicated he’d
approve of financial institutions maintaining their level of
outstanding credit. “That is not a default,” he said at an event
in Montreal late yesterday. “That is something the ECB would
consider appropriate.”  Bank Stocks Decline  Concern that European lenders lack the reserves to weather
losses on an estimated $136 billion in foreign claims on
Greece’s government, banks and companies led Laurence D. Fink,
chief executive officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest
money manager, to say on May 31 that Europe is going to need a
“giant TARP,” referring to the Troubled Asset Relief Program
that the U.S. introduced to rescue financial firms.  The 51-company Stoxx 600 Banks Index was the third-worst
performing group in the broader Stoxx 600 Index in the past
three months, falling 10 percent amid concern that policy
makers’ response to Greece’s debt crisis will have repercussions
for Ireland and Portugal, which also got bailouts from the EU
and IMF.  European banks are trading at 0.83 times book value,
according to the banks index, almost the widest discount since
the end of 2008 to their U.S. counterparts, which trade at 0.94
times book, based on the 24-member  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  The five-year
average price-to-book ratio of the 51 European lenders is 1.34,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Proper Return’  That banks in both regions are trading below book value
indicates investors don’t believe their assets are worth as much
as the companies say.  Low market valuations make any potential capital-raising
more dilutive for shareholders, said  Simon Maughan , head of
sales and distribution at MF Global Ltd. in London. Questions
about regulatory requirements are adding pressure on bank
stocks, making a quick recovery unlikely, he said.  “The big issue behind why price-to-book ratios are well
below averages is that the market is saying banks can’t make a
proper return and certainly not a return anything like they’ve
been used to getting,” said Maughan.  Higher Costs  Higher costs related to regulatory changes and slower
economic growth in the region make it difficult for European
lenders to increase revenue,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  CEO  Josef Ackermann  said in a speech June 1. Higher government funding
costs also make it more expensive for a nation’s banks to
borrow, he said.  “It comes as no surprise that most banks are currently
trading close to their book value and that forecasts for future
profitability in the sector have been cautious,” said
Ackermann, 63. “Because they tend to have lower profitability,
they also struggle more to build new capital organically as well
as raise fresh capital.”  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s largest lender, had net sovereign
risks tied to Greece of 1.6 billion euros at the end of last
year, the Frankfurt-based bank said in March.  Stress Tests  EU regulators are seeking to assuage investors’ concerns
about capital with a second round of stress tests on 90 lenders.
The  European Banking Authority  is promising tougher tests this
year after failing seven of 91 banks last year and finding a
capital shortfall totaling 3.5 billion euros, or about a 10th of
the smallest estimate from analysts. Ireland’s biggest banks
needed a rescue four months after passing the test.  Tests carried out in the U.S. in 2009 found 10 lenders
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Citigroup Inc. needed to
raise $74.6 billion of capital. The banks were required to raise
the funds from private investors or accept government aid.  In Europe, “the test will probably still turn out to be
relatively lax,” said Christian Fischer, a partner and banking
analyst at Zurich-based Independent Credit View. The rating
company picked a 10 percent tangible-common-equity threshold
because it’s about 30 percent above average ratio for the past
10 years. Tangible common equity excludes hybrid debt, goodwill
and preferred shares from  Tier 1 capital .  Goldman Survey  The EBA said on its website earlier this year that under
the stress-test scenarios banks will be expected to maintain a
core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5 percent.  A survey released yesterday by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
showed that 22 percent of 113 financial-industry respondents
expected the results to provide a “credible reflection” of
banks’ resilience, down from 35 percent before last year’s
exams. On average, respondents estimated the tests will find
that banks need to raise 29 billion euros of capital, Goldman
Sachs said, with lenders in Spain, Germany and Greece needing
the most.  Banks that fail the tests will have until the end of the
year to complete plans to recapitalize or restructure their
business, said Andrea Enria, chairman of the  EBA , in an April
interview. While the EBA will test for declines in sovereign
bond values, it won’t include a default in its stress scenario.  The publication of the results, scheduled for this month,
may be delayed until July after the lenders were asked to submit
more information, an EBA official said June 1.  International central bankers and supervisors meeting in
 Basel ,  Switzerland , have decided that banks need to hold more
capital to avoid future taxpayer-funded bailouts. The  Federal
Reserve  supports a proposal at the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  that calls for a maximum capital surcharge of 3
percentage points on the largest global banks, according to a
person familiar with the discussions.  Buying Opportunity  Independent Credit View conducted its own stress tests on
63 banks worldwide, assessing their capital needs by the end of
next year after applying assumptions for loan-loss provisions,
earnings growth and an increase in risk-weighted assets and
liquidity requirements as a result of stricter regulation.  Banks in Portugal,  Italy , Ireland, Greece and Spain had the
highest capital deficits, and would need to raise $154 billion,
or 67 percent of their market valuation, to boost tangible
common-equity ratios to 10 percent from 9.1 percent at the end
of 2010, according to the study.  The estimated capital shortage at 33 European banks amounts
to 29 percent of their combined valuation, compared with 20
percent for the North American banks analyzed, according to
Independent Credit View’s report.  Last Resort  For Dirk Hoffmann-Becking at Sanford C. Bernstein in
London, the impact of a Greek debt restructuring is “seriously
overstated,” making it a good time to buy banking shares.  “For the first time in nearly three years we are seriously
bullish on European banks,” he wrote in a May 27 note.  Citigroup raised European banks to “overweight” the same
day, citing the share drop as an opportunity to increase
holdings in “stronger” companies such as London-based Standard
Chartered Plc and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  of
Zurich, Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR)  in Oslo.  Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi , an ECB executive board member, was
less sanguine in comments yesterday, saying a sovereign debt
restructuring, in which bondholders would take losses, should be
an option of “last resort” because it may have “severe
implications” on the country and investors.  “More often than not, restructurings have been disorderly,
harmful and fraught with difficulties,” Bini Smaghi said at an
event in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 