-- 
Europe Inflation Slows First Time in 8 Months

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-06-06T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/europe-inflation-slows-first-time-in-8-months.html
European producer-price inflation
slowed for the first time in eight months in April on weaker
cost increases for intermediate goods as the  European Central
Bank  prepares to keep borrowing costs on hold.  Factory-gate prices  in the euro region gained 6.7 percent
from a year earlier after increasing a revised 6.8 percent in
March, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said
today. That’s the first decline since August. Economists had
projected an increase of 6.6 percent last month, according to
the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg news survey. From the
prior month, prices advanced 0.9 percent in April.  Crude-oil prices have retreated 8.7 percent over the past
two months to below $100 a barrel, easing pressure on companies
to pass on higher costs to protect earnings. With euro-area
growth faltering and governments struggling to contain a debt
crisis, the ECB has signaled it will keep its benchmark interest
rate at 1.25 percent when Governing Council members meet on June
9.  Energy prices at the producer level jumped 13.3 percent
from a year earlier last month after a 13.1 percent gain in
March, today’s report showed. The cost of intermediate goods
rose 7.3 percent, down from an 8 percent increase in the
previous month, while capital goods were 1.3 percent more
expensive in April.  The statistics office had previously reported an annual
gain in overall producer prices of 6.7 percent for March.  The ECB will release its latest economic forecasts on June
9. The Frankfurt-based central bank, which in March forecast
inflation to average 2.3 percent this year and 1.7 percent in
2012, may raise borrowing costs in July to fight price
pressures, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  