-- 
Europe Needs Trichet’s Unified Finance Ministry: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-06-06T04:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/europe-needs-trichet-s-unified-finance-ministry-simon-johnson.html
Jean-Claude Trichet , president of the
European Central Bank until October, last week floated two
proposals aimed at dealing with Greece and related eurozone
public-debt problems.  The first idea would allow European Union authorities to
override the policy decisions of member governments that can’t
come up with sustainable budgets, implying the creation of an
external control board for the likes of Greece. This approach
has been used in the past for very weak countries (as well as
for the cities of  New York  and  Washington  in recent decades). In
Europe today, it would have no political legitimacy and would be
completely unworkable -- imagine the street protests it would
spark.  The second idea would, down the road, create a  finance
ministry  for the European Union. It would issue debt and have
responsibility for a unified financial sector. This is just as
brilliant as  Alexander Hamilton ’s fiscal and financial
integration proposals for the young American Republic and, if
implemented properly, would fix the deep problems caused by the
original design of the eurozone.  The politicians who negotiated the monetary union -- in the
Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and in the details worked out prior to
the euro’s January 1999 launch -- had three choices. First, they
could have created a unitary fiscal system. It was rejected
because there was no appetite for this in any member country’s
electorate. National politicians were comfortable giving up
their central banks, which were becoming more independent in any
case, but knew they would have far less power if they lost
control of taxation and spending.  Federal System  Second, the architects could have created something akin to
the U.S. and  Canada : a federal authority with its own budget
authority and the presumption that states (or provinces) are on
their own fiscally, albeit with transfers of revenue for various
national programs. The U.S. government doesn’t guarantee the
debt of any state and nobody tells the states that they must
balance budgets (most do, but many also have large off-balance
sheet liabilities, particularly unfunded pensions.) If, for
example,  California  were to get deeper into trouble, there is an
almost zero probability that  Massachusetts  or any other state
would come to its rescue. And the obligations of state
authorities cannot generally be used as collateral for banks to
borrow from the  Federal Reserve .  Maastricht Criteria  Instead, European leaders opted for a middle way. To join
the monetary union, each country’s budget deficit had to be less
than 3 percent of gross domestic product and government debt
could be no more than 60 percent of the total economy. Once a
country met these criteria, it could be admitted to the union.
The problem was that all government debt -- regardless of the
size or condition of the national economy -- was presumed to be
essentially equal, including in determining whether it could be
used as collateral for  European Central Bank  borrowing.  This fatal flaw made possible a complete mispricing of risk
across the eurozone, meaning all sovereign obligations were
deemed “risk-free debt” (surely an oxymoron). Under the
prevailing Basel II rules, banks could hold a great deal of such
zero-risk debt -- essentially allowing them to have very high
leverage. Prior to 2008, it wasn’t unusual for big European
banks to have assets 30 or 50 times equity. The interest-rate
spread across different eurozone government bonds was just a few
basis points -- significantly less than the analogous spread
observed across Canadian provinces.  Unsound Policies  The problem was neatly stated by Trichet last week.
“Interdependence means that countries de facto do not have
complete internal authority,” he said. “They can experience
crises caused entirely by the unsound economic policies of
others.”  But who pursued these unsound economic policies? Was it the
Greeks with their current-account and budget deficits? Or was it
creditor countries, including  Germany , whose banks mispriced the
risk of lending to  Greece ? Or was the culprit the eurozone
fiscal arrangements that create the perception of mutual
guarantees that aren’t backed by any legal authority, but become
a reality because the Continent’s entire banking system could
implode if even one country were to slightly restructure its
debt?  How else did the ECB end up holding so much Irish, Greek
and Spanish credit risk?  Short-Term Fixes  The situation today isn’t hopeless and the Europeans are
good at coming up with short-term fixes that push them toward
more sensible integration, a point made by my colleague, Jacob Kirkegaard, at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics. He proposes specific ways that existing European
fiscal mechanisms can readily morph into more centralized
control.  But the long-term solution must involve the creation of a
European Ministry of Finance that could issue a reasonable
amount of well-managed debt, supported by credible revenue. That
would put both public finances and the financial system on a
sounder footing. Hamilton faced heavy odds when he pulled off a
similar feat, albeit with the help of a miracle at the
 Constitutional Convention , in 1787.  The goal is simple: Make it possible for a country such as
Greece to default on its debt without threatening to bring down
the entire eurozone financial system. Trichet, in his speech,
quoted Jean Monnet, the visionary of an integrated  Europe :
“Nothing is possible without men and women, but nothing is
lasting without institutions.” The institutional arrangements
created by Maastricht have brought millions of people into
economic jeopardy. It’s time for the men and women of Europe to
rebuild again.  ( Simon Johnson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paula Dwyer at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  