-- 
Evonik Carbon Black to Raise $1.1 Billion From Bonds, Loan

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-06-06T09:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/evonik-carbon-black-to-sell-seven-year-notes-in-dollars-euros.html
Evonik Carbon Black, a maker of
material used in tires and inks, plans to raise 770 million
euros ($1.1 billion) from senior secured bonds and a  credit line 
to fund its buyout by Rhone Capital LLC and Triton Advisers,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Evonik Carbon Black, through Kinove German Bondco GmbH, is
selling 600 million euros of seven-year bonds in euros and
dollars and will get a $250 million six-year super senior
revolving credit, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the terms are private.  New York-based Rhone Capital and Triton, a private equity
firm investing in the German-speaking and Nordic regions, will
put in 321.1 million euros of equity for the transaction, said
the person. Evonik Industries AG in Essen,  Germany  is selling
the carbon black unit to concentrate on its chemicals business.  Evonik Carbon Black will pay interest of 400 basis points
more than the benchmark lending rate for the credit line if its
debt is equal to or more than 3.25 times its earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, according to the
person. The interest margin will fall to as low as 350 basis
points if the ratio declines to less than 2.75 times, the person
said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and  Barclays Capital  are
managing the financing. A U.S. roadshow starts today, while
meetings with European investors start June 13, the person said.  The bonds are expected to be rated B2 by Moody’s Investors
Service and B by  Standard & Poor’s , the person said. High-yield
debt is graded below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Officials at Rhone weren’t immediately available to respond
to requests for comment outside business hours in  New York .
Triton officials in  Frankfurt  didn’t return an e-mail seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  