-- 
Ex-Madoff Employee Lipkin Pleads Guilty in Ponzi Scheme, Vows Cooperation

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-07T01:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/ex-madoff-employee-lipkin-pleads-guilty-in-ponzi-scheme-vows-cooperation.html
Former Bernard Madoff employee Eric Lipkin pleaded guilty to charges that he falsified documents to
help carry out the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.  Lipkin, 37, pleaded guilty to six criminal counts,
including conspiracy, falsifying records and bank fraud, in a
hearing today in Manhattan federal court. Lipkin agreed to
cooperate with the government in its investigation of the fraud
at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, which became
public with Madoff’s arrest in December 2008.  “I’d like to first apologize to my family, my friends and
all the victims in the case,” Lipkin told U.S. District Judge
Laura Taylor Swain.  Lipkin then told Swain that he falsified documents to show
non-existent account holdings, to put people on the Madoff
payroll who didn’t work for the firm and to fraudulently apply
for a construction loan. Swain accepted Lipkin’s plea before
approving an agreement between Lipkin and federal prosecutors to
release him on a $2.5 million bond pending his sentencing.  Swain told Lipkin he faces as long as 70 years in prison.
Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year term in a North Carolina
prison.  Frank DiPascali Jr., a key Madoff lieutenant, pleaded
guilty Aug. 11, 2009, to his role in the fraud and he faces as
long as 125 years in prison. The government said DiPascali gave
invaluable assistance in detailing Madoff’s fraud. Prosecutors
also obtained a guilty plea from Madoff’s former accountant,
David Friehling.  Five Ex-Employees  Five former Madoff employees charged by  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara’s office await trial before Swain in
connection with the money manager’s multibillion-dollar fraud.
All have pleaded not guilty.  Annette Bongiorno, who recruited investors and helped run
Madoff’s investment advisory office, and Joann Crupi, of
Westfield,  New Jersey , were arrested and charged by the U.S. in
November.  The U.S. previously charged Daniel Bonventre, Madoff’s ex-
operations chief, and Jerome O’Hara and George Perez, both
former programmers who worked at Madoff’s investment business.
No trial date has been set.  Swain said Lipkin, his wife and children must surrender
their passports. Lipkin’s bond will be secured by $800,000 in
cash and property. Swain set Dec. 15 for the next hearing in the
case.  SEC Lawsuit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Lipkin
today in the same court, seeking an order for him to disgorge
his ill-gotten gains. Lipkin’s salary at Madoff’s firm was
$225,000 a year and he received frequent bonuses, the SEC said
in the complaint.  “Lipkin also obtained a payment of $720,000 from Madoff to
purchase a house,” the SEC said. “Lipkin never signed a
promissory note for this payment, never discussed the terms of
the payment with Madoff, and never paid the amount back to
Madoff.”  The case is U.S. v. Lipkin, 10-CR-228, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The SEC case is
Securities and Exchange Commission, 11-cv-03826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 