-- 
Ex-Met Dykstra Charged With Grand Theft, Drug Possession in Los Angeles

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-06T21:20:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/ex-new-york-met-lenny-dykstra-is-charged-with-grand-theft-drug-possession.html
Lenny Dykstra, a former  New York Mets 
and  Philadelphia Phillies  outfielder, was charged with grand
theft for allegedly trying to lease cars using phony business
and credit information and with drug possession.  Dykstra, 48, who was indicted on a separate federal
bankruptcy fraud charge May 5, tried to lease high-end cars from
several dealerships by providing fraudulent information and
claiming credit through a phony business, Home Free Systems, Los
Angeles Deputy District Attorney Alex Karkanen said today in a
statement.  The ex-ballplayer was charged with five counts of attempted
grand theft auto, eight counts of filing false financial
statements, four counts of identity theft, three counts of grand
theft auto and three counts of possession of a controlled
substance, according to the e-mailed statement. Police found
cocaine, the drug Ecstasy and Somatropin, a synthetic human
growth hormone, during a search of his home in Encino,
 California , prosecutors said.  Dysktra and his co-defendants took a 2011 Ford Flex, a 2011
Lincoln MKS, and a 2011 Ford Mustang, and attempted to take two
2011 Cadillacs and a 2011 Mercedes-Benz E-350, according to the
criminal complaint.  The charges carry a maximum penalty of 12 years in prison.
Mark Werksman, an attorney for Dykstra, didn’t immediately
return a message left at his office.  Dykstra is scheduled to be arraigned today at Los Angeles
County Superior Court, said Karkanen, who will ask that bail be
set at $500,000 for the ex-ballplayer.  Grand Jury Indictment  Dykstra was accused in a grand jury indictment issued May 5
of looting his Sherwood Estates mansion in  Thousand Oaks ,
California, lying to a bankruptcy trustee about who stripped it
and denying selling items owned by the bankruptcy estate.
Dykstra filed for  bankruptcy protection  in July 2009 in Woodland
Hills, California.  Dykstra, known as “Nails,” joined the Mets in 1985 and
helped the team win the  World Series  the following year. He
played for the Philadelphia Phillies from 1989 to 1996.  The outfielder finished second to former San Francisco
Giants player  Barry Bonds  in National League Most Valuable
Player Award voting in 1993, when the Phillies reached the World
Series to face the Toronto Blue Jays. Dykstra had a career
batting average of .285, with 81 home runs and 404 runs batted
in, according to baseball-reference.  The case is People v. Dykstra, PA070678, California
Superior Court     (Los Angeles County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 