-- 
Ex-SAC Capital Manager Likens Expert Networkers to Match.com

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-06T19:45:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/ex-sac-capital-manager-likens-expert-networkers-to-match-com-1-.html
A former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager testified he made millions of dollars on
illegal inside information using expert networking firms, which
he likened to online dating service Match.com LP.  Noah Freeman, who pleaded guilty to  securities fraud  and is
cooperating with the government, resumed his testimony today in
federal court in  New York  against Winifred Jiau, 43. He said she
passed him “perfect information” about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. for at least eight quarters, and
that he made $5 million to $10 million on Nvidia and “broke
even” on Marvell.  Jiau, of Fremont,  California , is a former Primary Global
Research LLC consultant and the first of the so-called expert
networkers to go on trial as part of a U.S. crackdown on  insider
trading  at  hedge funds . Charged with conspiracy and securities
fraud, she faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted.  Freeman, 35, said the networking firms matched portfolio
managers with specialists in public companies from a database of
consultants. He called them “expert introduction firms”
adding, “They are firms where they introduce employees of these
companies to fund managers, sort of like Match.com.”  $1,000 a Call  Firms like Primary Global would provide a list of 20
consultants and the portfolio managers would choose to speak to
a specialist for a fee, charging as much as $1,000 a telephone
call. Freeman said SAC Capital used Primary Global as its sole
expert networking firm.  He said Primary Global also had a special program called a
“private” network of experts that managers could use
exclusively for a fee and provided a “season pass” that would
allow fund managers to get unlimited access to an insider.  Freeman said he had a secret agreement with Donald Longueuil, a former SAC Capital fund manager and the best man at
his wedding, and Sam Barai, founder of New York-based Barai
Capital Management LP, to get secret tips from Jiau.  The jury was shown an undated photograph of the three men
standing together, smiling broadly on a city street. Freeman
said he had met Longueuil at a speed skating club in  Boston  and
later befriended Barai.  ‘The Poohster’  Asked by Assistant  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman
what happened to their friendship, Freeman said, “It ceased to
exist.”  “For this, all three of us have been prosecuted for
insider trading, all three of us have pleaded guilty,” he said.
Freeman, Barai and Longueuil are cooperating with the U.S.  Freeman said he and Barai met with and agreed to pay Jiau
$5,000 a month for her exclusive information. He said the men
nicknamed Jiau “the Poohster,” based on the children’s book
character Winnie the Pooh.  Jiau’s earnings data was “an exact match,” which he said
helped give both funds he worked for, Sonar Capital Management
LLC in Boston and then SAC Capital, a competitive edge.  “It gave us the ability for us to know what the company
was going to say before they said it,” Freeman testified, “It
gave us a huge leg up.”  He said Jiau, who at the time worked for Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., had sources at  Santa Clara ,
California-based Nvidia, which makes graphics chips, and at
Marvell, a Santa Clara=based maker of chips for personal
computers and mobile phones. Jiau also worked briefly as an
outside contractor for Nvidia, prosecutors said.  Freeman testified he never told SAC Capital superiors about
his secret arrangement with Barai and Longueuil, saying that
“SAC had compliance policies and we wouldn’t have been allowed
to.”  Barai as Witness  Jiau’s lawyer has said she intends to call Barai as a
witness during defense testimony.  Mark Hyland, a lawyer for Sonar Capital and its founder
Neil Druker, said last week that “any statement that Sonar
Capital used insider trading as a business model is
categorically false.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC Capital, had no immediate comment.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-CR-161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  