-- 
Ex-Senator Santorum Announces Bid for Republican Presidential Nomination

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-06-06T16:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/ex-senator-santorum-announces-bid-for-republican-presidential-nomination.html
Former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of
 Pennsylvania , whose political career was derailed in 2006 when
he lost a re-election bid, today officially entered the race for
next year’s Republican presidential nomination.  “People have understood that something is wrong,” said
Santorum, 53, in his home area of Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
President Barack Obama is “devaluing our dollar and he’s
devaluing our other currency, our moral currency,” he said.  “If you’re going to sum up the mission of America, it’s to
make sure each and every person is free,” Santorum said.  Santorum already has been raising money for a White House
run through an exploratory committee he established earlier this
year. He told ABC News earlier today that he would run.  He criticized the 2010 health-care plan that Obama
shepherded into law, which requires all Americans to get
insurance or pay a penalty, and bars insurers from rejecting
customers with pre-existing medical conditions.  Santorum said the legislation would take away Americans’
freedom by making them more dependent on government.  “They want to hook you,” Santorum said. “They don’t want
to free you.”  Medicare Issue  He also praised the House Republican legislation to
eliminate traditional Medicare and instead give subsidies to
senior citizens to buy private insurance.  Santorum was one of the most outspoken opponents of
abortion rights while serving first in the U.S. House and then
two terms in the Senate. He is looking to attract the support of
social conservatives, who fueled former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee ’s victory in the Iowa caucuses in the 2008 Republican
race.  Such voters also make up a key bloc in  South Carolina ,
another early contest in the nomination quest. Huckabee
announced May 14 he had decided against another presidential
run.  “Obviously, Governor Huckabee and I share a lot on the
fact that we are strong conservatives on the moral, cultural
issues, and not just strong, but we’ve led on them,” Santorum
said May 16 on the Fox Business Network. “We’re not afraid to
talk about them. We’re not afraid to integrate them into the
discussion, which I think a lot of social conservatives want to
see and hear.”  Other Candidates  Santorum joins former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of
Georgia, Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  and former Governors
Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Tim Pawlenty of  Minnesota  as
announced candidates for the nomination to take on Obama.  Other potential Republican candidates include former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin, the party’s 2008 vice presidential
nominee; Jon Huntsman Jr., a former U.S. ambassador to  China  and
ex-governor of  Utah ; and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota, a favorite of the Tea Party movement.  Herman Cain, the former chief executive officer of
Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson also have declared their candidacies.  Polls of Republican-leaning voters have shown Santorum in
the low single digits in the large field of presidential
prospects.  Senate Defeat  First elected to the House in 1990, he won his Senate seat
in 1994. He was defeated in his 2006 bid for a third term by
Democrat Bob Casey, 59 percent to 41 percent.  Santorum recently attracted attention when he challenged
Arizona Senator  John McCain , the 2008 Republican presidential
nominee, over the issue of torturing enemy combatants, which
McCain opposes.  Santorum said that “enhanced interrogation” techniques
that include methods generally considered torture enabled U.S.
troops to get the information they needed to find and kill
terrorist leader Osama bin Laden.  McCain “doesn’t understand how enhanced interrogation
works,” Santorum said in a  May 17 interview  on the Hugh Hewitt
radio show. “I mean, you break somebody, and after they’re
broken, they become cooperative.”  McCain, a Navy fighter pilot captured during the Vietnam
War, was tortured during his several years in prison.  “Under torture, a person will say anything he thinks his
captors want to hear -- true or false -- if he believes it will
relieve his suffering,” McCain wrote in a  May 11 Washington
Post opinion piece .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 