-- 
Taylor Bean Ex-President Deserves 5-Year Sentence, U.S. Says

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-06T21:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/ex-taylor-bean-president-bowman-deserves-5-year-fraud-sentence-u-s-says.html
Raymond Bowman, the former president
of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., should be sentenced
to five years in prison for his part in a $3 billion fraud, U.S.
prosecutors told a federal judge.  Desiree Brown, the lender’s former treasurer, deserves an
eight-year term, the government said June 4 in court papers.  The two are to be sentenced June 10 by U.S. District Judge
Leonie Brinkema in Alexandria,  Virginia , for their roles in a
scheme that duped some of the country’s largest financial
institutions, targeted the federal bank bailout program and
contributed to the failures of Montgomery, Alabama-based
 Colonial Bank  and its parent,  Colonial BancGroup Inc. (CBCGQ)   “Bowman’s important -- although limited -- role in one of
the largest fraud schemes in recent history warrants a
substantial sentence,” prosecutors wrote.  Bowman, who lives in Atlanta, pleaded guilty in March to
one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, bank fraud and
securities fraud and one count of making false statements. He
faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison.  Prosecutors said Bowman, 45, should receive a shorter term
because he admitted his crimes and helped the government in its
case against  Lee Farkas ,  Taylor Bean ’s former chairman.  A jury in Alexandria found Farkas guilty April 19 of 14
counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and  securities fraud  after a
two-week trial. Farkas was taken into custody after the verdict.
He is to be sentenced on June 27.  Start of Fraud  Prosecutors allege the fraud began in 2002 when Farkas had
trouble meeting operating expenses, such as payroll and
mortgage-loan servicing payments owed to the government-
sponsored  Freddie Mac  and Ginnie Mae.  With assistance from officials at Colonial Bank, at one
time among the country’s 50 biggest, Farkas and other
conspirators sent mortgage data to the bank for loans that
didn’t exist or that Taylor Bean had already sold to other
investors, the government said.  Prosecutors said Brown, 45, should spend eight years in
prison because her role in the conspiracy was “substantial.”  Brown pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to commit
bank fraud,  wire fraud  and securities fraud. She faces a maximum
term of 30 years.  “She was fully aware that her actions were fraudulent, she
worked closely with Farkas in carrying out the fraud scheme, and
she administered the day-to-day activities of the fraud on
behalf of Farkas and TBW,” prosecutors said.  No Personal Profit  The government said she should be sentenced to less than
what’s called for in federal guidelines because she didn’t
personally profit and helped the government convict Farkas.  Brown’s lawyer, Jack Maro of Ocala,  Florida , said he will
ask the judge to consider sentencing his client to five or six
years in prison.  Bowman’s lawyer,  Eric L. Yaffe  of Gray Plant Mooty in
 Washington , declined to comment.  The Bowman case is U.S. v. Bowman, 11-cr-00118, the Brown
case is USA v. Brown, 11-cr-00084, and the Farkas case is USA v.
Farkas, 1:10-cr-00200, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  