-- 
Mezzanine Funds Growing as Investors Chase 18% Returns Projected This Year

-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-06-06T09:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/mezzanine-funds-growing-as-investors-chase-18-returns-projected-this-year.html
Mezzanine loans, which may earn as
much as 18 percent this year, drew fresh investment last week
with  Intermediate Capital Group Plc (ICP)  announcing plans for a 2
billion-euro fund ($2.9 billion) as the market rebounds.  The 16.9 billion-euro market is increasing its appeal as
defaults fall and investors use floating-rate debt as a defense
against rising interest rates. ICG is seeking 1.5 billion euros
in third-party funds for ICG Europe Fund V and will supply the
remaining funds out of its own balance sheet, it said June 1.
Park Square Capital LLP raised an 850 million-euro mezzanine
fund in April.  Falling mezzanine defaults are tempting investors back
after a 47 percent drop in first-quarter volumes, allowing U.K.
noodle bar chain Wagamama and Paris-based online travel agency
Karavel-Promovacances to raise 75 million euros of mezzanine
loans in the second quarter to fund their buyouts.  “The absolute return is still attractive,” said Klaus
Petersen, a partner at Park Square in London. “Expected returns
for mezzanine today are in the mid-teens on the debt and in the
high-teens including equity co-investments. Its risk is lower
than equity.”  ICG is targeting returns of about 18 percent with its new
fund expected to close next year, said  Mike Anderson , a director
in London-based ICG’s investor management group. Mezzanine debt
is used to finance leveraged buyouts, ranking behind senior debt
and sometimes offered with equity stakes.  Refinancing Gap  Mezzanine defaults have declined at the same time as
borrowers seek to fill a potential funding gap in the leveraged
loan market as $280 billion comes due in the next five years.
The floating-rate debt can also help investors hedge against
rising interest rates as central banks around the world act to
curb inflation.  New mezzanine funds will help replace about 50 billion
euros of lost capacity as collateralized loan funds, once the
biggest leveraged loan investors, start to wind down from next
year, according to ICG.  “In the medium term, the high levels of European buyout
debt maturing over the next four years at the same time as CLO
reinvestment periods expire will create demand for new sources
of capital to fill the gap,” ICG said in its annual earnings
report on June 1.  CLO issuance evaporated in the wake of the financial crisis
as investors blamed the hard-to-value assets for contributing to
$2 trillion of losses and writedowns. Since 2008 just one CLO
for 1.4 billion euros from ICG has been raised in  Europe .  Default Rate Falls  The default rate for mezzanine loans fell to 6.09 percent
in the first quarter, the lowest since the second quarter of
2010, according to Fitch Ratings. The lagging 12-month default
rate for the S&P European Leveraged Loan Index rose to 2 percent
in April from 1.7 percent a month earlier, according to  Standard
& Poor’s . High-yield bonds and leveraged loans are rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  Holders of the debt typically receive more than double the
interest margins of senior leveraged loans to compensate for a
higher level of risk. The average return for European buyout
mezzanine financing ranges from as little as 10 percent in 2007
to as much as 21 percent in 1991 and 1996, according to CEPRES
Mezzanine Research, part of Deutsche Bank AG’s DB Private
Equity.  Endemol Breach  Mezzanine defaults peaked at 8.12 percent in the third
quarter, mainly as a result of U.K. gaming company Gala Coral
Group Ltd. and European Directories BV which accounted for more
than 1 billion euros of the debt with no cash recovery,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  “In the height of the credit bubble we had structures
where the company couldn’t pay the interest out of its
cashflow,” said Petersen from Park Square. “Many of the guys
who didn’t understand mezzanine were wiped out - they had all
the defaults and they’re gone.”  Endemol NV, the Dutch producer of the “Big Brother”
television show, said last week it’s exploring options to
restructure its debt as widening losses will cause it to breach
covenants on 2.8 billion euros of loans, including 325 million
euros of mezzanine debt used to fund its 2007 buyout, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As new rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  are introduced, requiring banks to hold more capital
to deter them from taking risky bets on credit, mezzanine
providers will also be able to pick up assets in the secondary
market, according to Petersen.  “New regulation will force banks and other debt holders to
look at their balance sheets and to sell some of the assets
because the new risk capital allocation is too high to make the
returns work, which means there’s opportunity again for a
mezzanine investor to acquire assets from banks,” he said.  Full-year issuance of mezzanine debt will be at least 1
billion in 2011, according to a forecast by Ipes U.K. Ltd.,
which administers funds for private equity and mezzanine
managers. At the peak of the market in 2006, 13.4 billion euros
of mezzanine debt was sold, according to Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in  London  
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 