-- 
Facebook Used as Tool to Serve Court Papers

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-07T11:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/facebook-becomes-tool-to-serve-legal-papers-on-those-who-exist-only-online.html
Two years after an Australian lawyer
caused a stir by sending a foreclosure notice via  Facebook , the
practice of online legal service is spreading as a means for
courts to keep their dockets moving.  Courts in  New Zealand ,  Canada  and the U.K. have adopted the
Australian example to avoid having cases stall when people can’t
be located and served in person. Lawyers said the U.S. may not
be far behind in using the world’s most popular social-
networking service.  “There are people who exist only online,” said  Joseph
DeMarco , co-chair of the  American Bar Association ’s criminal
justice cyber crime committee, and a lawyer at New York-based
DeVore & DeMarco LLP. Being able to serve documents by social-
media networks would be a useful tool, he said.  While Facebook Inc. is under regulatory and legal scrutiny
in countries including the U.S.,  South Korea  and Germany for
failing to protect its 694 million users’ data, privacy
advocates said that serving court notices by mail or in person
often already provokes privacy complaints. Therefore using
Facebook doesn’t raise any new issues.  “There are going to be privacy concerns, but in some
respects they’re almost inescapable,” said Mark Rotenberg,
president of the Electronic Privacy Information Center in
 Washington . Someone “is going to be subject to legal service,
even though they may not be happy about it. But if they are
properly notified the law’s primary concern is addressed,”
whether the notice arrived via Facebook or not.  Reliable, Secure  The  Palo Alto , California-based company may find legal
papers served via its system a welcome recognition of the
security of its internal messaging function.  Following the 2008 foreclosure case, spokesman Barry Schnitt said the company was pleased to see the Australian court
validate Facebook as a reliable, secure and private
communication medium, the  Associated Press  reported. Andrew Noyes, a Facebook spokesman, declined to comment on its recent
use as an alternative means of delivering court documents.  “It seems only logical now that tools like Facebook or
Twitter be used” to contact people who can’t be traced using
traditional means, said  Daniel Hamilton , director of Big Brother
Watch in  London , noting such efforts don’t violate personal
privacy. “Now is it desirable? No.”  The judge in the Canberra case required lawyers to serve a
foreclosure notice on the couple at their home address and a
secondary address, as well as via Facebook, said  Archie
Tsirimokos , a managing partner at Meyer Vandenberg Lawyers who
represented creditor  MKM Capital .  Calls, Faxes  Since then, courts have grown more lenient in approving the
use of Facebook. In March, Hilary Thorpe, a lawyer in East
Sussex,  England , persuaded a British court to allow her to serve
a woman solely through her Facebook account, after showing that
calls, faxes and visits had failed to track her down.  The people in both the U.K. and Australian cases were
successfully notified in the eyes of the court, the lawyers
said. Tsirimokos said that “within a day” of sending the
notice, the recipient’s privacy settings in the Australian case
were tightened, showing the debtors got the notice. MKM won a
court order and then seized and sold the house.  Thorpe, who sent the notice via Facebook’s private message
system, said “it was a matter of minutes for the debtor to
respond to the e-mail,” allowing the case to move ahead.  U.S. lawyers say it would be helpful if their courts
allowed the practice, and privacy experts don’t see it as a
concern because U.S. court documents are already public.  Unethical Friending  The challenge would be to collect enough proof to convince
a court the accountholder is the right person and the page is
checked often enough to ensure it’s a fair path of notification,
DeMarco said. This would need to be done without violating
ethics codes that would prevent lawyers from “friending” the
target under false pretenses to get past security settings.  Not everyone with a Facebook page visits the site
regularly, as seen with statistics comparing the number of
users, tracked by the website  Socialbakers.com , with the number
of visits, tracked by ComScore Inc. Of the 150 million U.S.
users, there were just over 145 million unique visitors there.
In the U.K., Facebook’s third-largest market with 29.5 million
users, there were 27.8 million visits, according to ComScore.  “Nothing on its face in New York state or federal law
precludes it,” DeMarco said.  There are countries, like  France  and  Germany , where
electronic delivery isn’t allowed in any form. French law
requires delivery in person.  “It wouldn’t be admissible procedurally to send a message
by Facebook,” said Matthieu Bonduelle, head of France’s
Magistrates’ Union.  English court rules permit electronic document service,
said  Danvers Baillieu , a technology-law specialist in London.  “As far as the law is concerned, it’s just a method of
delivery,” he said. “The precise form of technology is neither
here nor there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 