-- 
Facebook Boasts Youngest Workforce Among Top High-Tech Companies

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-06-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/facebook-boasts-youngest-workforce-among-top-high-tech-companies.html
Facebook Inc. employees are the
youngest and most satisfied, and yet the most stressed, among
workers at big U.S. technology companies, a survey found.  Facebook had the lowest median age, 26, as well as the
highest portion of female workers, 33 percent, among nine of the
industry’s top businesses, according to  PayScale Inc. , a
Seattle-based research firm. Employees at  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  were the oldest surveyed,
with a median age of 44.  The social-networking site, run by the 27-year-old  Mark Zuckerberg , has thrived by disrupting more-established
technologies, such as Internet search and Web portals. That
upstart spirit extends to its hiring policies, where workers
aren’t judged by how many years they’ve spent in the business.  “We really don’t believe that you have to have a lot of
experience to make a big difference,” Zuckerberg says in a
video on the company’s career  website . “Look at me, right? I
started this from college.”  PayScale collected online surveys from employees at
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Apple Inc.,  Dell Inc. (DELL) , Facebook,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
Hewlett-Packard, IBM,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The
results aren’t verified by the companies and aren’t a scientific
sampling because they depend on individual workers submitting
their data.  Apple’s median starting salary was $43,100, excluding
the company’s retail employees, according to PayScale’s survey.
That puts it at the bottom on the list. Microsoft was highest,
with pay of $86,900.  Apple’s Designers  Even so, both pay a 15 percent premium over what workers
would get elsewhere, said Al Lee, PayScale’s  director of
quantitative analysis . The difference may stem from the mix of
jobs at each company, he said. The pay figures also don’t factor
in  stock options .  “Apple may have a bunch more designers and Web marketers
on staff than some of the other companies, and that might pay
less,” Lee said. The company also employs an in-house support
staff to answer calls, unlike some big technology companies.  At Facebook, workers make about $59,100 to start, 49
percent more than the national average. They get a 13 percent
premium over what employees would earn at similar positions at
other companies, the survey found.  That extra pay comes with a dose of pressure, according to
PayScale. Employees ranked highest in job satisfaction but also
indicated their work was “highly stressful,” tying them with
Amazon’s workers. The seven-year-old  Palo Alto , California-based
company is constantly innovating in an effort to stay on top of
the social-networking field.  ‘Be Bold’  In the video, Zuckerberg extols workers to “be bold,”
because “what we’re trying to do is different than what
everyone else has done before.”  As the economy rebounds, the biggest technology are having
to work harder to retain talented employees, said Tom Silver,
senior vice president of  Dice Holdings Inc. (DHX) , a job-listing
website. Resurgent demand for corporate technology, the shift to
cloud computing and the rise of social media are all increasing
the need for staff, he said.  “You’ve got more traditional companies that need to build
and improve infrastructure, they’re putting their data in the
cloud -- who knew what that was a few years ago?” Silver said.
“The demand for tech talent is pretty extreme.”  In January, Google announced plans to give employees a 10
percent raise to retain talent. The company pays the highest
premium -- 23 percent -- above what workers with similar roles
at other companies are paid, according to the report.  Employee Perks  Google also is known for employee perks, including a
gourmet cafeteria and on-site massages. Google was tops in mid-
career median pay as well, at $141,000. Its employees ranked as
the second-youngest behind Facebook, at 31.  “The most successful companies always pay the most, have
the most benefits and the perks,” said  John Challenger , chief
executive officer of Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. “Google
and Facebook are the stars.”  In terms of the pay premium, established technology
companies didn’t fare as well. Hewlett-Packard, founded in  1939 ,
pays its workers 5 percent less than the market average,
PayScale found. Mid-career workers at the company also make the
lowest median salary, $91,600.  IBM, which is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year,
pays its workers a 5 percent premium, putting it third from the
bottom. Dell, which pays 4 percent above the market average, was
second-lowest on the list.  “Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Dell are all successful
companies, but they’re clearly running their business in a
different way, in terms of the kind of talent they’re
recruiting,” Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  