-- 
Fake Rockefeller Used Charm, Bogus Rothko to Woo McKinsey’s Boss: Review

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-06-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/fake-rockefeller-used-charm-bogus-rothko-to-woo-mckinsey-s-boss-review.html
In “ The Man in the Rockefeller
Suit ,” Mark Seal recounts the deeply creepy story of the
con artist who for 16 years passed himself off as a
Rockefeller among a wealthy set in  Manhattan  and on
Boston’s Beacon Hill.  Presently he’s doing time in  Massachusetts  for
kidnapping and assault. Seal strongly suggests that he may
someday be doing more for one or possibly two murders in
Southern  California  that are still being investigated.  The prisoner was born Christian Karl Gerhartsreiter in
1961, in a small Bavarian town. Arriving in the U.S. on a
tourist visa in 1978, he quickly began remaking himself. He
moved to wealthy  San Marino , California, in 1981, calling
himself Christopher Mountbatten Chichester.  The whiff of British nobility (clearly he was adept
with accents) sprung open his neighbors’ doors. Over the
next four years he found various ways into their wallets,
scammed an alcoholic widow and very possibly murdered her
son and his wife.  In 1985 he turned up in Greenwich,  Connecticut , as
Christopher Crowe. Somehow he talked his way, with no
credentials, into a vice presidency at the New York branch
of Nikko Securities, the Japanese brokerage firm, and then
into the international bond department of Kidder, Peabody &
Co. When the California police caught the scent of his
trail, in 1988, he vanished again.  The Cousins’ Cousin  James Frederick Mills Clark Rockefeller appeared in
Manhattan in 1992. All it took to convince people he was
the real deal was that magical surname (“Are you one of the
Rockefeller cousins?” “No, I’m one of the cousins’
cousins”) and a fake collection of Mondrians, Rothkos and
Motherwells that over the years fooled even dealers.  He wooed Sandra Boss, a young financier who would soon
start her rise through the ranks at McKinsey & Co.
(“There’s a difference between intellectual intelligence
and emotional intelligence,” she explained at his trial.)
After they married in 1995, her high salary allowed him to
keep bankrolling his charade, which lasted until 2007.
Then, fed up with his controlling nature, though still not
suspicious about his identity, she filed for divorce.  A private investigator she hired to do an asset search
during their nasty split-up informed her that her husband
was a fraud. But his real undoing was their daughter.
Children “have a way of getting to your heart,” he later
told the FBI sheepishly. Cornered, he gave up custody in
exchange for $800,000. Then he came up with the kidnapping
scheme.  Bavaria to California  You can’t fault the author’s energy. Between Bavaria
and California and  New York  and elsewhere, he’s worn out
scads of shoe leather tracking down everybody who might
talk to him, and the group that agreed to was surprisingly
large, considering how badly they were taken in. Yet the
book feels thin.  Seal contents himself with nailing down the facts,
but, bizarre as they are, they’re not enough. He’s got his
hands on a lulu of a case history, yet he makes only a few
weak stabs at psychologizing. He shows no awareness at all
of the cultural reverberations in a story that has strong
echoes of “ The Great Gatsby .”  Worst of all, he never manages to hit the right tone.
He could use some of his subject’s savoir-faire. Without
it, he comes across as a voyeur and a rube in the world of
wealth that Christian Karl Gerhartsreiter sailed into with
all the entitlement of a blueblood.  “The Man in the Rockefeller Suit: The Astonishing Rise
and Spectacular Fall of a Serial Imposter” is published by
Viking (323 pages, $26.95). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 