-- 
Fed’s Fisher Says Regulators May Need to Break Up Big Banks

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-06-06T21:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/fed-s-fisher-says-regulators-may-need-to-break-up-big-banks.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  reiterated his view that the nation’s
largest banks may eventually need to be broken up to prevent
them from posing threats to stability and economic growth.  “I trust regulators will rise to the challenges posed by
the financial crisis,” Fisher, 62, said today in the text of a
speech in New York. If they don’t, “we will ultimately have to
take more Draconian measures.”  Fisher echoed concerns among Fed district bank presidents,
including  Thomas Hoenig  of Kansas City and  James Bullard  of  St.
Louis , that the financial-overhaul law enacted last year may not
be strong enough to solve the too-big-to-fail problem and to
prevent a meltdown by one or more big banks from damaging the
economy. The Dallas Fed bank chief didn’t comment about the
future path of monetary policy.  “If after the myriad rules and regulations are written and
implemented we have not eradicated too big to fail from our
financial infrastructure, reform will have failed yet again,”
he said in the speech at the Market News International Seminar.
One option is to “simply break up the largest banking
organizations” to eliminate the risks they might pose.  The legislation, named after Massachusetts Representative
 Barney Frank  and former Connecticut Senator Christopher Dodd,
was enacted in July in response to a credit crisis that has
resulted in $2.02 trillion in writedowns and credit losses at
financial firms globally. The law establishes an oversight
council charged with detecting threats to the financial system,
and gives the Fed new oversight of nonbank financial companies.  Fisher, who votes on the Federal Open Market Committee
this year, dissented five times in favor of tighter policy the
last time he was a voting member in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  