-- 
Fed Exit Should Start ‘Long Before’ Jobs Recovery Is Assured, Plosser Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-06-06T12:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/fed-exit-should-start-long-before-jobs-recovery-is-assured-plosser-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said an exit from stimulus measures
should start “long before” a recovery in the U.S. jobs market
is assured.  “Somewhat tighter monetary policy is possible by the end
of the year,” he said today at a press conference, after
speaking at an event organized by the  Bank of Finland  in
Helsinki. “We will have to begin exiting from our policies long
before the  unemployment rate  is down to what people would like
to have. That’s going to be a difficult decision.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee , which includes Plosser, are considering the tools
they would use to pull back stimulus, according to the minutes
of their April meeting. One possible sequence is to end the
policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing securities and
later raise  interest rates  and sell assets, though such moves
“would not necessarily begin soon,” according to the minutes.  “The challenge of when to begin to reverse course, the
challenge to pick the timing and the pace of that correctly, is
the challenge that we’re going to face,” Plosser said. “We
will have to figure out a way to do it at the right time,
because if we wait too late, we fall into traps.”  Plosser, 62, voted to complete the central bank’s $600
billion of bond purchases and backed its decision to keep
interest rates “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”
In 2008, he dissented twice in favor of less monetary stimulus.  Dollar Gains  The dollar gained 0.2 percent against the euro to trade at
1.4603 at 12:55 p.m. in  London .  The “hurdle” for further quantitative easing is “very
high,” Plosser said. He also warned that the government is on
an “unsustainable” fiscal path.  Plosser said labor market numbers last week were
“disappointing, certainly,” while adding they won’t change the
Fed’s medium-term outlook.  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months and the
U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent in May,
reinforcing signs that a slowdown in the world’s largest economy
is persisting into the second quarter, Labor Department figures
showed on June 3.  Employers added 54,000 jobs last month, after a revised
232,000 gain in April missed initial estimates. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for payrolls to rise
165,000. The jobless rate climbed to the highest level this year
from 9 percent a month earlier.  Inflation Target  At the same time, consumer prices rose an annual 3.2
percent in April, the fastest pace since October 2008, the Labor
Department said on May 13.  Core inflation , which strips out the
impact of food and energy, gained to 1.3 percent, the fastest
pace since February last year.  Inflation expectations need to be “better anchored,”
Plosser said.  In prepared comments delivered earlier today, Plosser
repeated his call for the Fed to commit to an explicit target
for the rate of inflation. He also called for the central bank
to reduce its balance sheet from $2.79 trillion to “less than
$1 trillion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  