-- 
Fisher Says Central Bank Has ‘Done Enough if Not Too Much’ to Help Economy

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-06-06T23:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/fisher-says-central-bank-has-done-enough-to-stimulate-economy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank has “done enough
if not too much” to stimulate the economy and “one has to
question the efficacy” of doing more.  While “it’s going to be a very slow slog” for the
economy, the U.S. should grow at more than a 3 percent annual
rate in the second half of this year, Fisher, 62, said today in
response to audience questions after a speech in New York.  The Fed is set to complete its second round of large-scale
bond purchases this month, and Fisher has said he will be among
the first policy makers to push for a reversal of policy as
needed. The Dallas chief, who votes on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  this year, dissented five times in favor of tighter
policy the last time he was a voting member in 2008.  In his speech, Fisher reiterated his view that the nation’s
largest banks may eventually need to be broken up to prevent
them from posing threats to stability and economic growth. He
echoed concerns among Fed district bank presidents, including
 Thomas Hoenig  of Kansas City and  James Bullard  of  St. Louis ,
that the financial-overhaul law enacted last year may not be
strong enough to solve the too-big-to-fail problem and to
prevent a meltdown by one or more big banks from damaging the
economy.  “I trust regulators will rise to the challenges posed by
the financial crisis,” Fisher said in the speech at the Market
News International Seminar. If they don’t, “we will ultimately
have to take more Draconian measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  