-- 
Fitch Says Slovak May Exceed Budget Deficit Goals

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-06-07T14:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/fitch-sees-slovakia-exceeding-budget-goal-affirms-a-rating-1-.html
(Corrects amount of projected deficit for 2011 in fifth
paragraph in story originally published on June 6.)  Slovakia will probably exceed its
budget-deficit target for the coming two years as the government
may fail to implement its saving measures, Fitch Ratings Ltd.
said.  Fitch affirmed Slovakia’s rating at A+ today, its fifth-
best assessment, with a stable outlook, citing economic growth,
low inflation and the banking sector’s relative strength in the
euro-zone member.  “Fitch believes the center-right coalition government is
strongly committed to fiscal consolidation and expects it to
make significant progress,” it said in a statement from  London .
“However, Fitch expects moderate slippage from government
targets due to the possibility of weaker-than expected growth,
implementation risk and further slippage in some areas of
expenditure.”  The administration of Premier Iveta Radicova seeks to
reduce the fiscal gap below the European Union’s limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product by 2013 after a recession two
years ago caused the deficit to widen. The four-party coalition,
in power since July, still needs to agree on more budget
measures at a time when austerity is causing its popularity to
drop.  Fitch expects the budget deficit to reach 5.7 percent of
GDP in 2011, compared with a target of 4.9 percent. In 2012, the
gap will probably reach 4 percent, exceeding the goal of 3.8
percent.  A further overshooting of fiscal targets and failure to cut
the  budget deficit  in sustainable manners could probably lead to
a negative rating action, Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava News at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Radoslav Tomek at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net  