-- 
Fitch Raises Hungary Outlook to Stable on Spending

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-06-06T16:17:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/fitch-raises-hungary-outlook-to-stable-on-spending-correct-.html
Hungary ’s credit rating outlook was
raised to stable from negative by  Fitch Ratings  on government
plans to cut the biggest debt among the European Union’s eastern
members.  Hungary’s rating was affirmed at BBB-, the lowest
investment-grade ranking,  Ed Parker , Managing Director in
Fitch’s Sovereign Group, said in a statement today. Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  also rate Hungary just
above junk level, with negative outlooks.  The country, which got a 20 billion-euro ($29 billion)
international bailout loan in 2008, plans savings reaching 900
billion forint ($5 billion) annually in 2013 and 2014, starting
with 550 billion forint in 2012, to put budget financing on a
sustainable footing, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on
March 1. The measures include a delay in cutting the corporate
income tax rate, the extension of a bank tax and stricter
retirement and welfare rules.  “The revision in the outlook to stable reflects the fiscal
policy targets and measures announced by the Hungarian
government,” Parker said in the statement.  The forint and the BUX index of stocks pared declines after
the report. The currency was down 0.5 percent against the euro
to 265.42 at 5:02 p.m. in Budapest, after falling as much as 0.9
percent. The BUX fell 0.2 percent, following a retreat of as
much as 0.6 percent.  Delivery  “Markets will want to see some delivery of the reform
program for an actual credit upgrade to take place,”  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $3.5 billion at Aviva Investors
in  London , said in a telephone interview after the Fitch
statement. “That could happen in 2012 at the soonest.”  Hungary’s budget overhaul may prompt credit assessors to
raise the country’s debt rating in the second half of 2011, news
portal Mfor.hu reported today, citing Roland Natran, deputy
state secretary at the  Economy Ministry . The implementation of a
spending-cut plan is going according to schedule, Natran told
Mfor.hu, adding that the government is willing to introduce new
measures if the plan doesn’t succeed in trimming the budget gap
as much as expected.  The change in Fitch’s outlook may support the forint more
than Hungarian bonds, Curtis said.  “I don’t see a lot of value left in the domestic  bond
market  unless the central bank cuts interest rates,” Curtis
said, referring to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s benchmark rate,
which stands at 6 percent.  Hungary’s bonds have returned as much as 26 percent so far
this year in dollar terms, the biggest gains worldwide,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The forint has risen
14.5 percent against the dollar and 5 percent against the euro
this year, the most among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Hungary last month completed its 4 billion-euro foreign-
currency borrowing plan for 2011, which Fitch said increased
confidence the country can meet financing needs in the next few
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  