-- 
Flaherty Budget to Show How Canada Will Finance Election Vows

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-06-06T04:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/flaherty-budget-to-show-how-canada-will-finance-harper-s-election-pledges.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , whose  Conservative Party  won a majority in last
month’s election, will commit today in his 2011 budget to erase
the country’s deficit during the government’s mandate while
fulfilling campaign promises.  Flaherty has said he will issue a fiscal plan that will
make only “modest” changes to the one presented on March 22,
which didn’t pass Parliament before the election. The document
will be released at about 4 p.m. New York time.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s May 2 election victory gave
him what he says is a mandate to bolster the economic recovery
with additional tax cuts and erase the deficit through curbs on
government spending. Harper, who has governed since 2006 without
control of the legislature, pledged last week to eliminate the
deficit in 2014, one year earlier than planned.  “We must eliminate the deficit and return to balanced
budgets to ensure that our economy can continue to grow and
create jobs,” Harper said June 3 in a  Speech from the Throne ,
the ceremonial opening of a new legislative session in Ottawa.
“Our government’s plan will put us on a strong footing to
resume paying down the federal debt, further reduce taxes on
families and continue investing in priorities.”  Canada  posted 3.9 percent annualized economic growth in the
first quarter, second only to  Germany  among Group of Seven
nations and more than twice the U.S. rate. Still, the  Bank of
Canada   predicted  in April economic growth would slow in the
second quarter to about half the first-quarter pace. The
faltering U.S. recovery has damped the ability of Canada -- the
only net commodity exporter in the G-7 -- to benefit from rising
prices, Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said May 16, as
higher costs crimp U.S. growth.  Worst Performing Currency  Canada’s dollar has fallen against all 16 of the most-
traded currencies over the past three months, according to
Bloomberg data, dropping 12.3 percent against the Swiss franc
and 5.4 percent against the euro, amid concern a weak U.S.
recovery will prompt Carney to delay interest rate increases.
Canada sends about 75 percent of its exports to the U.S.  While the government’s March fiscal plan projected a
surplus by 2015, Harper promised during the campaign to
accelerate that timetable by finding C$4 billion in annual
savings in  government spending .  The government will undertake a review of spending “in
order to accelerate the return to a balanced budget and to
eliminate the deficit one year earlier,” Harper said in the
throne speech.  Spending Promises  The budget will also account for spending  promises made 
during the election campaign, including C$2.2 billion to
compensate  Quebec  for merging its provincial  sales tax  with the
federal levy. As well, it will contain C$400 million for a
program that benefits homeowners who carry out energy-saving
improvements, increases in an income supplement for low-income
seniors and tax breaks to encourage more doctors to work in
remote areas.  The plan will include tax breaks for people taking care of
infirm dependent relatives, the throne speech said, similar to a
proposal that had been made by the main opposition  Liberal
Party .  Flaherty’s March budget also included a two-year extension
of an accelerated capital cost allowance estimated to cost C$620
million, and an extension by one year of a 15 percent tax credit
for mineral exploration.  Corporate Tax Cuts  Canada’s fiscal plan will also move ahead with planned
corporate income tax cuts, Flaherty has said. Canada reduced the
federal rate by 1.5 percentage points to 16.5 percent on Jan. 1,
and it will fall to 15 percent in 2012 under legislation passed
in 2007. Royal Bank of Canada,  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and Suncor
Energy Inc. -- the country’s three biggest taxpayers over the
past 12 months -- will be among the beneficiaries.  Flaherty, who has presented all six of  Harper’s budgets ,
will get an opportunity to introduce for the first time a fiscal
plan that won’t also require support from opposition lawmakers
to pass. Under Flaherty, program expenditures have increased by
40 percent to C$245 billion as he sought to placate opposition
parties and win favor with voters.  A majority government may also make it easier to press
ahead with free-trade agreements, and open industries to foreign
investment to sustain spending by businesses that is driving
growth.  In his throne speech, Harper pledged to “welcome” foreign
investment and seek to complete free-trade agreements with the
European Union and  India .  Canada’s government now has “the consensus through a
majority in order to put these structural medium and long-term
policies together,” Jose Angel Gurria, secretary-general of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said in a
June 3 Bloomberg interview in Ottawa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  