-- 
Flaherty Commits to Eliminating Canada Budget Deficit by 2014 Fiscal Year

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-06-06T20:07:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/flaherty-commits-to-eliminating-canada-budget-deficit-by-2014-fiscal-year.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , whose  Conservative Party  won a majority in last
month’s election, committed in today’s 2011 budget to erase
the country’s deficit during the government’s mandate while
fulfilling campaign promises.  Flaherty said he will seek to bring the federal
government back into surplus by 2014 by implementing a review
of government operating costs that will save up to C$4 billion
($4.1 billion) annually. His  budget document  released today,
which doesn’t account for any of the operating savings,
projects a return to balance in 2015.  “In the private sector this would be viewed as not very
ambitious,” Flaherty told reporters in Ottawa before
presenting the budget, referring to the savings. He said the
total amounts to 5 percent of the government’s C$80 billion in
annual discretionary spending. “It’s challenging to do. Is it
doable? It’s absolutely doable.”  Today’s fiscal plan has few changes to the one presented
on March 22, which didn’t pass Parliament before the election.
It projects a deficit of C$36.2 billion for the fiscal year
that ended in March, down from an initially projected C$40.5
billion, due to lower program spending.  The deficit for the current fiscal year is forecast at
C$32.3 billion, C$2.7 billion more than earlier projected.
That includes C$2.2 billion to compensate  Quebec  for merging
its provincial  sales tax  with the federal levy, which was
announced by the government during the election campaign.  Forecasts Unchanged  The budget document projects a deficit of C$300 million
for the 2014 fiscal year, and a surplus of C$4.2 billion for
the 2015 fiscal year. Both numbers are unchanged from the
March fiscal plan. Including projected savings from the
operating review plan, the country would run surpluses of
C$3.7 billion in 2014 and C$8.2 billion in 2015, according to
the budget document.  The federal debt is projected to be C$3.3 billion less in
2010-11, and $6.6 billion less over the six-year planning
horizon.  The revised deficit projections led the government to
adjust its debt management strategy for the current fiscal
year. The government will cover its extra borrowing needs by
issuing an additional C$5 billion of Treasury Bills, bringing
the total to C$150 billion, C$3 billion of which will be used
to refinance maturing bills issued in the last fiscal year,
the documents show.  Slower Growth  Flaherty’s budget kept the same economic forecasts as the
March fiscal plan, projecting GDP growth of 2.9 percent in
2011 and 2.8 percent in 2012.  The budget said that while economic growth in the first
quarter was faster than expected, recent indicators suggest
the pace of expansion will slow in the second quarter. The
document also said the focus of concern has shifted towards
sovereign debt in  Europe  and away from oil price volatility
and the impact of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.  Canada  posted 3.9 percent annualized economic growth in
the first quarter, second only to  Germany  among Group of Seven
nations and more than twice the U.S. rate. Still, the  Bank of
Canada   predicted  in April economic growth would slow in the
second quarter to about half the first-quarter pace.  Tax Breaks  Other budget items that were maintained from the May
fiscal plan include C$400 million for a program that benefits
homeowners who carry out energy-saving improvements, increases
in an income supplement for low-income seniors and tax breaks
to encourage more doctors to work in remote areas.  The plan includes tax breaks for people taking care of
infirm dependent relatives, a two-year extension of an
accelerated capital cost allowance for manufacturers, and an
extension by one year of a 15 percent tax credit for mineral
exploration.  Canada’s fiscal plan also moves ahead with planned
corporate income tax cuts. Canada reduced the federal rate by
1.5 percentage points to 16.5 percent on Jan. 1, and it will
fall to 15 percent in 2012 under legislation passed in 2007.
Royal Bank of Canada,  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and Suncor Energy
Inc. -- the country’s three biggest taxpayers over the past 12
months -- will be among the beneficiaries.  Flaherty, who has presented all six of  Harper’s budgets ,
will get an opportunity to introduce for the first time a
fiscal plan that won’t also require support from opposition
lawmakers to pass. Under Flaherty, program expenditures have
increased by 40 percent to C$245 billion as he sought to
placate opposition parties and win favor with voters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  