-- 
Ex-New York Giant Plaxico Burress Is Freed After 20 Months on Gun Charge

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-06T13:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/former-new-york-giant-plaxico-burress-scheduled-to-leave-prison-today.html
Plaxico Burress was released from
prison today after serving 20 months for accidentally shooting
himself in the leg at a Manhattan nightclub.  The former  New York  Giants wide receiver was sentenced to
two years in jail after he pleaded guilty Aug. 20, 2009, to a
state charge of attempted possession of a weapon. He was
released early from the medium-security Oneida Correctional
Facility in  Rome , New York, for good behavior and will spend two
years under supervision.  Burress’s release from Oneida was reported on the New York
Department of Correctional Services’  website .  Burress’s agent, Drew Rosenhaus, told the  Associated Press 
that several clubs have expressed interest in his client. While
Burress, 33, is eligible to return to the  National Football
League , the lockout prevents teams from signing him.  “Many teams want him,” Rosenhaus said in an e-mail to the
AP, without being specific. “He will be a top free agent. He is
healthy and ready to go. He will be signed shortly after the
lockout ends.”  The NFL locked out players in March after talks on how to
split $9 billion of league revenue ended without an agreement.
During a lockout, teams can’t contact players and trades are
prohibited.  Burress carried a Glock semiautomatic pistol in the
waistband of his jeans and shot himself Nov. 28, 2008, in the
Latin Quarter club in  Manhattan . The bullet went through his leg
and just missed a security guard, prosecutors said.  He was released by the Giants on April 3, 2009, seven
months after he signed a five-year, $35 million extension. Later
that month, Burress won a grievance compelling the Giants to pay
him a $1 million bonus they withheld after he shot himself.  Burress led the Giants with 70 catches for 1,025 yards
during the 2007-08 season, playing most games with an ankle
injury. He ended that season by catching a 13-yard touchdown
pass from quarterback Eli Manning in the final 35 seconds of the
 Super Bowl  to give the Giants a 17-14 victory over the  New
England Patriots  on Feb. 3, 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  