-- 
Frontline Billionaire Fredriksen Bets Tankers Collapsing: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-06-06T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/frontline-billionaire-fredriksen-bets-tankers-collapsing-freight-markets.html
The most bearish investor in the oil-
tanker market right now may be the one with the most at stake.  At a time when analysts covering Frontline Ltd. expect
shares of the world’s biggest supertanker operator to gain 1.7
percent in 12 months, its Chairman  John Fredriksen  says the
biggest crash in the cost of ships has yet to happen. It will be
within “a year or two” that the market “collapses,” the 67-year-
old said in an interview in Oslo last month.  For Fredriksen, whose fortune was valued by Forbes magazine
at $10.7 billion in March, that will be an opportunity to buy
more vessels at a discount, he said. For other investors, it may
mean that the more than doubling in freight rates predicted for
next year by forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and
used to bet on future shipping costs, is too optimistic.  “Betting against John Fredriksen tends to be a bad idea,”
said Erik Nikolai Stavseth of Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo,
whose recommendations on the shares of shipping companies
returned 16 percent in three months. “He’s been a bellwether
and he’s always been able to spot the cycle early,” said the
analyst, who has a “sell” rating on Frontline and expects the
U.S. shares to drop about 32 percent in a year.  The industry is contending with a glut of capacity as the
fleet expands twice as fast as demand. Even as owners cut vessel
speeds by an average of 11 percent in the past 12 months to save
fuel and anchored 21 percent more ships, earnings slumped 81
percent. Rates on the Middle East-U.S. route have been negative
since March, meaning owners are paying customers to use their
ships, data from the Baltic Exchange in London show.  Aristotle Onassis  Fredriksen, born in  Norway  and a citizen of Cyprus, will be
adding to a fleet that at its peak in 2005 was eight times
bigger than the one Aristotle Onassis had when he died in 1975.
Fredriksen has probably controlled the biggest tanker fleet of
any investor in history, said Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an Oslo-
based analyst at Astrup Fearnley, an investment bank.  “We’ll wait until the market collapses and then we’ll buy
up what’s there,” Fredriksen said May 25.  Hemen Holding Ltd., a Cypriot holding company indirectly
controlled by trusts Fredriksen established on behalf of his
family, holds a 33.78 percent stake in Frontline, making it
the largest shareholder, according to a filing in April with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Frontline, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , will report a loss
of $1.95 million this year, compared with net income of $161.4
million in 2010, according to the mean of 18 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. They are anticipating profit rebounding
to $33.7 million in 2012, the estimates show.  Freight Derivatives  Freight derivatives are also predicting a rally. Rates on
the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route will average $22,160 a
day in 2012, compared with $9,952 now, according to data from
Imarex ASA, a broker of forward freight agreements.  Shipping companies generally hire out their vessels on a
mixture of single-voyage and long-term charters. A five-year
charter costs $34,500 a day while a three-year accord is at
$33,000, according to data from Clarkson Research Services Ltd.,
a unit of the world’s biggest shipbroker. Frontline said May 25
it needs $29,700 to break even on each of its supertankers.  “Our view seven months ago was that the tanker market was
heading into a five-year nuclear winter and that’s the situation
the industry is in now,” said Andreas Vergottis, an analyst at
Tufton Oceanic Ltd., which manages the world’s largest shipping
hedge fund. “The balance of power has transferred from owners
of ships to users of ships.”  Charter Rates  The long-term charter rates helped shore up the value of
second-hand ships. The cost of a 5-year-old supertanker slumped
to $82.25 million by June 6, from as much $162 million in July
2008, according to the Baltic Exchange, better than the drop in
returns for owners. Rates on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan
route rose to about $177,000 a day in July 2008.  Shares of Frontline dropped 58 percent in the past 12
months in Oslo trading, compared with an 18 percent decline in
the  Bloomberg Tanker Index. (TANKER)  Frontline has the second-biggest
weighting in the six-member gauge, behind Hamilton, Bermuda-
based Teekay Corp., whose tankers haul about 10 percent of all
seaborne oil supply.  Frontline will trade at 94.15 kroner in 12 months, compared
with 92.6 kroner yesterday, the average of 17 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The company, founded in
1985, has a market value of $1.3 billion, down from a peak of
about $5.3 billion in 2008.  Seaborne oil cargoes will rise 3.2 percent this year,
compared with 7.5 percent growth in the supply of all classes of
tankers, according to Clarkson Research Services. About 90
percent of global trade moves by sea, according to the Round
Table of International Shipping Associations.  Oil Prices  Oil traded in  New York , a global benchmark, rose 40 percent
in the past year, driven by demand, disruptions to Libyan supply
and concern that protests in the  Middle East  may spread to  Saudi
Arabia  and other key producers. The contract closed at $100.22 a
barrel on June 3. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Morgan Stanley predict prices will keep advancing.  The carrying capacity of the supertanker fleet will expand
more than 10 percent this year and keep growing for at least the
next three years, according to Maritime Strategies International
Ltd., a London-based forecaster of freight costs.  Frontline’s fleet is dominated by ships hauling 2 million-
barrel and 1 million-barrel cargoes. The bigger vessels are
known as very large crude carriers and the others suezmaxes,
named because they are the largest carriers able to pass through
 Egypt ’s  Suez Canal  fully loaded. Daily rates for suezmaxes fell
81 percent to $6,163 in the past 12 months, according to the
 Baltic Exchange , which publishes prices for more than 50
maritime routes.  Ship-Fuel Costs  As returns tumbled, ship-fuel costs surged, gaining 29
percent to $655 a metric ton in a year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Some owners accept negative charter rates
on single voyages because the customer will contribute to fuel
costs, making it less expensive to sail to another region where
earnings are higher.  Unprofitable charters won’t end any time soon because the
fastest growth in oil demand is in  Asia  not western economies,
said Tufton Oceanic’s Vergottis. It takes less time to ship
Middle East crude to Asia than to the west, cutting down on
journey times and freeing up tankers more quickly, he said.  The economy in  China , the world’s biggest energy consumer,
will expand 9.5 percent this year, more than three times the
pace of the U.S., according to the median of as many as 72
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a brave investor who bets against these guys,” said
Jonathan Chappell, a New York-based analyst at Evercore Partners
Inc. “We are not as bearish as they are, but we believe it’s
too early in the cycle to get involved in some of the leveraged
shipping stocks, including their own.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  