-- 
FX Concepts’ Taylor Says End of Global Risk Rally to Benefit U.S. Dollar

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-06-06T14:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/fx-concepts-taylor-says-end-of-global-risk-rally-to-benefit-u-s-dollar.html
John Taylor , founder of the world’s
largest currency-hedge fund, said he’ll buy the dollar as soon
as the next few days because the rally in higher-yielding assets
will come to an end amid sluggish U.S. economic growth.  The end of the  Federal Reserve ’s Treasury-buying program,
known as quantitative easing, will hurt growth, Taylor said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu. The absence of further stimulus will cause equities
to decline in the second half of this year, he said.  “The markets are showing risk as being off,” Taylor said.
“The cycle has turned because the government is going to cut
back on fiscal stimulus, QE2 is ending, all of those things tell
us that it’s over.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen 10 percent
through last week since the Fed implemented its $600 billion
asset purchase program in November. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of commodities added 16 percent
while the dollar fell 5.3 percent against the euro during the
same period. The Fed’s program is often dubbed QE2 because it
followed an earlier round of $1.7 trillion in bond purchases in
2009 and the first quarter of 2010.  Taylor, 67, is shorting the euro and buying the yen because
of questions on how  Europe  will resolve its sovereign debt
crisis. A short is a bet the price of an asset will fall. FX
Concepts will begin betting the dollar will gain versus the
euro, he said.  Risk Rally  Taylor, who manages about $8.5 billion and uses statistical
models to help predict future movements in assets, said the so-
called risk rally may end anywhere from a few days from now up
to a few weeks.  The dollar weakened 0.9 percent last week as measured by
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It fell 2.2 percent
against the euro, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The dollar rose 0.3 percent to $1.4597 per euro at 10:57 a.m. in
New York trading.  FX Concepts, whose returns last year were the company’s
best since 2006, reaped gains in the first half of 2010 betting
on a slide in the euro against the dollar and then profited by
its rise the rest of the year. At present, the fund is short the
common currency, which means it will profit if it declines.  The  unemployment rate  in the U.S. climbed to the highest
level this year in May, when it rose to 9.1 percent, the Labor
Department reported last week.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to
the lowest level since September 2009 last month, the group
announced June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  