-- 
Gassco Says Pipeline Concept From Luva to Be Picked in Fall

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-06-06T13:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/gassco-says-pipeline-concept-from-luva-to-be-picked-in-fall-1-.html
Gassco AS, Norway’s natural-gas
pipeline operator, said the concept for a link from the Luva
field in the  Norwegian Sea  to existing processing facilities at
Nyhamna will be selected in the autumn of this year.  The pipeline will probably cost about 10 billion kroner
($1.9 billion) and may start operating in about 2016, Gassco’s
Chief Executive Officer Brian Bjordal said today in an
interview.  The final  investment decision  will be made in late 2012,
Gassco said today in a statement. Eleven oil and gas companies
are sponsoring the pipeline, which will be 480 kilometers (298
miles) long and go to maximum depths of 1,300 meters, making it
the deepest in Norway’s offshore.  “A common pipeline from the Luva field to existing
processing facilities at Nyhamna will extend the gas value chain
and enable several fields in the Norwegian Sea to reach the
European gas market,” Bjordal said in the statement.  Statoil plans to make a concept selection for Luva this
year and estimates it will to start production in 2016, it said
last year. Luva, discovered in 1997, is more than 300 kilometers
offshore. The field is estimated to hold 52 billion cubic meters
of recoverable gas.  Norway , the world’s second-biggest gas exporter, has sought
to develop a center for production in the Norwegian Sea that
would also include the Linnorm and Zidane finds. The country is
seeking to raise gas production as North Sea oil fields are
depleted after 40 years of output. The Scandinavian country has
almost doubled gas output in the past decade.  “We need to estimate the long term demand for gas
transport,” Bjordal said. “There is uncertainty related to the
resource potential post 2020 and field development in new areas
will require a coordinated approach to the infrastructure
development. It’s essential to understand how the infrastructure
alternatives can contribute to long-term value creation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 