-- 
Geithner Urges Rules on Swaps to Avoid ‘Race to the Bottom’

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-06T18:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/geithner-urges-global-regulators-to-avoid-race-to-the-bottom-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he wants global minimum standards on derivatives
trading and urged regulators to avoid a “race to the bottom”
in which financial risk moves to the least-supervised economies.  “We need global minimum standards for margins on uncleared
derivatives trades,” Geithner said today in a speech in
Atlanta. “Without international consensus, the broader cause of
central clearing will be undermined. Risk in derivatives will
become concentrated in those jurisdictions with the least
oversight. This is a recipe for another crisis.”  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
Securities and Exchange Commission are writing new regulations
required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the financial overhaul enacted
last July, after largely unregulated derivatives helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis. Dodd-Frank seeks to reduce risk and boost
transparency in the $601 trillion global swaps market by having
most swaps guaranteed by central clearinghouses and traded on
exchanges or other venues.  “We don’t want to see another race to the bottom around
the world,” Geithner said in his remarks at the International
Monetary Conference. “As we act to contain risk in the U.S., we
want to minimize the chances that it simply moves to other
markets around the world.”  Capital Size  Geithner said the size of the capital requirement for the
largest systemic institutions should be balanced.  “The central banks and supervisors need a balance between
setting capital requirements high enough to provide strong
cushions agains0t loss but not so high to drive the re-emergence
of a risky shadow banking system,” he said. “They also need to
look at the full impact of other reforms in the system that have
the effect of reducing both the probability of failure of large
institutions and the ability of the rest of the financial system
to absorb or contain or diffuse those losses.”  The Dodd-Frank Act mandates the establishment of heightened
capital standards for banks with assets over $50 billion and
systemic institutions. In addition, global regulators are
hammering out accords in  Basel ,  Switzerland , that would more
than double the minimum common equity requirement for banks.  “Capital requirements cannot bear the full burden of
protecting the system against risk, and they should be
considered in the context of the reinforcement provided by these
other reforms,” Geithner said.  Largest Firms  In the U.S., Geithner said regulators will require the
largest U.S. firms to hold an additional surcharge of common
equity. He added that regulators “do not need to impose on top
of that requirement any of the three other proposed forms of
additional capital -- convertible, bail-in, contingent capital
instruments or counter-cyclical capital requirements.”  The United Kingdom’s “experiment in a strategy of ‘light
touch’ regulation to attract business to  London  away from  New
York  and  Frankfurt  ended tragically,” he said. “That should be
a cautionary note for other countries deciding whether to try to
take advantage of the rise in standards in the  United States .”  Geithner said the U.S. “will do what we need to do to make
the United States financial system stronger. We will do so
carefully. And as we do it, we will bring the world with us.”  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of
Corporate Treasurers and the  Business Roundtable  are among
lobbying groups pressing regulators to ensure that corporate
end-users of derivatives don’t need to set aside margin in their
swap transactions to reduce risk. The companies say such a
requirement would force them to set aside millions of dollars
that could be invested elsewhere.  Appointments Blocked  Geithner criticized some U.S. lawmakers for using the
confirmation process to block appointments. Nobel laureate  Peter
Diamond , nominated three times by President Barack Obama to
serve on the  Federal Reserve ’s board of governors, withdrew his
nomination today following opposition from Senator  Richard
Shelby  of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Senate Banking
Committee.  “Those in the U.S. financial community who are supporting
these efforts to block resources and appointments are looking
for leverage over the rules still being written.  There is a
long tradition of similar efforts,” Geithner said. “They will
not be successful in undermining the core elements of reform,
but they will risk causing a different type of damage.”  Geithner also was scheduled to meet with representatives
from  Aflac Inc. (AFL) , Delta Air Lines Inc.,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  SunTrust
Banks Inc. (STI)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  