-- 
Geithner May Support Lagarde for IMF to Keep U.S. Leadership of World Bank

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-06T14:25:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/geithner-may-support-lagarde-for-imf-to-keep-u-s-leadership-of-world-bank.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner says  France ’s  Christine Lagarde  and  Mexico ’s Agustin Carstens are both qualified to run the  International Monetary
Fund . He may have little choice but to support Lagarde.  Under an unwritten agreement that dates back to the end of
World War II, the IMF has always been led by a European while
the World Bank has been headed by an American. Backing a non-
European for the IMF could mean relinquishing U.S. control of
the World Bank -- an outcome members of Congress who decide on
funding for development banks are not ready to contemplate.  “For the sake of influencing policy and lending, as well
as maintaining congressional support, it is very important that
the  World Bank  continue to be led by an American,”
Representative Nita Lowey of New York, the top Democrat on the
House Appropriations Committee panel that oversees foreign-aid
spending, said in an e-mail. Congress has yet to approve the
Treasury Department’s $3.4 billion international aid budget for
next year, which includes funding for the World Bank.  “We would like to see the U.S. continue to play and have a
leadership role in these institutions,” Representative Robert Dold, an Illinois Republican and vice chairman of the Financial
Services Committee panel that oversees development banks, said
in an interview.  The World Bank, headed by former U.S. Trade Representative
Robert Zoellick, finances projects in developing nations,
including $1.5 billion in loans to help improve  India ’s rural
roads last year. The IMF provides emergency loans to countries
in financial distress, committing about $105 billion in aid to
Portugal, Greece and Ireland. The U.S. also controls the No. 2
job at the IMF, now held by  John Lipsky , a former JPMorgan Chase
& Co. executive.  ‘Very Talented’  Geithner on May 25 said Lagarde, the French finance
minister, and Mexican central bank Governor Carstens are both
“very talented” candidates to replace Dominique Strauss-Kahn
at the IMF. He also said the U.S., the fund’s largest
shareholder with 17 percent, will play a “significant” role in
choosing a successor to Strauss-Kahn, who resigned after his
arrest on charges of attempted rape and sexual assault.  Strauss-Kahn pleaded not guilty to all seven charges today
in  Manhattan  before  New York  State Supreme Court Justice Michael
Obus. Obus scheduled the next hearing for July 18.  “Congress is certainly watching this election process very
closely,” Tim Adams, a former Treasury undersecretary and now
managing director at the Lindsey Group, an investment consulting
firm based in Fairfax,  Virginia , said in an interview. “They
will want to ensure that the U.S. representation at both the
fund and the bank remain at its current levels.”  Lipsky’s position will also be up for grabs when his term
as first deputy managing director ends in August, and the U.S.
will probably get a guarantee from Europeans to keep the No. 2
post if Lagarde gets the top job, said Nancy Birdsall, president
of the Washington-based Center for Global Development, an aid
research group.  Failing to Coalesce  Emerging market leaders such as Brazilian Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  have questioned the division of leadership posts
at the two agencies, saying the choice should be made on the
basis of merit, not nationality. Yet emerging economies have
failed to coalesce around Carstens or another candidate, while
European nations have closed ranks behind Lagarde.  Candidates for the post also include Grigori Marchenko,
chairman of the central bank of  Kazakhstan . Countries have until
the end of this week to nominate a candidate. The IMF has said
it’s aiming to make a choice by June 30.  Geithner has pushed to increase the influence of emerging
economies such as China and  Brazil  at the fund. On May 20, he
said the U.S. will back an IMF leader who has “broad support”
and stressed the importance of an “open process.”  The U.S. also supported having the Group of 20 nations
replace the G-8 as the main forum for global economic
coordination, in recognition of a shift in power from rich
countries to emerging markets.  ‘Champion of Reform’  “The U.S. is certainly champion of reform of the system,”
said  C. Fred Bergsten , who heads the Washington-based Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington . “On the
other hand, the U.S. has its traditional interest in keeping the
World Bank job for an American.”  The major development banks obtained capital increases from
their shareholders after boosting emergency loans during the
global financial crisis. The  U.S. Congress  has yet to approve
$1.8 billion for the World Bank, the Inter-American Development
Bank, the  Asian Development Bank  and the  African Development
Bank  for coming years.  Senate Report  A March 2010  report  by the staff of Senator Richard Lugar
of  Indiana , the top Republican on the Committee on Foreign
Relations, recommended that the U.S. “preserve” its leadership
at the World Bank “and senior level positions at the other”
international financial institutions.  “Having an American at the helm of the World Bank helps
ensure continued U.S. support for the institution and
facilitates communication” with the bank, the report said.  Lugar and Democrat John Kerry of  Massachusetts , the
committee chairman, in September sent a letter to Geithner
saying changes to the process of selecting leaders of
development banks shouldn’t be considered separately.  “We understand the G-20 commitment to merit-based
leadership decisions,” they wrote. Still, “any discussions of
changes in the leadership selection process must occur across”
all the institutions.  The letter was resent to Treasury officials a few days
after Strauss-Kahn’s May 14 arrest as a reminder of the
senators’ position, according to a person from the committee who
declined to be named because the communication wasn’t public.  Asian Development Bank  The leadership of other development banks is also based on
geography. The head of the Asian Development Bank, for instance,
is picked by Japan, which is its biggest shareholder alongside
the U.S.  U.S. officials haven’t mentioned the World Bank presidency
in the IMF succession debate.  Still, when Marisa Lago, the Treasury’s assistant secretary
for international markets and development, was asked at a Senate
hearing in September whether the Obama administration would be
willing to give up leadership of the World Bank, she replied
that any such discussions would have to occur “at the highest
political level.”  She also told the Foreign Relations Committee that such
changes should be made at all international financial
institutions at once. “We have been very well served by the
U.S. leadership and the World Bank has been well served,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  