-- 
Germany’s Nuclear Phase-Out Raises Supply Risk, Gadonneix Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-06T06:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/germany-s-nuclear-phase-out-raises-supply-risk-gadonneix-says.html
Germany’s plan to abandon nuclear
energy poses a risk to peak electricity supply in  Europe ,
according to  Pierre Gadonneix , chairman of the World Energy
Council and former chief executive officer of  EDF SA. (EDF)   “What is happening in Germany is not neutral for the
electricity balance in Europe,” Gadonneix said in an interview
on France’s BFM radio station. “There’s always a risk. We have
peak capacity in Europe that doesn’t have much redundancy, now
we reduce it so we increase the risk.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said last week that each
of the country’s remaining nuclear reactors will be assigned a
shutdown date as Germany phases out atomic power in stages over
the next 11 years. The country reversed its nuclear policy
following this year’s meltdown in Japan.  Fast-growing economies including China, India and Russia
are investing in nuclear power even as Germany pulls out,
Gadonneix said.  “Whether Merkel wants it or not, nuclear is developing
massively,” Gadonneix said. “Closing a plant in Germany
doesn’t improve the security of plants in  Japan , China or
India.”  Countries developing nuclear electricity need to agree to
“ensure that the security of nuclear plants around the world
improves,” Gadonneix said. “There need to be strong,
independent regulators, and they need to be transparent, which
was probably not the case in Japan.”  Germany’s phasing out of nuclear power may increase the
use of coal-fired plants, according to the former EDF chief.  “We need all the forms of energy,” Gadonneix said.
“Reducing the capacity of a production that doesn’t emit
carbon dioxide, that clearly means we’ll increase CO2
emissions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 