-- 
German Energy Program Benefits Offshore Wind Over Turbines Based on Land

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-06-06T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/german-shift-to-renewable-energy-to-place-offshore-wind-ahead-of-onshore.html
Germany ’s energy legislation would
benefit offshore wind farms over land-based ones under a
government proposal aimed at limiting the cost of new sources of
renewable energy as it scraps its nuclear  power plants .  Offshore wind park owners will see their guaranteed above
market rates decrease starting in 2018, three years later than
the government had planned, the  Environment Ministry  said in a
draft law published on its  website  yesterday. Onshore turbine
operators will see the aid they receive slide by an additional
1.5 percent in 2012, according to the document.  Germany plans to close its atomic plants during the next
decade after the disaster at reactors in  Japan  stoked safety
concerns and helped lose  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s party votes.
The government is balancing aid for energy from solar panels and
wind turbines with the cost for citizens and industrial users,
which will finance the shift through higher power bills.  “The changes in the digression are nothing but window-
dressing and cosmetic to pacify the opposition and state
governments,” the BWE German Wind Energy Association  said  on
its website. “If the law goes through the upper and lower
houses of parliament in this form, it will slow onshore wind
energy development.”  Grid Subsidies  Subsidies for onshore and solar power fed into the grid are
currently adjusted every six to 12 months to reflect the cost of
generating electricity with the technology.  Germany has  27.2 gigawatts  of onshore turbines, according
to the BWE.  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) ’s 48.3-megawatt
Baltic 1, the first commercial offshore wind park in the nation,
started in May, according to the company.  The bill also increases support for  energy efficiency ,
electric vehicles and power storage technologies as the country
seeks to halve its primary energy use by 2050.  The government aims to double funding for research and
development into electric vehicles to 2 billion euros ($2.9
billion) until 2014, increase support for energy efficiency in
buildings by a third to 1.5 billion euros by 2013 and spend 200
million euros in energy storage projects by that year, according
to the draft posted on the government website.  Offshore Ambitions  The German government  has said  utilities could build 20
gigawatts to 25 gigawatts of offshore  wind turbines  by 2030. The
country’s 17 nuclear reactors have a combined capacity of 20.7
gigawatts.  An Environment Ministry plan to keep a 2 euro cent a
kilowatt-hour “sprinter” bonus for utilities with offshore
wind parks up and running by 2015 by “strengthens” investment
security, said Windenergie-Agentur Bremerhaven/Bremen.  The group, which represents northern German companies in
the wind energy industry, said it also supports the option for
turbine operators to receive more aid up front, according to an
e-mailed statement.  The Environment Ministry’s draft reiterates a call it made
last month for aid to the renewable energy sector not to exceed
3.5 euro-cents a kilowatt-hour in consumer power bills. The
government wants to boost renewable energy output to 35 percent
in 2020 from 17 percent last year.  The draft and nine other energy bills approved by Cabinet
yesterday will go to the lower house of parliament for a first
reading on June 9. The upper house, or Bundesrat, will vote on
the energy plans on July 8, the last day it meets before the
summer recess.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  