-- 
German Government Bonds Advance as Stocks Drop, Investor Confidence Slumps

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-06-06T15:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/german-government-bonds-advance-as-stocks-fall-before-confidence-report.html
German  government bonds  climbed as
stocks dropped and investor confidence slumped to the lowest
level in eleven months.  German two-year securities rose for the first time in six
days as a report showed producer-price inflation slowed in
April. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell for the fourth straight
day. Greek two-year note yields slid to a six-week low after
European Union and International Monetary Fund officials agreed
to pay the nation its next installment of aid. Portuguese debt
climbed after the opposition  Social Democrats  ousted the ruling
Socialists in elections yesterday.  “The primary driver for bunds is falling equities,” said
 Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Markets are concerned that the
current soft patch could be more prolonged and that’s helping
core government bonds, including bunds.”  The 10-year bund yield declined four basis points to 3.02
percent as of 4:32 p.m. in London. It fell to 2.96 percent on
June 3, the lowest since Jan. 12. The 3.25 percent security due
July 2021 rose 0.315, or 3.15 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,461) face
amount, to 101.925. Yields on two-year notes were three basis
points lower at 1.66 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 fell 0.5 percent and the Standard and
Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.3 percent. An index measuring
sentiment in the 17-nation euro region dropped to 3.5 in June
from 10.9 in May, the Sentix research institute in Limburg,
 Germany , said. A Bloomberg survey of economists had forecast the
gauge would decline to 8.6.  Greek Accord  Factory-gate prices  in the euro region rose 6.7 percent
from a year earlier after increasing a revised 6.8 percent in
March, the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg said. That’s the
first decline since August. Economists had projected a reading
of 6.6 percent last month, according to the median of 21
estimates in another Bloomberg survey.  The yield on Greek two-year debt tumbled 25 basis points to
22.59 percent. It earlier dropped as much as 78 basis points to
22.07 percent, the lowest since April 21. Ten-year yields fell
eight basis points to 15.86 percent.  The EU and IMF accord to pay the next installment to  Greece 
under last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout paves the way for an
upgraded aid package that includes a “voluntary” role for
investors. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will aim to
quell growing dissent this week within his Socialist party --
known as Pasok -- over the deeper austerity measures as voters’
patience wears thin and public protests mount.  ‘Buying Time’  “It’s a question of buying a little bit more time for
letting Greece prove that they can, or cannot, put the reforms
in place, but also to reduce the risk of contagion maybe to some
of the other economies,”  Laurent Fransolet , head of European
fixed-income strategy at Barclays Capital in London said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with Maryam
Nemazee.  Greece remains shut out of the financial markets a year
after it became the first euro-region nation to request external
assistance. Ireland and  Portugal  have since requested aid. The
euro fell to a more than four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7,
2010, amid market fears of sovereign default.  While the shared European currency has recovered, touching
a 17-month high of $1.4940 on May 4, bonds from Greece, Ireland
and Portugal extended their fall, pushing yields to new euro-era
records last month as the market sought assurance that default
will be avoided.  Portuguese Election  Portugal’s Social Democrat leader  Pedro Passos Coelho  said
he will seek to form a governing coalition with the third-placed
 People’s Party  to enact austerity measures mandated by the
nation’s 78 billion-euro bailout.  “Early results that the socialist party had lost power and
that center-right parties would be able to form a new majority
government, avoiding a potentially damaging political stalemate,
should be seen as a positive development for Portuguese
credit,”  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income strategist at Barclays
Plc in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Portuguese 10-year yields fell four basis points to 9.77
percent, while the two-year note yield declined 14 basis points
to 10.79 percent.  The  European Central Bank  remains on track to raise
 interest rates  in July even as the euro region’s worsening debt
crisis clouds the economic outlook in the run-up to its policy
meeting on June 9, a Bloomberg survey shows. All 52 economists
forecast the ECB will keep the benchmark rate at 1.25 percent at
the June 9 meeting.  The Frankfurt-based central bank led by  Jean-Claude Trichet 
may increase borrowing costs by 25 basis points in July, a
separate survey showed.  ‘Lost Momentum’  The “euroland economy has lost momentum in the second
quarter, but it’s still expanding and that will prompt the ECB
to keep raising rates,” Stamenkovic said.  Belgium ’s 10-year bonds snapped a four-day advance, with
yields climbing five basis points to 4.10 percent. The nation
plans to sell 15-year securities through banks “in the near
future,” according to an e-mailed statement from its debt
agency in Brussels today.  Barclays Capital , Fortis Bank SA/NV,
HSBC Holdings Plc and ING Groep NV will manage the offering, the
statement said.  Germany, the euro-region’s biggest economy, sold 4.57
billion euros of treasury bills maturing in December at an
average yield of 1.1837 percent. Investors bid for 1.67 times
the amount of securities on offer.  France  auctioned 8.1 billion
euros of bills due from 84 to 357 days.  German government bonds have lost 0.3 percent this year,
while U.S. Treasuries have returned 3 percent, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Greek bonds lost investors
more than 11 percent in the period, with Portuguese debt down 14
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 