-- 
Germany Scraps Solar Energy Subsidy Cut as Merkel Exits Nuclear

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-06-06T12:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/germany-scraps-solar-energy-subsidy-cut-as-merkel-exits-nuclear.html
Germany  scrapped a planned cut in
subsidies paid to solar panel owners as  Europe ’s biggest
electricity market seeks to exit nuclear power, according to a
draft law published on the Environment Ministry’s website.  “There are no significant changes for electricity from
photovoltaic facilities from those made in 2010,” reads the
 document , which details scheduled cuts in above-market rates
paid to solar panel owners. Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen has said he considered an additional reduction in March
next year.  Germany, which uses nuclear for 23 percent of its power,
plans to switch to renewable energy output after  Japan ’s reactor
disaster stoked safety concerns. The government is balancing aid
for energy from solar panels and  wind turbines  with the
associated cost for citizens and industrial users, who finance
the technology’s roll-out through their power bills.  “There is no change of mind,” Roettgen said today in
Berlin. “We’re having a discussion about how the degression,
which is possible because of technological and market
developments in solar, is technically implemented in the law.”  This can be done with one-time reductions, by increasing
cuts or by forecasting the installation of technology and the
scaling back of subsidies in half-year steps on Jan. 1 and July
1 each year, rather than Jan. 1 of the following year, he said.  The minister told reporters on May 30 that he considered a
6 percent aid cut in March 2012 that would come on top of
reductions of as much as 24 percent between July and next
January to adapt the subsidy to falling panel prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  