-- 
Goldman Survey Shows EU-Tested Banks May Need to Raise $42 Billion

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-06-06T12:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/goldman-sachs-survey-shows-eu-tested-banks-may-raise-42-billion.html
Banks in the European Union may have
to raise 29 billion euros ($42 billion) following this year’s
stress tests, according to a survey by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Nine of the 91 lenders examined may fail, London-based
analysts Jernej Omahen,  Peter Oppenheimer , Christian Mueller- Glissmann and Peter Skoog wrote in a report today, citing the
average response in a survey of 113 participants from the
financial industry. Spanish, German and Greek banks would need
to raise the most new capital, according to the poll. The share
of participants saying they expect results of the  stress test  to
be “credible” was smaller than last year.  The European Banking Authority has said banks have to
maintain a core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5 percent under
this year’s scenarios. The exams include a review of how lenders
would handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area
in 2011 as well as a 15 percent drop in European equity markets.
The publication of the results may be delayed until July, an EBA
official said last week.  “A month ahead of the results release, there appears to be
little consensus about how much might have to be raised and what
the impact will be,” the Goldman Sachs analysts said. Only 22
percent of respondents signaled they were confident in the
test’s outcome, compared with 35 percent a year ago who said the
results would be a “credible reflection” of resilience in an
economic slowdown, according to the analysts.  About 67 percent of survey participants came from  Europe ,
27 percent from the U.S., 2 percent from  Asia  and 4 percent from
elsewhere, Goldman Sachs said. Of those surveyed, 57 percent
said a sovereign-debt restructuring for  Greece  was “almost
certain,” compared with 16 percent for Ireland and 13 percent
for  Portugal .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  