-- 
Goldman Poised to Reclaim Lead in German Stock Sales

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-08T14:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/goldman-sachs-ousts-deutsche-bank-to-reclaim-no-1-position-in-german-ipos.html
(Corrects headline of story published yesterday as Goldman
Sachs is poised to become the top arranger of stock sales in
 Germany .)  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is poised to
reclaim the top spot in German equity underwriting as ties to
private equity firms propel it to the fore of what may be the
best year for initial public offerings in more than a decade.  The New York-based investment bank, which last led the
rankings in  Europe ’s largest economy five years ago, has
guaranteed equity offerings worth 4.5 billion euros ($6.6
billion) so far this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with 1.7 billion euros underwritten by second-placed
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , last year’s league leader.  Planned listings of chemical makers Evonik Industries AG,
owned by CVC Capital Partners Ltd., and H.C. Starck GmbH, owned
by  Carlyle Group  and Advent International Corp., as well as
 Siemens AG (SIE) ’s Osram lighting unit are set to make 2011 the best
year for German IPOs since 2000, the data show. Goldman’s long-
standing relationships with private equity firms leave the bank
best positioned to benefit from this year’s surge in IPO exits,
said Andreas Lipkow, an equity trader at MWB Fairtrade
Wertpapierhandelsbank AG in  Frankfurt .  “Goldman Sachs’s relationship with private equity firms
helped the brokerage get IPO business,” said Lipkow in an
interview. The U.S. bank “has been very aggressive in the last
few months in penetrating the advisory and equity capital market
business, including in Germany.”  Samsonite  Goldman was the leading financial adviser on mergers and
acquisitions involving private-equity firms worldwide in the
five years through 2010, managing deals valued at $830 billion,
or 34 percent of the total, according to the data. This year, it
has led transactions involving private-equity firms that account
for about 30 percent of the total and measure $55.3 billion in
volume, the data show. That compares with a 20 percent market
share for Deutsche Bank.  Goldman and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank were chosen as
global coordinators for Evonik and Osram, which are estimated to
be the biggest share sales in Germany since Infineon
Technologies AG and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  each raised more than 5
billion euros 11 years ago.  “The German economy is the best-performing in Europe and
companies are delivering strong results, so this is an
attractive place to invest,” said Christoph Stanger, who
oversees IPOs as head of financing for Germany, Austria and
 Switzerland  at Goldman. “The backlog of private equity and
corporate exits is contributing to the good overall market
performance.”  Taminco  CVC, which picked Goldman to jointly manage the IPO of its
Samsonite LLC holding this year, is also working with the U.S.
bank on a potential sale of Belgian chemical company Taminco BV,
three people familiar with the matter said in April.  Goldman has also arranged leveraged loans to fund the
Blackstone Group LP-led takeover of Mivisa Group, a Spanish
food-can maker that was owned by CVC, and was one of the banks
managing the January IPO of Nielsen Holdings BV, the television-
audience rating company that was owned by KKR & Co.  Evonik’s owners may raise 5 billion euros, according to an
April 28 report in Financial Times Deutschland, which cited
unidentified people familiar with the transaction. Siemens’s
Osram has an enterprise value of 5 billion euros to 7 billion
euros, according to Morgan Stanley estimates.  “There will be a high degree of interest for both IPOs,”
said Christian Stocker, senior strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in
Munich. “We have a special story in Germany and that makes it a
very attractive environment for IPOs.”  Broadening Recovery  H.C. Starck, a former unit of drugmaker Bayer AG, may fetch
as much as 1 billion euros, four people familiar with the plan
said last month.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Armin Niedermeier declined to
comment on the equity offering ranking.  Germany’s economic recovery is broadening as companies
boost investment and hiring to meet booming export demand from
emerging  Asia . A rebound in construction spending, surging
company investment and rising exports powered Germany’s fastest
growth in almost a year in the first quarter, data on May 24
showed.  Earnings estimates for companies on the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) 
have risen an average 6.6 percent from last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg analysts. That compares with a 23
percent drop in estimates for companies on the U.K.’s FTSE 100
and a 2 percent decline for  France ’s CAC 40 companies. For
members of the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index, estimates have
fallen 7.6 percent.  DAX Gains  The DAX Index has risen 2.5 percent this year. That
compares with a 1.3 percent decline for the Stoxx 600 and a 0.6
percent drop for the benchmark FTSE 100 Index.  “We have a sustainable environment for industrial
companies to say the party will go on,” said  Robert Halver ,
head of research at  Baader Bank AG (BWB)  in Frankfurt. “The economic
framework and earnings are very good. It’s the right time to do
IPOs.”  There were 205 IPOs priced in Germany in the last 10 years.
The largest of these was  Tognum AG (TGM) , a maker of industrial
engines that was sold by  Daimler AG (DAI)  for 1.8 billion euros in
2007, Bloomberg data show.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  was the country’s
biggest IPO, raising 16 billion euros in 1996, according to
 Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   Eight IPOs were priced in Germany this year, compared with
five at the same time last year. German listings represent 15
percent of the total number of IPOs priced in western Europe
this year. A total of 21 offerings were priced in the U.K.  “Investors see the German market as a safe haven and the
overall mood is favorable for IPOs in the country,” saidMarkus Steinbeis, head of equity portfolio management at the
Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of Pioneer Investments KG mbH,
which oversees about $221 billion globally. “Though if the
global economic recovery starts slowing down, this could
represent a risk to the good picture for IPOs.”  -- With assistance from Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt. Editors:
Angela Cullen, Andrew Rummer  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 