-- 
Goldman Sachs Will Sell Litton Loan Servicing to Ocwen for $264 Million

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-06T15:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/goldman-sachs-agrees-to-sell-litton-unit-to-ocwen-for-264-million-in-cash.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
sell  Litton Loan Servicing LP  to  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  for
$263.7 million in cash, ending the New York-based bank’s 3-1/2
year experiment in processing home-loan payments.  In addition to the cash payment, which may be adjusted at
closing, Ocwen will pay about $337.4 million to retire some of
Litton’s debt, according to a filing by  West Palm Beach ,
Florida-based Ocwen. The sale of Litton comes two months after
Goldman Sachs wrote down the value of the mortgage-servicing
business by about $200 million.  “It really makes sense for them to sell it, and better for
them to sell it sooner rather than later,” said David B. Hilder, a New York-based analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group
LP who has a positive rating on Goldman Sachs. “They bought it
at a time when the business was easier and it looked like there
might be some insights to be gained in the mortgage market from
having a servicer.”  Mortgage servicing firms send out bills, collect payments
and handle foreclosures. Goldman Sachs acquired Litton, based in
Houston, and 1,000 employees at a time when investors including
billionaire  Wilbur Ross  and Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC
purchased mortgage servicers to help them better understand the
market, and profit from buying discounted loans. Goldman Sachs
said in March that it was considering selling Litton, and a
person familiar with the matter said the firm had failed to find
enough distressed  mortgage loans  to buy.  $41.2 Billion Portfolio  Ocwen is getting a portfolio of loans with about $41.2
billion in unpaid principal balance as of March 31, most of them
non-prime home mortgages, the filing said. Ocwen agreed to
finance about $2.47 billion of servicing advances associated
with the business, the statement said. Advances include the
principal, interest, taxes and insurance remittances that
servicers must make to securities trusts even when homeowners
fall behind on those payments.  Goldman Sachs will remain liable for fines and penalties
that could be imposed by government authorities relating to
Litton’s foreclosure and servicing practices before the deal
closes, the statement said, and Goldman Sachs will share some of
the losses arising out of claims from third parties, such as
investors and borrowers, in connection to servicing agreements.  Fines and Penalties  Litton is among the mortgage-servicing businesses
cooperating with investigations by 50 state attorneys general
into foreclosure practices. The probe began after authorities
discovered some firms used faulty paperwork to seize homes.  The inquiries “may result in the imposition of fines or
other regulatory action,” Goldman Sachs said in its quarterly
regulatory filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission on May 10. “As of the date of this filing, the firm
is not aware of foreclosures where the underlying foreclosure
decision was not warranted.”  Litton’s value has declined since Goldman Sachs purchased
it in 2007. Most of a $220 million impairment charge that
Goldman Sachs took on assets held for sale in the first quarter
was related to Litton, the bank said. Litton’s mortgage-
servicing rights were “not material” to Goldman Sachs as of
March, having dropped from $283 million at the end of February
2008, filings show.  Keeping ‘Certain Assets’  “Goldman Sachs does not expect the sale to have any
material impact on earnings in the second quarter due to the
combination of the sales price and the impairment charge
announced in the first quarter of 2011 primarily related to
Litton,” the bank said in a statement today, adding that the
company plans to retain “certain assets.”  Goldman Sachs never disclosed how much it paid to acquire
Litton from Credit-Based Asset Servicing and Securitization LLC,
or C-Bass.  Radian Group Inc. (RDN) , the second-largest U.S. mortgage
insurer and a part owner of C-Bass, disclosed a month before the
sale was completed that the unit would be sold for about $467.9
million to an unnamed buyer.  “Dealing with individual homeowners and individual
borrowers just doesn’t fit the rest of Goldman’s business,”
said Susquehanna’s Hilder. “The decline in  home prices 
overwhelmed any benefit.”  Ocwen’s Advance  In contrast to Goldman Sachs’s falling stock price this
year, Ocwen’s shares gained more than 30 percent in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading through last week. The shares
gained 7 cents to $12.57 as of 11:52 a.m. in New York. Goldman
Sachs fell 72 cents to $134.61.  Ocwen agreed in May 2010 to buy HomEq Servicing, a
mortgage-servicing business owned by London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
for about $1.3 billion in cash conditional on the value of
certain assets at completion, according to a statement from
Barclays at the time. Barclays also agreed to provide Ocwen with
about $1 billion in secured financing in connection with the
deal and offered assistance in raising more funds, the statement
said.  Barclays advised Ocwen on the purchase of Litton and is one
of the lenders, along with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc, providing Ocwen’s new facility to finance
Litton’s servicing advances. Ocwen has also received a
commitment letter from Barclays to provide a senior secured term
loan facility of $575 million to finance the transaction, the
filing said.  Before buying Litton, Goldman Sachs had tried to avoid
businesses that involved the mass-market or retail customer.
David Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer, told
analysts in September 2006, more than a year before the company
bought Litton, that the firm was reluctant to buy a lender
because of the “retail concern.”  “Goldman Sachs is largely an institutional business,”
Viniar said at the time. “There are different risks when you’re
touching the retail customer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 