-- 
Goolsbee Said to Consider a Return to Teaching

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-06-06T21:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/goolsbee-said-to-consider-a-return-to-teaching.html
President  Barack Obama ’s chief
economist, Austan Goolsbee, is considering resigning and
returning to the University of  Chicago  where his leave as a
professor is about to expire, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  Goolsbee, chairman of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers for the past nine months, is awaiting word from the
university about whether he would lose his tenured post at the
Booth School of Business if he doesn’t return to teach in the
fall, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity to
talk about private discussions.  Goolsbee, 41, has advised the president since Obama ran for
the  U.S. Senate  from  Illinois  in 2004 and was with him during
the 2008 presidential campaign. Since Obama took office,
Goolsbee often has been the administration’s main spokesman on
economic policy.  With the release of major economic news, such as last
week’s Labor Department report that showed employers added fewer
jobs than forecast and the  unemployment rate  rose to 9.1
percent, it is Goolsbee who makes the rounds of television news
programs to frame the White House argument.  ‘Don’t make too much of any one jobs report because they’re
highly variable,” Goolsbee said yesterday on ABC’s “This
Week” program.  “He has been very visible from day one,” even when he was
deputy at the CEA, said Keith Hennessey, director of the
National Economic Council under President  George W. Bush .  Deep Knowledge  If Goolsbee returns to Chicago, Obama would be losing a key
member of his economic team who had deep knowledge of the
underpinnings of Obama’s policies, Hennessey said.  “That’s a valuable thing to lose,” he said. “That
intellectual consistency, knowing what happened the last time
the question came up a year ago or four years ago is
important.”  Goolsbee and the White House press office didn’t respond to
e-mails seeking comment.  Three other top Obama economic advisers already have
departed. At the CEA, Goolsbee replaced  Christina Romer , who
returned to teaching at the  University of California  at Berkeley
last September. National Economic Council Director Lawrence Summers and Office of Management and Budget Director  Peter Orszag  left the administration last year. Summers returned to
 Harvard University  and Orszag is now vice chairman of global
banking at Citigroup Inc.  University Leave  The University of Chicago, according to its faculty guide,
allows tenured professor a one-year leave and requires them to
petition for additional time away from the university, which has
ties to more than 80 Nobel laureates. Goolsbee, who Obama
nominated as CEA deputy at the start of his term, has already
received dispensations from the university and is now in his
third year of leave.  A university spokesman, Jeremy Manier, declined to comment
on an individual professor’s petitions.  Some universities are more lenient than others in requiring
that their professors return to teaching duties.  Stanford
University  allowed former Secretary of State Condeleezza Rice to
return to her teaching post after eight years in the Bush
administration.  “It varies by institution,” said Cecilia Rouse, who
served with Goolsbee on the CEA before returning to Princeton
University in February. “The longer you’re gone, the less
you’re doing the core work that you were hired to do.”  A return to academia might translate into a salary increase
for Goolsbee, a father of three. In his last year at Chicago, he
earned $465,000, according to federal financial disclosure
reports. As the CEA chairman, Goolsbee’s salary is $191,300 a
year.  Goolsbee earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in
economics from  Yale University  and received his Ph.D. from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, according to the
 University of Chicago ’s website. He began at the Booth School of
business in 1995, where he has focused on the rise of Internet
commerce, government policy and taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  