-- 
Greece’s May Economic Sentiment Low in Uncertain Environment

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-06T09:59:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/greece-s-may-economic-sentiment-low-in-uncertain-environment.html
Greek economic sentiment was little
changed in May amid lack of clarity as the country struggles to
get its economy back on track.  An index measuring short-term economic trends came in at
74, compared with 74.2 in April, the Athens-based  Foundation for
Economic & Industrial Research  said in an e-mailed report today.
 Consumer confidence  was up one and a half points at minus 68.5,
the foundation said.  “The expectations of businesses and consumers can’t easily
stabilize in a general environment of uncertainty and general
discontent over the course of the economy,” the foundation
said. “Fiscal adjustment is being extended and the mix of
measures being imposed is becoming more demanding.”  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is committed to 78 billion
euros ($114 billion) of additional measures and state-asset
sales through 2015 to pay down the country’s debt and to ensure
more financing from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund . In May last year, Greece agreed to austerity
measures, including wage and pension cuts and higher taxes, in
exchange for a 110 billion-euro EU-led bailout.  Rising private-sector unemployment is seen by households as
the most serious aspect of the Greek crisis, the report
indicates. Unemployment in February rose to 15.9 percent from
15.1 percent the previous month, the Hellenic Statistical
Authority said on May 12.  Greece ’s economy shrank 4.5 percent last year and is
forecast to contract 3.5 percent this year, during which the
country’s debt is likely to rise to 157.7 percent of GDP,
according to European Commission estimates released on May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  