-- 
Gupta Sued by Goldman Shareholder for ‘Short-Swing’ Profits

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-06T23:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/gupta-sued-by-goldman-sachs-shareholder-for-short-swing-profit.html
Ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
 Rajat Gupta  was sued by a shareholder to recover “short-swing”
profit on trades allegedly based on inside tips from Gupta that
were made by Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Investor James Mercer, in a complaint filed today in
federal court in Manhattan, seeks to recover profit Galleon made
from trading Goldman shares within a six-month period based on
information from Gupta.  “Mr. Gupta was beneficial owner of these securities
because he had a pecuniary interest in the profits generated by
this trading activity,” Mercer, a resident of Kirkland,
 Washington , said in the complaint. “Mr. Rajaratnam undoubtedly
paid Mr. Gupta for the Goldman Sachs inside information on which
these trades were made.”  Mercer is seeking a judgment requiring Gupta to pay the
short-swing profits from Galleon’s trading, from June to October
of 2008. Mercer didn’t specify the amount he’s seeking in the
suit.  “This lawsuit is completely without merit, and we will
vigorously defend against it,”  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for
Gupta, said in a statement.  In March, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed
an administrative proceeding accusing Gupta of passing tips to
Rajaratnam. Naftalis called those allegations totally baseless
at the time.  ‘Nothing Illegal’  “Mr. Gupta has done nothing illegal and is confident that
these unfounded allegations will be rejected by any fair and
impartial fact finder,” Naftalis said in a statement responding
to the SEC allegations. “There is no allegation that Mr. Gupta
traded in any of these securities or shared in any profits as
part of any quid pro quo.”  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment today.  In his suit, Mercer claimed he sent three letters to
Goldman Sachs, informing it of the allegations against Gupta and
demanding that the firm sue its former director. He filed his
suit after Goldman Sachs didn’t respond to the letters, he said.  The SEC claims Gupta passed Rajaratnam information in 2008
about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5 billion investment in the
firm and details of quarterly earnings at Goldman Sachs and
Procter & Gamble Co., where Gupta was also a board member. The
commission said the tips generated more than $18 million.  Gupta, who hasn’t been charged criminally, was mentioned
many times in the  Manhattan  trial of Rajaratnam, which ended May
11 with his conviction on all 14 criminal counts against him.  Lloyd Blankfein , the chief executive officer of Goldman
Sachs, testified in the Rajaratnam trial that Gupta had violated
the company’s confidentiality policies by allegedly passing the
information to Rajaratnam. Gupta was also heard on recordings of
wiretapped conversations with Rajaratnam that were introduced in
the trial.  The case is Mercer v. Gupta, 11-cv-03828, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  