-- 
Iceland’s ‘Key Challenge’ Is Removing Krona Controls, IMF Says

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-06T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/iceland-s-key-challenge-is-removing-krona-controls-imf-says.html
Iceland’s economic recovery is “on
track” and the island’s main target should now be removing
krona controls, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “An orderly liberalization of  capital controls  requires
that offshore krona holdings be reduced and that the spread
between the offshore and onshore exchange rates be narrowed,”
the Washington-based fund said in a report published today.
Iceland’s  European Economic Area  “obligations require
nondiscriminatory treatment of residents and nonresidents,
adding an additional layer of complexity to the liberalization
process.”  Iceland, which obtained an IMF bailout in 2008, has relied
on capital controls to prevent a selloff of the krona since its
biggest banks collapsed more than two years ago. The currency
restrictions have allowed a  trade surplus  to spur a 6 percent
krona appreciation against the euro in the past year, enabling
interest rate cuts needed to galvanize demand.  The $13.5 billion  economy  is struggling to emerge from a
banking failure that triggered an 80 percent slump in the krona
against the euro offshore in 2008. Iceland has since been
relying on a $4.6 billion IMF-led bailout to stay afloat. The
country, which avoided state bankruptcy by forcing bondholders
to bear the cost of its banking failure, is now relying on its
marine exports and renewable energy resources to drive growth.  Iceland has yet to settle a foreign depositor dispute with
the U.K. and  Netherlands  after voters rejected a government
accord in April.  Court Battle  The spat will now be brought before the  European Free Trade
Association’s Court  in  Luxembourg , Finance Minister Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said in April. The failure of Landsbanki Islands hf
left about 350,000 foreign depositors, who had savings in the
high-yielding Icesave accounts, in danger of losing their
deposits.  “Since all sides now agree that the dispute will be
settled through legal channels, the potential sovereign
obligation is now a contingent liability of the Icelandic
government,” the IMF said. Debt will fall to 71.3 percent of
gross domestic product by 2016, compared with 100.1 percent this
year, the Fund estimates.  Iceland’s economy will grow 2.3 percent this year after
contracting 3.5 percent in 2010, the Fund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  