-- 
Iliad’s Niel, Vente-Privee’s Granjon Open Paris Startup School

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-06T12:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/iliad-s-niel-vente-privee-s-granjon-open-paris-startup-school.html
Three of  France ’s most successful
Internet entrepreneurs opened a school for budding startup
developers today in Paris, part of an effort to encourage new
Web businesses.  Iliad SA (ILD)  founder Xavier Niel, Vente-Privee.com founder
Jacques-Antoine Granjon, and Marc Simoncini, who started Meetic
SA, are backing the European School of Internet Professions,
which will welcome its first students in September. The school
will take over part of the former Paris stock exchange building,
where the three founders appeared at a press conference today
with Industry Minister Eric Besson, and teach practical business
and technical skills to would-be entrepreneurs.  France’s government is deepening ties with Web businesses,
looking to overcome an image of hostility to the field’s largest
companies. President Nicolas Sarkozy, who said in 2009 that
France might be “deprived of our heritage” by Google Inc.’s
book-scanning project, Google Books, last month invited
technology executives including Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  and
Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg  to Paris, where they and
French officials discussed online regulation and ways to
encourage startups.  Besson, who has backed efforts to force Internet companies
like Google to compensate telecommunications providers for
network investments, today hailed “the dynamism and success of
these entrepreneurs, models of French success.” Technological
education in France needs to be upgraded to sustain the
development and growth of Web companies, he said.  Expansion Possibilities  The new school will offer three-year courses, with about
200 students starting this year. If successful, the concept may
be expanded to other French cities and eventually to other
European countries, the founders said today.  All three men are active venture-capital investors.
Simoncini, who last month agreed to sell a 16 percent stake in
dating-site operator  Meetic (MEET)  to IAC/InterActiveCorp, said he
wouldn’t exclude the possibility of investing in startups
hatched at the school.  Iliad, based in Paris, provides broadband  Internet service .
Vente-Privee is an online retailer of discounted designer
brands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  