-- 
Increase in Match-Fixing May Be Reaction to New Measures, FIFA Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-06T16:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/increase-in-match-fixing-may-be-reaction-to-new-measures-fifa-says.html
Criminal gangs are probably
increasing their attempts to fix soccer matches because new
measures will make the crime more difficult to commit, said the
man hired by FIFA to lead the battle against the manipulators.  Chris Eaton, an Australian detective who stepped down as
Interpol’s director of operations to become  FIFA’s  new head of
security last year, is leading the Zurich-based ruling body’s
response to the crime.  Two days ago FIFA said it opened an investigation into
Nigeria’s 4-1 victory over  Argentina  in an exhibition match on
June 1. It follows earlier probes into a match between a fake
team purporting to represent the West African state of Togo and
Bahrain and games between Bulgaria and  Estonia , and Bolivia and
 Latvia  in  Turkey , where all seven goals were scored from
penalties.  “It’s clear to anybody, including a blind man’s dog, that
there is a great increase in identification and the
investigating of match-fixing in many jurisdictions now,” Eaton
said in a telephone interview. “They might be trying to get out
as much as they can before they are prevented.”  FIFA last month pledged 20 million euros ($29.2 million)
over 10 years to international police organization Interpol to
tackle players, officials and others conspiring to set the
outcome of games.  It also set up an  Early Warning System  to detect suspicious
betting patterns. That’s what sparked the investigation into the
 Nigeria  game, in which the referee, Ibrahim Chaibou from  Niger ,
awarded two penalties. He also refereed the match featuring the
fake Togo team. Eaton said neither the Argentine nor Nigerian
players are under investigation. He’ll be getting an official
report later today.  Terrorist Organizations  Eaton said some of the methodology used by match-fixers is
similar to that used by narcotics traffickers and even global
terrorist organizations.  “It is underpinned particularly by training camps and
taking the decision to develop young players and young officials
and to have long-term relationships with them,” he said. “They
fund or underwrite their development, which then creates a
certain dependency. This is long-term stuff these guys have been
doing.”  Risto Nieminen, president of the World Lottery Association,
said the global illegal gambling market was equal in size to the
$90 billion legal one. Eaton said the size of the market means
the same fixers are targeting cricket and other sports.  “For them it’s about the profits and the manipulation,”
Eaton said. “It’s not about the sport.”  Last week Italian authorities uncovered a match-fixing ring
there that allegedly includes former Italy national team striker
Giuseppe Signori. Two South Korean players last month committed
suicide after being implicated in match-fixing.  “This is a terrible price to pay,” said Eaton. “The
human cost is very high and criminals of course have no
conscience at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in the London newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 