-- 
India Said to Buy 10 Boeing Planes in Largest U.S. Defense Deal

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-06-06T13:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/india-said-to-buy-10-boeing-planes-in-largest-u-s-defense-deal.html
India  approved buying 10  Boeing Co. (BA) 
C-17 military cargo aircraft for $4.1 billion, its largest ever
defense deal with the U.S., strengthening the country’s
capability to transport troops, vehicles and artillery.  The cabinet’s committee on security headed by Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh today gave its final approval for the
purchase of the heavy-lift Globemaster III planes at a meeting
in New Delhi, according to a defense ministry official who
didn’t wish to be identified before a public announcement.  The decision comes after fighter jets manufactured by
Boeing and fellow American aircraft maker  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
in April failed to make a shortlist for India’s procurement of
126 warplanes at a cost of about $10 billion. Jets made by
France’s  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  and the European Aeronautic,
Defence and Space Co. are now competing for the world’s biggest
fighter-jet order in 15 years.  Foreign governments and companies struggling to recover
from global recession are competing to sell $120 billion worth
of arms that India may buy between 2012 and 2017 as it seeks to
overhaul its defense capabilities, according to a 2010 estimate
by the Confederation of Indian Industry and Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu India Pvt. The country is modernizing its military as
it looks beyond a traditional rivalry with Pakistan to counter
China’s rising power.  India’s current military cargo fleet is dominated by ageing
Russian-built Ilyushin and Antonov aircraft.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  