-- 
Life Insurance Corp. of India to Boost Investments in Stocks, Bonds by 8%

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-06-06T02:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/india-s-life-insurance-corp-to-boost-investments-in-stocks-bonds-by-8-.html
Life Insurance Corp. of India , the
country’s largest money manager, plans to increase investments
in stocks and bonds by about 8 percent this fiscal year as its
premium collections climb.  The Mumbai-based insurer may boost investments in stocks
and bonds to 2 trillion rupees ($45 billion) in the year ending
March 31, 2012, said D.K. Mehrotra, chairman at the government-
owned insurer with $257 billion of assets.  “The India story is very attractive in the long term with
the early onset of monsoon,” Mehrotra said in an interview with
Bloomberg UTV on June 3. “The growth in industrial production
and agricultural sector and company earnings will see the market
giving us a lot of opportunities.”  India ’s gross domestic product rose 7.8 percent in the
three months ended March 31 from a year earlier, making it the
fastest-growing country among major economies after  China  as
incomes in the nation of 1.2 billion people increase. Monsoon,
which accounts for more than 70 percent of India’s annual
rainfall, is progressing ahead of schedule this year,  India
Meteorological Department  said last week.  Life Insurance invested 1.85 trillion rupees in the
nation’s capital markets in the year ended March 31, of which
430 billion rupees was in Indian equities, Mehrotra said. This
year, it expects to plow about 450 billion rupees in Indian
stocks, he said.  Life Insurance, which manages more money than all Indian
mutual funds combined, has also seen a slowdown in the sale of
insurance plans linked to investments of stocks and bonds after
the nation’s regulatory changes for such products. Known as
unit-linked plans, these products now make up 60 percent of Life
Insurance’s offerings, from as much as 80 percent three years
ago, Mehrotra said.  Rule Changes  “The entire industry started selling insurance as an
investment product and lost its focus,” Mehrotra said. “We
have made a conscious shift toward selling traditional policies
and hope to maintain the ratio at 60:40 or 55:45 of unit-linked
plans to traditional policies.”  India changed its rules on unit-linked plans sold by
insurers, capping charges and increasing the investment period.
The  Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority  limited some
charges and raised the minimum investment period for unit-linked
insurance plans to five years from three. The regulator also set
a minimum 4.5 percent annual guaranteed return for unit-linked
pension plans. The new rules take effect Sept. 1.  “We are going to see many challenges during the year, so I
would be happy with a growth of 25 percent” of its overall
business this year, from 22 percent last year, Mehrotra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 