-- 
Indonesian Rupiah Rises to Seven-Year High on Easing European Debt Concern

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-06-06T09:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/indonesian-rupiah-rises-to-seven-year-high-on-easing-european-debt-concern.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah rose to a seven-
year high on optimism European Union officials will prepare a
new aid plan for Greece, quelling fears the region’s debt crisis
will deepen and reducing demand for dollars. Bonds gained.  The currency rose for a second day as EU and International
Monetary Fund officials agreed to pay the fifth installment of a
110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout agreed last year. Jean- Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, and EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn
are scheduled to speak in  France  today.  The rupiah advanced 0.2 percent to 8,513 per dollar as of
4:07 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency touched 8,506 earlier, the strongest level since
March 2004.  “There are indications that  Greece  will get help from the
European Union and that may end the debt crisis,” said
Lindawati Susanto, head of treasury at PT Resona Perdania in
Jakarta. “Risk sentiment is back on. Locally, inflation is
manageable and the central bank is expected to hold its interest
rate this week.”  Bank Indonesia  will meet on June 9 to review its benchmark
interest rate, which was raised by a quarter of a percentage
point to 6.75 percent in February and has since been left
unchanged. Inflation slowed for a fourth month in May, slipping
below 6 percent for the first time since October, the  Central
Bureau of Statistics  reported last week.  Indonesia’s 10-year government bonds advanced. The yield on
the 8.25 percent note due July 2021 fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 7.35 percent, according to closing 
prices from the Inter-Dealer Market Association.  The  finance ministry  will sell 5 trillion rupiah ($587
million) of debt at an auction tomorrow, it said in an e-mailed
statement on June 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Singapore at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  