-- 
International Paper Makes Hostile Takeover Offer for Rival Temple-Inland

-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 
2011-06-07T03:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/international-paper-makes-hostile-30-60-a-share-offer-for-temple-inland.html
International Paper Co. (IP) , the world’s
largest pulp-and-paper maker, made a $3.31 billion hostile
takeover bid for  Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN)  to increase its share of the
North American market for containerboard used in shipping boxes.  International Paper offered $30.60 a share in cash and has
committed finance from UBS AG,  Memphis , Tennessee-based
International Paper said yesterday in a statement. Temple-Inland,
based in Austin,  Texas , said in a statement it rejected the bid.  The offer is 46 percent more than Temple-Inland’s closing
share price yesterday. Temple-Inland rose $8.78, or 42 percent,
to $29.79 as of 7:18 p.m. after the close of regular New York
Stock Exchange trading yesterday.  International Paper is seeing demand and prices for its
corrugated packaging and office paper in  North America  rebound
after they collapsed during the financial crisis. The takeover
would be International Paper’s largest since its August 2008
acquisition of Weyerhaeuser Co.’s corrugated-packaging business
for $6 billion.  “The deal will improve the business through integration,
rationalization and optimization,” said Joshua Zaret, a New
York-based analyst with Longbow Research who has a “buy”
rating on both companies. International Paper has earned “the
right to pursue this path because of their successful
integration of Weyerhaeuser’s industrial-packaging business.”  Market Share  Buying Temple-Inland would increase International Paper’s
share of the North American corrugated-packaging market to about
37 percent from about 27 percent, International Paper Chief
Executive Officer John Faraci said in an interview yesterday. It
would also enable cost cuts in International Paper’s corrugated-
packaging business and increase the company’s earnings in the
first year, he said.  “I’m confident of our ability to address any regulatory
concerns,” Faraci said. “We have a strong team with experience
with these types of issues.”  International Paper said it first made a takeover proposal
to Temple-Inland on May 17. Following a meeting and
correspondence between the companies’ chairmen, Temple-Inland
said in a June 4 letter its board unanimously rejected the offer,
according to International Paper.  The offer values Temple-Island about 9.8 times its last 12
months’ earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to Bloomberg data. That compares with
the median 7.1 times for 87 deals in the forest-product industry
in the past five years.  ‘Bargain Price’  Temple-Inland shareholders have had a total return on their
investment of 22 percent since January 2008 while International
Paper has given a return of 5 percent, Temple-Inland CEO Doyle R. Simons said in his company’s statement.  “International Paper is attempting to take advantage of
our stockholders by moving to grab the company at a bargain
price at a time when there is little or no market value being
ascribed to building products,” Simons said.  Temple-Inland’s building-materials business isn’t part of
International Paper’s core business and it’s “premature” to
say what will happen to the unit, Faraci said on a conference
call.  Evercore Partners Inc., UBS and law firm Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP are advising International Paper. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz are advising
Temple-Inland.  International Paper has climbed 8.8 percent this year in
 New York  trading, giving it a market capitalization of $13
billion. The shares climbed $1.15 to $30.80 as of 7:15 p.m.
yesterday.  In January, Norcross, Georgia-based Rock-Tenn Co. agreed to
buy Chicago-based Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. for $4.5 billion
to become North America’s second-biggest containerboard producer,
after International Paper.  The value of the offer for Temple-Inland was calculated
using the 108.3 million shares that were outstanding on April 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 