-- 
Iran Wants the Bomb, and It’s Well on Its Way: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-06-06T21:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/iran-wants-the-bomb-and-it-s-well-on-its-way-jeffrey-goldberg.html
The Iranian government, which is
known neither for transparency nor candor, has insisted for many
years that the goal of its nuclear program is entirely peaceful.
And for many years, the  International Atomic Energy Agency ,
whose motto is “Atoms for Peace,” has tended to give the
ayatollahs the benefit of the doubt on this question.  The agency’s former chairman,  Mohamed ElBaradei , now a
candidate for the presidency of  Egypt , seemed to take the
attitude that anxiety about Iran’s nuclear objectives was
motivated by the strategic self-interest, even the paranoia, of
the U.S., Israel and the Arab states near Iran, rather than by
the reality-based worry that bloody-minded mullahs bent on
dominating the Middle East aren’t the sort of people who should
have the bomb.  The new chairman of the IAEA, Yukiya Amano of  Japan , seems
more skeptical of Iran’s claim of nuclear virginity. He is, by
many accounts, preparing a comprehensive indictment of  Iran’s
nuclear program  to be issued later this year. As an interim
step, his agency recently issued a report on Iran’s nuclear
activities that might help concentrate the attention of a world
that has lately been preoccupied by the revolutions in Libya,
Yemen and Syria.  These are important events, but an Iran with a bomb? This
would bring about a nuclear arms race in the world’s most
volatile region. It would pose a serious threat to the smooth
flow of oil out of the  Persian Gulf . And it would mean the end
of American influence in the  Middle East . Not to mention the
potential for an actual nuclear exchange between Israel and
Iran.  IAEA’s New Report  The IAEA’s  new report  makes for dry reading -- the agency
doesn’t turn out propulsive narratives -- but strongly suggests
that the mullahs haven’t gone into the nuclear business because
of their keen interest in clean energy. Using information
gathered from member states’ intelligence agencies, it cites
seven possible “undisclosed nuclear related activities” on the
part of Iranian nuclear scientists. These include experiments to
build atomic triggers, studies of the type of instruments needed
for testing explosives underground, and the development -- this
is a mouthful -- “of explosive components suitable for the
initiation of high explosives in a converging spherical
geometry.”  Iran ’s nuclear scientists might be building atomic triggers
as a weekend hobby, and they might have discovered a sports-
related reason to initiate explosives in a converging spherical
geometry. But if the IAEA’s suspicions prove correct, then Iran
is actively trying to make a nuclear warhead.  Pattern of Deception  “The IAEA is certainly worried that Iran has an ongoing
program to develop and build nuclear weapons components,” David Albright, a former IAEA inspector who now heads the Institute
for Science and International Security, told me. Albright, along
with many other experts, discerns a pattern of deception in
Iran’s behavior, exemplified by the regime’s decision to build a
secret uranium-enrichment facility deep inside a mountain near
Qom, the existence of which was exposed by Western intelligence
agencies in 2009.  A peaceful, internationally supervised nuclear program
presumably would have no need for secret uranium-enrichment
facilities buried inside mountains.  News about possible advances in weapons design wouldn’t be
so dire if Iran was still having trouble making nuclear fuel.
Last year, the Stuxnet virus -- the only computer virus about
which anyone has ever said anything nice -- was thought to have
crippled a substantial number of Iran’s centrifuges. The virus,
apparently a joint project of  Israel , the U.S. and several
European countries, was the most overt sign that a sophisticated
international program of subterfuge and sabotage directed
against Iran’s nuclear program was doing real damage.  Growing Enrichment Capacity  Stuxnet now appears to have been a more perishable virus
than previously thought. Signs are abundant that Iran is
accelerating its manufacture of low-enriched uranium, the
necessary precursor to highly enriched uranium. The Federation
of American Scientists  reported in January  that “calculations
using IAEA data show that the enrichment capacity at Iran’s
commercial-scale enrichment facility at Natanz has grown during
2010 relative to previous years. The boost in capacity is due to
an apparent increase in centrifuge performance.”  This latest IAEA report buttresses the federation’s
finding, noting that inspectors who had recently visited the
Natanz facility now believe Iran is producing low-enriched
uranium at a faster pace than before the centrifuges were hit by
Stuxnet. Various Western intelligence agencies and independent
analysts think that the Iranians already possess enough low-
enriched uranium to produce two or three bombs.  Khamenei’s Options  What all this means is that the IAEA is deeply worried that
the Iranians are approaching a moment of decision --  the point
at which the country’s nuclear scientists could tell Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader, that they’re ready to make
him a bomb for testing.  Khamenei would then face three options. He could shelve the
program for a later day. He could order a nuclear break-out, in
which Iran expels the IAEA inspectors and enriches its uranium
to bomb-grade levels. Or he could try what is known as a sneak-
out, in which his scientists create bomb-grade uranium in a
secret facility.  The chance that he would choose the break-out option is
small. It would take Iran anywhere from six months to a year
after expelling the inspectors to enrich uranium to bomb
strength, and in this period it’s almost guaranteed that Israel
or the U.S. would bomb its nuclear facilities. (I believe
firmly, after two years of reporting on the Iranian nuclear
program, that President  Barack Obama  would order air strikes if
he thought Iran was moving definitively to become a nuclear-
armed state).  Sneak-out, then, would be the more attractive option --
which is why intelligence agencies across the globe are
searching relentlessly for a “son of Qom,” an as-yet-
undiscovered nuclear facility similar to the one found at Qom.  Intelligence Limitations  There will always be those who doubt that Iran seeks to be
a nuclear-armed state. And these doubts are useful:  Iraq  has
taught many of us important lessons about the limitations of
intelligence. But we’ve also learned a different lesson recently
from  Syria . Last month, at the same time it was airing its
suspicions about Iran, the IAEA issued another report, in which
it found that Syria was “very likely” operating a clandestine
nuclear program until 2007, when Israel bombed what was
allegedly a secret Syrian reactor. Shortly after the attack,
Seymour Hersh,  in an article  skeptical about such claims, quoted
ElBaradei, then the head of the IAEA, as saying, “Our experts
who have carefully analyzed the satellite imagery say it is
unlikely that this building was a nuclear facility.”  The most important mission of the IAEA -- and one of the
most important missions of the Obama administration -- is to
know all that it is possible to know about Iran’s intentions,
and to subvert these intentions in all possible ways. Because it
will be a very bad day indeed when it is an underground nuclear
test that informs us of Iran’s intentions.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 