-- 
Iran’s Recent Nuclear Work Raises New Concerns at UN Watchdog

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-06-06T11:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/iran-s-recent-nuclear-work-raises-new-concerns-at-un-watchdog.html
Iran ’s nuclear program is raising new
concerns at the United Nations atomic agency after inspectors
received information showing work on weapons may have gone on
longer than suspected.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  “received further
information related to possible past or current undisclosed
nuclear-related activities” that “may have continued until
recently,” Director General Yukiya Amano said today in a
statement in Vienna. The IAEA’s 35-member board convened for a
one-week meeting.  The agency, which has been investigating alleged Iranian
nuclear-weapons work since 2003, is assessing new data it
received on high-explosive, electronic and missile warheads, it
said in a May 24 report. Amano sent a June 3 letter to Iranian
Vice President Fereydoun Abbasi reiterating the IAEA’s desire to
gain access to suspected sites and speak with scientists.  The 2011 U.S. National Intelligence Estimate on Iran had
“high confidence’’ that the country hasn’t decided to proceed
with a nuclear weapon,  James Clapper , President  Barack Obama ’s
director of national intelligence, said at a March 10
Congressional hearing. A 2007 National Intelligence Estimate
concluded that Iran had stopped trying to make weapons in 2003.  Iran increased its supply of 20 percent enriched uranium to
56.7 kilograms (125 pounds) compared with 43.6 kilograms in
February at the Pilot Fuel Enrichment Plant in Natanz, the IAEA
said. Iran has produced 4,105 kilograms of uranium enriched to
less than 5 percent compared with 3,606 kilograms in the last
IAEA report.  About 630 kilograms of low-enriched uranium, if further
purified, could yield the 15 to 22 kilograms of weapons-grade
uranium needed by an expert bomb maker to craft a weapon,
according to the London-based Verification Research, Training
and Information Center, a non-governmental observer to the IAEA
that is funded by European governments.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  