-- 
IRS Hiring Binge Isn’t Enough to Stop Tax Cheats, Watchdog Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-06-06T16:56:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/irs-hiring-binge-isn-t-enough-to-stop-tax-cheats-watchdog-says.html
With 1,515 new employees, the
 Internal Revenue Service  still doesn’t have the staff needed to
collect the nation’s taxes, according to the Treasury Inspector
General for Tax Administration.  In a  report  released today, the inspector general said
attrition and a heightened workload have combined to leave the
IRS understaffed. The new hires in the agency’s small business
and self-employed division resulted in a net gain of just 580
revenue officers by the end of fiscal 2010, according to the
report. The IRS watchdog predicted a net gain of 127 revenue
officers by the end of fiscal 2012.  The study could affect the debate over funding for the
agency. It comes two days before IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman is scheduled to testify before a congressional panel on
the agency’s budget. The inspector general warned that, unless
the IRS is fully staffed, compliant taxpayers are at a
disadvantage.  “If the IRS does not have a sufficient number of
qualified” revenue officers, the report said, “it could create
an unfair burden on the majority of taxpayers who fully pay
their taxes on time.”  The inspector general said the IRS doesn’t effectively
estimate how many employees it will need in the future. The
agency determines its staffing level based on a budget figure
provided by the IRS’s chief financial officer.  ‘Essential Tool’  “An effective workforce plan is an essential tool to
identify appropriate workload staffing levels,” according to
the report.  Managers at the IRS told the Treasury inspector general
they support the findings.  “We agree that balancing future” revenue officer
“staffing with workforce attrition and workload will remain an
important challenge,” Christopher Wagner, the commissioner for
the small business and self-employed division, wrote in response
to the report. “The IRS has already initiated efforts to
enhance workforce planning across all collection programs and
mission critical occupations.”  The IRS budget has been a target for cuts by Republicans,
who are in the majority in the  House of Representatives . House
leaders proposed $603 million in cuts to the agency for fiscal
2011. They were unsuccessful in that effort and the IRS faced a
cut of 0.2 percent in the final budget.  The Obama administration had requested a $486 million
budget increase for the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  