-- 
Italian Skiwear Maker Moncler Cancels IPO, Sells 45% Holding to Eurazeo

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   A r m o r e l   K e n n a   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-06-06T10:52:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/italian-skiwear-maker-moncler-cancels-ipo-sells-45-holding-to-eurazeo.html
Moncler SpA,  the Italian maker of
$1,000 ski jackets, canceled an initial public offering and said
investment firm Eurazeo will buy 45 percent in a deal valuing
the company at no less than 1.2 billion euros ($1.8 billion).  Eurazeo will become Moncler’s largest investor, replacing
U.S. buyout firm  Carlyle Group , whose holding will be reduced to
17.8 percent from 48 percent, according to a statement today.
Chairman Remo Ruffini’s stake will decline to 32 percent from 38
percent following the transaction.  “As a partner, we will support Remo Ruffini and the
management team of Moncler in order to bring Moncler to the next
level: a globally recognized luxury brand,” said Virginie Morgon, a board member at Paris-based  Eurazeo (RF)  who led the
investment, in the statement.  The implied valuation of Moncler based on today’s deal
includes debt and compares with an estimate by Banca IMI SpA
analysts last month of as much as 1.28 billion euros excluding
borrowings. Imi estimates Moncler’s debt at 145 million euros.  The IPO was canceled because of market conditions, Moncler
said, the same reason cited last month by Rhiag SpA, an Italian
auto-parts distributor owned by private-equity firm Alpha
Associes. Larger luxury-goods maker Prada SpA is pushing ahead
with a  Hong Kong  IPO this month, while Salvatore Ferragamo SpA
is planning an Italian offering.  Pulled, Postponed IPOs  A total of 17 IPOs have been pulled or postponed in western
 Europe  this year, compared to eight in the same period a year
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a steeper
rate than globally, where 79 IPOS were delayed or canceled in
2011, compared with 55 in the same period a year earlier.  “Although small, the deal will help diversify Eurazeo’s
portfolio” which is to a large extent exposed to lower-growth
businesses, analysts at Cheuvreux Credit Agricole Group wrote in
a note to investors today. That’s “good news,” they wrote.  Eurazeo fell 40 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 53.30 euros at
12:08 p.m. in Paris trading.  Carlyle bought a 48 percent stake in Moncler, founded in
1952 in Monastier de Clermont,  France , in August 2008. The
buyout fund manager, based in  Washington , already made more than
twice the value of its investment by selling part of its stake
to Eurazeo, two people with knowledge of the deal said today.
Moncler has posted 19 percent average revenue growth since
Carlyle invested.  Expansion Plans  While plans for an IPO of the company, which also owns the
Marina Yachting and Henry Cotton’s labels, have been halted,
there are still prospects for an offering, Eurazeo Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Sayer said on a conference call today.
The  investment company , which first looked at Moncler in 2008,
resumed talks with the skiwear maker at the start of this year.  Eurazeo, which owns stakes in hotel operator  Accor SA (AC)  and
car-rental company Europcar Groupe SA, was the only financial
firm to hold discussions with Moncler’s owners about an
alternative to an IPO, Sayer said. Eurazeo intends to reduce its
equity investment from 418 million euros to between 250 million
euros and 300 million euros, by selling back stakes to co-
investment partners, Sayer said. The Paris firm will have five
representatives on the Moncler board.  Eurazeo plans to double Moncler’s number of stores in  China 
and Hong Kong “in the short term,” Morgon said. Moncler
currently has five locations in those markets. Eurazeo also has
“significant” expansion plans for the brand in the U.S.
Moncler has four directly operated stores in the U.S. and the
brand is sold in department stores, Morgon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  