-- 
Japanese Stocks Fall as U.S. Jobs Growth Slows; Tepco Drops to Record Low

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-06-06T07:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/japan-stocks-drop-for-third-day-as-u-s-jobs-growth-slows-tepco-plunges.html
Japanese stocks slid to the lowest
level since March, as slowing U.S. jobs growth fueled concern
the global economy is weakening and  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.
plunged to a record low.  Monex Group Inc. led brokerages lower on concern investors
are making fewer trades.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
lost 3 percent after the Nikkei newspaper said Japan’s biggest
publicly traded bank may be forced to hold extra capital
reserves. Tokyo Electric, operator of the nuclear plant crippled
by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, plunged 28 percent after
a report that Tokyo Stock Exchange President Atsushi Saito said
the power company should be put in  bankruptcy protection .  “There’s so much uncertainty surrounding what will happen
with the utility that it’s impossible to analyze,” Naoteru
Teraoka, general manager at Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion. “The stock
moves whenever anybody opens their mouth.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.2 percent to 9,380.35
as of the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The broader Topix lost 1.1
percent to 807.99, the lowest level since March 15. The index
has tumbled 13 percent since March 10, the day before the
natural disaster that devastated Japan’s northeast coast,
leaving almost 24,000 people dead or missing and disabling Tokyo
Electric’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Trading Volume Falls  Monex declined 3.5 percent to 15,350 yen as trading volume 
on the Topix fell to about 18 percent below the 12-month average,
fueling concern earnings will drop at the online brokerage.
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest securities firm, fell 2
percent to 391 yen, while rival  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  lost
1.5 percent to 324 yen.  Mitsubishi UFJ declined 3 percent to 359 yen, the single
heaviest drag on the Topix. The lender may be classified as a
so-called global systemically important financial institution
and be forced to hold additional capital buffers equivalent to
as much as 3 percent of risk-weighted assets, the Nikkei
newspaper reported on June 4.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-largest publicly traded bank, dropped 1.9
percent to 2,269 yen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 1 percent on June
3 in  New York , declining for a fifth straight week, after the
jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent in May, the
highest level this year. A separate report showed payrolls grew
at the slowest pace in eight months, showing employers are
losing confidence as the economy slows.  U.S. Economy  The report followed lower-than-estimated data on factory
orders and  consumer confidence , spurring speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may consider a third round of quantitative easing, or
“QE3,” to bolster growth.  Tokyo  Electric led declines on the Nikkei, plunging 28
percent to 207 yen, its lowest level since the utility started
trading in 1951.  Kyodo News  reported radiation readings from
inside the No. 1 reactor building at the Dai-Ichi facility
spiked to the highest level yet, almost three months after the
disaster started. Separately, the Tokyo Shimbun reported the
utility will post a full-year net loss of about 570 billion yen
($7.1 billion).  Tokyo Stock Exchange President Atsushi Saito said the
utility should be liquidated along the same lines as Japan
Airlines Co., the Asahi newspaper reported. After the report,
the TSE said Tokyo Electric doesn’t currently meet requirements
for the shares to be delisted.  Bickering in Parliament  Kansai Electric Power Co.,  Japan ’s second-largest utility,
tumbled 8.9 percent to 1,202 yen after Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. cut its target price to 1,350 yen from
2,150 yen. Chubu Electric Power Co. plummeted 8.9 percent to
1,130 yen.  Stocks also fell amid political bickering that threatens to
delay passage of a spending package to help tsunami-hit areas in
Japan’s northeast. Senior lawmakers of Japan’s ruling party
sought to limit Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s tenure in office amid
internal divisions over his promise to step down at an
unspecified time.  Kan pledge he would step down to appease dissidents in his
 Democratic Party  of Japan and defeat a June 2 parliamentary no-
confidence vote. Following the vote, Kan then suggested he might
stay on until early next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 