-- 
Japan May Tap Geothermal Power to Offset Atomic Loss, BNEF Says

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-06-06T06:47:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/japan-may-tap-geothermal-power-to-offset-atomic-loss-bnef-says.html
Japan  can increase the amount of
electricity it generates using geothermal resources to offset
power shortages as the government reconsiders its reliance on
nuclear energy, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  The country has the potential to be one of the “world’s
biggest generators of geothermal power,” the renewable energy
research arm of Bloomberg LP said in a report. There have been
no major projects since 1996 and geothermal plants, which use
underground hot water and steam to drive turbines, account for
0.2 percent of Japan’s power capacity, according to the report.  Projects are hindered by regulations including a ban on
drilling wells in natural parks, which contain about 82 percent
of Japan’s estimated 23.5 gigawatts of geothermal resources,
according to the report by Tokyo-based analyst Yugo Nakamura. A
gigawatt is about equal to the output of a new atomic reactor.  “If the government wants to bring about a step-increase in
the development of geothermal power, it will have to review all
existing regulations, in particular on access to natural parks
and streamlining the project application and approval process,”
the report said.  Opposition to development also comes from Japan’s “onsen,”
or hot-spring owners, concerned that the use of underground hot
water to generate electricity may harm their businesses.  Japan plans to introduce a feed-in tariff, or subsidized
power price, of 15 yen ($0.19) per kilowatt-hour next year to
cover the added cost of generating electricity from underground
steam, a measure it forecast will add as much as 500 megawatts
of capacity within a decade, the report said. Japan currently
has 537 megawatts of installed geothermal capacity.  The government is preparing a long-term energy strategy in
the wake of the crisis at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, where three reactors melted down after
they were hit by an earthquake and tsunami in March. The plan is
expected to emphasize the role of renewable energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 