-- 
Japan, Australian Futures Drop on Slow Growth, Yen

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-06-06T23:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/japan-australian-stock-futures-drop-on-slowing-global-growth-rising-yen.html
(Corrects direction of yen in first paragraph.)  Japanese and Australian stock futures
declined as the yen advanced and  oil prices  fell amid concern
global economic growth will slow.  American depositary receipts of  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s
biggest camera maker, lost 1 percent from the closing price in
Tokyo. Those of Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Japan’s third-
largest publicly traded lender, slid 1 percent. ADRs of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, sank 1 percent.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 9,360 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 9,405
in Singapore. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,370 in Osaka,
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index slid 0.7 percent today.  “Investors have a deep-seated concern about the  U.S.
economy ,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at Tokyo-based
SMBC Friend Securities Co. “Investors will be watching the
movement of U.S. futures to check whether U.S. stocks will stop
falling.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. In  New York  yesterday, the index retreated 1.1
percent to the lowest level since March 18, falling for a fourth
day amid concern economic growth is slowing and the  Federal
Reserve  will boost capital requirements for the nation’s largest
banks.  Banks Drop  Financial shares had the second-biggest drop in the  S&P 500 
within 10 industries yesterday after Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo
said on June 3 that regulators should use capital surcharges to
discourage mergers by large banks that would increase risk
without yielding significant public benefits, signaling the Fed
aims to use tougher capital standards related to the size of a
firm to curb risks posed by “systemically important financial
institutions.”  After the market closed, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  reiterated his view that the nation’s
largest banks may eventually need to be broken up to prevent
them from posing threats to stability and economic growth. “I
trust regulators will rise to the challenges posed by the
financial crisis,” Fisher, 62, said in the text of a speech in
New York. If they don’t, “we will ultimately have to take more
Draconian measures.”  In Europe, a survey by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  yesterday
said banks in the European Union may have to raise 29 billion
euros ($42 billion) following this year’s stress tests.  Yen Rises  The yen rose for a fourth day against the dollar, the
longest winning streak in more than a month, and gained versus
the euro as signs of slowing global economic growth and a drop
in stocks spurred demand for a refuge investment. The euro fell
against most of its 16 most-traded counterparts after Jean- Claude Juncker, head of the euro-area finance ministers, said
the currency is overvalued.  The yen touched a level stronger than 80 versus the dollar
last night in Tokyo, for the first time since May 5. Against the
euro,  Japan ’s currency strengthened to as much as 116.59 today,
compared with 117.64 at the close of stock trading yesterday. A
stronger yen cut the value of overseas earnings at Japanese
companies when repatriated.  Crude oil for July delivery yesterday declined 1.2 percent
to the lowest settlement since May 23 in New York on speculation
that demand for fuel is faltering along with economic growth and
as ministers from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries arrive in Vienna to discuss production targets.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 2.3 percent by the
S&P 500 and a drop of 1.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.5 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13 times for the S&P 500 and
11 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 