-- 
JPMorgan Executives Todd Maclin, Heidi Miller Said to Plan Leaving Posts

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-06T20:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/jpmorgan-executives-maclin-miller-said-to-plan-leaving-posts.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  commercial-
banking chief Todd Maclin and international operations head
 Heidi Miller , two of Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ’s top
executives, plan to step down from their posts as early as next
year.  Miller plans to leave the company in the first quarter of
2012, and Maclin has been training his No. 2, Douglas Petno,
since January to replace him as early as next year, Miller and
Maclin said today in separate interviews. JPMorgan also said
today that it hired  Glenn Tilton , the former chairman and chief
executive officer of United Airlines parent UAL Corp., to advise
Dimon in the Midwest.  Miller and Maclin are among Dimon’s most senior executives,
serving on the firm’s 15-member operating committee. Miller, a
confidant of Dimon, 55, for two decades, was named to the new
post of president of JPMorgan International last June. She said
her work coordinating operations between JPMorgan’s investment
bank, asset-management division and her previous unit, Treasury
and Security Services, is almost complete, making it time to
look for the next challenge. Miller, 58, said she plans to look
for opportunities elsewhere.  “I always said that when that was over, either I find
something else to do that was compelling to me or go do
something else,” Miller said.  The Wall Street Journal previously reported the moves,
citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Commercial Bank Expanded  Maclin, who appointed Petno as his chief operating officer
in September, said he may take over the division as early as
next year. Maclin has expanded the commercial bank from
operating in two states to 28 states in the last 10 years and
has doubled the division’s profits in the last five years.  Maclin said Petno, 46, impressed him after they first met
more than 15 years ago. “I just thought he was terrific and
have watched his career develop,” said Maclin, who hasn’t put a
date on the transition.  “When Doug’s ready, I’m more than happy to step down and
let him be the CEO of the commercial bank,” said Maclin, who
has been at JPMorgan for 32 years. “If that happens as early as
next year, that would be great. And if Jamie has something else
that he wants to consider me doing where he needs some help,
that’s great too.”  International Growth  Miller was put in charge of international operations last
June to accelerate JPMorgan’s growth in  Asia ,  Latin America  and
European emerging markets. The business offers corporate clients
investment banking, advisory, debt capital markets,  equity
capital markets , lending, payments and securities processing
services worldwide.  Under Miller’s direction, JPMorgan has redefined the duties
of regional CEOs as well as for senior country officers, which
used to solely fall under the domain of the investment bank. The
bank also put in place new internal profit and loss estimates by
region, as well as retooled its risk measures to more fully
measure exposures in certain areas across product lines.  “That’s a big sea change. That’s almost a cultural
change,” Miller said. Senior country officers “have to be more
than just an investment banker,” she said. “You’re going to
have to deal with regulators, you’re going have to deal with all
clients no matter what the product sale, you have to think about
the country’s strategy.”  Miller Advances  Miller has been moving up in Wall Street’s ranks since
taking over JPMorgan’s payment-processing division, called
Treasury and Securities Services, seven years ago. She has been
among Fortune’s “Top 50 Women in Banking” and Forbes’s “100
Most Powerful Women.” She topped Crain’s “50 Most Powerful
Women in  New York ” list in 2009.  Her duties will be turned over to executives within the
individual business lines that operate overseas, said a person
close to the company who asked not to be named because the plans
aren’t public.  Investment bank CEO Jes Staley, 54, asset management CEO
Mary Erdoes, 43, and Mike Cavanagh, 45, who runs treasury and
security services, would take over Miller’s international duties
within their divisions, the person said.  International business accounted for 22 percent of
JPMorgan’s total revenue of $103 billion last year, down from 25
percent in 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Tilton in Chicago  Tilton, 63, will join Dimon’s executive committee,
coordinating JPMorgan’s Midwest lobbying and public relations
efforts out of Chicago, the company said in a statement. Tilton
fills the role that was held by Bill Daley, who left in January
to become President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff.  “I’ll probably do it a little bit differently,” Tilton
said in reference to Daley in an interview. “We bring different
strengths to the position, mine are principally in a corporate
world and being associated with international global oil and
gas.”  Tilton, who spent more than three decades in the  energy
industry  as an executive at Texaco Inc., Dynegy and Chevron,
brings experience running global businesses that have
successfully navigated the local and national political
landscape.  “Partnering with local, state, municipal city and federal
government to the mutual benefit of both is something that good
business does,” Tilton said. “It’s very hard to be successful
in business today without having an understanding of the role
that relationships with local government and federal government
play.”  Led United’s Restructuring  While at Chicago-based United, Tilton led the airline
through a $23 billion restructuring, returned the company to
profitability and completed its merger with Continental Airlines
last year. He had spent 32 years with Texaco Inc., serving as
chairman and CEO in 2001.  “Glenn has led the largest private-sector employer in
 Chicago , where his role will be based, and he has developed
strong relationships with the local business community and
government officials, building on his substantial reputation in
 Washington  and the international business community,” Staley
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 