-- 
Kimberly-Clark, One Tough Cookie, Lawsuits.com: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-06T11:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/kimberly-clark-lawsuits-com-comcast-intellectual-property.html
Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , maker of
Huggies Diapers and Scott toilet paper, received a mixed ruling
from a federal court that handles appeals of patent disputes.  Dallas-based Kimberly-Clark sued First Quality Baby
Products LLC in federal court in Green Bay,  Wisconsin , in
September 2009, alleging the Lewiston, Pennsylvania-based
company infringed four patents related to the manufacturing of
disposable training pants for toddlers.  The trial court had found that Kimberly-Clark had
successfully argued it would have a good chance of proving First
Quality infringed the four patents, and granted a court order
requested by the company.  First Quality then filed an appeal with the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit. In a June 1 ruling, the appeals
court said that the trial court was in error with respect to
three of the four patents.  The appeals court found that on patents 6,514,187,
6,888,143, and 7,156,939, First Quality raised what it called a
“substantial question” about the validity of each patent.
Because of that, the appeals court said, the trial court
erroneously granted the court order.  On Kimberly-Clark’s patent 6,776,316, the appeals court
said the trial court properly ruled that the Texas company would
likely prove it had been infringed.  Kimberly-Clark’s case was argued before the appeals court
by  Constantine L. Trela Jr.  of  Chicago ’s Sidley Austin LLP.
First Quality Baby Products’ argument was presented  by Kenneth
P. George , of  New York ’s  Amster Rothstein & Ebenstein LLP .  The case in the trial court is Kimberly Clark Worldwide
Inc. v. First Quality Baby Products LLC, 1:09-cv000916-WCG, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Wisconsin ( Green Bay ). The
appeal is Kimberly Clark Worldwide Inc. v. First Quality Baby
Products LLC, 10-o1382, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit ( Washington ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Scripps Networks Sued Over Food Channel’s ‘Tough Cookie’  Scripps Networks Interactive was sued for trademark
infringement by a New York bakery.  One Tough Cookie Inc. objects to the “Tough Cookies”
title of an upcoming reality show to be aired on Scripps’s Food
Network. According to the complaint filed May 31 in federal
court in  Manhattan , the New York bakery has been in business
since 2005 and registered its “One Tough Cookie” trademark
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark office in May 2006.  The company has operated the  OneToughCookieNYC.com  website
since 2006, and claims its name “has become widely known among
consumers” as identifying high-quality baked goods and
services. The company is owned by Gail Dosik, a former fashion
designer who became a pastry chef, according to the court
papers, and has been featured on a number of national television
programs.  The bakery says it sent Scripps a cease-and-desist letter
in May to no avail. It claims that if the television series is
permitted to use “tough cookies,” the public will be confused,
and the bakery will lose “hard-earned goodwill.”  Every time “Tough Cookies” is aired, the bakery claims
its website and Web server will be compromised by television
fans attempting to seek the program’s site.  It asked the court to bar the use of “Tough Cookies” in
connection with the proposed program, and the destruction of all
infringing items and promotional materials. Additionally, it
seeks money damages and the channel’s profits attributable to
the alleged infringement, plus awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Scripps spokeswoman Lee Hall said in an e-mail that “the
suit has no merit. We will defend our position vigorously.”  The bakery is represented by  Leonard F. Lesser  of  Simon-
Lesser PC  of New York.  The case is One Tough Cookie Inc. v.  Scripps Networks
Interactive Inc. (SNI) , 1:11-cv-02675-RJS, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lawsuits.com Domain Name to Be Sold by ATM Holdings Inc.  The domain name lawsuits.com is up for sale, according to a
 statement  from the domain name consultant  ATM Holdings Inc. ,
which is handling the sale.  The name has been dormant for many years and is expected to
sell “at or near its listing price of $275,000,” Andrew
Miller, president of ATM holdings said in the statement.  He claims “there is no better brand or domain to use to
buy clicks in Google and other  search engines ” than
lawsuits.com.  Some single-focus Internet domain names have fetched high
prices. In October 2010, the “sex.com” domain name sold at
auction for $13 million.  Others haven’t done as well. An October auction on EBay.com
website brought $14,999 for the owners of a domain name for a
professional soccer team, the Carolina Railhawks.  Comcast Unit’s Bravo Channel Says Arizona Site Infringes Mark  Bravo, the premium television channel owned by  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal unit, sent a cease-and-desist letter to a
website that features live sex performances, the TMZ.com website
reported.  The site’s domain name -- realhousewivesofscottsdale.com --
infringes Bravo’s “real housewives” trademarks, the letter
claimed and TMZ reported.  Bravo demanded the whole operation be taken down, according
to TMZ.  The owner of the realhousewivesofscottsdale.com website
told TMZ he’s not willing to take the site down and is willing
to go to court rather than meet Bravo’s demands.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Della Femina Sued Over Use of Black Keys’ ‘Tighten Up’  Della Femina, Rothschild, Jeary & Partners, a  New York- 
based advertising agency, was sued for copyright infringement by
two performers and songwriters know as the  Black Keys .  Dan Auerbach and Patrick Carney, both of Nashville,
 Tennessee , claim the ad agency made unauthorized use of their
song “Tighten Up” in a commercial for  Valley National Bancorp (VLY) 
of Wayne,  New Jersey .  According to the complaint filed May 31 in federal court in
Nashville, the composition “ Tighten Up ” won a Grammy Award,
and was the lead single on the Black Keys’ 2010 album
“Brothers.” The song has been No. 1 on Billboard’s charts for
top rock songs and top alternative songs, according to the
complaint, and has sold more than 450,000 physical and digital
copies.  The two musicians claim they’ve suffered “substantial
injury, loss and damage” because of the unauthorized use of
their music.  They say they never authorized the ad agency or anyone
working on the agency’s behalf to use the music. Although the
bank is a co-defendant with the agency, the musicians specified
in court papers that Della Femina acted as its agent with
respect to the creation and distribution of the advertisement.  They asked the court for an award of the bank and Della
Femina’s profits attributable to the alleged infringement, and
for an order barring further use of the composition.
Additionally, they requested awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Della Femina didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The musicians are represented by  John J. Griffin Jr.  of
 Kay, Griffin, Enkema & Colbert PLLC  of Nashville.  The case is Dan Auerbach v. Della Femina/Rothschild Jeary
Partners, 3:11-cv-00511, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Tennessee (Nashville).  Judge Denies Disney Injunction Against Dish Over TV Movies  A federal judge refused to grant  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  an
injunction that would prevent satellite television provider  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  from giving its subscribers free access to Disney
movies.  U.S. District Judge George Daniels in New York denied the
motion by Disney Enterprises Inc. for a preliminary injunction
in a one-page order signed June 1.  Disney sued Dish, the second-largest satellite TV company,
in May, accusing it of distributing Disney movies over the Starz
movie channels without charging subscribers an additional
premium, as is done with a service such as  HBO . Starz is a unit
of Liberty Media Corp. Disney accused Dish of copyright
infringement.  “Dish Network pays hundreds of millions of dollars for the
right to distribute Starz content to our customers, which
includes the rights to a number of Disney movies,” Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish said May 3 in a statement.  Dish said the contract is between Starz and Disney, and
that “we will vigorously defend our rights against any attempt
to drag our customers into the middle of their dispute.”  Marc Lumpkin, a spokesman for Dish, said June 3 the company
has no comment on the judge’s ruling.  Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Burbank, California-based
Disney, didn’t return a call seeking comment.     .  DirecTV, based in El Segundo,  California , is the largest
satellite TV provider in the U.S.  The case is Disney Enterprises Inc. v. Dish Network LLC,
11-2973, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 