-- 
Kyoto Protocol Faces Gap After Emissions Targets End, UN Chief Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-06-06T14:44:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/kyoto-protocol-faces-gap-after-emissions-targets-end-un-says.html
The world’s only treaty that caps
greenhouse-gas emissions will face a gap in enforcement after
2012 because its targets expire and an extension can’t be
approved in time, the top United Nations climate official said.  Japan , Russia and  Canada  have said they won’t take part in
a so-called second-commitment period under the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol . Even if they sign up to new goals at talks in December
in Durban,  South Africa , the decision will require an amendment
of the treaty and ratification by governments around the world,
the UN’s Christiana Figueres said today in Bonn.  “We would assume that there is no time to do that between
Durban and the end of 2012,” Figueres told reporters,
acknowledging for the first time that time has run out to agree
to a new set of limits under Kyoto that will dovetail with the
first. The Durban talks are the next scheduled round.  After failing to agree to a new global warming treaty in
Copenhagen in 2009, more than 190 countries are trying to devise
new rules to cut emissions that Figueres said last month rose to
a record in the atmosphere. Developing countries including  China 
say industrialized nations should act first while the U.S. and
Japan say no agreement can work without all major emitters.  “We are not committed to any outcome which would only
engage developed countries,” U.S. lead negotiator  Jonathan Pershing  said in Bonn after two weeks of talks began. “There is
no scenario which works on this without a more comprehensive
participation and collective action.”  Realistic Time?  Artur Runge Metzger, the lead negotiator for the European
Commission, said 2014 or 2015 is “probably a realistic time
perspective” for achieving a global deal including all the
major emitters.  He said an agreement in Durban that only includes a new set
of targets for the 27-nation European Union would not be a
success, covering only about 11 percent of global emissions.  At the last round of ministerial negotiations in Cancun in
December, governments agreed for the first time that the goal of
the talks should be to keep the temperature rise since
industrialization to a maximum of 2 degrees Celsius and pledged
to examine the possibility of a 1.5-degree target.  The  International Energy Agency  on May 31 said global
 carbon emissions  from electricity generation climbed to a record
in 2010, and the UN Environment Program said last year that
current emissions pledges from all nations would lead to a
temperature rise of 2.5 to 5 degrees Celsius by 2100.  The environmental groups WWF International and Greenpeace,
which have pushed for a legally-binding treaty, both said an
all-encompassing deal won’t be possible in Durban.  ‘Political Environment’  “The political environment isn’t conducive for a fair,
ambitious and binding deal,” said Tasneem Essop, lead climate
campaigner for WWF. “It won’t be reached in Durban.”  This year’s talks can agree to set up institutions such as
a green fund to channel climate change aid and a registry to
note actions taken by  developing countries  to cut emissions,
Essop said. Countries could also agree to a year that emissions
must peak and a mandate to reach a treaty by an agreed future
date, she said.  “We don’t trust our governments to do what they have to do
by Durban,” Greenpeace International Climate Policy Coordinator
Tove Ryding said in a Bonn interview. “Is the next conference
going to be about how many people are going to go away from the
 Kyoto Protocol ?”  Campaign groups are still calling for governments in the
industrialized world to raise their ambition on emissions cuts.
The development charity Oxfam said yesterday in a study that
developing countries account for about 60 percent of emissions
reductions currently pledged.  Salvage Talks  Figueres said envoys are trying to salvage the Kyoto talks
by showing flexibility.  “Countries are being more creative and are beginning to
say ‘OK, we understand that a second commitment period would not
be able to be identical to the first if only for the very reason
that Japan,  Russia  and Canada will not participate,’” she said.  The world’s biggest emitters, the U.S. and China, aren’t
bound by Kyoto, a reason cited by Japan in opposing a second
commitment period. A new round of targets for the 27-nation
European Union and other countries is still possible, Figueres
said in an interview.  “If that’s what the countries want, I certainly won’t stop
them,” she said. “The EU has been pretty public about saying
they would commit to a second commitment period under certain
conditions. The key is to explore those conditions. I’m assuming
they’d not want to do it all alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  