-- 
NATO’s Rasmussen Urges Planning for Post-Qaddafi Libya Fraught With Risks

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-06T15:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/nato-s-rasmussen-urges-planning-for-post-qaddafi-libya-fraught-with-risks.html
NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen signaled that Muammar Qaddafi’s departure from power
in  Libya  is inevitable and warned of the need to begin planning
for a post-Qaddafi Libya fraught with risks.  Rasmussen cited “considerable progress” in the air
campaign over Libya and said he’ll ask defense ministers in the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization this week to broaden the
alliance’s effort. Saying that Qaddafi is now “part of Libya’s
past,” he urged leaders to discuss preparations for the
regime’s downfall.  “It is not a question if but when he’ll have to leave
power,” Rasmussen told reporters today in Brussels. He cited
Qaddafi’s degraded security forces, advances by rebels seeking
to topple him and high-level defections. Asked about stability
should Qaddafi be toppled, Rasmussen said that “naturally,
there is a risk.”  NATO has ratcheted up its 10-week air campaign over Libya
and pursued targets closer to Qaddafi’s military apparatus.
Warplanes struck Libya’s military intelligence headquarters, a
result of improved surveillance by NATO allies, the U.K.’s
Ministry of Defense said today.  Rasmussen said NATO has flown more than 10,000 missions.
Jets have hit almost 1,800 military targets, including about 100
command-and-control centers, more than 700 ammunition depots and
almost 500 tanks, armored personnel carriers and rocket
launchers.  ‘Day Is Coming’  The NATO leader said the bloc must prepare for Qaddafi’s
departure, since “that day is coming.” The military alliance
would step back in the event that Qaddafi is driven out, with
the transition of power overseen by the  United Nations ,
Rasmussen said.  The overnight strikes in Tripoli underscored he
intensification of the NATO campaign, which was backed by the
first time over the weekend with attack helicopters. Qaddafi has
effectively been pushed into hiding, the alliance has said.  “The colonel’s apparatus of repression is increasingly
well understood,” Major General Nick Pope, a U.K. military
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today. “The strike
complemented other allied air missions conducted against other
key regime targets in Tripoli during the course of last night.”  Jalal el-Gallal, a spokesman for the rebels’ National
Transitional Council, said fighters “completely liberated” the
western mountain town of Yefren yesterday.  ‘Closer and Closer’  “We’re getting closer and closer to Tripoli,” he said in
a phone interview.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  will make his final
appearance at NATO headquarters this week before leaving office
at the end of this month. He’ll be joined by his counterparts in
the 28-member alliance to discuss progress in the UN-mandated
mission in Libya.  “In general terms, I will request broad support for our
operation in Libya, if possible increased contributions, if
possible more flexible use of the assets provided for our
operation,” Rasmussen said at the briefing.  Five Libyan generals, two colonels and a major defected to
rebel forces at the end of May, bringing the total of Libyan
army officers that have left Qaddafi to 120, Libya’s former
ambassador to the UN, Abdel Rahman Shalgham, said on May 30.  Libya’s economy will probably shrink 19 percent this year,
after growing 7.4 percent in 2010; inflation will jump to 12.1
percent from 4.7 percent, according to the 2011 African Economic
Outlook. Libya holds  Africa ’s largest crude reserves.  Libya “is likely to pay a high price for the conflict
which has effectively paralyzed the economy and led to a near
halt of Libya’s oil production,” according to the report. “The
country’s oil endowment and international attention to the
country are likely to secure a relatively fast recovery once the
conflict is over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  