-- 
Natural Gas Gains in New York  on ‘Big Burst’ of Hot Weather in U.S. East

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-06-06T19:26:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/natural-gas-gains-in-new-york-on-big-burst-of-hot-weather-in-u-s-east.html
Natural gas futures advanced to a 10-
month high on forecasts of above-normal temperatures that may
increase demand for the power-plant fuel.  Gas futures gained 2.6 percent after meteorologists led by
 Matt Rogers  at Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda, Maryland,
predicted a “big burst” of heat in the eastern U.S. this week.
Temperatures may be as much as 8 degrees above normal in parts
of the Midwest and Northeast through June 10, the company said
in a note to clients today.  “We should be getting some weather-related buying,” said
 Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .
“We transitioned from winter to summer almost overnight, and
air conditioners will be humming.”  Natural gas for July delivery rose 12 cents to $4.827 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement price since July 30. The
futures have climbed 9.6 percent this year.  Gas futures must settle above and remain higher than
$4.879, the six-month high reached on Jan. 24, before prices
will breach $5 per million Btu, said  Stephen Schork , president
of Schork Group Inc., an energy advisory company in Villanova,
Pennsylvania, in a note to clients today. Gas prices were last
above $5 on Aug. 2.  Rising Global Demand  Global natural-gas use may rise more than 50 percent by
2035 to overtake coal as the second-most used fuel, the
 International Energy Agency  said today in a report.  The assumptions for increased gas use are based on growing
demand for the fuel in  China , slowing growth of nuclear power,
increased production of gas from so-called unconventional
sources including shale, lower gas prices and rising use in
transport, the Paris-based IEA said. Unconventional gas would
account for 40 percent of the 1.8 trillion-cubic-meter gain in
consumption.  Temperatures may be above normal in parts of the southern
and western U.S. through June 20, Commodity Weather Group said.  The high temperature in El Paso, Texas, on June 10 may be
101 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius), 6 above normal, according
to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College,  Pennsylvania . The high in
New York may be 87, 9 above normal.  Cooling demand in the Northeast may be more than double the
average level on June 10, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist
with Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri, in a note to
clients today.  Power plants use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  Tropical Weather  An area of showers and thunderstorms in the northwestern
 Caribbean Sea  has a 50 percent chance of developing into a
tropical cyclone within the next 48 hours, the National
Hurricane Center said in a  Tropical Weather Outlook  at 2 p.m.
today in Miami. The system was about 90 miles south-southwest of
Grand Cayman.  The  Gulf of Mexico  accounts for about 8.4 percent of
natural gas gross production in the U.S., according to the
Energy Department.  Gross output includes gas used for repressuring, quantities
vented and flared, and non-hydrocarbon gas removed in treating
or processing operations.  AccuWeather increased its forecast on June 1 for the
development of major hurricanes in the Atlantic Ocean this year.
The company boosted its outlook for storms of Category 3 or
higher to four from the three it predicted in March.  Colorado State’s tropical meteorology team, led by  Phil Klotzbach  and William Gray, also issued a forecast update that
holds to an earlier outlook for five major hurricanes, those
with winds of 111 mph (179 kph) or greater.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
316,707 as of 2:37 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 314,000. Volume was 268,146 on June 3. Open interest was
957,420 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
940,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  