-- 
Natural-Gas Use May Increase 50 Percent by 2035 in ‘Golden Age,’ IEA Says

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-06-06T14:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/natural-gas-use-may-increase-50-percent-by-2035-in-golden-age-iea-says.html
Global natural-gas use may rise more
than 50 percent by 2035 from last year to overtake coal as the
second-most used fuel, the  International Energy Agency  said.  While a surge in gas use will improve  air quality  in many
cities, cut coal use and lower energy costs, climate-change
targets would be missed and temperatures would rise beyond a
goal of 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit), the Paris-based
organization said today in a report.  “We have seen remarkable developments in natural-gas
markets in recent months,”  Nobuo Tanaka , executive director of
the Paris-based adviser to developed nations, said in the
report, titled “Are We Entering a Golden Age of Gas?”  The new assumptions for increased gas use are based on
growing demand for the fuel in  China , slowing growth of nuclear
power, increased production of gas from so-called unconventional
sources including shale, lower gas prices and rising use in
transport, the IEA said. Unconventional gas would account for 40
percent of the 1.8 trillion-cubic-meter gain in consumption.  “There is a strong potential for gas to take on a larger
role,” Tanaka said.  Chinese gas demand, now about 100 billion cubic meters a
year and roughly equal to  Germany , may soar to match that of the
27-nation European Union by 2035, according to the report. China
has 16 of the 20 most polluted cities in the world, Fatih Birol,
the IEA’s chief economist, told reporters in London. Half the
reductions in carbon-dioxide emissions from more gas and less
coal use would come from China, he said.  ‘Much More Livable’  “Cities will be much more livable,” he said. “We see a
substantial drop in all pollutants.”  Demand for the cleanest-burning  fossil fuel  may rise to 5.1
trillion cubic meters a year by 2035, the agency said. That’s
600 billion cubic meters more than in the agency’s annual World
Energy Outlook last year under a base scenario.  Gas will overtake coal as the most popular fuel after oil,
with its share of the energy mix climbing to 25 percent from 21
percent, according to the IEA.  A greater role for gas in the global energy mix may mean
world temperatures rise by 3.5 degrees Celsius, Birol said.  “This gas scenario does not keep us to a 2-degree Celsius
trajectory that we would like to see,” Birol said. “The strong
penetration of gas is not enough to reach the climate goals that
we have.”  Scientists say  carbon emissions  blamed for causing  climate
change  must peak by around 2015 to limit temperature rises to 2
degrees Celsius.  Price Outlook  The IEA cut its price outlook by about 20 percent from last
year due to the greater availability of gas from shale and other
deposits. Gas prices are now about $1.50 to $2.50 a million
British thermal units lower than in the IEA’s base case, the New
Policies Scenario, Birol said. Still, the IEA forecasts prices
will rise to average $9 a million Btu in Europe by 2015,
excluding tax. The U.S. price will reach $5.60 a million Btu by
that time with the price in  Japan  at $11.50 a million Btu.  Natural gas for July delivery rose 10.1 cents, or 2.2
percent, to $4.808 per million British thermal units at 9:57
a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The futures have
climbed 9.2 percent this year.  The U.S. will likely remain a “gas island” Birol said,
adding that there probably won’t be any major imports or
exports. In  Europe  the price link to oil won’t disappear
completely, he said, though contracts will include more spot-gas
pricing and more volume flexibility.  Renewables Policy  If prices remain low, it may put pressure on some
governments to review their existing renewables policies, Birol
said. Cheaper energy means more energy use, he said. For now the
IEA assumes governments won’t alter their policies on renewable
energy.  Producing gas from shale deposits requires large volumes of
water and chemicals to fracture the rock so it releases methane,
the IEA said. More studies are needed to assess the
environmental footprint of shale production, it said.  A golden age for gas hinges on the industry’s ability to
address this issue, Birol said. Gas producers must use the
latest technology to find solutions to the problems for gas to
reach its potential as a fuel. New technology may boost future
prices, he said.  “If the companies want to see the golden age of gas they
need to apply golden standards for the best practices in order
to produce unconventional gas,” Birol said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in  London  at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  