-- 
New York, Northeast Temperatures May Reach 90s This Week, Forecasters Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-06-06T16:37:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/new-york-city-boston-northeast-temperatures-may-reach-the-90s-this-week.html
Temperatures are forecast to rise
into the 90s in  New York City  and much of the Northeast this
week, driving up energy usage as people attempt to cool down
with air conditioning.  Highs may be in the low 90s Fahrenheit (30s Celsius) in New
York and Boston and may come close to 100 from  Washington  to
Philadelphia, according to the  National Weather Service .  “Tomorrow will start to be painful and Wednesday and
Thursday will really be painful,” said David Streit, chief
operating officer at Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland. “It does look like temperatures will be going up
pretty substantially in the next three days.”  Natural gas for July delivery rose 11.3 cents, or 2.4
percent, to $4.82 per million British thermal units at 12:30
p.m. on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  “We should be getting some weather-related buying,” said
Phil Flynn, vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .
“We transitioned from winter to summer almost overnight, and
air conditioners will be humming.”  Power plants use 30 percent of U.S. natural gas supplies.  Gas futures may breach $5 per million Btu if the July
contract can settle above and remain higher than $4.879, the
2011 high reached Jan. 24,  Stephen Schork , president of Schork
Group Inc., an energy advisory company in Villanova,
Pennsylvania, said in a note to clients today. Gas was last
above $5 on Aug. 2.  Storms, Too  In addition to the high temperatures, which may reach 10 to
20 degrees above normal across the Northeast, the U.S. Storm
Prediction Center is forecasting a high chance of severe weather
across northern New York and the New England states of  Vermont ,
 Maine  and New Hampshire on June 9.  According to the center, 523 people have been killed in
tornadoes spawned by severe thunderstorms this year and at least
1,429 twisters have been reported. From 1990 to 2009, tornadoes
caused $97.8 billion of insured losses in the U.S., according to
the Insurance Information Institute in New York.  After this week, the Northeast will probably cool down and
temperatures will return to normal for the time of year, Streit
said. The heat will probably remain in the southern U.S.,
according to  Commodity Weather Group ’s 6- to 10-day forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  