-- 
New Jersey Worker Retirements Surge

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-06T16:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/new-jersey-worker-retirements-surge.html
State and local-government workers in
New Jersey are retiring at the highest rate in at least a decade
as Governor  Chris Christie  seeks to charge them more for health
insurance and cut their pensions.  A total of 10,885 people in the Public Employee Retirement
System have filed since January to leave the workforce this
year, according to state Treasury Department records. That’s
already higher than the 10,731 workers enrolled in that fund who
retired in all of 2010. If applications through the rest of the
year continue at the current pace, at least 13,000 state and
local workers would retire this year, a 20 percent increase.  “Some folks wanted to get out of Dodge before the changes
come -- that’s both a natural and human response and I’m not
disturbed by it,” Christie, a first-term Republican, told
reporters today in Trenton. “Any time you’re talking about
changing the system, folks are going to get nervous.”  Including teachers, police and firemen, more than 20,000
public employees filed retirement papers last year, the most in
at least a decade. Teacher retirements nearly doubled to 7,123
from 3,663 in 2010. So far this year, 4,808 educators have
submitted retirement papers.  Christie signed a law last year requiring teachers to
allocate 1.5 percent of their salaries toward health benefits.
They previously paid nothing.  Pension Proposals  The governor, 48, urged legislators in September to roll
back a 9 percent benefit increase enacted in 2001, raise the
minimum  retirement age  to 65 from 62, increase worker
contributions and freeze cost-of-living raises to help reduce a
$53.9 billion deficit in the state’s pension system.  “All of these attacks by the governor on people’s pensions
and health care have created a lot of anxiety,” said Robert
Master, political director for  Communications Workers of
America , the largest state-worker union in New Jersey. “You can
talk about big government all you want, but people want those
services and we’re getting to the breaking point.”  Master’s union is in negotiations with Christie’s
administration on a four-year contract for the period starting
July 1. Christie is pressing for workers to pay 30 percent of
the cost of their health-insurance premiums both in those talks
and in legislation.  New Jersey ’s pension-funding deficit increased by 18
percent to $53.9 billion as of June 2010 as the state failed to
make contributions. The state also has an unfunded liability of
$66.8 billion for providing medical care to retired public
employees, the treasury department said in December.  Christie said two years of elevated public retirements
won’t expand the unfunded pension liability if lawmakers pass
his plan to lower benefits. The state may hire new workers
within some departments if they are unable to cover workloads,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 