-- 
Sony, Nintendo: Attacks Didn’t Expose Customers

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i
-- 
2011-06-06T07:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/nintendo-says-hacker-attack-on-server-didn-t-expose-customer-information.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , already targeted by
hacker intrusions that exposed more than 100 million customer
accounts, said a new breach in  Europe  didn’t compromise user
data, while rival Nintendo Co. said a server was attacked.  No protected data was accessed during the attack on Sony’s
European website that was discovered yesterday, said Atsuo Omagari, a company spokesman. Nintendo, the world’s largest
maker of handheld video-game players, said the server attacked
May 16 didn’t contain consumer information.  Shares of Sony fell, extending declines this year amid
breaches that the Tokyo-based company has estimated may cost
about 14 billion yen ($173 million). The widening of attacks to
include Nintendo shows large companies doing business
internationally are especially at risk, said Yusuke Tsunoda, an
analyst at Tokai  Tokyo  Securities Co. in Tokyo  “Nintendo and Sony are big, global names,” Tsunoda, who
rates Nintendo’s shares “neutral,” said in a phone interview
today. “Companies with international ambitions need to be aware
of these risks. This applies not just to game makers.”  A group called LulzSec posted data on the Internet that it
said was a “server configuration file,” or data for
programming purposes, from a Nintendo server, the Wall Street
Journal  reported  yesterday. The group previously said it broke
into a Sony website and downloaded information from 1 million
customer accounts.  ‘Server Configuration Issue’  “This particular situation was a server configuration
issue that we investigated and resolved a few weeks ago,” the
U.S. unit of Kyoto, Japan-based Nintendo said in a statement e-
mailed to Bloomberg News yesterday. “The server contained no
consumer information.”  Ken Toyoda, a spokesman for Nintendo in Kyoto, declined to
comment today on the source of the attack or to elaborate on any
measures the company is taking in response.  “There has been no significant damage to Nintendo or to
our customers,” Toyoda said in a phone interview.  Sony said the latest intrusion only accessed information
that was available publicly.  Sony fell 3.2 percent to 2,062 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo, extending its share-price decline this year to
30 percent. Nintendo dropped 1.6 percent to 17,910 yen in  Osaka ,
while  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 1.2
percent.  Strengthening Protection  Nintendo plans to introduce an online shopping service this
week for game titles for its 3DS handheld player, it said June 2.
The company probably won’t lose business as a result of the
attack on its server, said Tomoaki Kawasaki, an analyst at Cosmo
Securities Co. in Tokyo.  “Game makers will have to focus more on strengthening
protection of their client information,” Kawasaki, who has a
“neutral” rating on Nintendo’s shares, said in a phone
interview today.  LulzSec posted statements online earlier this month saying
it broke into the website of Sony’s film unit and downloaded
personal information including passwords, e-mail addresses and
dates of birth from user accounts. Sony is investigating whether
customer information was compromised during that intrusion,  Mami Imada , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman, said by phone today.  Sony resumed full operation last week of the PlayStation
Network in the U.S. and Europe after suspending it for six weeks
because of hacker attacks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  