-- 
Nobel Laureate Diamond Withdraws Nomination to Fed Board

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-06T16:45:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/nobel-laureate-peter-diamond-to-withdraw-his-nomination-as-a-fed-governor.html
Nobel laureate  Peter Diamond ,
nominated three times by President Barack Obama to serve on the
Federal Reserve’s board of governors, withdrew his nomination in
the face of Republican opposition.  Diamond announced he won’t seek the position in an opinion
article posted yesterday on the New York Times website, saying
his opponents failed to appreciate that analysis of unemployment
is essential to effective monetary policy. A Massachusetts
Institute of Technology professor, Diamond won the  Nobel Prize 
in economics in October for his work on the labor market.  “The Republicans on the  committee  voted in lockstep
against my appointment, making it extremely unlikely that the
opposition to a full Senate vote can be overcome,” Diamond
said. “It is time for me to withdraw, as I plan to inform the
White House.”  The withdrawal ends a 14-month nomination effort resisted
by Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the senior Republican on
the Senate Banking Committee, who with party colleagues
repeatedly criticized Diamond for supporting the central bank’s
record monetary stimulus.  “We are deeply disappointed that this candidate, who had
initially seen bipartisan support, fell victim to partisan
obstructionism at this important time for our economic
recovery,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said today in
an e-mailed statement. “The president will nominate an
individual for this position as soon as possible.”  Rejected Diamond  Shelby and the other nine Republicans on the banking panel
voted last month against the advance of Diamond’s nomination to
the full Senate, while the 12 Democrats backed Diamond for the
post.  “It is my hope that President Obama will now nominate
someone capable of garnering bipartisan support in the Senate,”
Shelby said yesterday in a statement. “It would be my hope that
the President will not seek to pack the Fed with those who will
use the institution to finance his profligate spending and
agenda.”  While awaiting Senate approval, Diamond voiced support for
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to purchase $600 billion in
 Treasury securities . The policy of so-called quantitative easing
is aimed at spurring economic growth, averting a broad-based
decline in prices and reducing a jobless rate stuck near 9
percent.  ‘Crucial’ to Policy  Diamond in the opinion article said his critics held “a
fundamental misunderstanding: a failure to recognize that
analysis of unemployment is crucial to conducting monetary
policy.”  Diamond, 71, affirmed his defense of the Fed’s quantitative
easing policy, saying that “concern about the (seemingly low)
current risk of future inflation should not erase concern about
the large costs of continuing high unemployment.”  In a statement before the committee’s vote last month,
Shelby said that Diamond is “an old-fashioned, big government
Keynesian” who “supported bailing out the big banks during the
crisis” and “supports additional stimulus and quantitative
easing.”  Diamond was first nominated to the Fed by Obama in April
2010. Republicans allowed two other nominees, Fed Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen  and Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin , to be confirmed
last year.  He initially won the support of three Republicans on the
banking committee. Two of those Senators, New Hampshire’s  Judd Gregg  and Utah’s Robert Bennett, did not remain in the Senate
after 2010. The third, Nebraska Senator Mike Johanns withdrew
his support in May saying, “I can no longer support a nominee
so vocally in favor of more spending, more stimulus, and more
quantitative easing.”  ‘Play Politics’  Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a Democrat
from South Dakota, said that “with nearly 14 million Americans
unemployed, it is disappointing Republicans would rather play
politics than help bring the  Federal Reserve  to full strength.”  “There was no reasonable justification for blocking”
Diamond’s confirmation, Johnson said today in a statement.  A professor at MIT since 1966, Diamond shared the 2010
Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences with  Dale Mortensen  and
 Christopher Pissarides  for research into the difficulties of
matching supply and demand, particularly in the labor market.  “Understanding the labor market -- and the process by
which workers and jobs come together and separate -- is critical
to devising an effective monetary policy,” Diamond said.  Third Try  The White House re-nominated Diamond in January, marking a
third try at confirmation after the Senate adjourned in December
without approving him. Diamond’s initial candidacy was returned
to the White House in August under a procedural objection.  “To the public, the  Washington  debate is often about more
versus less -- in both spending and  regulation ,” Diamond said
in the opinion article. “Skilled analytical thinking should not
be drowned out by mistaken, ideologically driven views that more
is always better or less is always better.”  The central bank now has two unfilled seats without a
nominee. Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  resigned from the central bank
on April 2 and the White House has yet to pick a replacement.  Diamond plans to “take advantage of some of the many
opportunities that come to a Nobel laureate,” he said in the
article. “So don’t worry about me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  