-- 
Sudanese Government Soldier Reported Killed in Fight With South Sudan Army

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-06-07T08:41:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/northern-southern-sudan-forces-clash-in-oil-producing-border-state.html
One Sudanese government soldier was
killed in clashes with Southern Sudan’s forces in the north’s
only oil-producing state, the  SUNA news agency  reported, as
tension escalates a month before the south’s independence.  The fatality and the wounding of seven others occurred when
Southern Sudanese troops attacked northern Sudanese forces on
June 5 on the outskirts of Kadugli, the capital of Southern
Kordofan state, state-run SUNA reported yesterday, citing army
spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled. Southern Sudanese army spokesman
Philip Aguer said his forces weren’t involved in the fighting.  United Nations spokesman Kouider Zerrouk confirmed that
shooting took place on June 5 and said troops from the two
armies clashed yesterday in Kadugli. He said he didn’t have
details on casualties or what caused the violence. Fighting on
the border between northern Sudan and oil-rich Southern  Sudan ,
which is due to become independent on July 9, has raised concern
about a resumption of the two-decade civil war that ended in
2005.  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s army said last week
that southern troops in Southern Kordofan would be “legitimate
targets” if they didn’t leave the area by June 1.  As many as 60,000 fighters from Southern Kordofan and Blue
Nile states are members of the southern army and fought for the
south in the civil war, according to Fouad Hikmat, the special
adviser on Sudan for the Brussels-based  International Crisis
Group .  ‘Nowhere To Go’  “We don’t have Southern Sudanese in that area,” Aguer said
today by phone from Juba, the regional capital. The fighters in
Southern Kordofan are members of the Nuba ethnic group from that
state, he said. “If Khartoum wants to disarm them by force,
this is the result.”  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in  Southern Sudan , which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels of
oil at independence. The state currently pumps about 115,000
barrels of oil per day, according to Sudan’s minister of state
for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co. and Petro Energy E&P
Co. operate blocks in Southern Kordofan. The concessions are
mostly owned by China National Petroleum Corp. Other stakes are
held by Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd, or Petronas, and
India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  Disarmament  The fighting may have broken out when northern forces tried
to disarm members of the Nuba ethnic group in Southern Kordofan
state, who fought on the side of Southern Sudan in the civil war
against the government in Khartoum, Aguer said.  Under a 2005 peace accord, the northern and southern armies
were due to jointly patrol Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile
states on the northern side of the border and the disputed
region of Abyei. The two states and Abyei were key battlegrounds
during the war between the north and the south.  Sudan’s army occupied Abyei on May 21, accusing Southern
Sudanese forces of attacking its soldiers two days earlier, and
rejected calls by the UN Security Council to withdraw from the
disputed region. The seizure sparked an exodus of about 96,000
people, according to UN estimates.  Looting continued in Abyei even after the Sudanese Armed
Forces pledged to stop it, the  UN peacekeeping mission in Sudan 
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We urge the SAF to
uphold its commitment and intervene to stop these criminal
acts,” it said.  ‘Release All Civilians’  The UN mission is also asking the armed forces to “release
all civilians who are still in their custody,” grant
peacekeepers access to the entire Abyei region and “immediately
stop its artillery fire” from the vicinity of the UN compound
in Abyei town, the statement said.  “This artillery fire is a security threat for the UN
presence, patrols and flights in Abyei and creates high risks
for civilians who may be willing to return to their villages,”
the mission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Richmond in Juba at 
 mrichmond10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 