-- 
O’Neill Calls Trichet’s Finance Proposal ‘Interesting’

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-06-06T13:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/o-neill-calls-trichet-s-finance-ministry-proposal-interesting-.html
Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, said European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet’s proposal to create a European  finance
ministry  may help solve the euro region’s fiscal problems.  “It’s one of the more progressive ideas we’ve seen,”
O’Neill said in an interview at a conference in Lausanne,
 Switzerland , today. “It’s an interesting idea.”  Trichet said on June 2 that governments should consider
setting up a finance ministry for the 17-nation euro region as
the bloc struggles to contain a region-wide sovereign-debt
crisis. The European Union should have powers to veto the budget
measures of countries that go “harmfully astray,” though that
would require a change to EU treaties, he said.  Euro-region member states are facing a “dilemma” as they
have a single monetary policy without a harmonized fiscal
policy, O’Neill said.  Greece ’s 110 billion-euro ($161 billion) rescue last year
failed to prevent an investor exodus as the country struggles to
reduce Europe’s highest debt load. Ireland and  Portugal  were
also forced to ask for external aid in the past year.  ‘Ugly Sister’  Financial-ratings companies may be pressuring the U.S. to
tackle its debt issues, according to O’Neill.  Moody’s Investors Service said on June 2 it will put the
U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under review for a downgrade
unless there’s progress on increasing the debt limit by mid-
July.  Standard & Poor’s  had previously put the U.S. government
on notice that it risks losing its top AAA credit rating unless
policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits
and the national debt.  “That has most policy makers agreeing that they have to do
something,” O’Neill said at the conference. “Some kind of big
fiscal shift is coming, and I guess the bond market kind of
smells that.”  O’Neill also said “major currencies are sort of like the
dance with the least ugly sister. It’s really easy to hate them
all” and “that’s why the Swiss franc is so strong, because
lots of wealthy people in  Europe  don’t like the euro.”  The dollar is the “least worst of a bad bunch,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 