-- 
Obama’s Plan, Like Ryan’s, Flunks Global Test

-- B y   L i s a   G e t t e r
-- 
2011-06-06T18:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/obama-s-plan-like-ryan-s-flunks-international-test-bgov-study.html
Neither President  Barack Obama ’s nor
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s budget plan will get the U.S. debt to
an internationally recognized standard for fiscal responsibility
by 2020, a Bloomberg Government study found.  The study by economists Ted Buckley and Christopher Payne
breaks apart each plan, using numbers in the 60-page budget
proposal from Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, and those in Obama’s
February budget and his subsequent framework for “shared fiscal
responsibility” released in April.  “Obama and Ryan Budget Plans Compared: Divergent Paths,
More Debt Either Way” concludes that the Ryan budget, as
adopted by the U.S. House of Representatives, would lead to
public debt of 65.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2020,
compared with the Obama plan’s 68.7 percent of GDP. The U.S.
public debt was 62.1 percent of GDP at the end of 2010,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The Bipartisan Policy Center, founded by former Democratic
and Republican Senate leaders, said debt should reach 60 percent
of GDP by 2020, the target that was set for entry into the
European monetary system in 1992.  The Bloomberg Government study doesn’t examine the plans’
underlying policy proposals, as neither plan provides details of
how cuts would be implemented.  The president’s April framework doesn’t provide yearly
forecasts for revenue and spending. The analysis applies the
deficit-reduction numbers from the framework for the period
through 2020. Both Ryan’s and Obama’s numbers are then run
through a model to forecast the debt-to-GDP ratio in 2020.  “While both plans have been criticized as going too far,
even bolder measures will be needed to bring  U.S. debt  down to
60 percent by 2020,” Buckley and Payne conclude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Getter in Washington at 
 lgetter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Getter at 
 lgetter@bloomberg.net  