-- 
Togo, Nigeria Have Highest Rates of Deforestation, Study Shows

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-06-07T02:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/togo-nigeria-lead-in-deforestation-rates-timber-organization-study-shows.html
Togo, Nigeria and  Ghana  have the
biggest rates of deforestation out of 65 nations, according to a
study described by its authors as the most comprehensive
analysis of tropical forests.  Togo lost an average of 5.75 percent of its forests a year
from 2005 through 2010, according to the study, published today
by the wood products trade group, the  International Tropical
Timber Organization  in Yokohama,  Japan . Nigeria posted a 4
percent rate, and Ghana lost 2.19 percent of forests a year.  “In Togo, I don’t think any forest will be left,” Duncan
Poore, a former professor at the University of Oxford and an
author of the report, said in a telephone interview. “We must
work with forest departments and governments and local
communities to impress upon them that sustainable forest
management is in all their best interests.”  The researchers said that the forests in the countries
surveyed cover a total of 1.66 billion hectares, of which 761
million hectares constitutes the “permanent forest estate,”
meaning it has some form of legal designation. That includes
both jungles set aside for national parks, and land earmarked
for use by the timber industry, which Poore said is worth about
$20 billion a year.  The 420-page study updates research carried out in 2005 by
the timber group, and Poore described it as a “benchmark” for
tracking deforestation.  “It’s the most complete available study,” he said.  Unprotected Forests  While the land may have legal designation, the laws aren’t
always enforced, and just 53.3 million hectares -- about 3
percent of the total forest -- is managed “sustainably,”
according to the study. Of that, 30.6 million hectares is set
aside for forest industries, and 22.7 million hectares is
protected.  “In 1986 it was less than a million hectares,” mostly in
the Australian province of Queensland, Poore said. “That’s a
considerable improvement, but there’s a long way still to go.”  Poore said that forest set aside for timber can still
benefit wildlife while providing local communities with an
income. He said the two best ways of protecting forests while
generating income is through timber that’s certified as being
sustainably farmed and through a program known as Reducing
Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, or REDD,
which has been touted in United Nations climate negotiations as
a way to pay communities to protect trees.  In  Brazil , home to 31 percent of the forest area surveyed,
the deforestation rate was 0.42 percent, and in the next most-
forested nations, the Democratic Republic of Congo and  Indonesia ,
the rates were 0.2 percent and 0.7 percent respectively.  Any deforestation rate over 1 percent could be described as
“alarming,” Poore said. Still, “it’s less than it has been in
the past and let’s hope it continues to get smaller.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  