-- 
Olam Said to Be Proposing $600 Million Share Sale to Temasek, Shareholders

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-06-06T07:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/olam-said-to-raise-600-million-in-share-sale-to-help-fund-acquisitions.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodities trader part-owned by Temasek Holdings Pte., is
raising $600 million in a share sale to fund acquisitions, three
people with direct knowledge of the transaction said.  The company will offer $200 million of the new shares to
investors at S$2.60 apiece and a separate $200 million to
Temasek, Singapore’s state investment company, at the same price,
the people said. A further $200 million will be sold to existing
shareholders at S$2.56 a share, they said, declining to be
identified as the information isn’t public. The lower price is a
9.5 percent less than the last traded price of S$2.83 before the
trading halt today.  “Olam has been raising money quite frequently over the
last few years and I am not sure the market will like this
latest news,” James Koh, an analyst with Kim Eng Holdings Ltd.
in Singapore, said today by phone.  Olam, one of the world’s top three suppliers of rice, cocoa
and coffee, is expanding into sugar milling and urea plants in
 Africa  and dairy farming in  Latin America . The company aims to
transform itself from a trading house to one with production
assets to earn bigger margins.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are arranging the offering,
two of the people said.  The 12.95 percent stake held by Temasek is expected to
increase after the share purchase, the people said, without
being more specific. The funds will also be used for working
capital, the people said. An Olam official, who asked not to be
named because of company policy, couldn’t immediately comment.
 Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for Temasek, declined to comment.  Loan Facility  Olam is offering to pay as much as 364 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate for a $1.25 billion loan
facility, according to another person familiar with the matter.
The company has given banks until July 4 to respond, the person
said, asking not to be identified as the details are private.  “It seems like the loan will be used to refinance existing
debt,” Kim Eng’s Koh said. “Over the last few years they have
been transforming from a pure trader into a company which also
owns operating assets, and that requires a longer-term debt
structure.”  Olam, which is building a $1.3 billion fertilizer plant in
the Republic of Gabon, is expanding its assets with palm-oil
plantations, sugar refineries and wheat milling to meet African
and Asian demand for commodities. It has $2.2 billion of loans
maturing before the end of 2017, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The share sale may be put toward the Gabon urea project,
Koh said. Olam’s share is about $800 million, he said.  Olam has said it plans to move into farming of cashews,
spices, dehydrates, grains and sugar by 2015. The company last
month reported a 43 percent jump in third-quarter profit, to
S$127.3 million ($103.6 million), on rising sales and widening
margins. Revenue surged 75 percent to S$4.74 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  