-- 
Home Capital Targets Uninsured Mortgages to Boost Profit

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-06-06T20:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/home-capital-group-targets-uninsured-mortgages-to-boost-profit.html
Home Capital Group Inc. (HCG) , the Canadian
lender that offers home loans to people unable to borrow from
larger banks, is focusing on more profitable uninsured mortgages
as housing demand increases, President Martin Reid said.  “You’ll see activity in that space will increase a lot,”
Reid said in a June 1 interview in Toronto, where the company is
based. “The profit margins are much larger.”  Most of Home Capital’s business typically came from
mortgages not insured by  Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp . After
the 2008 financial collapse that was caused by a flood of
subprime mortgages, clients found it harder to borrow and
uninsured loans fell to a third of the firm’s new originations.  By year-end, uninsured mortgages may represent as much as
75 percent of  Home Capital ’s new originations as clients return
to the housing market, Reid said. Uninsured, or Alt-A, mortgages
account for about 20 percent of a C$1 trillion ($1 trillion)
mortgage market in Canada, he said. They’re often taken by
clients who work as independent contractors or freelancers and
aren’t eligible for loans at chartered banks.  Such mortgages are more profitable than insured loans
because they typically carry higher rates, Reid said. For
example, a consumer may pay 3.99 percent on an insured five-year
mortgage, compared with as much as 6.5 percent uninsured.  “There’s really a lack of lenders in that space,” said
Reid, 51. “There’s a bit of vacuum to fill.”  His firm originated insured and uninsured mortgages valued
at C$1.37 billion in the first quarter, a 3 percent increase
from the same period a year earlier.  ‘Not For Sale’  Home Capital fell 63 cents, or 1.2 percent, to C$53.60 at 4
p.m. in trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have
risen 3.5 percent this year.  Canada ’s largest banks aren’t interested in buying Home
Capital because the banks are focused on holding safer mortgages
that can be generated using automated computerized methods, said
Home Capital Chief Executive Officer Gerald Soloway. The
question of a takeover comes up frequently by investors.  “Offer us C$100 a share, and I think the board will
accept,” Soloway, 72, said he told shareholders at Home
Capital’s annual meeting last month. “Other than that, we’re
happy to continue being in business. We’re not for sale, we’re
not looking for a sale. But if they really wanted to, they know
where we are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 