-- 
Lone Star Is Said to Exceed Target With $5.5 Billion for Real Estate Fund

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/lone-star-is-said-to-exceed-target-with-5-5-billion-for-real-estate-fund.html
Lone Star  Funds, the investment firm
run by  John Grayken , raised $5.5 billion for a fund to buy
commercial-property assets as real estate values recover,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  Lone Star Real Estate Fund II exceeded its target of $4
billion after attracting investors in recent months, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the fund’s closing
hasn’t been made public.  Commercial-property values climbed 3 percent in May from
the previous month, according to Green Street Advisors Inc., a
research firm in  Newport Beach ,  California . Investors with Lone
Star included New Jersey’s state pension, which last month
agreed to put in $400 million.  “It was cleared at the May 19th meeting” of  New Jersey ’s
investment council, which oversees state pension investments,
said  Andrew Pratt , a spokesman for New Jersey’s Treasury
Department in Trenton.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Dallas-based Lone Star, declined
to comment on the fund raising, which was reported yesterday on
the website of Private Equity Real Estate.  The New Jersey investment comprised $100 million in Fund II
and $300 million in a separate fund called Lone Star Fund VII
that will buy residential loan pools, securitized home mortgages
and stakes in property lenders.  Lone Star is still marketing Fund VII, according to the
person familiar with the fund raising. The company in November
asked investors for six more months, until May 31, to raise the
two funds as it sought to acquire troubled U.S. property loans
from banks.  Lone Star originally sought to raise as much as $20 billion
for the funds. It cut that target in February 2010 as
institutions shunned real estate after the global credit crisis
and banks were slow to sell troubled loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  