-- 
Hong Kong Banks’ Rate Increases Take Steam Out of Home Boom

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-06-07T08:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/hong-kong-banks-mortgage-rate-increases-take-steam-out-of-housing-boom.html
Hong Kong banks may have succeeded
where the government failed as rising mortgage rates curb home
price gains and cut sales to the lowest level in two years,
signaling the  property market  may have peaked.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , which controls two of the city’s three-
biggest banks by customers, is among lenders that accelerated
mortgage rate increases in April as liquidity dried up. An index
of home prices has stalled since March 20, while the number of
sales in April fell 37.6 percent from a year earlier to the
lowest in more than two years, according to the  Land Registry .  The government has come under pressure to cool the property
market, the world’s priciest according to Savills Plc, which had
surged as much as 70 percent since the beginning of 2009 on
record-low mortgage rates, an influx of buyers from other
Chinese cities, and a lack of supply. Its toughest measures in
November, including releasing more land and higher deposit
requirements, had failed to contain what the  Hong Kong  Monetary
Authority warned was a “credit-fueled property bubble.”  “The government measures had limited impact,” said Simon Lo, Hong Kong-based head of research at Colliers International
“The only thing that has an immediate impact on the market,
save for major external shocks, is interest rates.”  Andrew Lawrence, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays
Capital , is among those betting the property market in the city
of 7 million people has peaked. Prices may decline 10 percent to
20 percent in 2012 and a further 10 percent in 2013 on rising
mortgage rates, Lawrence said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television today.  Negative Sentiment  “Buying sentiment has materially declined,” he wrote in a
May 26 report, with a “negative” rating on Hong Kong
developers, meaning their stocks’ valuations are deteriorating.
“With liquidity continuing to tighten, we expect additional
mortgage rate increases this year, which are likely to further
impact buying sentiment and transaction volumes.”  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks seven of the
city’s biggest developers, fell 0.3 percent today to close at
the lowest in almost three months. It lost 6.2 percent this year,
underperforming the 0.7 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index . Six of the stocks in the property index dropped in
2011:  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s biggest
developer by value, lost 9.6 percent, while  Hang Lung Properties
Ltd. (101)  fell 14 percent.  Mortgage Increases  Since 2009, interest rates in Hong Kong have been close to
the lowest since 2004, when the city was recovering from an
economic slump triggered by the Sept. 11 U.S. terrorist attacks
in 2001 and the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome epidemic
in  Asia . Hong Kong’s three biggest mortgage lenders currently
charge new borrowers about 1.7 percent to 2.2 percent, or 1.5 to
2 percentage points above the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate.
That compares with about 1 percent last year, when lenders often
priced mortgage terms at less than 1 percentage point above
Hibor, the rate banks charge each other for  borrowing.  For a HK$2 million ($257,000), 20-year mortgage, the
increased interest rate of 2 percent from 1 percent means an
extra HK$11,000, or 10 percent, in annual repayments, Bloomberg
calculations show.  Higher mortgage rates are “taking away one side of the
demand in the housing market,” said Lee Wee Liat, Hong Kong-
based analyst at Samsung Securities Ltd. “This is driving down
yields. Many people considering buying properties will drop
their plans.”  The number of home transactions fell for a fifth straight
month in May. The number of units that changed hands last month
declined 12 percent from a year earlier to 9,681, according to
the Land Registry.  Less Affordable  Hong Kong Chief Executive Donald Tsang faced a public
outcry last year as government efforts to stem surging  house
prices  had little effect. Prices have risen about 140 percent
from the end of 2003 to end 2010, according to an index compiled
by  Centaline Property Agency Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest closely
held realtor. Average household incomes rose 20 percent in the
same period, according to the statistics department.  While fewer people can afford to buy a place in the former
British colony, the affordability ratio, a measure of mortgage
installments relative to household incomes, remains well below
the 90 percent reached in 1997 at the onset of the Asian
financial crisis, said Buggle Lau, chief analyst at Midland
Holdings Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest publicly traded realtor. The
ratio fell to as low as 15 percent in 2003, climbed to 25
percent in 2009 and now stands at 40 percent, said Lau.  “Compared to two years ago, there are a couple more
unfavorable factors,” such as rising  interest rates  and
increased land supply, said Lau. Still, homes are more
affordable than when the market last peaked as incomes are
rising, he said. “There’s a huge difference between now and
what happened during the last crash in 1998.”  Shift to Yuan  Hong Kong’s banks have less money to lend for property as
depositors shift to yuan over Hong Kong dollars and as Chinese
companies seek loans in the city due to tightening policy on the
mainland. The loan-to-deposit ratio for the local currency has
risen to 81 percent at the end of March, the highest since the
third quarter of 2008, according to Barclays.  Hong Kong’s bank interest rates will rise on loan demand
and capital outflows when the U.S. increases borrowing costs,
 Norman Chan , head of HKMA, the city’s de-facto central bank,
said on April 28. The central bank, which doesn’t have an
independent interest-rate policy because of the local currency’s
peg to the  U.S. dollar , has kept its  base rate  at a record-low
0.5 percent since December 2008.  Cost of Funding  “The mortgage spread will remain on a rising trend this
year,” William Leung, an executive director at  Hang Seng Bank
Ltd. (11) , a unit of HSBC, said in an e-mailed reply to queries from
Bloomberg News. “With the tightening of Hong Kong dollar
liquidity and deposits growth skewing towards yuan, funding
costs have been driven up.”  Leung’s comments echoed those of  Peter Wong , chief
executive officer for the Asia-Pacific region for HSBC, who said
in a May 16 interview that mortgage rates may rise further as
liquidity tightens among Hong Kong banks.  An increase in interest rates in the U.S. and  China  will
add pressure for local mortgage rates to climb further,
according to Robbie Choi, head of mortgage and personal loan
center at Wing Lung Bank Ltd., the local unit of China Merchants
Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-largest lender.  “Loan growth has been increasing at a faster pace than
deposit growth,” Choi said. “Banks are paying higher interest
rates to attract more deposits and this partly contributed to
the increase in their cost of funding.”  At the Peak  Average mortgage rates may rise to as high as 2.5
percentage points above Hibor by the end of this year, said Choi.  Home prices  today exceed the peak in the second half of
1997, according to government statistics and a Centaline index
that tracks housing prices in Hong Kong. Real estate values
tumbled 70 percent between 1998 and 2003 when confidence was
damped by the Asian financial crisis, the 2000 dot-com bubble,
Sept. 11 and the SARS epidemic.  The government in November introduced additional stamp
duty taxes on property transactions and has accelerated its
public land auctions. Lawmakers have called on the government to
limit purchases of local properties by buyers from other cities
in China, whom Centaline estimated were responsible for a third
of luxury property purchases in Hong Kong last year.  “If you ask me to rank all the factors, the most important
ones are whether home buyers can borrow enough money and the
increase in mortgage costs,” said Billy Mak, an associate
professor in the department of finance and decision sciences at
the Hong Kong Baptist University.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  