-- 
Longest Peso Bond Maturities on Record Overtake U.S. Debt: Mexico Credit

-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-06-06T21:26:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/longest-peso-bond-maturities-on-record-overtake-u-s-debt-mexico-credit.html
Mexico  is extending local bond
maturities to a record as part of an effort to safeguard its
economy should  Europe ’s debt crisis and the U.S. slowdown prompt
investors to pull capital from the Latin American country.  Mexico pushed out the average length of its local debt to
7.3 years in 2011 from 6.3 in 2009, according to the Finance
Ministry. It was as low as 1.5 years in 2000. The average
maturity of U.S. debt reached five years in March, up from 4.1
years 24 months earlier, according to the  U.S. Treasury ’s Office
of Debt Management.  Policy makers are seeking to bolster the economy’s ability
to withstand a global slump after the financial crisis sparked
by the U.S. housing crash plunged it into recession in 2009,
Deputy Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said June 2.  Latin
America ’s second-biggest economy after  Brazil  shrank 6.1 percent
in 2009, the most since 1995, prompting Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings to cut the country’s credit grade.  “Many countries before the crisis were moving to lower
their average maturity as a way to reduce financing costs,”
Rodriguez said in a June 2 interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters
in  New York . “A country like Mexico needs to build extra
cushion before starting to fine tune.”  Yields on Mexico benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 sank 83
basis points, or 0.83 percentage point, in the past three months
to 7.13 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
Brazil, yields on real-denominated notes due in 2021 rose two
basis points over the same period to 12.76 percent.  ‘Buy Your Debt’  Mexico’s economy, which sends 80 percent of its exports to
the U.S., grew 4.6 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier. In the U.S., economic expansion slipped to a 1.8
percent annual pace in the first quarter.  A longer average maturity for government notes improves the
reference point for companies to sell bonds, boosts liquidity
and spreads out debt payments, said  Gabriel Casillas , chief
Mexico economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Mexico City.  “Once you have accomplished these three things, you have
much more liquid bonds and you boost the possibility that global
portfolio managers will buy your debt,” Casillas said in a
telephone interview. “They waited for the financial crisis to
end, when no one wanted risk, before doing this.”  Foreign Demand  International investors bought $21 billion of Mexican debt
denominated in pesos in the six months through March, the most
since the central bank began compiling the data in the 1960s, as
inflation holds near the lowest level in five years and the
currency rallies.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.3 percent in mid-May from 4.4
percent in 2010 and touched a five-year low of 3.04 percent in
March. Mexico is the only major Latin American country that
hasn’t raised rates in the past year. Policy makers held the
benchmark rate at a record low 4.5 percent last month.  The peso is up 5 percent this year. Mexico’s bid to extend
maturities means that it’s selling more expensive debt, said
Sergio Martin, chief economist at HSBC Mexico SA in Mexico City.  “Everything has a trade off,” Martin said in a telephone
interview. “The trade-off is that you are going to have to pay
more to extend maturities.”  Yields on peso bonds due 2029 climbed seven basis points
today to 7.61 percent, while  government securities  due in three
years yield 5.65 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Market Moves  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to 142 at
5:21 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The peso weakened 0.7 percent to 11.7469 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose two basis points to 105, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on TIIE interest-rate futures contracts maturing in
December rose three basis points to 5.01 percent, indicating
traders expect the central bank will boost its benchmark rate by
December. As recently as April 4, they predicted an increase by
July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign Reserves  Mexico is boosting foreign reserves and limiting how much
money banks can lend to their parent companies abroad or at home
as part of the effort to protect the economy from the European
debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth, Rodriguez said.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded  Greece  to Caa1, on a
par with Cuba, and on June 1 raised the nation’s risk of default
to 50 percent. A report last week showing the jobless rate in
the U.S. unexpectedly rose added to evidence the expansion in
the world’s biggest economy is flagging.  Mexico has boosted reserves to a record $127.9 billion in
the week ending May 27, Mexico’s central bank said last week in
an e-mailed statement. They fell to below $73 billion in August
2009 from over $86 billion in July 2008.  “The type of thinking that we’ve been doing is how it
could affect us, and what would be the transmission channels so
that we can anticipate and be ready to react if something
material happens on the negative side,” Rodriguez said.  The government plans to continue increasing the maturity of
local debt, Rodriguez said. He expects bond maturities to be
“at least” 7.9 years by the end of 2011, and foresees them
lengthening through 2012.  Foreigners pulled $4.4 billion from Mexico’s local debt
market in the last three months of 2008, the most since the
first quarter of 1995, when a devaluation of the peso sparked
capital outflows across the region in what became known as the
Tequila Crisis. The outflows helped spark a 20 percent plunge in
the peso against the dollar in 2008.  “The  Finance Ministry  has been very prudently preparing
for an eventual withdrawal of flows,” Sergio Luna, chief
economist for Citigroup’s Banamex unit in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “In an open financial system, extending
maturities is a way to help manage capital flows.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  