-- 
Osborne Says U.K. Deficit Reduction Plan Working

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-06-06T09:12:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/osborne-rejects-calls-to-scale-back-deficit-reduction-if-economy-falters.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  rejected calls for a “Plan B” to scale back his
deficit-reduction plan if the economic recovery stalls.  Osborne said there is already flexibility in his program,
the economy is creating jobs and investors have concluded the
U.K. is a “safe bet” because the coalition government has
committed to putting the public finances on a sustainable path.  “What our plan provides is credibility where there was no
credibility, stability where there was no stability, confidence
that the British economy is getting its act together,” Osborne
said in an interview with BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “There
is flexibility built into the plan. It’s flexible because it was
very specifically designed to be cyclical.”  Osborne made his comments as the  International Monetary
Fund  prepares to release its annual Article 4 assessment of the
British economy later today. A group of 52 economists wrote to 
the Observer newspaper yesterday saying government spending 
cuts, the deepest since World War II, are damaging growth and
increasing the deficit by reducing tax income and increasing
welfare costs.  “The breakneck deficit-reduction plan, based largely on
spending cuts, is self-defeating in its own terms,” said the
economists including Richard Grayson of London University’s
Goldsmiths college. “It will probably not manage to close the
deficit in the planned time frame and the government’s strategy
is likely to result in a lot more pain and a lot less gain.”  Partisan View  Osborne said the signatories were taking a partisan view of
the economic situation and ignoring signs of growth. Employment
is rising, unemployment is falling and the most recent
manufacturing survey is “encouraging,” he said.  “It’s not the case that all the data has shown there’s no
growth,” Osborne told the  BBC . “It’s very one-sided to say
there are no signs of any growth in the British economy. It’s
not borne out by the evidence at all.”  Ed Balls , Treasury spokesman for the opposition  Labour
Party , said the letter supported his argument that “confidence
is down, and we’re now seeing, week-by-week, more evidence that
the economy is stalling.” Data released May 24 showed Britain
posted its largest budget shortfall for any April since monthly
records began in 1993.  Osborne said his fiscal mandate is based on the structural
deficit rather than the total shortfall so that automatic
stabilizers can kick in if the economy hits a weak patch. The
Treasury’s fiscal watchdog expects a structural deficit of
almost 5 percent of economic output to return to balance by
April 2015, a year earlier than needed under his rules.  He also said tight fiscal policy was allowing the  Bank of
England  to hold down  interest rates , providing a stimulus to
growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 