-- 
Asian Stocks Fall After U.S. Jobs Growth Slows; Tepco Plunges

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-06-06T10:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/most-asia-stocks-fall-after-u-s-jobs-growth-slows-tokyo-electric-plunges.html
Asian stocks declined, dragging the
regional benchmark index to its lowest level in a week, as
slowing jobs growth in the U.S. added to signs the global
economic recovery is faltering.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the biggest maker of plasma televisions,
fell 1.8 percent in Tokyo. Tokyo Electric Co. plunged 28 percent
after the Asahi Shimbun newspaper quoted Tokyo Stock Exchange
President Atsushi Saito as saying that the operator of the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant should be put under
bankruptcy protection.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  led airlines lower
after the International Air Transport Association cut its 2011
industry profit forecast.  “We were anticipating a pretty dreadful jobs number and it
did turn out worse than expected,”  Arjuna Mahendran , Singapore-
based head of investment strategy for Asia at  HSBC Private Bank ,
told Bloomberg Television. “We’ll have another few weeks of a
gradual selloff. That will be a good time to start hunting for
bargains.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.2 percent to 133.71
as of 7:53 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than three stocks falling
for each that rose. The gauge last week capped its biggest
streak of weekly losses since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008 as reports showed manufacturing growth
from  China , the U.S. and  Europe  slowed in May and American
companies hired fewer workers than forecast, adding to signs the
global economy is faltering.  Nikkei Falls  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.2 percent. Prime
Minister Naoto Kan, who faces discontent over his handling of
the March 11 disaster that triggered the world’s worst nuclear
accident in 25 years, may resign before the end of the year
after surviving a no-confidence motion in parliament last week,
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said on television on June 4.
Ruling Democratic Party of Japan politicians led by former Prime
Minister Yukio Hatoyama want Kan to quit.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.3 percent.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index declined 1 percent. India’s
Sensitive Index gained 0.2 percent. Markets in China,  Hong Kong ,
South Korea, Taiwan and  New Zealand  are closed for holidays.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. In  New York , the index retreated 1 percent on June 3,
capping its fifth straight weekly decline and dropping to the
lowest level since March. The S&P Index fell after the jobless
rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent in May, the highest
level this year. A separate report showed payrolls grew at the
slowest pace in eight months, signaling employers are losing
confidence as the economy slows.  ‘Deteriorating Situation’  Employers added a less-than-projected 54,000 jobs last
month, Labor Department figures released on June 3 in Washington
showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for
payrolls to rise 165,000. A string of disappointing economic
data capped by last week’s jobs report is prompting economists
to question the durability of the U.S. recovery.  “The U.S. job situation is deteriorating,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “The slowdown in the  U.S. economy  shows that
there’s a lack of liquidity in the market. That means there’s no
effective way to address the economy.”  Panasonic declined 1.8 percent to 912 yen in Tokyo.  James
Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , an Australian building materials company
that gets about 70 percent of sales from the U.S., dropped 0.9
percent to A$5.75 in Sydney.  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
world’s biggest surfwear maker, sank 1.3 percent to A$6.08.  Huge Problems  Tokyo Electric slumped 28 percent to 207 yen, its lowest
close on record, after TSE’s Saito was quoted by the Asahi
Shimbun as saying Tepco, as the utility company is known, needs
to be restructured and follow the same route as Japan Airlines
Co., which file for bankruptcy protection in 2010.  Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Edano said after the market
closed that liquidating the utility would cause huge problems
and must be avoided.  A separate report by the  Tokyo  Shimbun said Tepco will post
a full-year net loss of 570 billion yen ($7.1 billion). The
company said it wasn’t the source of the story. Radiation
readings from inside the No. 1 nuclear reactor building at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear facility spiked to the highest level
yet, almost three months after the disaster started, according
to another report by Kyodo News.  ‘Impossible to Analyze’  “There’s so much uncertainty surrounding what will happen
with the utility that it’s impossible to analyze,” said Naoteru Teraoka, general manager at Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset
management Co., which oversees about $28 billion. “The stock
moves whenever anybody opens their mouth.”  Airlines declined after the International Air Transport
Association cut its 2011 industry profit forecast by 54 percent
to $4 billion because of higher oil prices, political protests
in the Middle East and North Africa, and the Japan earthquake.  Qantas, Australia’s biggest carrier, declined 3.7 percent
to A$1.955 in Sydney.  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB) , the biggest budget airline
in the Philippines, dropped 2 percent to 84.20 pesos.  Thai
Airways International Pcl (THAI)  fell 1.5 percent to 34 baht.  Ashok Leyland Ltd. (AL) , an Indian truckmaker, dropped 1.8
percent to 51.10 rupees in Mumbai. The company said it sold
5,725 vehicles in May, a decline of 12 percent from the previous
year.  Sony Corp. (6758) , the maker of Sony PlayStation gaming consoles
and Bravia televisions, decreased 3.2 percent to 2,062 yen. The
company said it contacted the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation and took action to protect its websites after
intrusions by a group of hackers. The website of its European
unit was also hacked, it said.  Nintendo Co., the world’s largest maker of handheld video-
game players, lost 1.6 percent to 17,910 yen. The company said a
hacker attack by the same group that targeted Sony didn’t expose
information about its customers.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index slid 2.7 percent this year
through June 3, compared with a gain of 3.4 percent by the S&P
500 and a drop of 0.8 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 13.5 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the
S&P 500 and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 