-- 
Swiss Stocks Decline; Swatch, Shares of Orascom Retreat as Uster Advances

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-06-06T16:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/most-swiss-stocks-decline-swatch-orascom-development-slide-uster-rises.html
Stocks in  Switzerland  fell, extending
three weeks of declines, amid growing concern that the global
economy is weakening.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s largest watchmaker, and
 Orascom Development Holding AG (ODHN) , the owner of holiday resorts on
 Egypt ’s Red Sea coast, dropped. Clariant, a producer of
emulsions and pigments, rose 1.1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies slid 0.6 percent to 6,370.06 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich, the lowest since April 19. The measure has
fallen 5.2 percent since this year’s high on Feb. 18 as U.S.
manufacturing and jobs reports fueled concern that the recovery
in the world’s largest economy is faltering and as speculation
grew that  Greece  will default on its debt. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also slipped 0.6 percent today.  “There have been signs of a slowdown in economic
momentum,” Dirk Wiedmann, chief investment officer at
Rothschild Private Banking & Trust in Zurich, wrote in a note to
clients. “An acceleration in the U.S. recovery had been hoped
for but, so far, has failed to materialize. Investors may remain
focused on the economic outlook until at least mid-July, when
the reporting season for the second quarter begins.”  Swatch retreated 1.6 percent to 407.20 Swiss francs. Chief
Executive Officer Nick Hayek said that the Swiss currency’s
appreciation costs the company as much as 60 million francs
($71.7 million) every month in an interview with
 SonntagsZeitung .  Orascom Development, Sulzer  Orascom Development dropped 0.8 percent to 32.45 francs, a
sixth straight decline. Egypt’s largest publicly listed resorts
builder said first-quarter profit slid to 601,188 francs from
26.5 million francs a year earlier.  Sulzer AG (SUN) , the Swiss engineering company, slumped 2.5
percent to 150 francs as Helvea AG downgraded the shares to
“neutral” from “buy.” The brokerage also revised down its
earnings estimates to reflect a “strong currency headwind,”
according to a note sent to clients today.  Clariant gained 1.1 percent to 18.85 francs as a gauge of
chemical companies performed the best out of 19 industry groups
in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  