-- 
Weiner Apologizes for Photos, Messages to Women That Could End His Career

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-06-07T19:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/house-s-weiner-apologizes-over-inappropriate-photos-will-remain-in-office.html
U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner
apologized for sending suggestive online photos and messages to
several women, admissions that prompted calls for a
congressional investigation and could end his political career.  Weiner, a  New York  Democrat who has been married for almost
a year, said at a tearful press conference yesterday that he had
engaged in “inappropriate conversations” with six women over
the last three years, including on Facebook, e-mail and Twitter
and, with at least one of the women, on the telephone.  “I came here to accept the full responsibility for what
I’ve done,” said Weiner, 46, choking up as he addressed
reporters at a hotel in New York City. “I have made terrible
mistakes.”  The tawdry controversy, coupled with a congressional
investigation into whether he used government resources to
communicate with the women, effectively ends Weiner’s expected
bid to run for New York City mayor in 2013, according to
political strategists. And though he said he wouldn’t resign his
seat in Congress, the criticism directed at him by fellow
Democrats raised questions about whether he can remain in
office.  “Mayor Weiner? Probably not,” said New York-based
Democratic consultant Hank Sheinkopf.  Weiner had been a leading contender to succeed  New York
City  Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg when Bloomberg’s third term
expires in January 2014.  “It cooks him, it seems to me, for any chance to be a
candidate for mayor,” said  Mickey Carroll , director of the
 Quinnipiac University Polling Institute  in Hamden,  Connecticut .  ‘Smart Money’  Weiner, who first won his seat in 1998, said the scandal
shouldn’t reflect on his performance of his “official duties”
and he wasn’t stepping down. Sheinkopf said Weiner “will fight
to stay in Congress if challenged, and smart money should bet on
him.”  Still, his admission prompted calls for a resignation from
Republicans and an investigation from his fellow Democrats.  “I wish there was some way I can defend him, but I
can’t,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
said today. When asked what advice he would provide if Weiner
called, he said: “Call somebody else.”  Call for Resignation  New York State Republican Party Chairman Ed Cox called on
Weiner to resign. “His inappropriate behavior has irreparably
damaged his ability to serve,” Cox said in a statement
yesterday. “His actions are at best despicable and at worst
illegal.”  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said
in a statement today that Democratic party leaders either
“believe members of Congress are held to a different set of
standards or they believe these actions demand his
resignation.”  The  National Republican Congressional Committee  called
today on 16 Democrats who received contributions from Weiner to
return the donations.  While Weiner said he had used his home computer and
personal BlackBerry in his exchanges, House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi  of  California  officially asked the House Ethics
Committee today to investigate whether he used government
resources in his communications or violated House conduct rules.
One of the online photos appeared to have been taken in a
congressional office building.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  “I am deeply disappointed and saddened about this
situation, for Anthony’s wife, Huma, his family, his staff and
his constituents,” Pelosi, a California Democrat, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Another House member from New York, Republican Christopher Lee, resigned his seat in February after the website Gawker
reported that the married lawmaker had e-mailed a picture of
himself bare-chested to a woman he met through the website
Craigslist.  Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a Democrat from  New Jersey , said
the scandal could have an equally damning effect on Weiner’s
career. “It’s certainly a violation of good judgment, and who
knows how far forward it carries,” he told reporters in
 Washington  yesterday.  Last week Weiner denied that he had sent a racy photograph
to a Seattle woman using Twitter, claiming that his account had
been hacked. The photo shows a man from the waist down in gray
boxer briefs.  “I lied because I was embarrassed,” Weiner said
yesterday. “It was a dumb thing to do.”  Another Photo  Big Government , a conservative website, published a series
of  photographs  and e-mails yesterday that it claimed had been
sent by Weiner to unidentified women. One of the  photos  is of a
bare-chested man. The subject’s face isn’t visible, though
photographs on a cabinet in the background show Weiner.  The blogger, Andrew Breitbart, said the photos were sent
from the e-mail address  AnthonyWeiner@aol.com  via BlackBerry
last month. Breitbart said he was withholding a more graphic
photo.  “I’m doing this to save his family. If this guy does this
again, I have this photo,” he told reporters before Weiner’s
press conference in New York City.  Weiner said he never met any of the women in person and
never had sex outside his marriage. He married Huma Abedin, a
top aide to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , last July in a
ceremony officiated by former President  Bill Clinton .  Weiner said he and his wife plan to stay together and had
discussed his online flirtations before they married, though she
only found out yesterday morning that he had sent the recent
explicit photo over Twitter. Abedin didn’t attend the press
conference.  ‘Remarkable Woman’  “My wife is a remarkable woman. She’s not responsible for
any of this,” Weiner said yesterday, his voice shaking.  Meagan Broussard, a 26-year-old single mother from  Texas ,
told ABC News that she had exchanged “hundreds of messages” on
 Facebook  with Weiner starting on April 20, about nine months
after he got married.  “He would say just ‘good morning, how are you doing, what
are you doing today? What are you wearing? What do you like?’
You know, in the bedroom, you know, that sort of thing,” she
said.  Weiner, who represents parts of Queens and  Brooklyn  in New
York City, ran in the Democratic mayoral primary in 2005,
finishing second in a three-way race. He decided not to run in
the 2009 Democratic primary after Bloomberg announced that he
would run for a third term and the City Council altered the City
Charter to allow him to do so. Bloomberg is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg
News.  Critic of Republican Policies  Over his seven terms in Congress, Weiner has emerged as one
of the loudest critics of Republican policies. His attacks and
frequent cable news interviews have made him a hero to
Democratic activists.  In February 2010, he called the  Republican Party  a “wholly
owned subsidiary of the  insurance industry ” for opposing the
health-care bill. He refused to apologize after Republicans
accused him of breaching congressional decorum.  Weiner didn’t appear at scheduled public events over the
weekend, including the New York City Israel Day parade which he
has attended annually.  Reflecting on the scandal, Carroll of  Quinnipiac University 
said that lawmakers have to be especially careful about the new
dangers created by online communication.  “You know the old watchword: Do whatever you want, but
don’t put it in writing,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  