-- 
Low Yields on U.S. Treasuries No Guarantee Against Fiscal Crisis

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-06T23:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/low-yields-on-treasury-debt-no-guarantee-financial-crisis-won-t-hit-u-s-.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  takes comfort from the government’s ability to borrow
at low interest rates as the budget deficit hits a record high.
“There’s a lot of confidence” in America’s capacity to meet
its commitments, he told Bloomberg Television.  History suggests that such faith may prove to be misplaced
in the long run. A study of 116 financial crises in 25 countries
found that rates had a poor track record in foreshadowing
financial difficulties, said  Carmen Reinhart , a co-author of the
analysis and the female economist whose work is most frequently
cited by other researchers. European debt markets were
“complacent” about the growing repayment risks there “even
three years ago,”  James Bullard , president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said in a May 18 interview.  “People don’t worry about credit risk very much until
suddenly they worry about it a lot,” said  Jay Mueller , senior
portfolio manager in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , for Wells
Capital Management. “Then you can get a panic.”  Mueller, who began his investment career in 1982 and whose
group at Wells manages about $14 billion, sees the yield on the
10-year Treasury note rising to 3.5 percent by the end of this
year as the recent slowdown in the economy proves temporary.
Yields could increase further in 2012 if investors lose
confidence in the willingness of the U.S. to tackle its budget
deficit, he said.  Rising Unemployment  The 10-year yield has fallen in the last couple of months
as data from durable-goods orders to personal consumption have
come in weaker than anticipated. It slid four basis points to
2.99 percent on June 3, near a six-month low, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after the Labor Department
reported that job growth in May was less than a third of
economists’ forecasts and the jobless rate rose to 9.1 percent
from 9 percent in April.  “Bond investors are in the midst of a tug of war, with
debt, deficit and therefore credit risk starting to flash yellow
but pure interest-rate risk -- Is the Fed likely to hike rates
quickly? Is the economy hitting a soft patch? -- flashing
green,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
largest bond fund out of  Newport Beach ,  California .  The market has “missed a lot of crises” over the years,
said Reinhart, a former International Monetary Fund official and
University of  Maryland  professor who is now a senior fellow with
the Peterson Institute of International Economics in Washington.  “Very often, interest rates are a coincident, rather than
a leading, indicator” of trouble, said Reinhart, who is also a
research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research,
the arbiter of U.S. business cycles.  No. 1 Rank  Reinhart is the No. 1 ranked female economist worldwide as
of May, based on criteria used to judge the  popularity  of her
work, according to RePEc: Research Papers in Economics, an
online database of economic material operated by volunteers in
74 countries.  The research she did with fellow institute economist Morris Goldstein and George Washington University professor Graciela Kaminsky looked at crises from 1970 to 1995, focusing on
everything from bank-deposit rates to yield spreads. “None of
them worked well” in presaging financing problems, she said.
The results were contained in “Assessing Financial
Vulnerability: An Early Warning System for Emerging Markets,” a
book published by the institute in 2000.  Greek Deficit  The European bond markets didn’t do a good job of
foreshadowing the sovereign-debt crisis that began at the end of
2009, when Greece revealed that its  budget deficit  would be more
than three times previous projections, Reinhart said. The yield
on the country’s 10-year notes has surged since that news after
averaging 4.8 percent in 2008 and 5.2 percent in 2009. It closed
at 15.8 percent yesterday.  The spread between higher yields on  Portugal ’s 10-year
notes and those on German bunds averaged just 0.93 percentage
point in 2009 in the run-up to  Europe ’s debt woes. The spread
stood at 6.7 percentage points yesterday.  The IMF last month approved a 26 billion-euro ($37.9
billion) loan to Portugal as part of a joint bailout with the
European Union. Under the plan, Portugal aims to reduce its
budget deficit to the equivalent of 3 percent of gross domestic
product by 2013 from 9.1 percent last year.  “If you look at U.S. debt and deficit numbers, we’re worse
than some of the worst offenders in Europe,” Bullard said. The
White House has forecast the deficit will hit $1.6 trillion in
the year ending Sept. 30, equivalent to 10.9 percent of GDP.  No Comfort  “You cannot take too much comfort from the fact that ‘Oh,
nobody is worried about this today,’ because when the crisis is
upon you, it will really hit,” Bullard said. “It’s like the
markets are almost asleep about the whole issue until one day
you wake up and it becomes the primary issue.”  Analysts have been cautioning for years that the yawning
U.S. budget deficit could lead to a blow-up in the Treasury bond
market -- and it hasn’t happened. In a paper presented at a
meeting of economists in January 2004, former Treasury Secretary
 Robert Rubin  joined with Decision Economics chief global
economist  Allen Sinai  and future U.S. budget director  Peter Orszag  in warning of the “risk of financial and fiscal
disarray” from sustained deficits.  “Technical factors” play a large role in explaining why
bond markets are frequently slow to recognize growing credit
risks, El-Erian said. Many money managers measure their
performance against market-wide yardsticks that are composed of
a set percentage of bonds.  ‘Benchmark Huggers’  “Especially when it comes to Treasuries, there is a strong
benchmark-centric community, either people who run money
passively in Treasury space or those that say they are active
managers but really are benchmark huggers,” El-Erian said. “It
takes a major shock to get them to change their portfolios.”  The growing presence of central banks in the U.S. Treasury
market also may make yields less sensitive to concerns about
deficits, said Kenneth Rogoff, a former IMF chief economist who
is now a professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  “A large percentage of U.S. debt is now owned by official
holders, so it’s not clear if  interest rates  are sending market
signals under those circumstances,” Rogoff said. He is co-
author with Reinhart of the book “This Time is Different: Eight
Centuries of Financial Folly,” which Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke has called “an extraordinary piece of work.”  Institutional Holdings  Foreign central banks and other official institutions held
41.5 percent of outstanding marketable U.S. government
securities as of June 30, 2010, according to the latest, most
authoritative data available from the Treasury. If the Fed’s
purchases are included, the proportion held in official hands
jumps to about two-thirds.  Investors may be putting money into Treasuries because they
see few alternatives, Mueller said.  Japan  has worse fiscal
problems than the U.S., while Europe continues to struggle with
its sovereign-debt crisis.  “You’ve got to own something,” he said.  As the world’s largest economy with the most powerful
military, the U.S. has advantages other countries don’t and
often is seen as a haven for investment at times of uncertainty.
That may be happening now. Fears about political instability in
the Middle East and in parts of Europe might be spurring some
Treasury purchases, said Daniel Fuss, vice chairman of Loomis
Sayles & Co. in Boston.  The wake-up call for bond investors is often the disclosure
of “hidden debt,” Reinhart said. That happened with Greece,
when its budget deficit proved larger than projected, and the
same could occur with the U.S., she said. “We have a lot of
contingent liabilities.”  ‘Fiscal Risks’  Standard & Poor’s  flagged what it called the country’s
“contingent fiscal risks” in revising its outlook April 18 on
U.S. Treasury debt to negative. Among the hidden costs it cited
were potential losses on government-guaranteed student loans and
mortgages backed by the Federal Housing Administration.  The New York-based rating company also highlighted the
coming squeeze on finances from the aging of America’s
population. Medicare won’t have sufficient funds to pay full
benefits starting in 2024, and Social Security’s cash to pay
full benefits runs short in 2036, according to a U.S. government
report last month.  The steepness of the yield curve may reflect some unease
among investors about America’s longer-term prospects, Mueller
said. The difference between two-year U.S. debt and 30-year
Treasuries widened to the most in more than a month yesterday.
The curve is one of the 10 components that make up the leading
economic index, a gauge of the outlook for the next three to six
months compiled by the New York-based Conference Board.  Debt Problem  Fuss, who began his investment career in 1958 and is co-
manager of the $21 billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund, is betting
the U.S. will try to deal with its debt problem by fostering
faster inflation to reduce the real value of its liabilities.  “I think that’s the way it’s going to go,” said 77-year-
old Fuss, who reduced the average maturity of the debt his fund
holds to 9 1/2 years from 10 1/2 years at the end of 2010 to
protect against higher inflation. “The question is, how
unsettling, how rowdy does the bond market get in the process?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Miller in  Washington  at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  