-- 
Padres Have MLB’s Best Ticket-Sales Staff; Rockies Have Worst, Study Finds

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-06-06T15:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/padres-have-mlb-s-best-ticket-sales-staff-rockies-have-worst-study-finds.html
The  San Diego Padres  have the best
ticket sales staff in  Major League Baseball , while the  Colorado
Rockies  have the worst, according to a study by  IntelliShop , a
company that sends anonymous shoppers into businesses to grade
employees.  The  Cleveland Indians  received the second-highest score,
followed by the  Tampa Bay Rays  and  New York Yankees , who tied
for third. The  New York Mets  were ninth.  The results from the Perrysburg, Ohio-based company show
that some baseball teams might improve ticket sales and the
ticket buying experience by following such elementary sales
techniques as asking for a caller’s name.  “It’s almost scary how many basic elements of Sales 101
these guys are missing,” Chris Denove, IntelliShop’s senior
vice president of research and analytics said in a telephone
interview. “Not asking for a caller’s name, total lack of needs
assessment, no effort to build rapport, never asking for the
sale or even contact information.”  IntelliShop sells its research to organizations who want to
have their sales departments analyzed by a third party. The
company conducted the baseball study -- which was not
commissioned by any individual team -- in an effort to boost
sales.  The company had so-called mystery shoppers call teams to
buy season tickets and graded salespeople on whether they took
the time to assess the needs of the caller, engaged in a
personal conversation, and how well they overcame pricing
objections.  “It comes down to how the ticket agents perceive their
role,” Denove said. “Too many see themselves as order takers,
rather than salespeople.”  Personable Sales Staff  The Padres stood out in most categories, with 70 percent of
the shoppers giving the team their highest rating for
personality; well ahead of the MLB average of 22 percent.  The  Padres  overhauled their ticket sales and service team
two years ago, increasing the staff to 61 from 16, including 20
inside sales representatives.  Prospective ticket buyers that used to wait 90 seconds
before reaching a call center in Tijuana,  Mexico , where
operators took orders, now reach a live person in  San Diego .
Afterward, a team representative checks in occasionally to make
sure they are satisfied.  Since the change, group ticket sales increased to 455,000
from 242,000. Season ticket renewal rates hit 91 percent, a
Petco Park record this season, up from 56 percent in 2009. This
comes during a two-year period when the team’s record improved
from 63-99 in 2008 to 90-72 last season.  “We tell our employees they can never get in trouble for
using their own judgment to take care of a customer,” Padres
President  Tom Garfinkel  said in a telephone interview. “We
never want to hear them say, ‘That’s not our policy.’”  Car-Dealer Recruits  Denove said the work has paid off.  “The Padres and Indians have strong professional
salespeople manning the phones that would have every car dealer
in town trying to recruit them if they knew,” he said.  Sales staffs that graded poorly did things like not
attempting small talk or asking for the potential customer’s
name up front to personalize the call, Denove said.  Greg Feasel , the Rockies’ chief operating officer, said the
team would take the criticism to heart.  “Any opportunity we have to get better, we will take
advantage of it,” he said.  One thing that surprised Denove was that there wasn’t a
close relationship between a team’s available tickets and the
amount of effort put into selling them.  “The Yankees performance is in some ways more commendable
than any other team because it’s putting out this great effort
when it has relatively few seats left to sell,” Denove said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  