-- 
Pentagon Says Northrop’s Global Hawk Drone Isn’t ‘Operationally Effective’

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-06T23:50:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/pentagon-says-northrop-s-global-hawk-drone-isn-t-effective-.html
A new version of  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) ’s Global Hawk drone is “not operationally effective for
conducting near-continuous, persistent” intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) missions that it was
designed to conduct, according to the Pentagon’s top weapons
tester.  The RQ-4B Global Hawk Block 30 was capable of providing
only about 40 percent of requested coverage when flying two or
three sorties a week, using three aircraft, during a testing
period from October through December, according to the May 27
report signed by J. Michael Gilmore, the Defense Department’s
director of operational test and evaluation.  The system “is not operationally suitable,” the report
states. “Global Hawk long endurance flights do not routinely
provide persistent ISR coverage due to low air vehicle
reliability.”  “Mission-critical components fail at high rates, resulting
in poor takeoff reliability, high air abort rates, low mission
capable rates, an excessive demand for critical spare parts and
a high demand for maintenance support,”  the report said.  The  Air Force  has bought 16 of 42 planned Block 30 drones,
designed to take detailed ground pictures from high altitudes
and to collect signals intelligence. The remaining 26 drones
would cost about $3.08 billion,  David Van Buren , the Air Force’s
senior acquisition executive, said in a previous interview.  Test Report  The test report was needed before approval of full
production. The Pentagon had scheduled a production meeting for
this month.  “We are working with our customer on a coordinated
response and have no immediate comment,” Brandon R. “Randy” Belote, vice president of strategic communications for Los
Angeles-based Northrop Grumman.  Another Northrop Grumman spokeswoman, Margaret Mitchell- Jones, said the company would not address specifics but was
working with the Air Force “to ensure Global Hawk meets its
costs and capability requirements.”  An Air Force spokesman, Lieutenant Colonel Jack Miller,
said the test results “will help the Air Force and Northrop
Grumman implement the improvements that will increase Global
Hawk’s value.”  Used Over  Libya   Initial Block 30-models have flown over the Fukushima
nuclear facility in  Japan  to gather thermal images, which were
shared with the Japanese. They have also flown ground-
surveillance missions over Libya.  Still, “I’m afraid this is the latest in a litany of less
than glowing commentary on the Global Hawk,” said Robert Stallard, a defense analyst with  RBC Capital Markets .  “I remember when unmanned aerial vehicles like this were
pitched as being cheaper and more effective than manned
platforms. Now the DoD appears to be saying that this is not the
case in either situation, which I’d say is a real disappointment
for Northrop,” Stallard said. This is their major UAV platform,
after all.’’  The average cost of a Global Hawk has risen more than 25
percent. The current procurement cost -- exclusive of research,
development and base construction -- is $113.9 million, up from
$90.8 million in 2000 dollars, according to service figures.
When research, development and construction of facilities are
factored in, the cost is $173.3 million per aircraft; the
comparable cost in 2000 dollars is $150 million.  Multiple Failures  The report highlights deficiencies with the plane’s
airframe and sensor equipment. Frequent failures of “mission-
critical” components --  the electrical generator, navigational
unit and adhesives used to secure nut plates -- resulted in
delayed takeoffs or canceled missions, according to the
document.  The  Enhanced Imagery Sensor Suite , or EISS, made by
Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , provides data that
meet or exceed most operational requirements for imagery
intelligence, while the Airborne Signals Intelligence Payload,
or ASIP, made by Northrop, doesn’t consistently deliver
actionable signal intelligence, according to the report.  The inability of the aircraft to conduct persistent
operations “is not a permanent condition,” and can be
mitigated if the Air Force takes “strong corrective actions”
on the reliability issues identified by the Pentagon, according
to the document.  16 Recommendations  The report includes 16 recommendations to improve the
operational effectiveness and suitability of the aircraft,
including upgrading communication systems, developing de-icing
systems to boost all-weather capabilities and improving operator
training programs for the ASIP sensor.  “In the interim, operational commanders should anticipate
low air vehicle mission capable rates, spare part shortages, and
a heavy reliance on system contractor support to sustain
operations,” the report says.  “The high demand for maintenance often exceeds Air Force
maintenance unit capabilities,” it says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 