-- 
Peruvian Stocks’ Biggest Plunge in Three Decades Forces Trading Suspension

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-06T21:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/peru-s-dollar-bonds-sink-as-humala-election-lead-spurs-concern-on-economy.html
Peru ’s stock exchange halted trading
after the benchmark index plunged a record 12 percent as
investors speculated Ollanta Humala will seek more state control
of the economy as the nation’s next president.  Mining companies led the Lima General Index lower after
Humala, who during the campaign pledged to raise royalties on
the industry, claimed victory in yesterday’s election. The
currency and bonds also fell. The bourse twice suspended trading
today, ending the session three hours early, as  Alturas Minerals
Corp. (ALT)  and  Minera IRL Ltd. (MIRL)  dropped more than 20 percent.  Humala’s victory surprised investors after some polls last
week showed Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori with a narrow lead and
other surveys said the race was tied. While Humala shifted his
stance during the campaign to defend policies that made Peru the
fastest growing Latin American economy over the past decade,
investors remain concerned he will fulfill earlier pledges to
boost government control over natural resources.  “The economy isn’t going to be better off if they start
making things difficult for foreign investors,” said  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $3.5 billion at Aviva Investors in
 London , including Peruvian dollar bonds. “Investors are going
to want to get rid of policy uncertainty before putting any
money to work.”  Today’s trading suspensions were the first since the
financial crisis of October 2008, the bourse said in an e-mailed
statement that urged the President-elect to quickly name a
cabinet so that investors can evaluate his economic team.  Currency, Bonds  The Lima General Index’s 12 percent decline was the most
since the gauge was created in 1981, surpassing the 11 percent
decline of Oct. 10, 2008, amid the global financial crisis. The
sol sank 0.9 percent to 2.7890 per  U.S. dollar . Yields on
dollar-denominated bonds due 2037 rose 19 basis points, or 0.19
percentage point, to 5.93 percent.  Humala, 48, leader of the Nationalist Party and a one-time
ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , had 51.5 percent of
votes compared to 48.6 percent for Fujimori with 92 percent of
ballots counted.  The cost to protect Peru’s debt from non-payment with
credit-default swaps jumped 20 basis points to 167, the highest
since April 27, according to data provider CMA in New York. The
extra yield investors demand to hold Peru dollar notes instead
of U.S. Treasuries climbed 21 basis points to 213, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Alturas Minerals, a Canadian copper and gold exploration
company, plunged 24 percent to 13 cents. Minera IRL, a U.K.
minerals exporter with a gold mine in Peru, dropped 23 percent
to $1.  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , Peru’s biggest copper producer,
fell 9.9 percent to $31.40. Grupo  Mexico , the parent company of
Southern Copper, tumbled 7.5 percent in Mexico City trading.  Chilean Retailers  Stock of Chilean retailers with operations in Peru also
retreated. Ripley Corp SA sank 3 percent in Santiago, while SACI
Falabella slid 2.3 percent and Cencosud SA declined 2 percent.  To broaden his appeal to Peru’s growing middle class,
Humala abandoned rhetoric against foreign mining and natural
resource companies used during the 2006 campaign, when he lost
the presidency to  Alan Garcia  by five percentage points. Humala
backed away from earlier pledges to rewrite the constitution and
unilaterally raise royalty fees on mining and gas production.  Peru is the world’s top silver producer, third in copper
and zinc and sixth in gold. Export revenue from mineral exports
rose by 27 percent to a record $21 billion on surging prices.  Fujimori, the daughter of former President  Alberto Fujimori , conceded defeat today and told reporters in  Lima  she
will lead a responsible opposition. Humala said Keiko Fujimori
turned a blind eye to the corruption and human rights abuses of
her father when she served as first lady during his government
from 1990 to 2000.  Waiting for ‘Change’  “The people have been waiting a long time for change,”
Humala told thousands of supporters at a midnight rally in
downtown Lima. “It’s not possible to say that the country is
progressing when 12 million people are living in extreme poverty
without electricity or running water.”  Last night, Humala said he would seek broad backing for his
policies and form a government comprised of the most-qualified
people independent of their political affiliation.  “Peruvian fundamentals are very strong so it will take a
while for him to destroy the economy if he wants to go that
way,” said Pablo Cisilino, who helps manage $24 billion in
emerging market debt including Peruvian bonds at Stone Harbor
Investment Partners in  New York . “If Peru didn’t have the
fundamentals it has, it would be a very different situation.
Theoretically one would have time to get out if the policies
Humala’s going to pursue are not market friendly.”  Mining Boom  Foreign investors moved money into Peru last year as metal
prices surged and the economy grew at the second-fastest pace in
16 years, prompting the central bank to raise borrowing costs to
contain inflation.  As an army lieutenant colonel in 2000, Humala led 50
soldiers who seized and occupied for a week one of Southern
Cooper’s mines to protest corruption in Fujimori’s government.
His brother, Antauro Humala, is in jail for killing four
policemen during the takeover of a highland town in 2005.  In the two weeks after Humala topped the field in the first
round April 10, sol-denominated bond yields rose to a two-year
high and the currency fell to a 10-month low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  