-- 
Peru Mining Stocks Plunge as Humala Claims Election Victory

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-06-06T20:44:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/peruvian-mining-stocks-plunge-as-humala-claims-election-victory.html
Cia. de Minas Buenaventura SA led a
plunge in  Peru ’s mining stocks as former army rebel Ollanta Humala claimed victory in yesterday’s presidential election.  Buenaventura, Peru’s largest precious-metals miner, sank
the most since December 2008, retreating 11.7 percent to $37.10
in  Lima  on concern that Humala will raise mining royalties and
increase government control over natural resources. The bourse
twice suspended trading, ending the session three hours early
after the Lima General Index fell the most since at least 1990.  “Investors don’t like this candidate,” Jose Luis Bustamante, head of trading at Cartisa SAB, said today in a
telephone interview. “They’re worried that many of the mining
companies’ new projects won’t happen now.”  Humala pledged to extend Peru’s mining boom to the poor
during his campaign and said in a March 23 interview that he
will levy a mining windfall tax and renegotiate contracts
believed to be “hurting the country’s interests.” In recent
weeks, he sought to reassure voters by defending policies that
have made Peru the fastest-growing economy in Latin America over
the past decade.  Humala, 48, leader of the Nationalist Party and a one-time
ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , had 51.4 percent of
votes compared to 48.6 percent for Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori
with 94 percent of ballots counted.  Mine Seizure  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , Peru’s biggest copper producer, fell
9.9 percent to $31.40 in Lima. Sociedad Minera Cerro Verde SA, a
unit of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., declined 10 percent
to $35. Volcan Cia. Minera SAA, Peru’s largest zinc producer,
plunged 15 percent to 2.65 soles.  Humala, who led a group of fellow army soldiers that seized
and occupied  Southern Copper ’s Toquepala mine for a week in 2000
to protest corruption in the government, softened his rhetoric
against mining companies this year after trailing in the polls,
saying he will seek consent from investors for any policy
overhauls.  The ex-rebel hired two of former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s campaign advisers during the campaign and
said he will seek closer ties with  Latin America ’s largest
economy to fuel Peru’s growth.  Mining companies will want proof of Humala’s new
conciliatory stance, Alex Black, chief operating officer of
Calgary-based gold miner  Rio Alto Mining Ltd. (RIO) , said in a June 2
interview.  “We’d want Humala to consult the industry about any
changes and not just push them through in a decree,” said
Black, who plans a $330 million expansion of the company’s La
Arena gold and copper mine by 2015. “We hope he will be more of
a Lula-type government than a Chavez copy.”  Southern, Cerro Verde, Volcan and Buenaventura all plan to
build new mines in Peru, where the Energy & Mines Ministry has
lined up $41 billion in mining investment through 2017.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  