-- 
Plosser: Stimulus Exit Plan Would Offer Stability

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-06T07:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/plosser-advocates-plan-for-ending-fed-stimulus-to-avoid-market-confusion.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said a plan to withdraw the central
bank’s record monetary stimulus and “normalize” interest-rate
policy would help avert confusion in financial markets.  “By articulating a systematic plan that gets us to our
objective, we improve communication with the public, reduce
uncertainty in the marketplace and lend credibility to the
commitment that policy makers will follow through,” Plosser
said today in Helsinki in the prepared text of a speech.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee , which includes Plosser, are considering the tools
they would use to pull back stimulus, according to the minutes
of their April meeting. One possible sequence is to end the
policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing securities and
later raise interest rates and sell assets, though such moves
“would not necessarily begin soon,” according to the minutes.  “Perhaps more important than the details of any exit plan
is the very establishment of a systematic plan itself -- one
that can be clearly communicated to the markets and the public
in a way that reduces uncertainty,” Plosser said. “There is no
one right plan to achieve this outcome.”  The central bank needs a plan that restores the target
interest rate as the “primary instrument” of monetary policy,
shrinks the Fed’s balance sheet to a level “much smaller,
probably less than $1 trillion” and returns the composition of
the balance sheet to predominantly shorter-term  Treasury
securities , he said.  Expanding Balance Sheet  The central bank’s balance sheet has swelled to $2.79
trillion from $924 billion the week before the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. As of June 2,
the Fed’s assets include $918 billion in mortgage-backed
securities, $119 billion of federal agency debt and $64 billion
of assets purchased in the bailouts of Bear Stearns Cos. and
American International Group Inc.  Plosser outlined two plans for reducing the balance sheet.
The Fed could quicken the pace of sales while raising the
federal funds rate. Or the pace of sales would remain constant
and the central bank would use the interest rate to respond to
changing economic conditions.  “The temptation to manipulate the pace of sales based on
some unspecified criteria might arise,” Plosser said. “Indeed,
the major thrust of either plan is to avoid just such a
temptation. A good plan will provide clear, reliable guidance on
how asset sales will proceed and the conditions under which they
may or may not change.”  Plosser repeated his call for the central bank to commit to
an explicit target for the rate of inflation. He did not state
his preference for when the central bank should begin selling
assets or raising interest rates in his remarks.  Plosser, 62, voted to complete the central bank’s $600
billion of bond purchases and backed its decision to keep
interest rates “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”
In 2008, he dissented twice in favor of less monetary stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  