-- 
Polish Central Bank May Raise Main Interest Rate for Fourth Time This Year

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-06-07T13:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/poland-may-raise-benchmark-interest-rate-for-fourth-time-in-2011.html
Poland ’s central bank will probably
increase its benchmark interest rate for the fourth time this
year as consumer prices rise faster than policy makers target.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw will increase the
benchmark seven-day interest rate by a quarter-point to 4.5
percent, according to 26 of 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The decision will be announced tomorrow after 12 p.m. Seven
analysts estimate the rate will remain unchanged. Rate setters
start their two-day meeting today.  Policy makers said last month that they accelerated the
pace of rate increases to prevent rising global food and fuel
prices from having second-round effects on the economy. The
central bank has boosted the benchmark rate by 75 basis points
in three steps this year to stem inflationary pressures that may
spur wage demands.  “After the May rate increase, the Monetary Policy Council
stated that picking up the speed of rate increases was more
efficient in reducing the risk that inflation above the target
will persist,” said Cezary Chrapek, an economist at Citibank
Handlowy in Warsaw. “Since then, factors justifying a faster
rate increase have strengthened.”  The zloty has declined 1.3 percent since May 11, when the
central bank increased the benchmark rate for a second straight
month, and traded at 3.9485 per euro at 2:45 p.m. in Warsaw,
compared with 3.9579 late yesterday. Three-month forward-rate
agreements are trading 30 basis points higher than the three-
month Warsaw interbank offered rate, the same spread as before
last month’s rate increase.  Eastern Europe, including Hungary and  Russia , are also
raising  interest rates  to slow inflation.  Inflation Accelerates  Poland’s inflation rate rose to 4.5 percent in April from
4.3 percent in March. Companies and households boosted their
forecasts for inflation over the next 12 months to 4.3 percent
in May from 4 percent the month before, according to a central
bank survey  published May 31.  Corporate wages rose 5.9 percent from a year earlier in
April, the most since December 2009. That pace may show “there
is a real threat of second-round effects in the economy,”
central banker  Jerzy Hausner  told the PAP news service May 30.  Economic growth expanded an annual 4.4 percent in the first
quarter, remaining near the fastest pace since 2008, as private
consumption exceeded expectations and investment recovered.  Gross domestic product, wages and April retail sales, which
rose the most since the start of 2008, “may be just enough to
lead the MPC to hike again, preemptively,” said Magdalena Polan, senior economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  London ,
who previously forecast that the next increase would be in July.  Central Bankers  Of the 10 Monetary Policy Council members who have spoken
publicly since the May rate increase, only Elzbieta Chojna-Duch
called for limiting the scale of rate increases, saying that
unemployment near the highest level in four years reduces the
risk that price growth will fuel wage demands.  Poland’s jobless rate fell to 12.2 percent in May from 12.6
percent the previous month, the Labor Ministry estimated today.  Others policy makers indicated that borrowing costs should
rise, with Zyta Gilowska telling PAP on May 16 that Poland can’t
allow the benchmark rate to stay below the level of annual
inflation “for a sustained period” and that food and fuel
price increases may spill over to other categories.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  