-- 
Prada Said to Seek as Much as $2.6 Billion in Hong Kong Initial Offering

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-06-06T11:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/prada-said-to-seek-as-much-as-2-6-billion-in-hong-kong-initial-offering.html
Prada  SpA is seeking to raise as much
as $2.6 billion in a Hong Kong initial public offering this
month that would give the maker of Miu Miu handbags a higher
valuation than most of its European rivals.  The Milan-based company set a price range of HK$36.50
($4.69) to HK$48 a share, two people with knowledge of the
matter said today, declining to be identified as the process is
confidential. The IPO would raise $2 billion to $2.6 billion
based on the range, the people said. Including an overallotment
option, the offering would raise as much as $3 billion,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  Prada may command a higher price in Hong Kong
than it would have at home because of Asian demand for  luxury
goods .  China  is forecast to be the world’s third-biggest market
for luxury goods in five years, according to Bain & Co. The IPO
values Prada at as much as 28 times 2011 profit as estimated by
banks arranging the sale, one of the people said. Six comparable
luxury-goods companies worldwide, including  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) ,
trade at an average 21.1 times forecast full-year earnings,
according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   On average, Chinese consumer companies “have a higher
valuation than consumer companies elsewhere,” said Scilla Huang Sun, head of equities at Swiss & Global Asset Management in
Zurich, who oversees about 4 billion Swiss francs ($4.8
billion). “But that’s also due probably to their higher growth
potential. Also, all these Chinese companies have almost 100
percent exposure to the Chinese market, whereas luxury companies
including Prada have only a partial exposure.”  ‘High Side’  Whether Prada gets the highest price depends on the market
conditions in the coming days as markets are “a bit shaky at
the moment,” Huang Sun said, adding that the top end of the
range is “definitely on the high side.”  Prada is set to begin trading June 24 and aims to set the
final price June 17.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s biggest
maker of luxury goods, trades at 19.2 times estimated earnings,
while smaller rival  PPR (PP)  SA, maker of Gucci, trades at 13.8. Both
companies are listed in Paris.  Moncler SpA, the Italian maker of luxury skiwear, today
said it was canceling its IPO in Milan because of market
conditions and opting to sell a 45 percent stake to investment
firm  Eurazeo. (RF)  Salvatore Ferragamo SpA, the Florence, Italy-based
shoemaker, still plans an IPO in Milan by the end of June, a
person familiar with the matter said today. About 25 percent of
the company will be freely traded after the offering, according
to terms obtained by Bloomberg News.  Pulled IPOs  Selling in  Hong Kong  isn’t a guarantee for success. Hong
Kong, where companies raised $58 billion in IPOs in 2010, has
fallen below the U.S. in first-time share sales this year.
Resourcehouse Ltd., Australian billionaire  Clive Palmer ’s iron
ore and coal company, on June 4 dropped its fourth attempt to
sell stock in Hong Kong in two years, citing adverse global
market conditions.  MGM China Holdings Ltd., the Macau casino venture part
owned by  Pansy Ho , is the only $1 billion-plus IPO in Hong Kong
since October to sell shares at the top end of its marketed
price range, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prada’s share sale would be the largest consumer-goods IPO
in Hong Kong and be double the size of Belle International
Holdings Ltd.’s $1.3 billion debut in Hong Kong, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Bagmakers  Coach Inc. (COH)  and Samsonite
LLC also plan to sell shares in the city to help them capitalize
on China’s surging demand for luxury products.  “A lot of the IPOs that have come through so far are
pretty typical companies, and in Prada, you do have something
different,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based  fund manager 
at Schroders Plc, which oversaw $331 billion worldwide as of
March 31.  Prada Forecast  Prada last week forecast first-half profit growth of at
least 46 percent as it opens more stores in  Asia . The company
said it plans to open about 80 new outlets in the current fiscal
year, including 25 in the Asia-Pacific region. Profit more than
doubled to 250.8 million euros last year on growth in the Asia-
Pacific region, where sales jumped 63 percent, Prada said March
28. Total revenue rose 31 percent to 2.05 billion euros.  Intesa Sanpaolo, Credit Agricole SA’s CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, Goldman Sachs and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are managing the IPO.
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. are providing assistance as joint leads.  Prada, which postponed plans to list in 2008 because of
adverse market conditions, is controlled by Chief Executive
Officer Patrizio Bertelli; his wife,  Miuccia Prada ; and her
family. The company sells clothing and accessories under the
Prada, Miu Miu, Church’s and Car Shoe brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  