-- 
Traders Should Sell Nifty on Every June Rise, Angel Broking Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-06-06T09:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/traders-should-sell-nifty-on-every-june-rise-angel-broking-says.html
Siddharth Bhamre, head of equity
derivatives at Angel Broking Ltd., comments by phone from Mumbai
on the outlook for Indian equities.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. rose 0.3 percent to 5,532 as of 3 p.m. local time.
The gauge slid 3.3 percent in May, the most since January.  On Nifty target:  “Sell on every rise is the call for the June series. In
the series, we expect 5,400 levels to be breached as Nifty put-
options are scattered around till 5,000 levels. Implied
volatility and options data tells us that Nifty will find
resistance around 5,620.  ”The ratio of call to put implied volatility has declined
from 400 during expiry to 200 basis points, indicating that the
Nifty is out of its oversold territory.’’  On market concerns:  “The market will continue to trade with a negative bias,
as an anticipated fuel-price hike this week may raise inflation,
leading the central bank to increase  interest rates  further. The
market is concerned about political and corporate governance
issues.”  On options strategy  “We recommend investors short the Nifty only after it
crosses 5,600. Investors should avoid writing 5,400 and 5,500
put options as their implied volatility remains low and expiry
is still far away.”  On auto stocks:  “Traders are building short positions on commercial four-
wheeler stocks while initiating long positions on two-wheeler
makers like Hero Honda Ltd. and Bajaj Auto Ltd. on hopes a good
monsoon will boost rural incomes. The monsoon has already
arrived in rural areas.”  Indian derivative contracts expire on the last Thursday of
every month. The June series ends on June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  