-- 
Rand Snaps 4-Day Gain to Dollar, Falls to Euro as Carry-Trade Appeal Wanes

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-06T15:14:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/rand-snaps-4-day-gain-to-dollar-falls-to-euro-as-carry-trade-appeal-wanes.html
The rand snapped a four-day advance
against the dollar and weakened for a second day against the
euro on speculation  Africa ’s biggest economy will lag developed
nations in raising interest rates.  The rand depreciated 0.6 percent to 6.75 per dollar by 4:47
p.m. in Johannesburg, dollar, paring its gain against the
greenback since May 23 to 3.9 percent. The currency slipped as
much as 0.5 percent to 9.8714 per euro, and traded 0.4 percent
weaker at 9.8597.  The  European Central Bank  may signal on June 9 that it will
raise its benchmark interest rate a second time this year, after
producer-price inflation in the 17-member group accelerated
faster than economists’ expectations in April. The  Bank of
England  announces its rate decision on the same day.  “The main event is probably Thursday’s ECB meeting,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a research note.
“Expectations are that they will signal a hike in July by
noting ’strong vigilance’ over inflation.”  An increase in the ECB rate would erode returns for carry-
trade investors, who borrow at low interest rates and invest the
proceeds in higher-yielding assets.  South Africa ’s benchmark
central bank rate is 5.5 percent, compared with 0.25 percent in
the U.S. and 1.25 percent in the eurozone.  Traders are reducing bets the South African Reserve Bank
will raise its rate this year. Forward-rate agreements starting
in September, which investors use to lock in interest rates,
dropped 2.5 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, today.  Rand ‘Overvalued’  The rand’s decline came after Trade and Industry Minister
Rob Davies said the currency is overvalued and undermining the
country’s manufacturing industry.  Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
was the best-performing industry in the first quarter, expanding
14.5 percent compared with annualized growth of 4.8 percent in
gross domestic product. That performance may not last, Davies
said.  Manufacturers “would have made more progress if we had a
more competitive currency” which was inflated due to capital
inflows, some of which stem from quantitative easing in the
U.S., Davies said. “It’s fuelling an appreciation of our
currency,” he said.  Bonds gained, driving yields to the lowest in almost five
months, on speculation the rand’s 2.5 percent gain against the
dollar since May 23 will slow price increases, reducing pressure
on the central bank to lift interest rates this year.  Bond Rally  “There is no doubt that if the rand manages to stage a
stronger recovery, especially against the dollar, that investors
will need to revise downwards their expectations of inflation
and therefore interest rates,” Tradition Analytics researchers
led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research
note. “The bias appears to be in favor of further bond market
gains at this point.”  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 climbed 19 cents to 121.79
rand, driving the yield down five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 7.43 percent, the lowest on a closing basis
since Jan. 12. The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 rose 37
cents to 90.21 rand, reducing the yield six basis points to 8.22
percent.  Foreign investors were net buyers of 2.4 billion rand
($355.6 million) of South African bonds last week, boosting
flows into the country’s debt this year to 23 billion rand,
according to  JSE Ltd. (JSE)  data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  