-- 
Rand at Four-Week High Versus Dollar as U.S. Slowdown Boosts Carry Trade

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-06T08:41:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/rand-gains-to-4-week-high-as-u-s-slowdown-boosts-carry-trade.html
The rand advanced to a four-week high
against the dollar as evidence of an economic slowdown in the
U.S. and prospects of an aid package for Greece boosted investor
demand for  South Africa ’s higher-yielding assets.  The rand appreciated as much as 0.6 percent to 6.6759 per
dollar, the strongest level since May 6. It traded 0.5 percent
up at 6.6921 by 10:13 a.m. in Johannesburg, a fifth day of
gains. The currency added 0.4 percent to 9.7888 per euro.  The euro touched a month-high against the dollar after EU
and International Monetary Fund officials agreed to pay the next
installment to Greece under last year’s bailout, paving the way
for an upgraded aid package that includes a “voluntary” role
for investors. A report tomorrow is forecast to show U.S.
economic optimism fell this month. U.S. payrolls grew at the
slowest pace in eight months and the jobless rate climbed to 9.1
percent in May, data showed June 3.  “While sentiment towards  Greece  and the eurozone continues
to improve, the euro will benefit especially against the likes
of the U.S., where the data looks awful,” Tradition Analytics
researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in
a research note. “The bias while this remains the case will be
for the rand to appreciate further against the dollar.”  The rand often moves in tandem with the euro, the currency
of most of South Africa’s trade.  An index of U.S. economic optimism slipped to 42.0 this
month from 42.8 in May, according to the median estimate of four
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before Investors Business
Daily and TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence reports the data
tomorrow.  Carry Trade  U.S. Labor Department data on June 3 showed U.S. payroll
growth declined to 54,000 new jobs in May from a revised 232,000
in April, backing the case for the  Federal Reserve  to keep
 interest rates  near zero. The benchmark central bank interest
rate in South Africa is 5.5 percent.  The rand has returned 3.9 percent in the past week in the
dollar carry trade, in which investors borrow in dollars at
near-zero interest rates and invest the proceeds in high-
yielding rand assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonds gained, driving yields to the lowest in almost five
months, on speculation the stronger rand will slow price
increases, reducing pressure on the central bank to lift
interest rates this year.  Bond Move  “There is no doubt that if the rand manages to stage a
stronger recovery, especially against the dollar, that investors
will need to revise downwards their expectations of inflation
and therefore interest rates,” the Tradition analysts said.
“The bias appears to be in favor of further bond market gains
at this point.”  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 climbed 31 cents to 121.91
rand, driving the yield down eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 7.40 percent, the lowest since Jan. 12. The
6.75 percent securities due 2021 rose 45 cents to 90.29 rand,
lowering the yield seven basis points to 8.21 percent.  Foreign investors were net buyers of 2.4 billion rand
($358.2 million) of South African bonds last week, boosting
flows into the country’s debt this year to 23 billion rand,
according to  JSE Ltd. (JSE)  data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  