-- 
Rays’ Record 12 Top-Round Baseball Draft Picks Might Cost $10 Million

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-06T17:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/rays-record-12-top-round-baseball-draft-picks-might-cost-10-million.html
The  Tampa Bay Rays ’ record 12 picks
in the first two rounds of the Major League Baseball draft may
cost around $10 million in signing bonuses, almost a quarter
of the payroll of the franchise’s big-league team.  The Rays, whose opening-day salary total was $41 million,
hold 12 of the first 89 picks this year, the first team to have
a dozen selections in the first two rounds of the draft. Jim
Callis, executive editor of  Baseball America , said that probably
will cost the team around $10 million, based on the contracts
comparable picks last season signed. The glut of picks may also
be a negative surprise to Rays fans with big expectations.  “If you get three good big leaguers out of an entire draft,
that’s a really good draft,” Callis said in a telephone
interview. “I think the average fan would say, ‘Three for 12?
Boy, they blew a lot of picks.’”  The 50-round draft begins today at 7 p.m. New York time,
with the first round and compensatory picks, 60 selections in
all. The final 49 rounds begin tomorrow and conclude on June 8.
The  New York Mets  have the No. 13 and No. 44 picks today; the
New York Yankees pick for the first time at No. 51.  The Pittsburgh Pirates have the No. 1 pick; the Rays’
initial pick is 24th.  UCLA  pitcher Gerrit Cole is forecast by
Baseball America to be taken first.  Top Prospects  The magazine lists Rice University third baseman Anthony
Rendon as the draft’s best hitter and Virginia pitcher Danny
Hultzen as the player closest to being major-league ready. Other
high ranked prospects include Georgia Tech pitcher Jed Bradley
and Dylan Bundy, a high school pitcher from  Oklahoma .  Of the 12 teams that have had eight or more of the first
100 picks, three produced a class with a majority of major
leaguers, according to an e-mailed release by the Rays. Of the
101 players drafted by those teams, 35 reached the major leagues
and three became All-Star selections.  “A reasonable expectation for the Rays is two good players,
solid regulars if not better, a couple pretty good complementary
players, three to five guys that make the majors but don’t have
much of an impact, and the rest don’t make it at all,” Callis
said.  Last season the Rays won the AL East, the second division
title in franchise history, with an opening day payroll of $72
million. The team lost in the first round of the playoffs, and
in the offseason parted ways with its six highest-paid players,
including outfielder Carl Crawford, now with the  Boston Red Sox ,
and pitcher Rafael Soriano, now with the Yankees.  The Rays were awarded four first-round picks when Crawford
and Soriano signed with their new teams. They got more
compensatory picks for the departure of other free agents,
including Grant Balfour and Joaquin Benoit.  Prepped for Draft  Rays General Manager Andrew Friedman, a former Bear Stearns
& Co. analyst, said that team has prepared for the financial
impact of this year’s class.  “It is not lost on us how significant this process is for
us and our future success, and so we’re prepared to do what we
need to do,” Friedman said in a conference call with reporters.
“I’m very confident that with the guys who actually want to go
out and start their pro careers we’ll be in a position to sign
them all.”  The Rays, who had the league’s second-lowest opening day
payroll this season behind the  Kansas City Royals , spent $10
million in signing bonuses on their draft class in 2008, when
the team drafted shortstop Tim Beckham with the No. 1 pick. The
team spent $7 million in 2010 and $8 million in 2007, when they
drafted pitcher  David Price  at No. 1, Callis said.  Eight Stars  Each year the baseball draft typically has eight star
players and a couple dozen role players, said Callis, who has
covered baseball for 20 years. It works out to about one
successful career per team.  Tampa Bay  scouting director R.J.
Harrison said that he didn’t expect any of the team’s picks to
have an impact at the major-league level this year.  “One thing we’ve been consistent with since ‘06 is that
our mentality in the draft and in player development is not
about how soon we can get them to the big leagues,” Harrison
said in a conference call.  The Rays, who have the MLB’s No. 2-ranked farm system
behind the Royals, according to  Baseball America , are also not
concerned with the historical success of comparable draft
classes. Rather, the team is excited at the possibility that the
sheer number of picks presents, Friedman said.  “The more arrows you have, the more likely you are to hit
the bull’s-eye,” Friedman said. “It gives us more of a chance
to get guys that can impact a major league game for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  