-- 
Treasury Two-Year Yield Falls to 2011 Low as Bernanke Says Stimulus Needed

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-06-07T21:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/treasuries-snap-advance-on-greece-aid-speculation-recent-gains-too-rapid.html
Treasury two-year note yields fell to
the lowest level this year as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank should maintain record monetary
stimulus to boost an “uneven” economic recovery.  Yields on three-year notes dropped for a third day after
the U.S. government’s $32 billion auction of the debt drew the
highest demand from a group including foreign central banks in
five months. Longer-term debt yields were little changed before
the $21 billion sale of 10-year notes tomorrow and the $13
billion 30-year bond offering June 9.  “The market is beginning to price a recession,” said
 Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova
Scotia in New York. “He’s not saying that, but that’s what the
market’s beginning to price.”  Yields on two-year notes dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 0.40 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.5 percent
securities maturing in May 2013 gained 1/32, or 31 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 6/32.  The two-year note yields touched 0.39 percent, the lowest
level since Nov. 9. The benchmark 10-year note yields were
little changed at 2.99 percent. The yields on existing three-
year notes slid four basis points to 0.69 percent.  The central bank should maintain record monetary stimulus
to boost an “uneven” and “frustratingly slow” economic
recovery, Bernanke said in text of a speech at a conference in
Atlanta.  ‘Below Its Potential’  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke said. “Until we see a sustained period
of stronger  job creation , we cannot consider the recovery to be
truly established.”  U.S. employers added less than a third the number of
workers in May than economists forecast, and the jobless rate
rose to 9.1 percent from 9 percent, the Labor Department
reported last week.  The difference in yield between two- and 30-year debt was
3.85 percentage points, the widest since March on speculation
policy makers will keep interest rates on hold. The 30-year bond
yield was little changed at 4.25 percent.  Futures contracts showed the likelihood of an increase in
the fed funds target by the Fed’s March 2012 meeting fell to 23
percent, from 38 percent odds a month ago. The target rate for
overnight lending between banks has been held at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Fed Debt Buying  The central bank  purchased  $1.44 billion of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities maturing from July 2013 to
February 2041 today under the second round of quantitative
easing, which expires this month.  At today’s three-year note auction, the securities produced
a yield of 0.765 percent, the lowest since the November
offering. The average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven of the 20 primary dealers was 0.760 percent.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.28,
compared with an average of 3.15 for the previous 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 35.6 percent of the notes, the highest
since the January offering. Direct bidders, non-primary dealer
investors that place their bids directly with the Treasury,
purchased 9.2 percent of the notes, compared with the 10-auction
average of 13.4 percent.  ‘Good Auction’  “It was a good auction,” said David Coard, head of fixed-
income trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a
brokerage for institutional investors. “It bodes well for the
next two. It also suggests there may be more upside to
Treasuries once we get through this auction cycle.”  Shorter-dated yields lagged behind those of longer-maturity
debt on speculation U.S.  interest rates  will stay low to support
the economic recovery.  Treasuries dropped earlier after  Germany ’s  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  told U.S. President Barack Obama yesterday at a
dinner in  Washington  that the euro region will “emerge
strengthened” from the debt crisis.  Obama said today at a joint news conference with Merkel at
the White House that they agreed that the financial situation in
 Europe  “cannot be allowed to put the global economic recovery
at risk.”  At a Montreal event yesterday, European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  gave the first signal that he
endorses measures to encourage investor purchases of new Greek
bonds to replace maturing securities. Two officials familiar
with the bank’s deliberations said on condition of anonymity
last week that the ECB was considering rollovers as a means of
easing  Greece ’s funding squeeze.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  