-- 
SeaEnergy Falls 44% in London After Agreement to Sell Wind Unit to Repsol

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-06-06T17:04:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/repsol-to-buy-seaenergy-unit-enter-biggest-offshore-wind-market.html
SeaEnergy Plc (SEA)  fell the most in seven
years after the Aberdeen-based renewable energy company agreed
to sell its offshore wind unit to  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,  Spain ’s largest
oil company, for about 50 million pounds ($82 million).  SeaEnergy shares tumbled 44 percent on London’s AIM market
to 39.25 pence (64 cents), the biggest decline since March 2004.
Today’s drop pared gains by SeaEnergy this year to 67 percent.  SeaEnergy will earn proceeds of 29.1 million pounds after
deal costs and following repayment of 6.9 million pounds of
loans from LC Capital Master Fund Ltd. and  EDP Renovaveis SA (EDPR) ,
SeaEnergy Chairman Stephen Remp said in a phone interview.  “The market thought the sale of the SERL business would be
much higher than what they actually achieved,” Gurpreet Gujral,
a clean-technology equity analyst at Ambrian Capital Plc, said
by telephone. Kate Hill, a spokeswoman for SeaEnergy, said
“there may have been some profit-taking.”  The transaction will give Madrid-based Repsol entry into
the U.K. offshore wind market, the world’s largest, as Britain
targets 13 gigawatts of sea-based wind farms by 2020 to help
meet European renewable-energy goals.  SeaEnergy Renewables, the unit being sold, has stakes in
three offshore wind projects being developed in  Scotland . Repsol
has formed a partnership with EDP Renovaveis, the renewable-
energy unit of Portuguese utility EDP-Energias de Portugal SA,
to develop two of these fields, Remp said.  EDP Renovaveis said today in a  statement  that it would
build the Moray Firth offshore wind project and the Inch Cape
wind farm with Repsol. Those projects could generate as much as
2.4 gigawatts of power, of which EDPR will own a 60 percent
share of the overall capacity, according to the statement.  Moray Firth Project  EDPR already owned a 75 percent stake in the Moray Firth
facility, which decreases to 67 percent following Repsol’s
acquisition of SERL. It will also hold a 49 percent share in the
Inch Cape park in the outer Firth of Tay that could generate up
to 905 megawatts, or enough power for 680,000 homes, EDPR said  SeaEnergy Renewables signed a lease agreement with the
 Crown Estate , the manager of U.K. seabed, for exclusive rights
to develop the Inch Cape facility, it said today in a statement  “This deal allows us to take the view that we should be in
oil and gas and marine renewables,” Remp said. Scottish First
Minister  Alex Salmond  welcomed news about the agreement.  Offshore Shareholdings  Repsol will hold a 33 percent stake in Moray Offshore Wind
Ltd. and 51 percent of Inch Cape Offshore Wind Ltd., the
Scottish government said in a statement. Repsol will also now
own a 25 percent stake in the Beatrice sea-based wind farm, in
which Scottish and Southern Energy Renewables holds the
remainder.  SeaEnergy is the successor of Ramco Energy Plc, the oil and
gas exploration firm that Remp founded in 1977. Ramco became
SeaEnergy in 2009 and switched its focus to offshore wind after
Remp saw potential for wind power in the  North Sea .  SeaEnergy’s legacy oil and gas assets include stakes in
 Mesopotamia Petroleum Co. , which explores oil in  Iraq , and
Lansdowne Oil & Gas Plc. Its interests are either minority
stakes or non-operated assets.  SeaEnergy will focus on its marine-services business
through its SeaEnergy Marine division, Remp said. The unit seeks
to design, build and operate vessels to service the offshore
wind industry.  “The service business is a huge opportunity and as
offshore wind developers now get into more detail, they really
need somebody like us,” Remp said.  Europe’s Offshore Wind  The European offshore wind market may begin operating 11.5
gigawatts by 2015, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance,
the London-based industry analyst.  Gas Natural SDG SA may take part in some of Repsol’s
projects in SeaEnergy Renewables with a 50 percent stake, said
an official at the Barcelona-based natural gas company. That
participation is subject to obtaining permission from U.K.
authorities, the official said. Repsol owns 31 percent of Gas
Natural.  Today’s agreement allows SeaEnergy to retain its
relationship with Nantong Cosco Ship Steel Structure Co Ltd. in
 China , Remp said. They’re looking at building jacket structures
for offshore  wind turbines  in eastern  Asia  before bringing them
flat-packed to the U.K. for assembly in yards and also
installing them, Remp said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  