-- 
Roche Wins as High Court Limits University Patent Rights

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-06T21:50:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/roche-wins-against-stanford-as-high-court-limits-university-patent-rights.html
The U.S. Supreme Court, in a ruling
that limits the patent rights of research universities, threw
out  Stanford University ’s suit against a  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  unit
over methods for testing the effectiveness of AIDS treatments.  Voting 7-2, the justices upheld a lower court’s conclusion
that a scientist working at Stanford in  Palo Alto ,  California ,
transferred his rights to the discoveries to a company whose
line of business Roche later bought. Under the court’s
reasoning, the transfer made the company a co-owner of three
disputed patents.  The  ruling  is a setback for universities, which had
contended the transfer was barred under a U.S. law that governs
federally funded research. Universities said earlier that a
ruling favoring Roche might cast doubt on patents stemming from
hundreds of billions of dollars in research.  The decision is a victory for companies that collaborate
with universities in research.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  were among the companies that
supported Roche, the world’s largest maker of cancer drugs.  “We remain committed, as we always were, to partnerships
and collaborations with academic institutions such as
Stanford,” said Jacqueline Wallach, a spokeswoman for Roche.  The dispute turned on a 1980 law that allocates patent
rights among the government, investors and institutions that
receive federal money. Writing for the court today, Chief
Justice  John Roberts  said that law didn’t displace the
longstanding principle that inventors have first claim to their
discoveries.  Intellectual Property  “Although much in intellectual property law has changed in
the 220 years since the first Patent Act, the basic idea that
inventors have the right to patent their inventions has not,”
Roberts wrote.  Justices Stephen Breyer and  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  dissented.  The scientist at the center of the case, Mark Holodniy, was
a Stanford employee who performed some of his research at Cetus
Corp. Holodniy was working to develop a test for HIV, the virus
that causes AIDS, using polymerase chain reaction technology.
That technique, called PCR, involves making billions of copies
of DNA sequences from a small number of starting molecules.  When Holodniy began working as a fellow at Stanford in
1988, he signed an agreement saying he would assign his patent
rights to the university.  Collaboration With Stanford  The following year Holodniy began making visits to Cetus,
which was collaborating with Stanford on the research. He signed
an agreement giving that company rights to inventions stemming
from his work there. Roche later bought Cetus’s PCR business.  Holodniy’s research, along with that of other Stanford
employees, eventually led to three patents being issued to the
university.  Stanford contended that the 1980 Bayh-Dole Act supersedes
any agreement between Cetus and Holodniy. Because the underlying
research was funded in part by the federal government, the Bayh-
Dole Act barred Holodniy from assigning his rights to Cetus,
Stanford said.  Groups representing the biotechnology industry and
universities issued a joint statement in support of the law,
which they called “extraordinarily successful in moving
university discoveries from experimental laboratories to the
marketplace.” The groups were the  Biotechnology Industry
Organization , or BIO, Association of American Universities,
American Council on Education, Association of Public and Land-
grand Universities, Association of University Technology
Managers and Council on Governmental Relations.  Public Benefits  “Although BIO and the undersigned higher education
associations held different views on the Stanford v. Roche case,
the organizations are united in the desire to ensure that the
U.S. technology transfer system continues to generate these
public benefits through the robust provisions of the Bayh-Dole
statute,” they said in the statement.  Today’s ruling hinged at least in part on the language used
in Holidniy’s agreement with Stanford. Roberts pointed to the
appeals court’s conclusion that the scientist had promised only
to assign his rights at a future date, meaning that the Cetus
transfer took priority.  Roberts said that, “with an effective assignment,”
universities could secure their claim over the inventions of
their employees.  Securing Rights  Universities are already in the practice of securing patent
rights for work done by employees, said Steve Chang, a patent
lawyer with Banner & Witcoff in  Washington .  He said a victory for Stanford would have created
“paranoia” in cases involving the transfer of rights by an
employee to a third party.  “What would have happened is that each one of those third
parties would have had to question whether the assignment they
got from the employee effectively transferred anything,” Chang
said. “There’s a chance the employee didn’t have rights to
assign in the first place.”  The case is Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior
University v. Roche Molecular Systems, 09-1159.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 