-- 
Russian Spy Chapman Lures Investment Into Venture Capital

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r ,   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-06-07T12:21:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/russian-spy-chapman-lures-investors-in-move-to-venture-capital.html
Russian spy Anna Chapman, expelled
from the U.S. last year, is starting a new career in venture
capitalism as she allies with Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to
lure technology investment to the country.  “I’ve always been fascinated with technology,” Chapman,
29, said yesterday in an interview in Bloomberg News’ Moscow
office. “And right now, I want to make my own input into
developing this industry, the  venture capital  industry.”  Chapman, part of the Russian spy ring uncovered in the U.S.
and deported last year, is a member of Molodaya Gvardiya, the
youth wing of the ruling  United Russia  party headed by Putin.
She says her mission is to encourage young Russians to launch
start-up businesses at home rather than emigrate.  Putin and President Dmitry Medvedev say they want to wean
Russia off its dependence on energy exports and accelerate
growth to the pace in developing economies such as  China  and
 India . Medvedev has championed turning the Moscow suburb of
Skolkovo into Russia’s “Silicon Valley” for developing new
technologies.  Metals and energy make up 84 percent of exports from
Russia, the world’s largest oil producer and biggest exporter of
natural gas, nickel and palladium. Energy sales contribute
almost half of the country’s budget revenue. The economy grew
4.1 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter, compared
with 9.7 percent in China and 7.8 percent in India.  ‘Lot of Notoriety’  Chapman, who has her own weekly television show,
“Mysteries of the World With Anna Chapman,” this month started
editing  Venture Business News , which features technology news
including stories about Skolkovo. Chapman said she plans to link
entrepreneurs with investors. She declined to give an estimate
on the amount of capital she expects to attract.  “In the West, she’s got a lot of notoriety, but not all
publicity is good publicity,”  Roland Nash , chief investment
strategist at Verno Capital, a Moscow hedge fund that manages
about $140 million, said by phone. “She’s got to turn around
part of her image.”  She is “very well known and respected in Russia, by
Russians in general and young Russians in particular, so in that
sense she’s quite an imaginative solution.” he said.  Chapman was part of a sleeper spy ring, some of whose
members had posed as ordinary Americans for more than a decade.
After the 10 spies returned to Russia in July, Putin sang
Soviet-era patriotic songs with them. The agents would probably
find jobs in “respectable places” and have “bright and
interesting lives,” the prime minister said at the time.  In October, Chapman posed for the cover of the Russian
edition of the men’s magazine Maxim as a James Bond girl in
lingerie and holding a gun.  Chapman’s Experience  Chapman, who was married to a Briton and lived in  London 
before moving to  New York , said she has experience of setting up
her own businesses.  Her latest venture was a real-estate search engine that
operated in 40 countries and was valued at $10 million before
the global financial crisis hit in 2008, she said.  Chapman has been working since October as an adviser for
Moscow-based Fondservisbank, which invests in high-technology
industries including aerospace.  Medvedev, who succeeded Putin in 2008, has called for the
creation of a knowledge-based economy that can compete globally.
Skolkovo has been designated as technology center for companies
including  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   “Hopefully we will contribute” to the success of
Skolkovo, Chapman said. “I think it’s important that not all
initiatives come from the Kremlin.”  Putin’s Party  United Russia has wooed Chapman, the most prominent of the
10 deported spies, to run for parliament in December. She
declined to talk about her potential political career.  Andrei Lugovoi, a former KGB agent who is wanted by British
prosecutors in connection with the murder of Putin critic
 Alexander Litvinenko , was elected to parliament in 2007 as a
member of the  Liberal Democratic Party  of Russia.  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a United Russia member who invited
Chapman to join a movement to increase female representation in
parliament and aim for a woman president in 2018, says the
former spy is an inspiration to young people who consider her a
“heroine” for defending the country’s interests.  “Too bad I’m not from the St. Petersburg team,” Chapman
said when asked whether she had any ambition to run for
president. “I guess if I graduated from the law faculty there I
would have more chances, but now I think the time is gone.”
Putin, 58, and Medvedev, 45, both graduated from the law school
at St. Petersburg University.  Women in  Russia   Women in Russia don’t need any help to get what they want,
Chapman said.  “If you are a decent, smart woman, if you bring value, you
will go as far as you want, period,” she said. “If you want
something you want to get, you go and get it. There is no need
to talk about your rights to have it.”  Chapman took out an international trademark on her name.
She secured an advertising contract with Swiss watchmaker Ulysse
Nardin and has lent her brand to a limited series of watches
called Lady in Red, of which there are 110 in the world in steel
and 11 in pink gold.  Chapman says she’s busy fending off “funny” show business
offers for her to sing or promote products such as cough
medicine. She also declined movie roles, as the former spy says
she has no talent for acting.  “Thank you very much to everyone who has offered me a role
in a film,” she said. “But I respectfully declined to save
your films because if you named the 10 worst actresses in the
world, I’ll probably be there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net 
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  