-- 
Russia Food Prices May Rise in Near Term as Inflation Stabilizes

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-06-06T20:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/russia-food-prices-may-rise-in-near-term-as-inflation-stabilizes.html
Russian food prices, which have eased
to help stabilize inflation, may rise in June and July due to a
resumption in grain exports after last year’s drought and a ban
on vegetable imports from the European Union.  Inflation remained at 9.6 percent for a second month in
May, equaling a 19-month high, the Moscow-based Federal
Statistics Service said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
Prices rose 0.5 percent during the month after increasing 0.4
percent in April.  The annual rate stabilized as the effects of  Russia ’s worst
drought in 50 years abated, slowing food-price growth to 13.4
percent from 14.1 percent in April. While Bank Rossii says its 6
percent to 7 percent inflation target for 2011 is achievable,
central bankers and analysts including ING Groep NV’s Simon Quijano-Evans in London warn of threats over the next two
months.  “The risks are clearly there and the central bank knows
it,” Quijano-Evans, ING’s chief economist for  Europe ,  Middle
East  and  Africa , said yesterday. “We should still be able to end
the year quite a bit below current levels.”  The inflation situation “may turn around sharply” in early
July, the month in which food prices began their rapid ascent
last year, the central bank’s First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  told the Vedomosti newspaper in an interview published
yesterday.  “50-50” Chance of Drought  Food prices, which make up more than a third of the
consumer-price basket, were unchanged from the previous month in
May after growing 0.4 percent in April and 0.9 percent in March.  Prices for products including potatoes and buckwheat jumped
in 2010 after unseasonably hot weather destroyed harvests across
the country. Russia’s Black Earth area, which accounts for a
fifth of the country’s grain output, faces a “50-50” chance of
drought this year if temperatures remain close to 30 degrees (86
degrees Fahrenheit) for another three weeks, Black Earth Farming
Ltd.’s Chief Financial Officer Michael Shneyderman said
yesterday.  Lifting the ban on grain exports introduced in response to
last year’s crop shortage is the only “significant risk factor”
for inflation, central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said last
week. The resumption of exports to more expensive foreign
markets on July 1 may push domestic prices higher,  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas SA in Moscow, said
May 30.  EU Vegetable Ban  Russia’s ban on imports of fresh vegetables from the EU,
imposed after an E. coli outbreak, may also boost food prices.
The ban will have a short-term effect on inflation, the central
bank’s Deputy Chairman Sergei Shvetsov said, RIA Novosti
reported yesterday.  Inflation, which totaled 8.8 percent in 2010, is “in
order,” Ignatiev said May 26, before the central bank indicated
it would leave borrowing costs unchanged for several months as
risks to the economy were balanced with price pressures.  “We’re probably very close to the peak,”  Paul Biszko , an
emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto,
said June 3. “Policy makers will be looking ahead to that and
assuming there’s no sharp acceleration from here. It’s going to
give them some room to pause.”  The central bank last week raised its overnight deposit
rate to 3.5 percent from 3.25 percent, surprising 11 of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey. It left the key refinancing
and overnight repurchase rates unchanged after a quarter-point
increase in April.  Ruble Strengthens  The ruble, which has advanced 9.7 percent against since
January, appreciated 0.4 percent to 27.8250 per dollar at the 5
p.m. close in Moscow, the strongest level since May 11.  Consumer prices, which have risen 4.8 percent in the year
to date, will probably increase 5.2 percent in the first half,
while the third quarter may add as much as 0.4 percentage point
to the total, Ulyukayev was quoted by Vedomosti as saying.  “That means we’ll enter the fourth quarter with accumulated
inflation of about 5.5 percent,” he said. “After that, the task
-- getting through the fourth quarter with monthly inflation of
0.5 percent -- isn’t simple, but it’s not that far-fetched
either.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  