-- 
Russia RTS Futures Sink on Growth Concern, Oil’s Fall Below $100

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-06T20:42:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/russia-rts-futures-sink-on-growth-concern-oil-s-fall-below-100.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
fell, signaling stocks may decline in Moscow today, as oil
settled below $100 a barrel for the first time in two weeks and
investors raised concerns the global economic recovery is
slowing.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
fell 0.8 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
top oil producer, fell 1.1 percent, while those on OAO Lukoil,
the second-biggest, dropped 0.7 percent. Contracts on OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, fell 1 percent.  “A slowdown in growth raises the risk of reduced demand
for commodities and lower export prices for oil, steel and other
metals,”  Chris Weafer , the chief strategist at UralSib
Financial Corp. in Moscow, said in an e-mailed report. “But, on
the other hand, the weakening dollar provides at least a partial
cushion for dollar-based commodity prices.”  Stocks fell globally for a fourth day yesterday and oil
declined on speculation slower economic growth will curtail
demand. More than $2 trillion has been erased from the market
value of global equities since this year’s peak on May 1 amid
disappointing economic data, capped by last week’s U.S. jobs
report.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
fell 0.9 percent. Crude oil for July delivery sank 1.3 percent
to settle at $98.88 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
yesterday, the lowest settlement since May 23. Prices are 38
percent higher than a year ago.  Dollar Outlook  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.
Some investors buy commodities traded in U.S. dollars to protect
value when the greenback weakens.  While the dollar gained against 14 of the 16 most-traded
currencies in May, it fell last week after weaker-than-forecast
reports on manufacturing, employment and consumer confidence led
traders to raise bets that the  Federal Reserve  will keep rates
near zero.  The Federal Reserve has kept its target rate for overnight
loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008. The  European Central Bank  raised borrowing costs
in April for the first time in almost three years, bringing the
main refinancing rate to 1.25 percent.  The U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1
percent in May and payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight
months, the Labor Department reported June 3. Employers added
54,000 jobs last month, after a revised 232,000 gain in April
that was smaller than initially estimated. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey called for payrolls to rise 165,000.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 0.8 percent yesterday. Lukoil’s
American depositary receipts fell 0.2 percent.  Gazprom’s ADRs
declined 0.5 percent.  The dollar-denominated RTS Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,865.64.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  