-- 
Saleh Departure Opens Power Vacuum Amid Dispute as to Who Controls Yemen

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r
-- 
2011-06-07T15:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/saleh-departure-opens-power-vacuum-amid-dispute-as-to-who-controls-yemen.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s
supporters and his opponents agree on his decision to hand power
to his vice president while receiving treatment in  Saudi Arabia 
for wounds from a blast at his compound. They disagree on
whether he’ll ever return.  Vice President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi is assuming Saleh’s
duties “until the president returns,” Abdu al-Janadi, the
deputy information minister, said in a phone interview from
Sana’a, the capital. That will be within a few days, Hadi said
yesterday, according to state news agency Saba.  U.S. officials said today that Saleh’s injuries from the
June 3 attack on his presidential palace are worse than has been
reported by Yemeni officials and state media, raising doubts
about his ability to return soon. The Yemeni leader has bad
burns on his face and 40 percent of his body, according to two
U.S. officials in  Washington  not authorized to speak on the
record. His injuries do not appear to be life threatening, they
said.  In Yemen, protesters have celebrated Saleh’s exit as an
opening to achieve what the four-month uprising has so far
failed to do: end Saleh’s rule.  “There’s a power vacuum that’s opening up,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis. “It’s probably the worst-
case scenario because there’s no clear succession pattern that
is acceptable to all parties.”  Next Somalia?  Violence in the Arab region’s poorest country threatens to
mirror the situation across the  Gulf of Aden  in Somalia, which
has been mired in a civil war for two decades and hasn’t had a
functioning central government since 1991.  “The instability and lack of security afflicting Yemen
cannot be addressed until there’s some process that’s going to
lead to the economic and political reforms” the people are
seeking, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday
at the State Department.  Fighting flared overnight and continued today in Taiz,
Yemen’s second-largest city. Explosions and gunfire were heard
in many parts of the southern city, amid shelling by army tanks,
resident Yahia Ali said by telephone.  The clashes killed four soldiers and wounded 10, Abdulqawi
Shalan, a protest activist, said by phone. Two civilians died
and 10 were hurt, said Mohammed al-Rumaim, another protest
activist. Earlier violence in Taiz was triggered by the killing
of anti-government protesters by Saleh’s security forces.  Al-Qaeda Threat  Saleh’s government has said rising social unrest threatens
to strengthen al-Qaeda, a concern also expressed by the U.S. The
group has sought to use Yemen as a base from which to
destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest
exporter of crude oil, and for attempted attacks on
international targets including two U.S. synagogues last year.  Protests have persisted since the government and the main
opposition group, the Joint Meetings Parties, failed three times
to sign a plan brokered by the Arab Gulf states. Under the terms
of the U.S.-backed proposal, Saleh would have ceded power within
a month of signing the deal and would be granted immunity from
prosecution. A transition would follow within 60 days.  The president left for Saudi Arabia on June 4 for medical
treatment after being wounded by a rocket that slammed into the
mosque in his presidential compound. Sixteen people were killed
in the attack and more than 100 wounded, Janadi said.  The opposition says his departure means the first part of
the plan has taken place. The Joint Meeting Parties say they are
drafting proposals to form a transitional government if the
 power transfer  to Saleh’s vice president doesn’t happen.  ‘Saleh is Out’  “Saleh is out,” said Abdul-Ghani al-Iryani, a founder of
the Democratic Awakening Movement, which was set up to push for
the establishment of democracy. “We’re one-third of the way
into peaceful transfer of power.”  The original agreement was brokered by ministers from the
 Gulf Cooperation Council , which includes the  United Arab
Emirates ,  Bahrain , Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar and  Kuwait . The
bloc abandoned efforts to broker peace in Yemen after Saleh
refused to sign the accord on May 22.  The attack on Saleh came as his security forces were
embroiled in gun battles with supporters of Sadiq al-Ahmar, the
head of the influential al-Hashid tribe to which the president
belongs. Saleh blamed al-Ahmar for the rocket assault.  The gun battles have overshadowed months of protests that
began with small demonstrations in January and grew into massive
rallies a month later calling on Saleh to leave power.  Celebrations  Word of Saleh’s arrival in Saudi Arabia sparked an outbreak
of dancing, singing and fireworks among thousands of Yemenis
gathered in Taghyeer, or Change, Square, site of the protesters’
camp city.  “His departure has destabilized the regime,” activist
Bilquis al-Lahabi said June 5. “And this is an achievement for
the revolution.”  Saleh’s supporters have shrugged off the opposition’s
assertions, saying the government’s power base remains intact
and the presidential guard and special forces are still under
the control of the president’s sons and nephews.  “The opposition is daydreaming,” Janadi said yesterday in
a telephone interview from Sana’a. “Ali Abdullah Saleh is still
president and he will remain so until his term ends in 2013 or
until peaceful dialogue leads to an orderly transition of
power.”  ‘Work as Usual’  Industry and Trade Minister Hisham Sharaf said members of
Yemen’s government have resumed their duties. “It’s work as
usual,” he said in a telephone interview. The protests have
cost Yemen $4 billion and a growing deficit threatens to destroy
the country, Sharaf said in an interview May 24.  If Yemenis cannot quickly agree on who’s in charge, Yemen
will descend into more turmoil, said analysts such as April
Longley Alley, the senior Arabian Peninsula analyst at the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  The government’s grip on the country, which was tenuous
before the uprising, may be slipping. In the coastal city of
Zanjibar, Islamist gunmen last month occupied government
buildings amid claims that groups such as al-Qaeda are
exploiting unrest caused by the protests and violence.  Law and order in Taiz, scene of a government crackdown on
protesters that left at least 21 people dead last month, has
broken down completely since security forces pulled out, Alley
said.  “If there is no agreement on how to move forward very
quickly, you’re going to see the repercussions of this power
vacuum even more than what we’re seeing right now,” she said.  More than 2,000 people protested Tuesday in front of the
house of the acting president Hadi, demanding that he establish
a national governing council that accommodates people from
across the political spectrum.  The organizing committee of the Popular Youth Revolution
has called in an e-mailed statement for massive rallies
tomorrow, to call for an end to Saleh regime and creation of
such a council along with a unity government until a
parliamentary and presidential vote is organized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 