-- 
Saudi Aramco Ventures Continue Gas Exploration in Saudi Desert

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-06-06T16:24:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/saudi-aramco-ventures-continue-gas-exploration-in-saudi-desert.html
Natural-gas exploration in  Saudi
Arabia ’s Rub al-Khali desert is ongoing after companies
including  Eni SpA (ENI)  said they failed to find hydrocarbons in the
area, according to Saudi Aramco.  Some of Aramco’s ventures with European and Asian partners
decided to enter second exploration phases while others are
evaluating their work to continue exploring for gas in the
desert, the Riyadh-based company said today in its 2010 review.  Aramco set up ventures with international partners to
develop the country’s non-associated gas resources to meet local
demand and reduce the amount of oil burned for power generation.
The company has ventures with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, OAO Lukoil as well
as a group of Eni SpA and  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   The groups were required to drill a total of 27 exploration
wells during the first phases of their projects. The Eni and
Repsol venture with Aramco, known as EniRepsa Gas Ltd., is the
only one that hasn’t fulfilled its drilling commitment from the
first phase.  EniRepsa got an extension from the Saudi ministry of
petroleum to process its seismic data by June 27 before
continuing with drilling its final well in the first phase,
 Saudi Aramco  said in its review.  Eni holds 50 percent of EniRepsa, Repsol 30 and Saudi
Aramco the rest. The group will decide whether to drill the
fourth well after seismic studies, Aramco said.  Sino Saudi Gas Ltd. an 80-20 venture between Sinopec and
Aramco, decided to enter into a second exploration period, and
the petroleum ministry approved its plans, according to the
review.  Aramco’s venture with Lukoil, Lukoil Saudi Arabia Energy
Ltd., will start appraisal and won’t start the second
exploration phase. Luksar, as the group is known, drilled its
first appraisal well and is performing further studies, looking
to improve well rates via fracture stimulations, Aramco said.  The Shell venture, known as SRAK, had decided to enter a
second exploration phase after finding promising gas reserves in
Rub al-Khali desert, according to the review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  