-- 
Serbia to Help Pay Bank Interest on Loans to Food Producers

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-06-06T13:24:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/serbia-to-help-pay-bank-interest-on-loans-to-food-producers.html
Serbia agreed with six banks to
cover part of the interest they charge on loans for farmers,
cattle growers and other primary food producers.  The state allocated 2.7 billion dinars ($39.8 million)
from the central budget to pay nearly half the current 15.5
percent interest on new loans for  farm equipment , fertilizers
and facilities. Agriculture Minister Dusan Petrovic signed the
agreement today with Agrobanka AD, Komercijalna Banka AD,
Banka Postanska Stedionica AD and the local units of  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG and  Societe
Generale. (GLE)   “This support opens the potential for a whole new
investment cycle of 400 million euros, based on the capital
the banks are ready to provide,” Petrovic said. “It applies
to a range of producers, including dairies, poultry and meat
producers, fruit and vegetable growers.”  Serbia has sought to reverse a decline in its  food
production  and bring down food prices that played the biggest
part in accelerating annual inflation to 14.7 percent in
April, the highest in 34 months.  Subsidized loans of a maximum 5 million dinars for
individual producers and as much as 15 million dinars for
cooperatives will be available as of mid-June, said Zivojin
Savic, an executive at Komercijalna Banka.  The loan subsidies agreement came a day after the
government gave up its plan to cut cash subsidies to farming
units not bigger than 30 hectares.  Pressured by a few thousand farmers who blocked roads in
the northern Vojvodina province, the government agreed to keep
the limit at 100 hectares, with payments for units bigger than
30 hectares deferred until January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  