-- 
Siemens’s Osram Seeks to Block LG, Samsung LEDs From U.S.

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-06T19:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/siemens-s-osram-sues-samsung-group-lg-for-patent-infringement.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s Osram unit said it filed
patent-infringement complaints against Samsung Electronics Co.
and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  in the U.S. and  Germany  over light-
emitting diode technology in televisions and lighting products.  Complaints filed with the International Trade Commission in
Washington seek to block U.S. imports of LG and Samsung products
that use LEDs. Civil suits were filed in federal courts in
Wilmington,  Delaware , and Germany, Osram said today. LG also was
sued in  Japan , and Osram said it may file a complaint against LG
in  China  as well.  The complaints aim “to prevent unauthorized use of our
valuable technology,” Aldo Kamper, chief executive officer of
Osram Opto Semiconductors, said in a statement. “We have a
considerable number of patents which we developed in the course
of many years of intensive research and development work.”  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , is accused of
infringing nine patents and Seoul-based LG is accused of
violating 12 patents in the ITC cases. Seven patents are in both
cases. The Delaware case, which targets Samsung, cites 10
patents.  Osram, based in Munich, sells LEDs under the names TopLED,
Golden Dragon Plus, Ceramos and Ostar, according to the ITC
complaints. The company licenses the patents to other companies
that make LEDs, including Royal Philips Electronics NV’s
Lumileds unit, Cree Inc. and Nichia Corp., Osram said.  Less Energy  The patents involve technology used in LED displays for
light-conversion and electrical and thermal connections in
backlighting for TV sets and monitors, Osram said. LEDs, which
require less energy than traditional lighting, are increasingly
used in electronics, home lighting and automobiles.  “Due to their superior longevity and efficiency, white
LEDs are expected to replace incandescent bulbs and fluorescent
bulbs as the standard for general-purpose lighting,” Osram said
in the LG complaint.  That ITC complaint also names LG Innotek Co., which is
part-owned by LG and supplies LEDs to it. The complaint seeks to
block LED-backlit televisions made by LG Electronics, as well as
stand-alone lighting products made by LG Innotek.  The ITC is an independent agency that investigates
allegations of unfair trade practices and has the power to block
products that violate U.S. patent rights. If it agrees to
investigate the claims, its review will take from 15 to 18
months.  The Samsung ITC case is In the Matter of Light-Emitting
Diodes and Products Containing Same, Complaint  No. 2813 , and the
LG case is In the Matter of Certain Light-Emitting Diodes,
Complaint.  No. 2812 , both U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ). The Delaware lawsuit is Osram GmbH v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 11cv496, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington
at   sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net .
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  