-- 
Sino-Forest Recovers Some Friday Losses as Data Given on Timber Holdings

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-06-06T20:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/sino-forest-recovers-from-drop-as-information-released-on-timber-holdings.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , which plunged last
week after a report by short-seller Carson Block, pared its
losses in Toronto trading after releasing information on some
Chinese timber assets and its cash balance.  Sino-Forest posted today on its  website  copies of documents
it says show supporting agreements on purchase contracts and
plantations in  China ’s Yunnan province. The company also said in
a statement its cash balance at the end of the most recent
quarter was $1.09 billion.  Sino-Forest, whose investors include Paulson & Co., fell 71
percent in the two trading days before today after Block’s Muddy
Waters Research  said  the Mississauga, Ontario- and Hong Kong-
based operator of tree farms in China overstated its timberland
holdings and production, an allegation Sino-Forest denies.  “The company’s full disclosure here should go a long way
to clearing up the question of whether the company owns the
trees,” Paul Quinn, a Vancouver-based analyst at Royal Bank of
Canada who rates the shares “outperform,” said today in a
telephone interview. “The disclosure on the financial side of
the cash balance should give people comfort the $1 billion they
disclosed at the end of Q1 is there.”  Sino-Forest rose 87 cents, or 17 percent, to C$6.10 at 4:18
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares, which
earlier today rose to as high as C$8.53, closed at C$18.21 on
June 1, the day before Block released his report.  ‘Thoroughly Scrutinized’  Sino-Forest said today it’s “considering its legal
remedies” and that the company has been “thoroughly
scrutinized” by major international underwriters and law firms
inside and outside of China in the course of seven public and
private offerings in the past five years.  “The Company believes  Muddy Waters ’ report to be
inaccurate, spurious and defamatory,” Sino-Forest said.  Muddy Waters’ Block didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
request for comment.  Sino-Forest is “a  Ponzi scheme  as it perpetually issues
new securities to fund itself,” Block said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television earlier today. “Were the company unable to
issue additional securities, it would collapse.” He said his
company will keep betting against the shares until they reach
“zero.”  Muddy Waters, based in  Hong Kong , said last week the amount
of land the company said it bought from Lincang City in China’s
Yunnan province doesn’t match city records.  “Sino-Forest has to show what is really known and what is
proven,” Jan Lessner, 35, a labor lawyer in Dusseldorf,
 Germany , who owns 2,000 shares, said in a telephone interview.
“With this statement and the documents on its website, people
will begin to have more confidence in this company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 