-- 
Skirt-Chasing Son Mocks Dad in Kushner’s Wry ‘Illusion’: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-06-06T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/skirt-chasing-son-mocks-lawyer-father-in-kushner-s-wry-illusion-review.html
The seats are soft and the leg room
generous at the  Signature Theatre  off-Broadway, which follows
“Angels in America” with an adroit revival of “The
Illusion,” Tony Kushner’s meditation on life in and out of the
theater.  And illusion it is. By the end of its two and a half hours,
the play is revealed as a kind of scam -- something layered and
thoughtful masquerading as a fanciful trifle.  “Freely adapted” by Kushner from Pierre Corneille’s
“L’Illusion Comique” and set in 17th-century  France , it is the
tale of a hard-hearted, wealthy lawyer named Pridamant (David
Margulies). He’s arrived at a cave to meet the sorcerer Alcandre
(Lois Smith). He wants her to find his artistic son, whom the
stern father drove away years earlier.  Instead, Alcandre shows Dad his son’s life since being cast
out. The father can only watch as handsome and caddish Calisto
(Finn Wittrock) charms a wealthy maiden (Amanda Quaid) and her
maid (Merritt Wever).  Kushner’s gift for language is everywhere in evidence. But
if you don’t go with the fanciful flow “The Illusion,”
directed by Michael Mayer, may seem stilted and slow. The acting
is uniformly solid, with Smith a commanding, intimidating
presence, worlds away from her performance in Signature’s 2005
revival of “The Trip to Bountiful.”  Wever, hot blooded and convincing as she comfortably
switches in and out of verse, is the production’s discovery.
Wittock and Sean Dugan also are noteworthy for some spectacular
swordplay, overseen by Rick Sordelet, Broadway’s fight director
of choice.  Through July 17 at 555 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-244-
7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org 
Rating: **1/2  (Philip Boroff is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 