-- 
Robots, Digital Dollars Lure Buyers as Internet Rocks Art

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   W i n t e r
-- 
2011-06-07T20:38:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/smart-robots-digital-dollars-lure-collectors-as-internet-rocks-art-world.html
Almar van der Krogt was surfing the
Internet in 2009 when he happened upon a website featuring
shifting waves of neon colors.  Its simplicity and constant motion captivated him. Over the
next weeks, he returned to gaze at the site almost every day.
Soon,  Van der Krogt , an  Internet  consultant and art collector,
realized he wanted to own it.  “I didn’t even know if it was possible to buy such a
thing, but I had to try,” he says. “The thought that someone
might just take it offline really worried me.”  The site, titled  Vai Avanti  (Go Ahead), is online art by
 Rafael Rozendaal , a 31-year-old Dutchman who has sold 17 such
works for $4,000 a piece since 2008. Buyers get their name added
to the title page and html source code. They cannot take the
sites offline or make them private, nor can they alter the
images or run advertisements. Van der Krogt bought two.  Rozendaal’s other online pieces include “ Stagnation Means
Decline ,” which shows dollars stacking, and “ Love Game Set ,”
featuring a tennis match without players. His work belongs to
the genre of new-media art, involving technologies like
computers, robots and electronic sensors. The art form has
raised several questions for collectors and museums, especially
over the past decade, about how the work is reproduced or saved
as technology evolves.  Computer Cubes  It’s taken years for technology-based art to gain
acceptance. A pioneer,  Manfred Mohr , started in the 1960s, when
computers were the size of small houses. He convinced a French
meteorology institute to let him use its cartography machine at
night. He wrote algorithms to make the machine create drawings
of cubes in various dimensions.  “When I showed my first drawings at a university in Paris,
they got so crazy,” says Mohr, who has a strong German accent
even after living in Tribeca,  New York , for more than 20 years.
“They accused me of using military equipment to destroy art and
I even got a raw egg on the head!”  In 1971, the  Museum of Modern Art  in Paris granted him the
world’s first solo show for computer-based work, Mohr says.  “Science and engineer magazines all loved it,” he says.
The established art community continued to disregard Mohr until
2001 when  bitforms  gallery opened in Chelsea and asked to
represent him. Bitforms says it is New York’s first and only
gallery dedicated exclusively to new-media art.  Today, it’s no longer unusual for artists to employ
technology and hire Ph.D. engineers to execute their vision.  NASA Scientists  Artist  Rafael Lozano-Hemmer  collaborated with NASA
scientists on a 14-meter (46 foot) balloon simulating the  sun 
that was set afloat over  Melbourne .  In another of his pieces, 50 robotic  belts  suspended at
waist height sense the presence of a gallery visitor and
simultaneously turn to face him. The interactive nature of some
new media raises questions for curators who want technology to
help art, not distract from its value.  “If you have more than two interactive pieces in a room,
they begin to cancel each other out,” says Steve Sacks, owner
of bitforms. “You want it to feel like a controlled artistic
experience, not a circus.”  One challenge is manufacturing an essentially false sense
of uniqueness. Scarcity determines art value, and digital works
can be reproduced exactly ad infinitum. Many new-media artists
give buyers certificates of authenticity, a similar practice to
the photography market.  “That certificate is what you put in a safe,” says
Lozano-Hemmer, who gives buyers software to reproduce digital
works. “If your children destroy the artwork, you can just make
another one. You can only sell the piece if you have the
certificate.”  Going Digital  New York’s  Museum of Modern Art  owns more than 400 works
with digital components, most of which were acquired in the past
10 years.  Glenn Wharton , a MoMA conservator, says museums are
exploring ways to migrate digital works to new platforms in case
the original ones become obsolete.  “The field has changed enormously in the last decade and
we’re really recognizing that the whole acquisition and
management process is much more complex for these kinds of
works,” says Wharton. “The role of the art conservator is
becoming increasingly technology based,” he says.  Some new-media artists still prefer to stick with known
formats. Luke DuBois used data from 20 dating websites to create
unique prints for his piece titled “ A More Perfect Union .”  “These are sellable,” DuBois says. “They’re paper
mounted on Sintra, which is like the most indestructible
environment-destroying substrate known to man.”  Permanent Photos  Rozendaal is unconcerned with the possible impermanence of
his online work, saying he doesn’t need a printed version to
ensure its permanence. “When you go to a party and throw up and
someone puts the photo on the Internet, that photo doesn’t
disappear,” he says.  An Internet “invasion of the art world” was inevitable,
says Rozendaal. “The  music industry  is in a panic, the  movie
industry  is in a panic but the art world has felt pretty safe
because it’s all about objects,” he says. “That’s changing now
and artists will have to find a way to monetize.”  While Rozendaal’s online works attracted 12 million unique
visitors in 2010, it is unclear whether he will find more
buyers, or if the value of his work will rise above $4,000.  Peter Hirshberg, chairman of the  Reimagine Group  and co-
founder of the  Gray Area Foundation for the Arts  and a longtime
art collector, doesn’t know if he’d buy a Web-hosted piece.
Still, he is fascinated by the concept.  “He’s playing with levers of scarcity and ownership,”
says Hirshberg. “If I bought a piece, I might be thrilled to
show it internationally.”  Lozano-Hemmer says: “I don’t think there’s anything wrong
with people paying $20,000, or whatever, for an idea. It happens
all the time.”  (Caroline Winter writes for Bloomberg BusinessWeek.
Opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Caroline Winter in New York at 
 cwinter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 