-- 
Southern Sudan Hit by Fuel Shortages, Accuses North of Cutting Supplies

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-06-06T10:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/southern-sudan-hit-by-fuel-shortages-accuses-north-of-cutting-supplies.html
Southern Sudan ’s capital, Juba, has
been gripped by power outages due to fuel shortages caused by a
cutoff of supplies from the north, government officials said.  The oil-rich region, which is due to become independent on
July 9, depends on the north for its supplies of diesel and
gasoline. Roads from the north through the disputed border
region of Abyei and Unity state have been closed since early
May, according to Unity state’s deputy governor, William Daud
Riak.  “There is no fuel,” Juba’s mayor, Mohamed el Haj Baballa,
said today by phone. “Khartoum is trying to pressurize us from
all angles.”  Tensions between the north and south have risen in recent
weeks after the Khartoum government responded to an attack on
its forces in Abyei by occupying the area’s main town on May 21.
The  United Nations Security Council  expressed grave concern on
June 3 about the “rapidly deteriorating situation” in Abyei.  Sudanese police spokesman Hashem Ali did not answer calls
to his mobile phone seeking comment. Rabie Abdel Ati, a senior
member of President Umar al-Bashir’s National Congress Party and
adviser to the information minister, declined to comment when
called in Khartoum, the capital.  A liter (.26 gallon) of diesel, which usually costs as
little as $1.12, sold for $1.87 in Juba today.  “If it continues to the end of the month, people will stop
working, they will have to walk everywhere,” David Chan Thiang,
the southern government’s director of economic statistics, said
today by phone from Juba.  Southern  Sudan  will assume control of 75 percent of Sudan’s
daily oil production of 490,000 barrels, the third-biggest in
sub-Saharan  Africa , pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp.  Sudan’s refineries and only oil-export terminal at  Port
Sudan , on the  Red Sea , are in the north. The two regions now
share revenue from oil pumped in the south on a 50-50 basis,
under a 2005 peace agreement that ended a two-decade civil war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 