-- 
South African Coal Has First Gain in Four Weeks on Increased China Buying

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-06-06T16:22:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/south-african-coal-has-first-gain-in-four-weeks-on-increased-china-buying.html
Coal export prices gained for the
first time in four weeks at South Africa’s  Richards Bay  terminal
as  China , the world’s biggest consumer of the fuel, accelerated
buying in the face of power shortages.  Prices at Richards Bay, the continent’s largest facility
for shipping coal, rose 0.2 percent on average in the four days
to June 3 to $118.49 a metric ton, according to data from
Petersfield, England-based researcher  IHS McCloskey . China
boosted its coal imports 64 percent in the two months through
April.  “Demand for good quality coal from China and  India  has
come back and we have seen a stabilization and a bit of an
uptick of prices,” Amrita Sen, a commodities analyst with
 Barclays Capital  in  London , said today by phone.  China faces a power shortfall that may extend to 40
gigawatts this summer, surpassing the country’s 2004 record,
according to State Grid Corp. of China. A gigawatt is enough to
supply 1 million U.S. households on average. The shortage is
hurting output at some factories and may cut demand for raw
materials from the Asian country, the biggest consumer of
commodities including copper, coal and  iron ore .  China, the biggest steelmaker, may cut output of the
material this month as a result of power rationing, RS Platou
Markets AS in Oslo said on May 25. More iron ore, a steelmaking
ingredient, is hauled at sea than any other dry-bulk commodity,
accounting for 43 percent of the total, according to estimates
from  Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Power Shortages  VM Group described the situation in China as “the mother
of all power shortages” in a June 2 report. The crisis will
divert water from farms to supply power plants and drive food
costs higher, it said. Food prices last month rose near a record
set in February as dry weather in China, the U.S. and Western
 Europe  curbed global grain production. Corn prices in  Chicago 
have more than doubled in the past year and wheat is up 76
percent.  Power-coal demand may also rise after  Germany ’s cabinet
backed plans to close the country’s nuclear power plants by
2022. The move will make Germany the biggest nation to swear off
nuclear power after this year’s meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi following the country’s earthquake and tsunami.  Japan’s imports of power-coal will expand 1 percent this
year after the March 11 disaster, Clarkson estimates. The
world’s biggest importer of the fuel will take delivery of 126.2
million tons in 2011, up from 125 million tons in 2010. It had
predicted a 1 percent decline.  Asian Benchmark  Power-station coal prices at  Australia ’s Newcastle port, an
Asian benchmark, fell 0.1 percent in the week ended June 3.
Prices at the New South Wales port decreased to $119.34 a ton,
according to the  globalCOAL NEWC Index .  European coal derivatives advanced. Coal for delivery to
Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp with settlement next year gained
75 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $129.50 a ton by 4:50 p.m. in
London.  Profit from running coal-fired  power plants  for next month,
the so-called clean-dark spread, is about 7.68 euros ($11.24) a
megawatt-hour, compared with 3.12 euros from burning natural
gas, Bloomberg data showed. The calculation uses electricity
prices in Germany and takes emission costs into account.  December carbon-dioxide permits under the European Union
cap-and-trade system fell 0.9 percent to 16.68 euros. Gas for
delivery in the six months through September 2012 to the U.K.,
Europe’s biggest consumer of the fuel, rose 0.6 percent to 65.80
pence ($1.08) a therm in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  