-- 
Spain Wins Back Hotel Guests From North Africa

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-06-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/spain-wins-back-hotel-guests-as-north-african-unrest-persists.html
After rejecting Sardinia and  Morocco 
as possible holiday destinations, Francesca De Giorgis and her
boyfriend opted for a 500-euro ($730) break in Ibiza.  “We chose  Spain  because the same week in Sardinia would
have cost much more,” said the 28-year-old event organizer from
Genoa,  Italy . “We had thought about Morocco, but the whole
north Africa situation put us off.”  Tourist arrivals to Spain may rise the most in five years
in 2011, according to research by Euromonitor International. The
country’s hoteliers have reduced prices by 20 percent or more
this summer to compete with destinations such as  Egypt  and
 Tunisia , where anti-government protests have deterred
holidaymakers. Package tours to Spain are cheaper than those to
 Turkey  for the first time in four years, said Ignacio Vasallo,
director of the Spanish Tourist Office for the U.K. and Ireland.  “Reducing prices to secure a steady flow of guests has
been the only way,” Vasallo said. This year will be the best
for Spain’s hotel owners since 2007, he said, also helped by
rising fuel prices, which have made it more costly for Europeans
to travel to long-haul destinations for their holiday.  An index of Spanish hotel prices has dropped 30 percent
since a 2008 peak and in March reached the lowest in 11 years,
according to the country’s statistics office.  The cheaper prices, combined with concern over political
unrest in northern  Africa , are having an effect. The number of
tourists visiting Spain this year may increase 8 percent to 55
million, Vasallo said. Of those, more than 40 percent would
probably have booked vacations in northern Africa before the
protests that started in Tunisia in January, he said.  Increasing Occupancy  Hotel occupancy in northern Africa dropped 46 percent in
the four months to April, while it gained almost 6 percent in
southern  Europe  and 7.8 percent in Spain, according to
researcher  STR Global . The revival in travel and tourism, which
accounts for about 14 percent of Spain’s gross domestic product,
will benefit hoteliers in the country’s coastal resorts, who
were forced to cut prices and increase promotions to attract
clients during the 2009 recession.  “Arrivals are up, occupancy is improving, but the problem
is that hoteliers dropped their room prices so much in 2009 that
it is going to take them an awfully long time to get them to
where they were in 2007 and 2008,” said Philip Bacon, a Madrid-
based consultant at hotel valuation company HVS.  Foreign arrivals to Spain will increase 3.5 percent to 54.3
million this year, Euromonitor estimates.  Arrivals to the country started to decline in 2007 and by
2010 had fallen 11 percent to 52.4 million, according to the
researcher. Egyptian arrivals rose 13 percent in the same period
and were 12.7 million last year, Euromonitor said.  Extra Capacity  Tui Travel Plc (TT/) , Europe’s largest tour operator, is offering
U.K. customers 10 percent more holidays to Spain’s Canary
Islands this summer. Its nearest rival,  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) ,
last month reported a 45 percent increase in summer bookings
from west and east Europe to the Balearic islands and a 37
percent rise in visitors from northern Europe to the Canaries.
Expedia Italy registered an average increase in its online
bookings to Spain of more than 20 percent in the first quarter.  According to Euromonitor, Egypt’s foreign arrivals may take
until 2013 to recover to last year’s levels. The revival at
Spain’s coastal resorts may end at about the same time, it says.  While many of Spain’s holiday hotels remain independent and
unbranded, international hotel chains are showing increasing
interest in the country’s cities and business centers.  Marriott, Wyndham  Marriott International Inc., the largest publicly traded
U.S. hotel chain, and Spain’s AC Hotels this year started a
joint venture to manage and franchise a new lodging co-brand
across Europe and  Latin America .  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN)  last
year said it agreed to buy the Tryp hotel brand from Palma De
Mallorca-based  Sol Melia SA. (SOL)   NH Hoteles SA (NHH) , Spain’s largest business hotel chain,
announced last month that  China ’s HNA Group Co. Ltd. plans to
become its second-biggest investor and the preferred hotel for
clients travelling with the Asian tourism company.  For tourists visiting the country, the reduced cost of a
holiday is a big attraction, according to De Giorgis.  “I booked Ibiza because the price was good and I took
advantage of the offer to get away to the beach,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  