-- 
Spanish Parties Clash Over Charges of Regional Finance ‘Chaos’

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-06-06T12:49:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/spanish-parties-clash-over-charges-of-regional-finance-chaos-.html
Spain ’s ruling party accused the
opposition of “hooliganism” for saying the finances of the
nation’s highest-deficit region are in “chaos” after elections
prompted the first transfer of power there in three decades.  The opposition  People’s Party  won Castilla-La Mancha in
elections on May 22 after three decades of Socialist rule, and
is preparing to take over the administration. Vicente Tirado, a
PP leader in the region, said last week the region “doesn’t
even have a euro,” and isn’t paying suppliers as its finances
are in “chaos.”  “Spain’s public accounts are perfectly audited,”
Marcelino Iglesias, a deputy leader of the ruling Socialist
party, told reporters in  Madrid  today. The PP hasn’t seen the
regional accounts and their accusations are “almost political
hooliganism,” he said.  Spain’s regions are crucial to the country’s efforts to
rein in the euro area’s third-largest  budget deficit  as they
hire half of public workers and control spending on health and
education. In Catalonia, the biggest region, the government that
emerged from elections last year plans a budget shortfall that’s
double its target, in a move Moody’s Investors Service said
today was “credit negative” for Spain.  Catalan Deficit  The elections in Catalonia last year revealed a 2010 budget
deficit that was 60 percent larger than the previous government
had acknowledged, leading some investors to expect similar
revisions after the elections in 13 other regions on May 22.
Castilla-La Mancha had the largest shorftall in the country last
year, at 6.5 percent of its gross domestic product and the PP’s
leader in the region, Maria Dolores de Cospedal, had said before
the elections that the region was “practically bankrupt.”  The Socialists, struggling to shield themselves from
contagion from the sovereign debt crisis, face a general
election by March 2012 that polls show they will lose to the PP.
PP leader Mariano Rajoy has pledged austerity in the regions it
already governs and greater budget discipline nationally when
the party comes to power.  The regions agreed to aim for a budget deficit of 1.3
percent of GDP this year, as part of the country’s plan to
reduce the overall public shortfall to 6 percent of GDP from 9.2
percent in 2010. The  Finance Ministry  says it can control the
regions’ budgets indirectly as it has the power to veto their
debt-issuance plans.  “Catalonia’s stance clearly shows that the central
government does not have effective tools to enforce fiscal
compliance at the regional government level,” Moody’s said
today. “It is also credit negative for the central
government.”  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
widened to 224 basis points today from 217 basis points
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  