-- 
Starwood Capital’s Sternlicht Expects U.S. Real Estate Deal Share to Drop

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-06-06T20:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/starwood-capital-s-sternlicht-expects-u-s-real-estate-deal-share-to-drop.html
Starwood Capital Group LLC, the
buyout firm founded by  Barry Sternlicht , expects U.S. real
estate to decline to about 55 percent of its new deals from 85
percent in the past two years as European opportunities rise.  “Europe will become a much bigger portion of what we do,
and we will put money out in Brazil, and we’re tinkering with
some stuff in India because there’s nobody left there to compete
with,” Chief Executive Officer Sternlicht said today at a
conference in  New York . “For the emerging markets it’s a
development play and for the developed markets it’s more of an
acquisition play.”  Sternlicht said he’s “worried about the world,” as
investors chasing yield offer cheap loans, and fast-growing
China,  India  and Brazil try to slow growth to curb inflation.
Starwood Capital, based in Greenwich, Connecticut, expects the
 U.S. economy  to grow less than 3 percent this year even after
stimulus efforts and is using less leverage to lower risk.  “There’ll be many things to do in Europe because they’re
way behind the U.S. banks in clearing their balance sheets
off,” Sternlicht said. “Having said that, all of us are
nervous about the growth of Europe” because of national debt
problems in Greece and other countries.  Low  interest rates  are creating “unnatural capital flows
into assets across the world,” Sternlicht said.  Hedge funds  and
buyout firms are increasingly investing in distressed commercial
real estate debt, competing for deals with Starwood Capital and
other more property-focused groups.  Japan’s ‘Psyche’  Starwood Capital is avoiding Russia, Africa and Japan,
Sternlicht said. The firm recently closed its office in Japan,
which once delivered Starwood’s highest returns.  “They don’t like our money now, the banks favor them,”
Sternlicht said. “We saw a change in their psyche even before
the earthquake and tsunami, that they really wanted to lend to
the Japanese companies and not to us. I fundamentally don’t
believe in the market.”  He said Japan’s “small growth” in 2006 and 2007 was
“really the industrialization of  China , and they basically
built out the infrastructure of a competitor that’s knocked them
off.”  Sternlicht spoke at New York University’s International
Hospitality Industry Investment Conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  