-- 
Statoil Sees ‘Good Balance’ in European Gas Supply, Demand

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-06-06T15:10:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/statoil-sees-good-balance-in-european-gas-supply-demand-1-.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest
gas exporter, said there was “good balance” in European gas
supply and demand and that it didn’t foresee any “dramatic
changes” to prices.  “We’ve seen that a lot of the demand returned after the
economic downturn, especially within the industrial segment,”
the head of marketing, processing and renewables, Eldar Saetre,
said in an Oslo interview. “We see increasing demand for gas
for power generation and we’re in discussions with several power
producers.”  Global natural-gas use may rise more than 50 percent by
2035 from last year to overtake coal as the second-most used
fuel, the  International Energy Agency  said today in a report.
Demand for gas will be spurred by growing demand for the fuel in
 China , slowing growth of nuclear power, increased production of
gas from so-called unconventional sources including shale, lower
gas prices and rising use in transport, the IEA said.  The IEA cut its price outlook by about 20 percent from last
year due to the greater availability of gas from shale and other
deposits. Gas prices are now about $1.5 to $2.5 a million
British thermal units lower than in the IEA’s base case, said
 Fatih Birol , the agency’s chief economist.  Statoil said it was in negotiations with several of its
clients about its long-term oil-indexed gas contracts.  “We’re now starting discussions with our clients on this,
but there’s no simple solution to this problem,” Saetre said.
Legal proceedings with clients “could always be the outcome of
these processes, but our objective is to avoid ending up in this
situation.”  A glut of gas during the financial crisis damped European
spot prices, pressuring producers to reduce a link with  oil
prices  common in long-term contracts. About two-thirds of gas on
mainland Europe is sold under contracts where the price is set
largely by the cost of crude and oil products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  