-- 
Steve Stricker Holds on for One-Stroke Win at Memorial Tournament

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-06-06T04:26:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/steve-stricker-wins-memorial-by-one-shot-for-10th-pga-tour-golf-title.html
Steve Stricker  held on for a one-shot
win at  Jack Nicklaus ’s Memorial Tournament to become the top
American in the Official World Golf Ranking.  Stricker overcame bogeys on two of the final four holes
yesterday to capture his 10th U.S. PGA Tour title. He finished
16-under par, one shot better than  Matt Kuchar  and Brandt Jobe,
who shot rounds of 7-under-par 65 yesterday at  Muirfield Village
Golf Club  in Dublin,  Ohio .  “When you’re going through it, your stomach is in a
knot,” Stricker, 44, said at a news conference. “I keep
thinking I’m going to come out on top, but it’s still a nerve-
wracking time. It just gets harder to win out here and you don’t
want to blow the opportunity.”  Stricker, who has won seven times since turning 40, earned
$1.12 million and climbs four spots to No. 4 in the  Official
World Golf Ranking , moving past  Phil Mickelson  and Kuchar.  “It’s a good feather in my cap heading to the  U.S. Open ,”
said Stricker, whose last PGA Tour win came about 11 months ago
at the 2010 John Deere Classic.  Stricker said he’ll skip this week’s St. Jude Classic in
 Memphis , the final PGA Tour event before the  U.S. Open . The
second major of the year, the U.S. Open is scheduled to begin
June 16 at  Congressional Country Club  in Bethesda,  Maryland .  First Nine Holes  Stricker, who had never finished in the top 10 in 11
previous visits to the Memorial, shot a combined 20-under par on
Muirfield Village’s first nine holes. He was 4-over par for the
week on the nine closing holes.  Stricker played the first nine holes yesterday in 6-under
par. When play resumed following a 2-hour, 34-minute rain delay,
he took a penalty drop after pulling his drive at No. 15 into a
thicket of trees. The error led to a bogey six, cutting his lead
to two shots.  Stricker parred the 16th and 17th holes after hitting into
bunkers and then hit into a fairway bunker on the closing hole.
After leaving his approach shot short of the green and missing a
12-foot par putt, Stricker tapped in a bogey putt for the
victory and was congratulated as he walked off No. 18 by
Nicklaus, a record 18-time major championship winner.  “What did I shoot on that front nine, 20-under for the
week? But I needed them all, I guess, the way I played that back
nine,” Stricker said. “It was a tough finish.”  Dustin Johnson finished fourth, four shots behind Stricker,
followed by Rory McIlroy at 11-under par and Gary Woodland at
10-under. World No. 1  Luke Donald  was in a group of players that
tied for seventh place at 8-under par.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 