-- 
Strauss-Kahn Will Plead Not Guilty, Lawyer Says

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-06-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/strauss-kahn-will-plead-not-guilty-to-sex-assault-charges-at-n-y-hearing.html
Former International Monetary Fund 
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  will formally
deny charges that he sexually assaulted and tried to rape a
Manhattan hotel maid at a hearing today, his lawyer said.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, will enter a plea of not guilty in New 
York State Supreme Court, attorney Benjamin Brafman said June 3. 
Strauss-Kahn previously rejected the allegations in his letter 
of resignation to the IMF last month.  He was arrested May 14 and later indicted on seven counts, 
including criminal sex act, attempted rape, sexual abuse, 
unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching. If convicted of the 
top charges, he faces as long as 25 years in prison.  Strauss-Kahn allegedly attacked a housekeeper at the 
 Manhattan  Sofitel on May 14, grabbing her breasts and trying
to pull down her pantyhose, prosecutors said in court papers. 
The former IMF chief attempted to rape her and forced oral sex, 
according to the indictment.  His last court appearance drew the biggest media turnout
since Mark David Chapman was arraigned for shooting  John Lennon ,
according to David Bookstaver, a court spokesman. Once a
possible contender for the French presidency, Strauss-Kahn is
free on bail and living in a rented townhouse in  Lower
Manhattan , just blocks from the court. He is under armed guard
and may leave only for legal, medical and religious purposes.  Anticipating Attack  Kenneth P. Thompson, a former federal prosecutor who is
representing Strauss-Kahn’s accuser, didn’t return a call 
seeking comment. Thompson, Norman Siegel, the former director 
of the  New York  Civil Liberties Union, and personal-injury 
lawyer Jeffrey Shapiro are working together in anticipation of 
an attack by the defense on the alleged victim’s reputation and 
credibility, Shapiro has said.  The maid, a 32-year-old from  Guinea , has a 15-year-old
daughter and, until the alleged incident, lived in the New York
borough of the Bronx, according to Shapiro.  A police department crime scene unit gathered evidence from
Strauss-Kahn’s hotel suite, Assistant District Attorney John
“Artie” McConnell told a judge last month. While results of
tests on material taken in the search weren’t available as of a
May 19 hearing, preliminary indications “support the victim’s
version of events,” the prosecutor said.  Brafman said at an earlier hearing that the evidence was in
his client’s favor.  ‘Defensible Case’  “The forensic evidence, we believe, are not consistent
with forcible encounter,” he said. “This is a very, very
defensible case.”  The case has led hotel housekeepers to ask employers to
boost safety measures and take reports of sexual harassment
seriously.  Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar, the former chairman of  Egypt ’s
Bank of Alexandria, was arrested May 30 and accused of sexually
abusing a maid at Manhattan’s Pierre hotel the day before. He
was released on bail June 3.   Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, was
released from jail on May 20. Among the terms of his
release are $1 million bail, a $5 million bond and security
measures that include electronic monitoring and cost an
estimated $200,000 a month.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York. New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York State Supreme Court 
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 