-- 
Strauss-Kahn Pleads Not Guilty to Sexual Assault at New York City Hearing

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-06-06T18:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/strauss-kahn-pleads-not-guilty-to-sexual-assault-at-new-york-city-hearing.html
Former International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  pleaded not guilty
three weeks after his arrest to charges of sexually assaulting
and attempting to rape a  Manhattan  hotel maid.  “Not guilty,” Strauss-Kahn, wearing a blue tie and a dark
suit, told  New York  State  Supreme Court  Justice Michael Obus
today in Manhattan. The defendant was flanked by his attorneys,
Benjamin Brafman and William Taylor III. After the hearing,
Strauss-Kahn left the courthouse hand in hand with his wife,
Anne Sinclair, as hotel workers shouted, “Shame on you.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was arrested May 14 and later indicted on
seven counts, including criminal sex act, attempted rape, sexual
abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching. If convicted
of the top charges, he faces as long as 25 years in prison.  He allegedly attacked a housekeeper, a 32-year-old from
 Guinea , at the Midtown Manhattan Sofitel on May 14, grabbing her
breasts and trying to pull down her pantyhose, prosecutors said
in court papers. The former IMF chief attempted to rape her and
forced oral sex, according to the indictment.  “There was no element of forcible compulsion in this case
whatsoever,” Brafman told reporters outside the courthouse after
the arraignment. Obus scheduled the next hearing for July 18.  ‘Money and Influence’  Kenneth P. Thompson, a former federal prosecutor who is
representing the accuser, rejected any suggestion that the
encounter was consensual.  “All of Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s power, money and influence
throughout the world will not change the truth of what he did to
her in that hotel room,” Thompson said after the hearing. “She
is going to come into this courthouse, sit down on that witness
stand and tell the world what Dominique Strauss-Kahn did to
her.”  Once a possible contender for the French presidency,
Strauss-Kahn is free on bail and living in a rented townhouse in
 Lower Manhattan , just blocks from the court. He’s under armed
guard and may leave only for legal, medical and religious
purposes.  Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, was
released from jail on May 20. Among the terms of his release are
$1 million bail, a $5 million bond and security measures that
include electronic monitoring, conditions that the district
attorney’s office estimates cost $200,000 a month.  Housekeepers Seek Safety  Members of the city’s hotel workers’ union, the New York
Hotel Trades Council, gathered at the courthouse to show support
for Strauss-Kahn’s accuser, a fellow member, said John Tritt, a
supervisor in the union’s organizing department. The group wants
room attendants and other hotel employees to be given panic
buttons and better training, he said.  The case has led hotel housekeepers to ask employers to
boost safety measures and take reports of sexual harassment
seriously.  Mahmoud Abdel Salam Omar, the former chairman of  Egypt ’s
Bank of Alexandria, was arrested May 30 and accused of sexually
abusing a maid at Manhattan’s Pierre hotel the day before. He
was released on bail June 3.  A police crime scene unit gathered evidence from Strauss-
Kahn’s hotel suite, Assistant District Attorney John “Artie”
McConnell said in court last month. While results of tests on
material taken in the search weren’t available as of a May 19
hearing, preliminary indications “support the victim’s version
of events,” the prosecutor said.  DNA Tests  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers today  filed  a demand for documents
and recordings, including statements their client made to
authorities, results of any physical or mental examinations,
including DNA tests, any toxicology reports on the defendant’s
or the accuser’s blood, and any medical records.  The lawyers also demanded a witness list, police reports,
recordings of any 911 calls and crime scene pictures. They asked
for evidence from the Sofitel, any hotel employees’ union, Air
France and a McCormick & Schmick’s Seafood Restaurant.  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers have said he left the hotel in a
hurry to have lunch with his daughter before heading to a
scheduled Air France flight. He was taken into custody on the
plane before it left  John F. Kennedy International Airport . The
document filed today didn’t say whether McCormick & Schmick’s
was where Strauss-Kahn dined that day.  A woman who answered the phone today at the restaurant’s
Manhattan location declined to comment. Tori Harms, a corporate
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, Supreme Court
of the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 