-- 
Halliburton Loses as Supreme Court Backs Securities Suits

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-06T21:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/supreme-court-says-shareholders-can-sue-as-group-in-halliburton-fraud-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court made it easier
for some investors to press securities fraud suits, ruling for
shareholders who accuse  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  of misrepresenting its
financial condition while under  Dick Cheney ’s leadership.  The justices today unanimously  said  the shareholders can
sue as a group without first establishing that they lost money
as a result of the alleged fraud. The decision set aside a
federal appeals court ruling.  The shareholders, led by the Erica P. John Fund, contend
that Halliburton from 1999 to 2001 falsified earnings reports,
played down estimated asbestos liability and overstated the
benefits of a merger. Cheney, later the U.S. vice president,
served as chairman and chief executive officer of the oilfield
services provider during part of the disputed period.  The high court case concerned the standard that applies at
the so-called class certification stage, not at final judgment.
The  Supreme Court  previously said that, to get class-action
status, shareholders must show they made investment decisions in
reliance on a company’s alleged misstatements. Shareholders can
meet that test by showing the company perpetrated a so-called
fraud on the market.  Chief Justice John Roberts today said that requirement
doesn’t mean that investors seeking class-action status must
show that they lost money as a result of the alleged fraud.  “The fact that a subsequent loss may have been caused by
factors other than the revelation of a misrepresentation has
nothing to do with whether an investor relied on the
misrepresentation in the first place,” Roberts wrote in his
opinion for the court.  Boies Victory  The Supreme Court ruled in 2005 that, to recover damages,
shareholders ultimately must show a direct connection between a
misrepresentation and a decline in stock prices.  Lower courts had been divided on the issue. In the
Halliburton case, the New Orleans-based 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals had ruled that the investors couldn’t sue. That
ruling applied in Texas, Louisiana and  Mississippi .  The shareholders’ lawyer,  David Boies , contended that
shareholders shouldn’t have to show that direct connection at
the class certification stage, when they haven’t yet had a
chance to marshal their evidence. The Obama administration
backed the shareholders in the case.  The 5th Circuit had imposed “an unusually high procedural
barrier” on shareholders, said David Webber, a securities
regulation expert who teaches at Boston University School of
Law.  Halliburton Confident  Houston-based Halliburton said in a statement that it will
make other arguments against class-action status when the case
returns to the appeals court. The company said it hasn’t set
aside any money to cover potential damages “because it does not
believe that loss is probable.”  Halliburton fell $2.24, or 4.5 percent, to $48.04 at 4:15
p.m. in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Halliburton in
2004 agreed to pay $7.5 million to resolve a Securities and
Exchange Commission investigation of the company’s financial
statements.  Boies called the ruling “a victory for effective
enforcement of public securities laws and for individuals and
institutions that are injured by  securities fraud .”  The case is Erica P. John Fund v. Halliburton, 09-1403.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 