-- 
Syria Blames ‘Terror Groups’ for Attacks on Security Forces That Kill 120

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-07T12:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/syrian-death-toll-in-jisr-al-shughour-rises-to-80-after-ambush-tv-reports.html
Syria’s government said as many as
120 security personnel were killed in an ambush by “terror
groups” in the country’s north. Opposition supporters said the
people who died were defectors who were shot by loyalists.  The attackers carried out a “massacre” in the town of
Jisr al-Shughour, and stole 5 tons of dynamite, Syrian state
television said. The government will act with resolve against
those responsible, it said.  Opposition activists said there was a mutiny among security
services in the town, and that forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad executed police officers who had refused to open fire
on protesters, according to  Agence France-Presse , which didn’t
identify the people who provided the information.  Assad’s security forces have killed more than 1,100 people
and detained more than 10,000 since protests began in mid-March,
according to human-rights groups. Jisr al-Shughour has been
among the main flashpoints for demonstrations in recent days.
The town is now under siege and as many as 50 protesters have
been killed there in the past four days and 100 injured,
according to Mahmoud Merhi, the head of the Arab Organization
for Human Rights.  Merhi said by phone from Damascus today that he didn’t have
direct information about the killing of security forces, adding
that there may have been attacks by relatives of demonstrators
killed at the start of the crackdown in Jisr al-Shughour,
because “violence breeds violence.” There were protests across
the country last night, he said.  ‘Burned and Destroyed’  Interior Minister Mohamad Ibrahim al-Shaar said the gangs
in Jisr al-Shughour had targeted state security buildings. They
“burned and destroyed these centers using bullets and hand
grenades,” he said. Information Minister Adnan Mahmoud said the
army would restore security in the region, and state television
said reinforcements have been sent there.  Syria ’s government says Islamists and foreign provocateurs
are behind the uprising. State television has shown footage of
what it says are arms and ammunition seized from opposition
groups. Assad initially offered reforms in response to the
protests, a pledge he hasn’t repeated in recent weeks.  Abdel Razaq Tlass, a Syrian army lieutenant who defected,
told Al Jazeera television that he witnessed how the army killed
protesters in Daraa and in Sanamin, and how officers put weapons
and ammunition near their bodies to suggest they were gunmen. He
called on other army officers to defect and protect civilians
instead of Assad’s family.  The government yesterday warned owners of satellite
telephones of unspecified penalties if their devices aren’t
registered locally, state television said.  Several activists have said in interviews with Arabic-
language television networks that they were using satellite
telephones to call media outlets. Local reporters operate under
restriction and members of the foreign media attempting to
report from Syria have been jailed or deported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 