-- 
U.K. Retailers Missing South American Opportunity, Kearney Says

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-06-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/u-k-retailers-missing-south-american-opportunity-kearney-says.html
U.K. retailers  Marks & Spencer Group
Plc (MKS) ,  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  are missing an opportunity by
excluding South America from their expansion plans, according to
a report by global management consulting firm A.T. Kearney.  Brazil is the most attractive emerging market for retail
expansion, according to Kearney’s global retail development
 index , with Uruguay, Chile and Peru among the 10 most attractive
countries. The index ranks the attractiveness of retail
expansion in emerging markets based on economic and political
risk, the retail market, and the difference between gross
domestic product growth and retail growth.  “Tesco, M&S and Sainsbury’s do, are present or planning
developments in eastern Europe and Asia, which are emerging
markets, but have not shown plans to open stores in  South
America ,” Emmanuel Hembert, principal at A.T. Kearney, said in
an e-mailed report. “It is clear to us that U.K. retailers may
be missing out by not actively considering South America.”  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s largest retailer, plans
to invest 1.2 billion reais ($759 million) in Brazil this year,
as it seeks to benefit from the expansion of Latin America’s
largest economy. Carrefour SA, the second-largest retailer, also
has stores in Brazil, as well as Colombia and Argentina.  Uruguay is the second-most attractive country after Brazil,
followed by Chile, India and Kuwait, A.T. Kearney’s index shows.  Tesco is expanding in China with its Lifespace shopping
malls and hypermarkets, along with more stores planned at its
U.S. Fresh & Easy chain and across eastern  Europe .  Sainsbury is considering moving outside its domestic market
into China, while Marks & Spencer is extending stores in
Shanghai and re-entering France after a 10-year hiatus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net . 