-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline as Banks Drop Amid Economic-Growth Concerns

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-06T15:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-walt-disney-slides-in-germany.html
U.S. stocks retreated for a fourth
straight day as banks led losses amid concern that economic
growth is slowing and the  Federal Reserve  will increase  capital
requirements  for the nation’s largest lenders.  Wells Fargo & Co., the largest U.S. home lender, slumped
1.3 percent after Rochdale Securities LLC’s  Richard Bove  cut his
recommendation on the stock.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose 0.5 percent before
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  may announce a new way to
access digital songs and information on smartphones and
computers.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  added 0.7 percent
as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reiterated its “buy”
recommendation for the largest publicly traded copper producer.  The S&P 500 fell 0.3 percent to 1,296.44 at 11:42 a.m.
today. The benchmark gauge for American equities is trading at
about 12.4 times its companies’ estimated operating earnings,
the cheapest valuation since September, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid
10.52 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,140.74 today.  “The markets are getting concerned that economic growth is
not sustainable,” said  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26
billion at Security Global Investors in Irvington,  New York . “I
am surprised that the bank sector continues to underperform as
they have been laggards all year. Concerns over what the new fin
regulations will require, and no real loan growth, continue to
hold back these names.”  Weak Economic Data  U.S. stocks fell for five weeks as slower-than-estimated
growth in jobs fueled concern that earnings forecasts are too
optimistic. Labor Department figures last week showed that
payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months and the U.S.
jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent in May. A
separate report showed that manufacturing expanded at the
slowest pace in more than a year. Still, the  S&P 500  rose 3.4
percent this year through June 3.  Financial shares had the biggest decline in the S&P 500
within 10 groups today, falling 1 percent. The group is the
worst-performing of the 10 main industries in the index this
year, down almost 6 percent.  Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo said on June 3 that
regulators should use capital surcharges to discourage mergers
by large banks that would increase risk without yielding
significant public benefits.  ‘Systemically Important’  Tarullo also signaled the Fed aims to use tougher capital
standards correlated to the size of a firm to curb risks posed
by “systemically important financial institutions,” or
“SIFIs.” The Fed is developing a metric for banks with more
than $50 billion in assets that gradually increases capital
requirements according to measures of systemic importance,
Tarullo said.  Wells Fargo slumped 1.3 percent to $26.50. Rochdale’s Bove
cut his recommendation to “sell” from “neutral,” citing a
poor economic environment, weak housing prices, slowing
manufacturing indicators and negative regulatory environment.  Other banks retreated. Bank of America Corp. fell 2 percent
to $11.05.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  declined 1.5 percent to $40.93.  Apple added 0.5 percent to $345.12. CEO Jobs, on medical
leave since Jan. 17, will make his second public appearance of
2011 at Apple’s conference in  San Francisco . He will preview
software updates for Apple’s iPhone, iPad and Mac, as well the
new iCloud online storage service, which may help those devices
wirelessly share the same materials.  The five-week drop in U.S. stocks has driven technology
company valuations to the lowest level in more than a decade,
making them too cheap to pass up for some of the nation’s
biggest money managers.  ‘Largest Group’  The largest group in the benchmark gauge for American
equities lost 7 percent, or about $190 billion in value, since
the market peaked on Feb. 18, falling more than any industry
outside financials. Computer stocks trade for 9.3 times reported
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
1.3 times the index’s multiple, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The ratio is the smallest since at least 1998.  While signs of a slowing recovery and the initial public
offering of LinkedIn Corp. have spurred concern the industry has
entered a speculative bubble, the numbers show something
different. Profits will rise 35 percent faster than the S&P 500
in 2011, and executives are boosting computer and software
spending, data from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Bloomberg show.  “We see the best supply-demand trend in technology,” said
Michael Sansoterra, a  money manager  at RidgeWorth Capital
Management in Atlanta, which oversees $48.5 billion including
Broadcom Corp. and Google Inc. shares. “You can measure it
pretty much every way you want and it looks attractive.”  Freeport-McMoRan gained 0.7 percent to $50.29. Goldman
Sachs reiterated its “buy” recommendation for the largest
publicly traded copper producer, saying that the company should
benefit from higher copper prices amid strong demand.  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  climbed 4.8 percent to $37.60. The
largest motorcycle manufacturer in the U.S. posted “solid”
sales in April and May even amid weather disruptions and an
economic slowdown, and investors should buy the stock on
weakness,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  