-- 
U.S. Says 61% of Nuclear Plants Run Severe-Accident Drills

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-06-06T20:49:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/u-s-says-61-of-nuclear-plants-run-severe-accident-drills-1-.html
U.S. inspectors found almost four in
10 nuclear  power plants  don’t conduct accident drills that
simulate a damaged reactor core, the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  said.  NRC officials reviewed “severe accident mitigation
guidelines” for U.S. reactors after the partial meltdown of a
nuclear plant in Japan, the agency said today in a statement.  While all reactor owners have severe-accident plans in
place, “inspectors found only 61 percent of the plants
periodically include the guidelines in their emergency drills,”
according to the statement. The plants remain safe and have
defenses to prevent damage to reactor cores after events such as
earthquakes or floods, the agency said.  U.S. reactors are getting closer scrutiny from regulators
following the partial meltdown of a nuclear plant in  Japan . A
magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11 crippled Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant with fires,
explosions and radiation leaks in the worst nuclear incident
since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  U.S. nuclear plants adopted severe-accident plans
voluntarily in the late 1990s, the agency said. The aim is to
“contain or reduce the impact of accidents that damage a
reactor core,” the NRC said.  ‘Work To Do’  “All of the NRC’s efforts aim to ensure the plants never
need to use these guidelines,” Eric Leeds, the agency’s
director of reactor regulation, said in the statement. While the
NRC believes the reactors are still safe, “our inspectors found
many of the plants have work to do in either training their
staff on these procedures or ensuring the guidelines are
appropriately updated,” Leeds said.  The voluntary steps are separate from mandatory NRC rules
to prevent reactor’s radioactive fuel rods from overheating,
melting and causing radiation leaks during “extreme events.”  The NRC is conducting a 90-day review of U.S. reactor
safety. A report is due next month, NRC Commissioner William Ostendorff said May 25 at a hearing of the Senate Environment
and Public Works Committee.  The NRC also conducted post-Fukushima checks on extreme-
event plans and released the inspection results last month. The
agency declared the plants safe, although it found some cases of
emergency equipment that wouldn’t start when tested, was being
used for other purposes or was stored in locations that could be
destroyed after a disaster.  The inspection results should prompt the NRC to halt all
decisions on approving new reactors and license extensions for
existing nuclear facilities, U.S. Representative Ed Markey, a
Massachusetts Democrat, said today in an e-mail.  “We must not wait until a nuclear incident in this country
to ensure that the guidelines in place to respond to an
emergency are up-to-date and consistently applied,” Markey
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  