-- 
U.S. May Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-06-06T14:03:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/u-s-may-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. employment trends index
from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index declined for the second month in a
row in May to 99.7, down from April’s revised figure of 100.1. The May figure is up
5.3 percent from a year ago.  Says Gad Levanon, Associate Director, Macroeconomic Research at The Conference
Board: “Declines as we’ve seen in the Employment Trends Index in the last two months
are usually associated with a slowdown in job growth. We expect moderate job growth
to continue, but it is becoming clear that employers are reacting to the growing
uncertainty in the  U.S. economy  by slowing down hiring.”  This month’s decline in the ETI was driven by negative contributions from four
out of the eight components. The weakening indicators include Percentage of
Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get,” Percentage of Firms With Positions
Not Able to Fill Right Now, Number of Temporary Employees, and Real Manufacturing
and Trade Sales, which is a forecasted component. The Employment Trends Index
aggregates eight labor-market indicators, each of which has proven accurate in its
own area. Aggregating individual indicators into a composite index filters out so-
called “noise” to show underlying trends more clearly.  The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment Trends Index
include:  Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get” (The Conference
Board Consumer Confidence Survey)  Initial Claims for Unemployment Insurance (U.S. Department of Labor)  Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now (National
Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation)  Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry ( U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics )  Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons (BLS)  Job Openings (BLS)  Industrial Production  (Federal Reserve Board)  Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index monthly, at 10 a.m.
ET on the Monday that follows each Friday release of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
employment situation report. The technical notes to this series are available on The
Conference Board website:  http://www.conference-board.org/data/eti.cfm .  ABOUT THE CONFERENCE BOARD The Conference Board is a global, independent
business membership and research association working in the public interest. Our
mission is unique: To provide the world’s leading organizations with the practical
knowledge they need to improve their performance and better serve society. The
Conference Board is a non-advocacy, not-for-profit entity holding 501 (c) (3) tax-
exempt status in the  United States . www.conference-board.org  Employment Trends Index 2011 Publication Schedule
Index Release Date (10 AM ET)         Data for the Month
Monday, July 11                       June
Monday, August 8                      July*
Tuesday, September 6                  August*
Tuesday, October 11                   September
Monday, November 7                    October
Monday, December 5                    November  *Tuesday releases due to holidays  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
