-- 
U.S. Mulls Changing National Guard Role as Budget Cuts Near, Gates Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-06T09:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/u-s-mulls-national-guard-role-as-budget-cuts-near-gates-says.html
The Pentagon is considering changing
the role of the National Guard and reserve forces as it
contemplates budget cuts, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said.  Defense Department officials are discussing “what is the
right role of the Guard and reserve force going forward,” Gates
told soldiers of the 101st Airborne Division at Forward
Operating Base Sharana in eastern Afghanistan today.  Options include dividing them into a strategic reserve and
an operational reserve with different pay, training and
equipment, Gates said. Another possibility might be moving heavy
or infantry brigades into the Guard, he said.  “Those are all questions we’re looking into,” he told the
soldiers, who are with the division’s 506th Infantry Regiment,
4th Brigade Combat Team. “I think we need to do some hard
thinking because we could not have done what we did in  Iraq  or
what we are doing here in Afghanistan without operational
engagement of the Guard.”  The U.S. military has drawn more than ever from National
Guard and reserve forces to supply the troops needed to
prosecute two major wars simultaneously. President Barack Obama
is seeking $400 billion in defense spending cuts in the next 12
years to help reduce the  U.S. budget deficit .  The changes are being examined for the fiscal year starting
Oct. 1 and for the following 12 months, Gates said.  Gates said last month that reductions in the number of
troops and their pay and benefits may be needed to protect major
weapons programs, such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter
jet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in eastern  Afghanistan , via 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  