-- 
Egypt’s Developers Pay the Price for Ties to Mubarak’s Regime

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-06-07T15:02:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/mubarak-s-legacy-clouds-future-of-egypt-s-property-boom-as-deals-unravel.html
The Egyptian revolution that swept
Hosni Mubarak from power threatens to hobble the real-estate
developers that profited from their ties to the former
president.  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  and  Palm Hills  Developments SAE, the
biggest publicly traded builders by assets, have already
suffered legal defeats that may force them to give up land they
bought cheaply from the old regime. Now the caretaker
government, under pressure from the public to clean up the
industry, is trying to settle disputed transactions without
scaring off investors.  “The main challenge is to avoid putting off private
investors, who make up 90 percent of the Egyptian  property
market ,” said Ahmed Badr, head of  Middle East  property research
at Credit Suisse Group AG in Dubai.  When Mubarak was toppled in February, real-estate companies
lost the government allies who had shielded them from court
decisions challenging land purchases. Two former housing
ministers and a tourism minister have since been jailed for
squandering public funds. On April 7, the public prosecutor
ordered the arrest of Magdi Rasekh, chairman of  Six of October
Development & Investment (OCDI)  Co. The company, known as Sodic, is the
country’s No. 3 developer.  More Transparency  “In the short term, what’s happening means uncertainty for
the market,” said Roy Cherry, a Dubai-based analyst at Shuaa
Capital PSC. “In the long run, it should mean transparency and
a better basis for real estate investments.”  The sprawling suburbs outside Cairo formed one of the
Middle East’s hottest property markets after economic reforms
made in 2003 propelled more people into the narrow middle class
in this country of 85 million.  Egypt ’s six biggest developers
have 109.6 million square meters (1.2 billion square feet) of
land in Cairo, AlembicHC Securities estimates. About 44 percent
of that is subject to dispute.  On May 17, the interim government of Prime Minister Essam Sharaf said it’s preparing a law to protect investors from
criminal prosecution and will create a committee to settle
investment disputes.  “Our goal is to preserve and encourage investments while
observing the law,” Ahmed El Simman, a Cabinet spokesman, said
on May 26. “The solution became a committee headed by the prime
minister with the minister of justice as a member.”  The government might resolve disputes by having developers
make up the difference between the prices they paid for land and
the value deemed fair by the courts, said Ankur Khetawat, an
analyst at AlembicHC in Dubai.  Pay the Difference  “The difference would be around 300 pounds ($50) per
square meter for land in Cairo, which should be feasible for the
companies,” he said. “But we can’t rule out the possibility
that, even if they paid, some might object to these companies
being allowed to keep the land at all.”  Property companies plummeted in Cairo trading after
demonstrators occupied the city’s Tahrir Square for the first
time on Jan. 25. As of June 1, real estate accounted for seven
of the 10 worst-performing stocks on the EGX 100 Index of the
most actively traded Egyptian companies this year. Palm Hills
was last with a 67 percent drop. Talaat Moustafa, Sodic, United
Housing and Development, El Shams Housing & Urbanization and
 Rowad Tourism Co. (ROTO)  were all in the bottom 10.  Talaat Moustafa was up 1.8 percent to 4.55 pounds at the
close, while Sodic lost 1.2 percent to 65.63 pounds and Palm
Hills Developments fell 0.9 percent to 2.21 pounds.  Growth Engine  “We don’t think the government will take all the land
back,” Khetawat said. “They will prefer to settle because it’s
all about money at the end of the day.”  Construction made up 12.5 percent of gross domestic product
last year, when the industry grew 13.2 percent, according to
Ministry of Planning data. Economic growth in the fiscal year
through June 30 will probably slow down to 2.6 percent, Finance
Minister Samir Radwan said on May 30. The Egyptian economy
expanded 5.1 percent in the previous fiscal year.  “Legal proceedings against the businesses may be limited
to a measured correction of the transaction terms,” Shuaa
Capital’s Cherry said. “But the corrupt government officials
who created the old system will face more severe punishment such
as prison terms.”  Government Compromise?  Developers have sought to play down the threat to their
businesses, stressing that a minority of their land purchases
are at risk and predicting that the government will seek a
compromise. Sodic Chief Financial Officer Salah Shafei said that
about 13 percent of the company’s 6 million-square-meter land
bank is under scrutiny.  “None of that land is subject to being taken back,”
Shafei said in an interview in Cairo. “We might have to pay
some sort of fines and fees that were due at a certain point.”  Shafei said the prosecution of former Chairman Rasekh is a
personal matter and not connected with the company.  It’s not clear how much leniency the Egyptian public will
accept. Links between developers and Mubarak’s government and
family fueled corruption allegations that helped drive Egyptians
into the streets in the first place. Demonstrators returned to
Tahrir Square in April to demand prompt trials for Mubarak and
his top officials and family members.  Rasekh, who resigned as Sodic’s chairman on May 10, is the
father-in-law of  Hosni Mubarak ’s eldest son, Alaa. He’s wanted
on charges of squandering public funds and hadn’t been found by
authorities at the time of publication. Representatives of the
former minister couldn’t be located for comment.  Criminal Charges  Former housing minister Ahmed El Maghraby owned a stake in
Palm Hills and approved a land sale to the developer that was
later declared illegal by a court. He was sentenced on May 26 to
five years in prison for corruption and misusing public funds.
Two funds partly owned by Mubarak’s son Gamal hold stakes in
Talaat Moustafa.  Maghraby’s predecessor, Ibrahim Soliman, is in custody on
charges of squandering public funds. His representatives
couldn’t be contacted for comment.  Jihad Alsawaftah, chief financial officer at Talaat
Moustafa, and Bassem El Shawy, head of  investor relations  at
Palm Hills, didn’t return e-mails or calls made to their mobile
phones.  Some of Egypt’s biggest land deals are under scrutiny. A
court last June annulled the sale of 33 million square feet of
land to be used for the country’s largest housing development,
Talaat Moustafa’s 120,000-home Madinaty project. An appeals
court is set to hear the case on June 21.  Red Sea Site  In April, judges reversed a 966,000-square-meter land
purchase by Palm Hills and Egypt’s Tourism and Development
Authority retracted its preliminary approval to sell 20 million
square meters of land on the Red Sea to Egyptian Resorts Co.  Foreign developers weren’t spared. Dubai’s Damac Properties
was stripped of 30 million square meters of land on the  Red Sea 
coast and its chairman, Hussain Sajwani, was sentenced to five
years of hard labor for his part in the property deal. Damac
responded by suing Egypt at the International Centre for
Settlement of Investment.  Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal agreed in April
to give up 315 million square meters of land in southern Egypt
that his Kingdom Holding Co. bought in 1998 after the public
prosecutor sequestered the land, saying the purchase violated
the law. Kingdom Holding didn’t acknowledge any wrongdoing in
the case. Prince Alwaleed traveled to Cairo to sign the
agreement today.  More Cancellations  Developers may struggle to revive sales even if they end up
keeping most of the disputed land. Property purchases dropped
since the revolution and cancellations are increasing amid
political and economic uncertainty.  “We expect a 10 to 15 percent backlog cancellation and
zero pre-sales for 2011,” Deutsche Bank AG analysts Athmane
Benzerroug and Nabil Ahmed said in a May 11 note to investors.
“From a liquidity standpoint, Palm Hills appears the most
vulnerable, while Sodic is most resilient.”  Medinet Nasr for Housing, a builder of middle-to-low-income
homes that doesn’t hold any disputed land, had sales drop to
zero in the weeks following the revolution after a
“phenomenal” January, Vice Chairman Hisham Akram said in an
interview. Sales have fallen 25 percent this year and the
company is placing advertisements in newspapers across the Gulf
aimed at Egyptian expatriates.  Holding companies responsible for past corruption may
foster more open investment culture that can encourage new
companies to enter the market, said  David Cowan , a London-based
Africa economist for Citigroup Inc.  “If these steps lead to more transparent framework of land
allocation and deals, new companies will come to exploit that,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 