-- 
Short Seller Block Takes On Paulson, Greenberg in China

-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-06-06T20:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/muddy-waters-block-takes-down-giants-paulson-greenberg-with-china-shorts.html
Carson Block, a gangster rap
enthusiast who doesn’t like to give his exact address because he
said he’s received death threats, is taking responsibility for
billions of dollars in stock declines that have left everyone
from  John Paulson  to Hank Greenberg nursing losses.  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , an operator of timber plantations backed
by Paulson & Co., plunged 71 percent in two days last week after
Block’s Muddy Waters Research said it was betting against the
shares. Paulson, whose New York-based hedge fund earned $15
billion in a single year while Block was developing a company
called Love Box Self Storage in Shanghai, may have lost $325
million on Toronto-traded Sino-Forest.  “There are going to be people who say, well, I caused
this,” Block said in a telephone interview from  Hong Kong . “In
one sense, yes, had I not published on that date, then the money
would not have been lost. But on the other hand, I really feel
that this company is a cancer on the financial system, because
it just keeps sucking in more money every year.”  Block made a name for himself with  China MediaExpress
Holdings Inc. (CCME)  and  Rino International Corp. (RINO) , saying they
manipulated financial statements.  China  MediaExpress counted
former American International Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Greenberg’s C.V. Starr & Co. as a top owner. The shares have
slid 93 percent since Block’s February report. Rino said in
November that its financial statements were unreliable, less
than two weeks after Block published his statements, and is down
96 percent.  ‘Shock Jock’  Sino-Forest rose 87 cents, or 17 percent, to C$6.10 at 4:18
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading, paring its June decline
to 68 percent. The shares earlier today climbed as much as 63
percent.  Allen Chan, chief executive officer of the Hong Kong and
Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest, called Block’s research
“inaccurate and unfounded” and said “ Muddy Waters ’ shock-jock
approach is transparently self-interested” in a June 3
statement. The company plans to establish a committee of
independent directors to examine the accusations, according to
the statement.  Sino-Forest said in a statement today it’s “considering
its legal remedies” and that the company has been “thoroughly
scrutinized” by major international underwriters and law firms
inside and outside of China in the course of seven public and
private offerings over the past five years. The company also is
planning an analyst tour of its operations in China in July,
according to the statement.  Paulson Letter  Paulson & Co., which made $15 billion in 2007 betting
against subprime mortgages, said in a June 3 letter to investors
that Sino-Forest represented about 2 percent of the firm’s
Advantage and Advantage Plus funds as of June 2. Paulson said
the firm is investigating claims by Muddy Waters.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, and Jake Sokol, a
spokesman for C.V. Starr, the investment company owned by
Greenberg, didn’t respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment outside normal business hours yesterday.  The 35-year-old Block, who doesn’t keep a permanent office
and said 1990s hip hop is the most-recent music he listens to,
says his success is the flip side of  Wall Street ’s shortcomings
when it comes to China.  “I’ve started to think of investment banks and the
investment banking industry as just manufacturers of financial
products,” he said. “They have to keep bringing new product to
market, and in a situation where there’s so much pressure to do
that, you’re definitely going to have poor financial product
that gets brought to market.”  Muddy Waters  The  five companies  Muddy Waters has publicly reported on
have lost almost $4.4 billion in market value from the last
trading day before publication of his research through June 3.
In a short sale, a trader sells borrowed shares on speculation
prices will decline and the stock can be replaced at a lower
cost.  Sino-Forest is “a  Ponzi scheme  as it perpetually issues
new securities to fund itself,” Block said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “Were the company unable to issue
additional securities, it would collapse.” He said his company
will keep betting against the shares until they reach “zero.”  His note on Sino-Forest last week, in which he said the
company overstated timberland holdings and production, wiped out
C$3.19 billion ($3.25 billion) in market capitalization in two
days. Sino-Forest gained 12 percent to C$5.88 at 2:30 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading. Investors in Rino International have lost
$426.2 million and that company is now valued at $17.7 million.  ‘Passing the Blame’  “The buck keeps getting passed around, from the foreign
counsel that works on these deals, to the Chinese law firms, to
the investment bankers to the auditors,” he said by phone.
“And everyone’s just passing the blame around like a hot potato
because there are gaps in the system.”  Sino-Forest is Muddy Waters’ biggest target to date. Ten
researchers spent two months looking at the business, and
government records indicated the company would have a capital
hole of as much as $922 million if it had made the investments
it claimed, according to the June 2 report.  “Why did it take a guy like Carson Block to reveal this?”
said Robert Lawton, managing partner of Catoosa Fund LP, a Los
Angeles-based hedge fund which lost money on China MediaExpress.
“You have people like Paulson and Greenberg, who you would
believe did their research before they took a position in these
stocks. What did they miss in advance of buying stocks that it
took Block a couple of months and a staff of 10 to uncover? If I
had been invested with Paulson and Greenberg I would be
furious.”  ‘Gaping Need’  Block decided to start Muddy Waters after visiting a
company called  Orient Paper Inc. (ONP)  at the behest of his father,
William Block, who runs Pacific Palisades, California-based
 W.A.B. Capital LLC , a firm that helps introduce small companies
to institutional investors. Muddy Waters was born of the
realization “that there is a gaping need for due diligence in
China equity research,” Block wrote in a July 2  article .  The younger Block “grew up” in the equity research
business, working part time as an analyst in college and passing
his broker’s license exam at 19, he says. His interest in  Asia 
also started early when he spent a summer living in  Japan  during
high school. He first went to Beijing in 1997 and moved to
 Shanghai  after graduating from the University of Southern
California with a degree in business administration in 1998, he
says.  Law Degree  Block’s plan to get into equity research in China fizzled
in 1998, he says. In 2005, with a law degree from Chicago-Kent
College of Law, he returned to Shanghai to work on foreign
direct investment and merger deals at the law firm Jones Day. He
quit in 2006, planning to start a private banking business in
 Singapore , and ended up founding the storage rental business
 Love Box  instead.  The company’s tag line is “get self storage without BS,”
and its website includes a section on “Shanghai Without BS,”
guides that offer advice, tips and Chinese vocabulary on such
topics as having pets, grocery shopping and “cheap & easy
decorating.”  Block’s switch from self storage to short selling began in
January 2010 with the visit to Orient Paper.  As he toured the company, Block describes thinking it
resembled a “pretty bad Potemkin factory,” referring to
facades supposedly built in the 18th century to mislead
Catherine the Great of  Russia  about the nation’s economy. “And
this is a company that in micro-cap world has received a lot of
praise,” he says. “That’s when it seemed there was some
opportunity there, but I had no idea how big it was.”  Short Sale  He bet against the shares, his first short sale, and Muddy
Waters issued a  report  on the stock on June 28, 2010.  Orient Paper denied the assertions and an audit committee-
organized investigation of the claims dismissed most of them.
The shares have dropped 57 percent since the Muddy Waters
report. Crocker Coulson, a U.S.-based outside spokesman for
Orient Paper, didn’t return an e-mail and a phone message
seeking comment late yesterday.  The Muddy Waters  website  displays the words “Churnham &
Burnham, est. 1792” next to a map of China at the top and
rotating quotations, including from the character Gordon Gekko
in the 1987 film “Wall Street.”  “At times, I’ve felt like there is an element of ‘Wall
Street’ to this, because by virtue of being in China and
understanding what’s going on, it’s a tremendous edge,” Block
said. “The kind of edge that Bud Fox was looking for from
Gordon Gekko.”  “We really talk about these companies from an operations
perspective and try to understand that, whereas typically in the
investment field they’re looking at it from a financial model
perspective,” Block says.  Rino Call  Block’s rise to prominence began with Rino in November.
Nine days after his report, which said the company had
overstated its sales and claimed contracts that didn’t exist,
the maker of water-treatment equipment disclosed that two years’
of financial statements aren’t reliable.  It was cemented after his February report on China
MediaExpress. The company’s auditor, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu,
resigned five weeks after Block’s accusations, saying it was
“no longer able to rely on the representations of management.”
The Chinese company’s chief financial officer also resigned.  Hank Greenberg’s C.V. Starr was among China MediaExpress’s
largest owners along with New York-based hedge fund D.E. Shaw &
Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as of March 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Increased Scrutiny  Stephen Cohen, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment.  Regulators and investors have increased scrutiny of Chinese
companies trading in  North America . The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission began an investigation last year into the
use of reverse takeovers, in which a closely held firm becomes
public by purchasing a shell company that already trades. The
Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index of U.S.-listed stocks
has fallen 40 percent this year.  The SEC has revoked the registrations of at least eight
China-based companies since December, and more than 24 firms
have disclosed auditor resignations or accounting problems to
the agency since March, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  wrote in an
April 27 letter. The agency may sue at least one China-based
auditor for obstructing a probe of reverse mergers after Chinese
regulators blocked the firm from providing requested data, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said in May.  Short Sellers  The success of Muddy Waters, Los Angeles-based Citron
Research and other short sellers of Chinese stocks that trade in
North America has prompted assertions of stock manipulation.
Investors shouldn’t trust short sellers to tell the truth when
they stand to benefit from share declines, says Kevin Pollack, a
 fund manager  at New York-based Paragon Capital LP who invests in
U.S.-listed Chinese stocks.  “It is important to recognize that shorts and bloggers
have their own agendas and that you have to take their
allegations with a grain of salt,” he said. “I have seen a lot
of exaggeration and inaccuracies in short seller
promulgations.”  Block said if his reports weren’t accurate, nobody would
act on them. While his firm’s profit is tied to his short
positions, the motivation for Muddy Waters isn’t entirely
commercial, he said.  “You can take a short position in a stock and you can do
that just for money,” he said. “But truthfully, when you’re
doing what we’re doing -- being the lightning rod -- you can’t
do this just for money. There are easier ways to make money.”  The attention to his reports has also brought death threats
and critical e-mails, Block said. While the threats stopped
after his first reports stood up, his life has changed.  “A year ago, I was worried about whether a guy would pay
his $80-a-month rent on his self-storage unit in Shanghai, and
now I’m worried about whether I’m going to be hit with $100
million lawsuits,” he said. “That’s a big change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dune Lawrence in  New York  at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 