-- 
Humala Claims Victory in Peru Presidential Vote

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-06-06T14:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/humala-claims-victory-in-peru-presidential-vote-after-edging-out-fujimori.html
Ollanta Humala claimed victory in
 Peru ’s presidential runoff as voters overlooked his past support
for  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez  and rallied behind pledges to stamp
out corruption and extend a mining boom to the nation’s poor.  Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori told supporters last night she
is awaiting final results and will “be the first” to recognize
a defeat to Humala, who saw his  lead widen  as ballots cast in
rural areas were tallied. With about 88 percent of ballots
counted, Humala had 51.3 percent to 48.7 percent for Fujimori,
the daughter of the jailed former president  Alberto Fujimori .  “The people have been waiting a long time for change,”
Humala, 48, told thousands of supporters at a midnight rally in
downtown  Lima . “It’s not possible to say that the country is
progressing when 12 million people are living in extreme poverty
without electricity or running water.”  Peruvians, fearful of reviving the political trauma
associated with the authoritarian rule of Fujimori’s father,
opted for a former army rebel who advocates greater state
control of the country’s natural resources. Many voters doubt
the sincerity of his transformation from a one-time ally of
Chavez to a defender of policies that have made Peru the
fastest-growing economy in Latin America over the past decade.  ‘His first duty will be to heal the wounds that this
polarized election has caused,’’ said Cesar Perez-Novoa, a
Peruvian who is chief economist at Santiago, Chile-based
brokerage Celfin Capital. “No one in the financial community
trusts that he won’t make Peru the next Venezuela.”  Market Selloff  Trading was suspended in Peru’s main stock market after the
index plunged as much as 8.8 percent today, the most in more
than two years.  Hochschild Mining Plc (HOC) , a producer of silver in
Peru, fell to its lowest in four months in London trading,
declining 8.5 percent to 500 pence.  Dollar bonds tumbled, sending borrowing costs to the
highest in four weeks. Yields on dollar bonds due 2037 rose 20
basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 5.94 percent at 10:26
a.m. New York time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield spread on Peru notes relative to U.S. Treasuries climbed
15 basis points to 207, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Yields on sol-denominated debt due in 2020 rose 41 basis
points to 6.95 percent.  Investors also dumped Peruvian assets after  Humala  topped
the field in the first round of voting April 10.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Peru’s debt against default with
credit-default swaps jumped to a five-year high of 176 basis
points on April 27 and the sol dropped to a 10-month low of
2.834 per dollar on May 2 on concern Humala’s policies would
freeze $50 billion of mining, energy and infrastructure
investment that the government expects will fuel 6.5 percent
growth over five years.  Like Chavez, who as a paratrooper in 1992 led a coup
attempt, Humala as an army lieutenant colonel in 2000 led 50
soldiers who seized and occupied for a week one of Phoenix-based
Southern Cooper Corp.’s mines to protest corruption in
Fujimori’s government. His brother, Antauro Humala, is in jail
for killing four policemen during the takeover of a highland
town in 2005.  To broaden his appeal to Peru’s growing middle class, the
Nationalist Party candidate abandoned rhetoric against foreign
mining and natural resource companies used during the 2006
campaign, when he lost the presidency to  Alan Garcia  by five
percentage points.  ‘Keep the Gas’  Last night, as supporters chanted “Keep the Gas in Peru,”
Humala said he would seek broad backing for his policies and
form a government comprised of the most-qualified people
independent of their political affiliation.  As Humala’s campaign gained momentum, he set aside a
platform that included pledges to the rewrite Peru’s
 constitution  to allow the state to run telephone companies and
airlines, and renegotiate free trade agreements with the U.S.
and other nations covering 90 percent of the country’s exports.  In the final days he stepped up attacks on Fujimori,
accusing her of turning a blind eye to the corruption and human
rights abuses when she served as first lady during her father’s
decade-long government, which ended in 2000.  Proving Himself  Instead of looking to Chavez, Humala now says he’d emulate
the pro-market policies of former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , and he hired two of Lula’s aides as
campaign advisers.  Investors will be seeking immediate reassurances that he’ll
maintain existing economic policies and respect contracts, said
Jaime Valdivia, who helps manage about $1.4 billion of emerging-
market assets at Bluecrest Capital Management in  New York .  “Humala has to prove himself,” said Valdivia. “The
market will have little patience for abrupt announcements.”  Humala’s about-face became more credible after he picked up
the endorsement of former President  Alejandro Toledo , a Stanford
University-trained economist who finished fourth in the first
round. Several Toledo aides, including former deputy finance
minister Kurt Burneo, may be invited to join his government.  Thwarting Fujimori  Nobel Prize  winning novelist Mario Vargas Llosa, who
earlier compared a runoff between Fujimori and Humala as a
choice between cancer and AIDS, rallied a group of intellectuals
who said they were reluctantly voting for Humala to prevent a
return of the Fujimori “dictatorship.”  Humala’s candidacy ignited the hopes of a third of Peru’s
population that hasn’t benefitted from the economic boom. While
a decade of growth averaging 5.6 percent has spurred employment
and doubled per capita income to $5,224, as many as 80 percent
of homes still lack running water and sewage in the state of
Huancavelica, according to a United Nations study last year.  Humala pledges to curb  tax evasion  and raise mining taxes
to finance higher social spending, and says he’ll resolve
conflicts between farmers and mining companies that have caused
companies including  Southern Copper  to shelve investments.  Peru is the world’s biggest silver producer, and third in
copper and zinc. Mining investment helped bring in $7.3 billion
in foreign direct  investment  last year and helped fuel growth
above 7 percent for the past 13 straight months.  Metal Prices  Humala’s victory could lead to a near-term jump in gold,
zinc, and copper prices as foreign mining firms reconsider
investments in Peru,  Win Thin , global head of emerging markets
currency strategy for Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York,
wrote in a note to clients last night.  “I don’t think a leopard can change its spots,” Jim
Roberts, a Peru analyst at The  Heritage Foundation , a pro-
business group based in  Washington , said in a phone interview
before yesterday’s vote. “Over time, the spots will show
again.”  Many Peruvians voted for Humala simply to thwart Fujimori
amid fears her victory could revive the corruption and
authoritarian rule associated with her father, Coletta Youngers,
a senior fellow at the Washington Office on  Latin America .  Humala, in the single head-to-head televised debate with
Fujimori, accused Fujimori of standing by as her father’s
government forcibly sterilized 300,000 women.  The elder Fujimori, after slashing 7,650 percent inflation,
saw his government collapse after his intelligence chief,
Vladimiro Montesinos, was caught on videotape in 2000 bribing
lawmakers. He’s now serving a 25-year prison sentence for
directing a paramilitary death squad that killed civilians
during a war against the Shining Path, a Maoist insurgency.  “Many who had been reluctant to endorse either candidate
opted for Humala to prevent the return of a political movement
responsible for the most corrupt government in Peruvian
history,” said Youngers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Lima at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  