-- 
Turkey’s Widening Current Account Gap May Pressure Rating, Moody’s Says

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-06T07:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/turkey-s-widening-current-account-gap-may-pressure-rating-moody-s-says.html
Turkey ’s credit rating may come under
pressure should it have difficulty financing the current account
gap, Moody’s Investors Service said, urging the government to
tighten the budget after this week’s parliamentary elections.  While the country has made progress to improve its fiscal
position, “Turkey’s significant external vulnerabilities, such
as its large current account deficit and its reliance on
portfolio investment flows to fund the current account deficit,
make very robust fiscal fundamentals even more important,”
Moody’s said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Turkey’s rating could come under downward pressure if the
large and growing current account deficit becomes more difficult
to finance,” Moody’s analyst  Sarah Carlson  said. “The rapid
deterioration in the current account deficit is a key risk
factor in Turkey at the moment.”  Yields on two-year  government bonds  surged 8 basis points to 
8.96 percent at 11:18 a.m., reversing earlier declines. The lira 
fell 0.3 percent to 1.5781 per dollar.  The lira has declined 1.9 percent this year, the most among
major emerging market currencies, as concern grew that Turkey
may struggle to contain the deficit. The gap, forecast by the
government to widen to $39.3 billion, or 5.4 percent of gross
domestic product this year, reached $60.5 billion in the 12
months through March as an economic expansion boosted demand for
imports.  Debt Levels  “The challenge now is for Turkey to register larger
primary surpluses, accumulate a larger stock of foreign exchange
reserves, and further reduce its debt levels in order to
increase its resilience to external shocks,” Carlson said.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is seeking re-election
on June 12. Opinion polls show his  Justice and Development Party 
will probably win enough votes to keep its legislative majority
in parliament. The government is ready to respond should the
central bank fail in its bid to tame “very, very strong”
domestic demand and slow the widening of the current-account
deficit, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said on May 16.  Moody’s rates Turkish credit Ba2, two notches below
investment grade, with a positive outlook. Ba2 is the risk-
assessor’s second-highest non-investment grade.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates the country an equivalent BB, also with a positive
outlook, and  Fitch Ratings  ranks Turkey as BB+, just one notch
below investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  