-- 
Blackstone’s Vanguard Health to Raise as Much as $661 Million in IPO

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-06T19:54:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/vanguard-health-to-raise-as-much-as-661-million-in-ipo-2-.html
Vanguard Health Systems Inc., the
hospital operator controlled by Blackstone Group, plans to raise
as much as $661 million in an initial public offering to help
its owners recoup their investment.  Vanguard will sell 25 million shares at $21 to $23 apiece,
according to a regulatory filing today with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The sale’s managers,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , have the option to sell an additional
3.75 million shares as an over-allotment option.  Vanguard borrowed money to pay its owners a $447 million
dividend in February, said  Vicki Bryan , a bond analyst at Gimme
Credit LLC in  New York . While the Nashville, Tennessee-based
company said it will use the proceeds from the sale to pay down
some of that debt, Bryan said Vanguard will be forced to replace
that with bank loans.  “If the debt goes down, it will only go down
temporarily,” Bryan said in a telephone interview. “The
company doesn’t generate enough  cash flow  to cover” commitments
it made when it bought Detroit Medical Center in December.
Vanguard paid $368 million in cash and agreed to invest as much
as $850 million more, a Detroit Medical statement said.  HCA Holdings Inc., also based in Nashville, held a record
$3.79 billion private equity-backed IPO in March in which it
sold 126 million shares at $30 a share, the top of its proposed
range. Like Vanguard, HCA used the proceeds for debt incurred to
pay a $2 billion dividend to private-equity owners in November
2010.  Big Payday  “Investors who buy into Vanguard will be paying for a
dividend they didn’t receive,” Bryan said.  Vanguard also made a payout to investors of about $300
million last year, Bryan said.  “The IPO will be another big payday,” she said. At $22 a
share, the company said it could raise $589 million, which it
would use to pay down that debt, according to today’s filing.  Vanguard owns and operates 26 hospitals in five states, as
well as three health insurance plans and two surgery centers in
 California , the filing said. It had $3.38 billion in revenue in
the year ending June 30, 2010. Funds led by New York-based
Blackstone bought the company in 2004 for $1.75 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  Blackstone owns two-thirds of the company. At the end of
the sale, current investors will still hold a majority of the
 voting rights , Vanguard said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 