-- 
Vanguard Opens Canadian Unit to Help Drive Expansion Abroad

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-06-06T14:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/vanguard-opens-canadian-unit-to-help-drive-fund-sale-expansion-abroad.html
Vanguard Group Inc., the world’s
biggest mutual-fund company, is opening a unit in  Canada ,
continuing an expansion of its low-cost, passive investment
offerings outside the U.S.  Atul Tiwari, 46, formerly of the  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , will
head Vanguard Investments Canada in Toronto, the company said
today in a statement. The  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based firm
declined to say what products it plans for the Canadian market
until it files a preliminary prospectus with regulators.  Mutual funds sold in Canada had the highest management fees
among 18 countries, according to a 2006 study by Harvard
Business School’s Peter Tufano, Ajay Khorana at the Georgia
Institute of Technology and Henri Servaes at the  London Business
School . Total expenses for the average equity fund were 1.71
percent in the U.S. and 2.87 percent in Canada, according to the
 study .  “If you look at the costs embedded into funds, we think
there is sufficient room for cost competition here,” Tawari
said in a telephone interview.  Fund-research company Morningstar Inc. has referred to the
“Vanguard effect” to describe how the firm’s 2009 entry into
the U.K. funds market caused other competitors to lower their
fees.  Tawari was responsible for legal and compliance issues at
Bank of Montreal’s BMO Financial Group in Europe and Asia. He
was also formerly chief executive officer of Hartford,
Connecticut-based Harris Insight Funds.  Mutual funds registered in Canada manage about $697
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Canadian
exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, held $42.8 billion as of March
31, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  