-- 
Wal-Mart Tops U.S. High Court Agenda as Violent Video Game Ruling Looms

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-06T04:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/wal-mart-tops-u-s-high-court-agenda-as-video-game-ruling-looms.html
Violent video games, climate change
and a million  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  employees will preoccupy the
U.S. Supreme Court in the homestretch of its nine-month term.  The justices will issue 31 rulings over the next four
weeks, beginning today when they take the bench at 10 a.m. in
Washington. The June flurry has become a tradition at a court
where the combination of summer plans and calendar realities can
leave the justices resembling high school students rushing to
complete their term papers.  The lingering disputes include two securities-fraud
clashes, two patent cases, a campaign-finance test, a free-
speech case involving pharmaceutical marketing and a fight over
suits against generic-drug makers. Those rulings ultimately may
be overshadowed by higher-profile decisions, particularly the
class-action case that will determine whether potentially a
million workers can unite in a suit accusing Wal-Mart of gender
bias.  “There are three major rulings coming that will set the
tone for the term: global warming, class actions and violent
video games,” said Tom Goldstein, a lawyer at Goldstein, Howe &
Russell PC and the creator of the  Scotusblog  website.  The March 29 argument in the Wal-Mart case suggested
skepticism among the justices about the scope of the class
approved by a federal appeals court. Should the justices rule in
Wal-Mart’s favor, they could either kill the lawsuit outright or
kick the case back to a lower court.  The ruling will be the court’s first in a dozen years on
the standards for certifying a class action. In a testament to
the importance of the case, more than 20 companies are
supporting Wal-Mart, the country’s biggest private employer.  Climate Change   Companies may get another victory in the climate change
case, which involves six states seeking to force five companies
including American Electric Power Co. to cut their emissions of
the gases that contribute to climate change.  During arguments in April, justices across the ideological
spectrum said the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency was
better equipped than a federal court to sort through the costs
and benefits of reducing  carbon emissions .  The climate change ruling “could have the greatest
potential impact on business, given that virtually every
business is an emitter of  greenhouse gases  and therefore a
potential defendant” in a similar lawsuit, said former U.S.
Solicitor General Gregory Garre, now a lawyer at Latham &
Watkins LLP in  Washington . He filed a brief in the case on
behalf of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Violent Games  The video-game industry is focused on its challenge to a
California law that would bar the sale of violent games to
minors. California is asking the court to put new limits on the
Constitution’s free-speech clause and to let states treat
violent games like pornography and restrict youth access.  The Nov. 2 argument session signaled the court was poised
to strike down the law. The five-month wait since then has
fostered new uncertainty, as the dispute has become the longest-
pending case.  An industry victory “seemed very likely at first but seems
far more uncertain now,” said Roy Englert, an appellate lawyer
at Robbins Russell Englert Orseck Untereiner & Sauber LLP.  For business, victories in those cases would take the sting
out of what so far has been a disappointing term. The Chamber of
Commerce has lost seven of the 12 cases in which it has filed a
brief, including its own challenge to an Arizona law that
imposes penalties on companies that hire illegal aliens.  Patents and Drugs  The court also will rule in a patent case that led to
changes in  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Word software and may force the
company to pay a $300 million award. A ruling in favor of
Microsoft, which is fighting a lawsuit by I4i LP, could make it
easier for large technology companies to invalidate patents.  And in another free-speech case, the justices may overturn
a Vermont law that would limit the ability of brand-name
drugmakers to target individual doctors with sales pitches.  As with the video-game dispute, the court’s reasoning may
have implications well beyond the industry involved in the case.  “The First Amendment is always an important area,” said
Lisa Blatt, an appellate lawyer with Arnold & Porter LLP.
“Whatever the court says about the First Amendment has ripple
effects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 