-- 
Wellink Says Greek Bond Rollover May Form Part of Debt Package

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-06T13:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/wellink-says-greek-bond-rollover-may-form-part-of-debt-package.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Nout Wellink said a debt rollover may form part
of a new aid package for  Greece .  “I don’t rule out that a part of the additional
refinancing can come from that source,” Wellink said at a panel
discussion in Amsterdam today. Responding to a panelist’s
comment on encouraging investors to buy new bonds to replace
maturing ones, he said that “there are options that can work,
we have seen that with the Vienna initiative some years ago.”  Policy makers are mulling the idea of bond rollovers as a
pillar of any new aid package. The step would be favored by the
ECB, according to two officials familiar with the situation, as
it would reduce the risk of any agreement being classified as a
default. Investors may be given preferred status, higher coupon
payments or collateral, said two other European Union officials
familiar with the situation. EU leaders are due to meet in
Brussels on June 23-24 to approve a plan.  Greece remains mired in a recession as the government
struggles to reduce the biggest debt load in the euro’s history,
a year after securing a 110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout.
Investors will have a voluntary role in helping the country
avert a sovereign default under a new aid plan being negotiated
by international officials, Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said last week.  Wellink also reaffirmed his opposition to a Greek debt
restructuring, saying it could lead to “contagion with regards
to Ireland and  Portugal .”  Wellink spoke at an event at the University of Amsterdam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  