-- 
Whitney Broadens Concerns on State Fiscal Woe, Fortune Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-06-06T21:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/whitney-finds-state-finances-worse-than-thought-fortune-reports.html
Meredith Whitney said the financial
condition of U.S. states is worse than estimated, Fortune
magazine  reported  on the CNN Money.com website, citing a new
report from her New York-based company.  Debt levels exceed existing estimates and future deficits
will be larger than official numbers demonstrate, Fortune quoted
Whitney, 41, as saying. The new report from the Meredith Whitney
Advisory Group LLC looks at the finances of 25 states, 10 more
than an analysis published in September, Fortune said.  Whitney, who became famous for correctly predicting
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s 2008 dividend cut, told Fortune that the state
debt problem “is a massive headwind for the  U.S. economy ,
second only to housing.” She didn’t immediately respond to a
call and e-mail from Bloomberg News.  The analyst in December helped fuel an investor exodus
after telling CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” she expected “50 to
100 sizable defaults” in the $2.93 trillion municipal-bond
market amounting to “hundreds of billions of dollars.” There
have been 29 straight weeks of withdrawals from U.S. municipal-
bond mutual funds from November to June 1, Lipper US Fund Flows
has said.  The amount of money involved in municipal-bond defaults has
declined this year through April, with 14 valued at $605
million, compared with $1.7 billion in 43 issues in the same
period of 2010, Income Securities Advisors Inc. in  Miami Lakes ,
 Florida , said in the May issue of Distressed Debt Securities
Newsletter. The dollar amount peaked in 2008 at $8.5 billion,
including rated and unrated debt, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  