-- 
Will Doctor Death Find a Place in the American Pantheon?: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-06T21:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/will-doctor-death-find-a-place-in-the-american-pantheon-view.html
Dr. Jack Kevorkian, who died last
week at age 83, was a crank, an obsessive, a deeply eccentric
loner, and a publicity hog. He also was a hero. There is a
connection. Cranks move the world; polite, modest, unassuming
people with measured views usually don’t.  Kevorkian’s cause was assisted suicide -- the right of
people with painful terminal illnesses to end their suffering in
the only way possible. Naturally, as a crank, Kevorkian took
this much too far. He thumbed his nose at the law, even statutes
written specifically to stop him.  When, on their fifth attempt, authorities finally convicted
Kevorkian of second-degree murder, it was because he had
videotaped himself administering a lethal injection, bypassing
the gruesome devices he had invented to enable patients to
inject themselves. Then he sent the videotape to “60 Minutes.”
He spent eight years in prison, winning release only after
promising that he wouldn’t help people kill themselves.  In a Gallup  poll  released in May, Americans were split down
the middle on doctor-assisted suicide: 45 percent said they
found it morally acceptable, and 48 percent said the opposite.
It was the most divisive social issue in a survey that included
questions on gay marriage and cloning. Yet there is relatively
little public argument about assisted suicide. This may be
because more of it goes on than anyone wishes to acknowledge.
But in our litigious culture, there are still thousands of
people who suffer needlessly through intractable pain because
their doctors don’t want to get sued for helping them die.  We don’t dismiss the dangers of legalizing assisted
suicide, especially the threat of undue pressure on old or sick
people or -- at worst -- the emergence of a new social norm that
would make assisted suicide a routine or even prescribed method
of dying. Talk about the excessive cost of high-tech medicine in
the last months of life sometimes give us the willies.
Everything possible should be done to make assisted suicide a
bad option, but in a free country, it should be an option. The
issue requires no consensus: People should decide for
themselves.  One function of cranks and extremists is to move the
center, where reasonable, moderate people want to be. Kevorkian
did this. If doctors and hospitals today pay more attention to
the pain of terminal illness, Kevorkian deserves some of the
credit. And if a right to assisted suicide is ever established
in the U.S., somewhere they’ll raise a statue of Jack Kevorkian.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 