-- 
Wisconsin Asks Court to Dismiss Challenge to Collective Bargaining Limits

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-06-06T23:59:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/wisconsin-asks-court-to-dismiss-challenge-to-collective-bargaining-limits.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker ’s
administration asked the state’s highest court to take over and
then dismiss a legal challenge to legislation limiting public
employees’ ability to engage in collective bargaining.  The Wisconsin Supreme Court today heard arguments from
lawyers for the administration, the state prosecutor who
challenged the legality of the law and the trial court judge who
on May 26 ruled that the measure was invalid because legislators
violated the state’s open-meetings law.  Assistant Attorney General Kevin St. John argued today that
the case is one of a separation of powers and the circuit court
overstepped its authority.  “This court should act now to restore the balance of
power,” St. John said. “The legislature has the exclusive
right to determine its process.”  Walker, a first-term Republican, signed the challenged
legislation on March 11. It requires annual recertification
votes for public employees’ union representation and makes their
payment of membership dues voluntary. Firefighters and police
officers are exempt.  Under the new law, state workers would contribute 5.8
percent of their salaries toward pensions and pay 12.6 percent
of their health-insurance costs.  Worker Rights  Democrats and organized labor opposed the legislation as an
attack on worker rights. Opponents protested inside and outside
the state capital for almost four weeks.  Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne sued March 16
in state court in Madison,  Wisconsin ’s capital. He alleged the
bill was drafted by a conference committee of six legislators
which afforded less than two hours public notice of the meeting
rather than the required 24.  Four of those legislators were Republicans, including state
Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald and his brother,
Assemblyman Jeff Fitzgerald. Only one of the two Democratic
legislators, Assembly Minority Leader Peter Barca, participated
in the March 9 meeting and did so under protest.  Judge Maryann Sumi issued a temporary order blocking
publication of the measure on March 18, the last step required
to give it force and effect.  When state Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen appealed that
ruling to an intermediate appellate court, that panel referred
it to the  Supreme Court , asking whether a trial court judge
could void a law created in violation of the open-meetings rule.  Law Posted  While Democratic Secretary of State Doug La Follette said
he would comply with Sumi’s March 18 ruling, a state agency
posted the law on the Internet, leading administration officials
to claim it was effective, prompting Sumi to issue a
supplemental order in which she said the measure remained
stayed.  Then, on April 7, Van Hollen petitioned the state Supreme
Court to invoke its original jurisdiction, wrest control of the
Ozanne-filed case from Sumi and dismiss it, arguing that
Internet publication by the state’s Legislative Reference Bureau
mooted the legal challenge.  Ozanne today told the high court it should reject the
attorney general’s request it take control of the dispute.  “The clear violation from my standpoint is that they did
not give 24 hours notice,” the prosecutor said. “I don’t think
that is in dispute.”  While legislators can give just two hours notice if there
is good cause, he said, the defendants here didn’t give that
minimum notice either.  ‘Heart and Soul’  Sumi last month ruled the law was illegitimately created.  “This case is an exemplar of values protected by the open-
meetings law: transparency in government, the right of citizens
to participate in their government and respect for rule of
law,” Sumi wrote in her ruling.  Marie Stanton, a lawyer for Sumi, today told the Supreme
Court justices that the state’s open-meetings law is “tied,
heart and soul” to its constitution.  Justice Shirley Abrahamson asked Stanton what made the
legislature’s action a constitutional issue, not a procedural
one.  “What does the constitution say?” Sumi’s lawyer
responded. “That the doors are open. That is the nexus to the
open-meetings law.” About 150 members of the public who sought
access to the contested March 9 committee meeting that produced
the bill were denied entry, Stanton said.  ‘Radical Proposition’  Van Hollen ’s deputy, St. John, in his rebuttal called
Sumi’s ruling “a radical proposition” that, if allowed to
stand, would result in “continuous marches done to the
courthouse.”  “There would be no finality to any law,” the assistant
attorney general said.  Earlier in the hearing, St. John told Abrahamson that the
state’s constitution determines how a bill becomes law and that
the legislators had proceeded accordingly.  “It was followed in this case,” St. John said.  “You are not contesting that the doors were locked for
approximately 40 minutes. How can locked doors be consistent
with the constitutional provision that the doors be open?”
Justice Ann Walsh Bradley asked St. John.  “Because the meeting was not in secret,” St. John
replied.  Robert Jambois, a lawyer for the assembly minority leader,
Democrat Peter Barca said 100,000 people in Madison were
interested in what was transpiring in the closed session.  “They didn’t like the messy aspects of Democracy,”
Jambois said of the legislature’s Republican majority.  The cases are State, ex-rel Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613; and State v. Circuit Court for  Dane County ,
2011AP765, Wisconsin Supreme Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Madison, Wisconsin at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  