-- 
World Bank Eyes a Network of Carbon Markets in a Make-or-Break Decade

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-06T15:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/world-bank-eyes-network-of-co2-markets-in-make-or-break-decade.html
Emerging nations are growing
increasingly interested in using market-based mechanisms to
fight  climate change  and may become the “incubator” for a
network of new emissions-trading programs, according to the
World Bank.  As many as 20 countries worldwide are considering the
introduction of programs that would reduce greenhouse gases and
create tradable pollution permits, said Andrew Steer, World Bank
special envoy for climate change. The bank last week approved
the first grants to developing nations to help them analyze and
design emissions plans that could boost the $142 billion global
carbon market after it shrank for the first time in 2010.  “This is the make-or-break decade,” Steer said in an
interview. “Emerging markets are becoming the incubators for
some of the most exciting ideas with regard to climate change.
One could envisage a sort of organic development of networked
carbon markets.”  The global value of the market for greenhouse-gas permits
and credits for cutting pollution fell to $142 billion last year
from $144 billion in 2009, snapping five years of growth amid a
lack of clarity about the future climate framework, a  World Bank 
report showed last week.  The idea of a carbon market “is not dead or dying,”
according to Steer. “On the contrary, it’s catching on,” he
said in an interview on June 2 during the Carbon Expo conference
in Barcelona,  Spain .  Cap-and-Trade System  “There’s  China , for example, which will over the next two
years introduce its own cap-and-trade system on a pilot basis in
four cities and two provinces,” he said. “The World Bank is
providing technical support, together with others.  Chile ,
 Colombia , Costa Rica,  Mexico ,  Indonesia ,  Thailand ,  Turkey  are
all experimenting with market-based instruments.”  Those eight countries each received from the World Bank an
initial grant of $350,000 last week to think through market-
based mechanisms that would help cut greenhouse gases. Carbon
markets started in emerging nations may later become linked with
those in rich nations, such as the European Union’s emissions
trading system or the planned programs in  Australia  and
 California , Steer said.  Australia wants to impose a price on greenhouse gas
pollution starting July 2012 in preparation for a trading system
that could begin as early as 2015, Prime Minister Julia Gillard
said in February.  Greenhouse Gases  In the U.S., where President  Barack Obama  failed to win
Congressional approval for a national emissions-trading program,
California is pressing ahead with plans to start a system to cap
and trade greenhouse gases in 2012 as climate envoys worldwide
prepare for the next climate summit in Durban,  South Africa ,
toward the end of November.  UN talks to iron out a climate-protection framework for
when the Kyoto Protocol expires next year have stalled amid
differences between industrialized and developing nations.
Countries including Japan and  Russia  have said they don’t want
to extend the treaty, which bound 37 industrialized nations to
targets for cutting greenhouse gases that scientists blame for
heat waves, floods and storms.  While climate envoys agreed in Copenhagen in 2009 and
Cancun in 2010 to try to contain global warming to 2 degrees
Celsius beyond pre-industrial levels,  carbon emissions  from
electricity generation climbed to a record last year, according
to the  International Energy Agency .  “We believe a global deal is highly desirable and also
believe we shouldn’t wait for a global deal,” Steer said. “We
are working in 130 countries on climate issues and trying to
demonstrate that adaptation can be achieved.”  International Obligations  A global agreement that would allow part of international
obligations to cut carbon to be met by trading pollution rights
between developing and industrialized nations would help reduce
the costs of fighting climate change and facilitate the transfer
of technology, Steer said.  “Carbon markets are great for financing long-term
recurrent costs, they’re not good at financing upfront
capital,” he said. “You earn your money by generating savings
over time. The trick is how you use other forms to finance the
upfront investment and use carbon markets to help service that
investment.”  The UN Clean Developed Mechanism, which generates so-called
offset credits for investment in projects that reduce emissions
in poorer countries, shrank 46 percent last year to $1.5
billion, according to World Bank estimates. The EU emissions
trading system, the world’s biggest, increased to $119.8 billion
from $118.5 billion in 2009.  Emission-Reduction Projects  The World Bank, which has several facilities and funds to
develop emission-reduction projects and purchase ensuing offset
credits, believes trading of offsets between countries will
recover, Steer said.  “The CDM can have a strong future, but it does need reform
at two levels,” he said. “First, the transactions costs need
to be reduced; it doesn’t need to take 600 days to approve
projects. Second, it needs to become bolder in embracing new
approaches such as city-wide approaches or nation-wide crediting
of forests. It’s about moving toward programmatic rather than
project-by-project.”  While the summit in Durban will not result in a binding
deal on post-2012 greenhouse-gas targets, it will bring “a lot
of progress,” according to Steer. Nations can agree to create a
global network of technology centers, move forward on the green
climate fund to help channel finance to  developing countries  and
to the reform of the CDM, he said.  “Would it make a global deal more likely? Yes,” he said.
“Don’t expect anything like the July 4 fireworks -- a big bang
global deal that will change the world in one blow. The building
blocks need to be put in place first.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  