-- 
World Trade Center Memorial Worksite May Be Guarded by 600 Police Officers

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-06-06T20:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/wtc-memorial-worksite-may-be-guarded-by-600-new-york-city-police-officers.html
New York plans to deploy more than
200 police officers at the  World Trade Center site  by mid-July
who will focus on security for the opening of a  memorial  to
victims of the Sept. 11 attacks, Commissioner Ray Kelly said.  The amount of personnel will be increased “incrementally”
as construction continues at the site and buildings are opened,
and more than 600 officers may eventually be based in a command
unit there, Kelly told reporters following a  counterterrorism
conference  at police headquarters in lower  Manhattan  today.  “The memorial is going to be somewhat of a challenge
because it will be right in the middle of an ongoing
construction site,” Kelly said. “I think it will be well-
protected with the new unit.”  There are no specific threats against the city, although
 New York  has to be concerned about possible revenge attacks in
the wake of the killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama  Bin Laden  in
 Pakistan  on May 1, Kelly said.  “Common sense dictates that we have to be concerned about
a possible act of retaliation as far as the death of Bin Laden
is concerned,” Kelly said. “Obviously in the aftermath of the
elimination of Bin Laden we’re continuing on alert status as is
prudent.”  The 9/11 Memorial is scheduled to be dedicated on the 10th
anniversary of the terrorist attacks in a ceremony for families
of the victims. Occupying about half of the 16-acre World Trade
Center site, it will feature two waterfalls and two acre-sized
reflecting pools set within the footprints of the twin towers
that were destroyed.  ‘Key Target’  New York City  has remained a “key target” of al-Qaeda
leadership since the Sept. 11 attacks, and none of the
intelligence gathered since Bin Laden’s death suggests that the
terrorist threat to the city has decreased, said Stephen R. Kappes, an operating partner at Washington-based  Torch Hill
Investment Partners  who retired last month as deputy director of
the Central Intelligence Agency.  “Many of the al-Qaeda seniors still maintain that another
crippling blow to New York City will cripple the  United
States ,” Kappes today told members of the NYPD’s Shield
counterterrorism partnership with security officials from
private industry. “They think that this is the key.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 