-- 
Yemenis Cheer Flight of Wounded President Saleh to Saudi Arabian Hospital

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-06-06T15:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/yemen-opposition-supports-vice-president-after-saleh-flies-to-saudi-arabia.html
Yemen’s Joint Meeting Parties, the
main opposition coalition, said it supports the move to transfer
power to Vice President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi after the
departure of President Ali Abdullah Saleh to  Saudi Arabia .  Saleh is being treated in the Saudi capital,  Riyadh , for
injuries sustained when a rocket struck a mosque in his compound
on June 3. Hadi is assuming Saleh’s duties “until the president
returns,” Abdu Janadi, the deputy information minister, said in
a phone interview. Saleh is recovering and will return in the
“coming days,” Hadi said, according to the state-run Saba news
agency.  The opposition parties don’t consider the transfer to be a
temporary handover, underscoring confusion as to who holds power
in the country. The attack followed months of violence between
Saleh’s forces and protesters demanding his resignation after 33
years in power, inspired by successful revolts against longtime
leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  “It is premature to say that he is completely out of the
picture,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-
based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis said
today. “He left for medical reasons, not political, and there
is a big difference between the two. The family members that
remained in the country appear to be the ones that make the
regime function.”  The elite Republican Guards are led by Saleh’s son Ahmed,
while another son Khalid leads an infantry regiment. Nephews
control senior positions in the military, security and
intelligence agencies.  ‘No Objection’  “We have no objection that power is transferred to Hadi in
line with the constitution and the  Gulf Cooperation Council 
plan,” Mohammed Qahtan, spokesman for the Joint Meeting
Parties, said in a phone interview today. If that doesn’t
happen, the group will seek to form a transitional government,
he said.  Tareq al-Shami, a ruling-party spokesman, denied reports in
local media that a transition is being planned while Saleh and
other top officials are abroad.  The attack on the mosque killed 16 people and injured more
than 100, Janadi said. Doctors removed two pieces of wooden
shrapnel from Saleh’s body, he said.  GCC Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani called for
restraint to prevent a further deterioration in security after
Saleh’s departure. All parties should “renounce violence,” he
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Mediated Truce  Continued violence threatens a cease-fire between Saleh s
loyalists and anti-government tribal forces. Saudi  King Abdullah 
mediated a truce between the warring forces on June 3, according
to tribal fighters.  Clashes continued overnight and three people were killed as
armed men fought near the vice-president’s house with soldiers
from a division that has defected to join the protesters, said
Khalid Mohammed, a witness to the clashes. Gunfire and
explosions were heard in the northern part of the capital, where
Saleh’s forces have been fighting with those loyal to tribal
leader Sadiq al-Ahmar.  Fighting in the Arabian Peninsula country escalated in the
past two weeks after Saleh refused to sign a GCC plan calling
for him to step down within 30 days and turn leadership over to
Hadi in exchange for immunity from prosecution. It was the third
time GCC-led talks had failed.  The six-member Arab Gulf bloc abandoned efforts to broker
peace in Yemen after Saleh refused to sign the accord on May 22.
Gunmen supporting al-Ahmar, leader of the country’s most
influential tribe, battled security forces after the collapse of
GCC mediation efforts.  The GCC consists of Saudi Arabia, Oman,  Kuwait , Bahrain,
the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 