-- 
Zain Targets Three Medium-Size Acquisitions This Year, COO Says

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-06T14:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/zain-targets-three-medium-size-acquisitions-this-year-coo-says.html
Mobile Telecommunications Co., the
Kuwaiti phone company known as Zain, aims to buy majority stakes
in three medium-size content and applications companies this
year, Chief Operating Officer Abdul Malik al-Jaber said.  “We are in discussions with three companies in the Arab
world and will make announcements in the second half of the
year,” al-Jaber said in an interview at a conference in Amman,
Jordan, declining to identify the companies. “We have no issue
in funding and financing of acquisitions.”  In the next three months, telecommunications companies will
pursue mergers and acquisitions involving producers of Internet
applications, software, services, enterprise solutions and
content, rather than seeking deals with other phone companies,
al-Jaber said.  “For us, this is definitely a growth and key area for new
revenue streams and for improving customer satisfaction and
loyalty,” said the executive. “The attention is on companies
in the Arab world, but we do not exclude investments outside.”  Etisalat, formally known as Emirates Telecommunications
Corp., the  Middle East ’s biggest phone company by market value,
terminated in March a $12 billion offer to buy a majority stake
in Zain, citing political unrest in the region and disagreement
among the Kuwaiti company’s shareholders.  Zain’s sale of its African assets last year generated
enough cash to fund acquisitions, with no plans to tap debt
markets at present, said al-Jaber. The company sold its African
assets, excluding Morocco and  Sudan , to Bharti Airtel Ltd.,
 India ’s largest wireless carrier, for $9 billion in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net  and
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  and
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net . 