-- 
Tzolov Should Be Granted Leniency in Sentencing, U.S. Says

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-06T19:20:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-06/tzolov-should-get-leniency-in-sentencing-for-his-assistance-u-s-says.html
Julian Tzolov , a former  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  broker who pleaded guilty to securities fraud, should
be granted leniency in his sentencing tomorrow because of his
“substantial assistance,” including testifying against his
former partner, federal prosecutors said.  Tzolov, 38, fled the U.S. before returning to plead guilty
to 12 counts, including securities fraud,  wire fraud  and bail
jumping. After returning, he testified at Eric Butler’s trial
that the two men told clients they invested their money in
auction-rate securities backed by federally guaranteed student
loans when they were actually backed by riskier corporate debt
and subprime mortgages.  “Tzolov detailed in a straightforward and direct manner
the complexities of the auction-rate securities market, how he
and Butler manipulated their clients’ investment in that market
through repeated lies -- in person, over the phone and by e-mail
-- and how they profited from that scheme to defraud,”
prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch wrote
in a court filing today.  The government estimated Tzolov’s and Butler’s crime cost
clients including  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) 
about $1.1 billion. The jury found Butler, 39, guilty in August
2009. U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein  sentenced Butler to
five years in prison. He is free on bail while he appeals his
conviction. Weinstein is scheduled to sentence Tzolov tomorrow.  In Custody  A native of Bulgaria, Tzolov was returned to  New York  from
 Spain  in July 2009 after fleeing for three months. He’s been in
custody since then.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Lynch, declined to comment.
Benjamin Brafman, one of Tzolov’s lawyers, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  Butler’s conviction “stands as one of the most significant
prosecutions since the onset of the financial crisis, and in
particular the collapse of the auction-rate securities and
subprime mortgage markets,” prosecutors said in the filing.  The auction-rate  securities market , once valued at
$330 billion, collapsed in February 2008 when dealers stopped
participating in the auctions. Interest on the investments reset
periodically at bidding managed by the dealers.  ‘Consistently Reliable’  “Tzolov’s cooperation, principally his testimony, was
exemplary,” the government wrote. “He did not shade the truth
or his greed. His accounts were consistently reliable.”  He also told prosecutors about $60,000 he stole from a
client account for his personal use while employed at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Prosecutors said they hadn’t been aware
of that theft.  Tzolov and Butler worked as partners in Credit Suisse’s
Corporate Cash Management Group, a division that helped clients
manage excess corporate cash holdings, according to court
papers. They routinely falsified the names of the securities
they put their clients in by, for example, adding “ed” or
“student loan” and deleting “housing,” according to the
filing.  The brokers earned higher commissions from selling
securities backed by corporate debt and mortgages than from
selling those backed by student loans.  “Tzolov provided substantial assistance to the government
which resulted in the trial conviction of the defendant Eric
Butler,” prosecutors wrote.  Butler and Tzolov were allowed to keep $4.45 million in
signing bonuses under a July 2010 arbitration ruling lost by
their former employer,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , at the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, or Finra.  Appeals Court  The two men joined Morgan Stanley after leaving Credit
Suisse.  On June 2, the federal appeals court in  Manhattan  ruled
against Credit Suisse’s appeal of a U.S. judge’s order to pay
STMicroelectronics,  Europe ’s largest chipmaker, about $400
million over the securities it bought from Tzolov and Butler.  Today’s filing didn’t recommend a specific sentence for
Tzolov. Federal guidelines carry a life term for his crimes
because the fraud exceeded $400 million. The maximum for all the
counts together under each statute caps his exposure at 45
years, according to the filing.  The maximum sentencing for bail-jumping is 10 years, which
would run consecutively to any other sentence he receives,
according to the filing. The government didn’t recommend
leniency on that count.  Tzolov pleaded guilty in July 2009 to one count each of
 securities-fraud  conspiracy, wire-fraud conspiracy, securities
fraud, bail jumping and visa fraud, and seven counts of wire
fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, 09-cr-475 and 10-cr-
83, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 