-- ‘Swift’ Iran Cutoff, Indonesian Mining, BTA Bank: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-16T12:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/-swift-iran-cutoff-indonesian-mining-bta-bank-ceo-compliance.html
The leading worldwide financial
messaging service for international money transfers announced
yesterday that it will stop providing services to Iranian banks
subject to European Union sanctions -- a category that includes
Iran’s central bank.  The Society for  Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunication , known as Swift, said it is taking the action
in response to EU regulations issued yesterday. The halt to
Swift services for sanctioned Iranian banks will take effect
March 17 at 4 p.m. GMT, Swift said in a statement.  Lázaro Campos, Swift’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement that the EU decision, “forces Swift to take action.”  Swift said the EU-sanctioned Iranian financial institutions
have been notified of the disconnection. Swift said it complies
with all applicable sanctions regulations of the multiple
jurisdictions in which it operates.  In January, U.S. lawmakers proposed legislation targeting
Swift and its board, whose chairman is Yawar Shah of  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and deputy chairman is Stephan Zimmermann of  UBS AG (UBSN) , if it
continued to provide services to sanctioned Iranian banks.  Compliance Policy  FSB Seeks Improvements to Audit Rules for International Banks  The Financial Stability Board said it’s seeking better
rules for audits of banks, including global lenders deemed to be
too big to fail.  The FSB said it is targeting improvements in “the
information that external audits provide to prudential
supervisors and regulators of financial institutions, including
systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs),”
according to an e-mailed statement.  Goldman Employee Reinforces Need for Volcker Rule, Democrats Say  The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. employee who criticized the
company’s culture in a newspaper column bolsters the case for
Wall Street restrictions like the Volcker rule, congressional
Democrats said.  While Greg Smith’s  New York Times (NYT)  opinion column published
March 14 drew no requests for hearings or deeper investigations,
lawmakers including Senators Carl Levin of Michigan and  Jeff
Merkley  of Oregon, the Democrats who authored the Volcker rule’s
ban on proprietary trading and conflicts of interest in the
Dodd-Frank Act, said the piece strengthened the case for
restrictions on Wall Street trading.  Congress can’t “legislate the culture but I think the
heart of this goes to why we needed the Merkley-Levin
amendment,” Merkley, a member of the Senate Banking Committee,
said in an interview.  Lawmakers on Capitol Hill yesterday said the piece, which
has ricocheted through Wall Street firms, has had less of an
impact in  Washington , where Goldman Sachs’s business practices
and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein were the targets
of congressional hearings in 2010.  “Doing a little research before you call for hearings is
important to understand the totality of the story,” Senator
Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat on the Banking Committee,
said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who sits on the
Banking Committee, said Smith’s comments deserve greater
scrutiny. He was skeptical there was much Congress could do.  David Wells, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  New York ,
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  SEC Issues CDS Market Analysis to Aid Evaluation of Definitions  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission released a
staff analysis of data on credit-default swap transactions,
designed to help evaluate final Dodd-Frank Act rules for the
$708 trillion global swaps market.  The analysis by the agency’s  Division of Risk, Strategy and
Financial Innovation  was made available yesterday as part of the
comment file for rules proposed with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the SEC said in a statement. The rules,
proposed in December 2010, will define the terms “swap
dealer,” “security-based swap dealer,” “major swap
participant,” “major security-based swap participant” and
“eligible contract participant,” the agency said.  The SEC staff expects that commissioners will consider the
adoption of rules defining the terms within the next several
weeks, according to the statement.  Senators Urge $350 Million Revenue Limit for Lower IPO Threshold  U.S. legislation designed to cut barriers to initial public
offerings should be limited to firms with no more than $350
million in annual revenue, according to three Senate Democrats
pushing to revise the House measure.  Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island is working with Senators
Carl Levin of Michigan and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana on
amendments to the bill passed last week in the 390-23 vote in
the Republican-led House.  President Barack Obama’s backing and bipartisan support in
Congress have given momentum to the legislation, which would
exempt newly public companies from some reporting requirements
of the Dodd-Frank and Sarbanes-Oxley laws. Reed criticized the
House bill, saying the “on ramp” for IPOs “just goes too
far” in applying to firms with as much as $1 billion in
revenue.  The House package includes provisions that would undo a ban
on closely held firms soliciting investments and increase the
number of investors such firms can have. The amendment sought by
Reed, Landrieu and Levin would revise another provision to
increase oversight of firms engaging in so-called crowdfunding,
which would allow online solicitation and pooling of
investments.  Separately, Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the former chairman
of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Wilbur Ross , the
billionaire chairman of private-equity firm WL Ross & Co., and
Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, offer their views on an opinion piece
written by a departing Goldman Sachs Group Inc. employee
criticizing the firm.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Action  EU Markets Regulator Endorses U.S. Credit-Rating Companies  Regulation of credit-rating companies in the U.S., Canada,
 Hong Kong  and Singapore is in line with European Union rules,
the region’s top markets regulator said in an e-mailed
statement.  The European Securities and Markets Authority said it
signed cooperation agreements with financial regulators from the
countries, allowing European financial firms to continue to use
credit ratings from providers in these jurisdictions beyond
April this year.  Lloyds Bank Has Been Named in Private U.S. Libor Lawsuits  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LYG)  has been named in private lawsuits
in the U.S. relating to how various banks set the London
interbank offered rate, the London-based lender said in its
annual report yesterday.  “The Group has received requests from some government
agencies for information and is co-operating with their
investigations,” Lloyds said in the report.  Vale, Newmont Retain Appetite for Indonesia Mines Amid Stake Cut  Global companies led by  Vale SA (VALE3)  and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) 
plan to invest in Indonesia’s mines, undeterred by a new rule
cutting foreign ownership, as they hunt for resources in the
world’s biggest exporter of tin and thermal coal.  PT Vale Indonesia, a unit of the world’s second-biggest
nickel producer, the Adani Group, controlled by Indian
billionaire Gautam Adani, Hong Kong-based  G-Resources Group Ltd. (1051) 
and Canadian explorer  East Asia Minerals Corp. (EAS)  said this week
they will boost output at their Indonesian operations even as
they need to cut their holdings in local ventures.  The companies are awaiting rules on how to reduce their
stakes to 49 percent after President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s
decree last month, aimed at increasing the participation of
local investors in mining.  South Africa  and Mongolia are also
weighing additional measures to gain a greater share of mining
profits.  The Indonesian regulation, signed in February and announced
this month, requires overseas companies to reduce their stakes
in local ventures to 49 percent within 10 years of starting
production. It extends a 2009 law mandating local ownership of
at least 20 percent in joint ventures by the sixth year of
production.  For more, click here.  Groupon Broke Consumer-Protection Rules, U.K. Regulator Says  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) ’s U.K. unit breached consumer-protection rules
and must change its pricing, product claims and advertising
practices, according to the U.K.’s consumer watchdog.  Groupon must ensure its discounts are “honest and
transparent,” that the merchant providing the goods is able to
meet demand and that “health or beauty product claims are
supported by adequate substantiation,” the Office of Fair
Trading said in a statement on its  website .  “As a young and innovative business, Groupon acknowledges
that our processes and procedures have not always kept pace with
our rapid growth,” Roy Blanga, the company’s U.K. managing
director, said in an e-mailed statement. “We take their
concerns very seriously and will be willingly implementing the
recommended changes.”  The company pulled a 2011 advertisement that aired during
the Super Bowl following public criticism that it made light of
repression in  Tibet . Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  later
 apologized  for the ad.  Courts  Citigroup-SEC Trial Is Delayed by Federal Appeals Court  Citigroup Inc. and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission won a delay in the trial of a lawsuit the agency
brought against the bank while an appeals court considers a
judge’s refusal to approve their $285 million settlement.  In November, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff declined to
approve the accord resolving claims that New York-based
Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, misled investors in a $1
billion financial product linked to risky mortgages. He ordered
them to go to trial, which was scheduled for July 16.  “The SEC and Citigroup have made a strong showing of
likelihood of success in setting aside the district court’s
rejection of their settlement,” the court wrote.  In his decision, Rakoff criticized the agency’s practice of
settling without requiring the subject of the allegations to
admit wrongdoing, and said the proposed pact was “neither fair,
nor reasonable, nor adequate, nor in the public interest.” The
agreement didn’t provide him with “any proven or admitted
facts” to inform his judgment, he said.  Rakoff didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the appeals-court ruling. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup
spokeswoman, said the company was pleased with the appeals
court’s ruling.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-05227, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (New York). The district court case is
11-cv-7387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Vale Says Court Suspends Collateral Payment in Tax Dispute  Vale SA (VALE5)  said a Brazilian court freed it from making
collateral payments as part of a dispute over 30.7 billion reais
($17.1 billion) worth of taxes claimed by the government.  The ruling from the Superior Justice Tribunal, which
overturned claims including a 1.6 billion-real guarantee
payment, suspends all collateral requests until a final ruling
on the case, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said late in the
day on March 14 in an e-mailed statement.  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer and Brazil’s
biggest exporter, has been challenging taxes levied on its
foreign subsidiaries’ profits since 2003. The ruling means it
won’t need to make guarantee payments on four claims from the
Finance Ministry’s revenue service, allaying investors’ concern
the dispute will cause losses,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  analysts led by
Leonardo Correa said.  A Vale official in Rio, who declined to be named according
to corporate policy, said the company won’t comment further than
the March 14 statement.  Interviews/Speeches  Goldman’s ‘Change in Culture’ Hurts Clients, Greenberg Says  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the former chairman of American
International Group Inc., said  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  had a
“change in culture” that made the securities firm less
responsive to clients.  “You didn’t have investment bankers running the firm, you
had traders running the firm” after Goldman Sachs went public,
Greenberg told Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu yesterday in an
interview on the “In the Loop” program. “And a trader has a
short-term memory, and a short-term look at things, and that
change really has changed the culture of Goldman Sachs. It is
not the Goldman Sachs that represented companies as an
investment banker.”  Greg Smith March 14 blamed Goldman Sachs Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd Blankfein and President Gary Cohn for a “decline
in the firm’s moral fiber” in a New York Times op-ed piece in
which Smith announced his resignation from a post in London
selling derivatives. Executives at Goldman Sachs are mistreating
clients even after the firm paid $550 million to settle a fraud
suit with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Smith wrote.  Greenberg said he counted on Goldman Sachs for investment
banking when he ran the New York-based insurer. AIG later took
billions of dollars of losses on collateralized debt obligations
it backed for Goldman Sachs and ran short of cash. The insurer
averted bankruptcy only because of a U.S. bailout that swelled
to $182.3 billion.  Greenberg’s former firm had a “contentious relationship”
with Goldman Sachs, then-Federal Crisis Inquiry Commission
Chairman Phil Angelides said in 2010.  Levitt Says Goldman Is ‘Very Conscious’ of Criticism  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and a Bloomberg LP board member, talked
about a New York Times opinion piece written by a departing
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. employee attacking the firm.  Levitt spoke with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  Orenbuch Says Citigroup Buyback Plan May Drop to Zero  Moshe Orenbuch, an equity research analyst at  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , talked about results of the Federal Reserve stress
tests on banks and the outlook for banks to return capital to
shareholders.  Orenbuch spoke with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Kazakhstan’s BTA Bank Said to Consider Balapanov as New CEO  BTA Bank (BTAS) , the Kazakh lender that’s seeking to restructure
its debts for a second time in as many years, may name former
Kazkommertsbank Managing Director Yerik Balapanov as its new
chief executive officer, said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  Balapanov, 43, who resigned from Kazkommertsbank,
Kazakhstan’s largest lender by assets, on Feb. 24, has already
begun work at BTA, the two people said, declining to be
identified because the appointment must be approved by the
bank’s board of directors.  Balapanov’s secretary at BTA said he wasn’t available for
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. A secretary for Askhat
Beisenbayev, BTA’s acting CEO, referred questions to the bank’s
press service, which declined to comment immediately when
contacted outside of normal business hours. The  National
Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna , which holds an 81.5 percent stake
in BTA, didn’t respond to e-mailed questions sent after business
hours.  BTA is negotiating its second debt restructuring since 2010
after failing to make an interest payment on its July 2018
dollar bonds in January.  Hector Sants to Step Down as FSA Chief Later This Year  Hector Sants, the chief executive of the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, will step down at the end of June.  Sants won’t lead the Prudential Regulation Authority, a
unit of the  Bank of England  which will be responsible for
banking supervision starting next year, according to an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  