-- Lacker Says Fed May Need to Raise Interest Rates in 2013
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-03-16T04:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/lacker-says-fed-may-need-to-raise-interest-rates-in-2013-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the U.S. central bank probably
will need to raise interest rates next year to contain inflation
as the economy accelerates.  “My current assessment is that an increase in interest
rates is likely to be necessary some time in 2013,” Lacker said
in a statement on the Richmond Fed’s website. He explained why
he opposed the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s March 13
statement that economic conditions are likely to warrant
“exceptionally low” levels of the federal funds rate at least
through late-2014.  “The economy is expanding at a moderate pace, and
inflation is close to the committee’s 2 percent objective,”
Lacker said. “As the expansion continues, the federal funds
rate will need to rise in order to prevent the emergence of
inflationary pressures.”  Lacker’s opposition this week was his second straight
dissenting vote. He said in a Jan. 27  statement  after that
month’s FOMC meeting that interest rates may need to rise before
late 2014 to prevent an increase in inflation. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has been unable to forge unanimity on the committee
since June, as the panel’s decisions drew objection from policy
makers both in favor and opposed to more stimulus.  “I dissented because I do not believe economic conditions
are likely to warrant an exceptionally low federal funds rate
for this length of time,” Lacker said in today’s statement.  The central bank has kept its target overnight  interest
rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. In
January, it extended its low-rate commitment from a previous
date of mid-2013.  Lacker, 56, became a voting member of the FOMC in January
as part of a rotation among the Fed’s 12 regional presidents. He
became president of the Richmond Fed in 2004 after five years as
director of the regional bank’s research department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  