-- Afghan Spree Possibly Tied to Alcohol, U.S. Official Says
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2012-03-16T16:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/afghan-spree-possibly-tied-to-alcohol-u-s-official-says.html
The stress of a fourth combat
deployment, a troubled marriage and alcohol use appear to have
combined to provoke the killings of 16 Afghan civilians by an
American soldier, said a U.S. official briefed on the case.  The drinking, a violation of regulations governing U.S.
troops in combat zones, may have been what sent the 38-year-old
Army staff sergeant over the edge, said the official. The
soldier was being flown to the U.S. today, according to the
Pentagon.  The soldier’s lawyer, John Henry Browne, denied that
alcohol use or domestic discord played a role, saying the
soldier had “a  very strong marriage.” After sustaining a
concussive head injury and losing part of a foot in tours in
Iraq, the soldier and his family were disappointed when he was
sent to  Afghanistan , Browne said.  “It would be fair to say that he and the family were not
happy that he was going back,” Browne told reporters yesterday
at his office in Seattle, about 50 miles (80 kilometers) north
of Joint Base Lewis-McChord, the soldier’s home station. “The
brigade was told that they would not be redeployed.”  A soldier in the same unit in southern Afghanistan had been
“gravely injured” a day before the shootings, an incident that
affected everyone in the unit, Browne said.  Fort Leavenworth  Browne didn’t reveal the soldier’s name, which the military
has also declined to release. The soldier, who was flown to
 Kuwait  from his base in southern Afghanistan on March 14, is
likely to be held at the maximum-security military prison at
Fort Leavenworth,  Kansas , a defense official said.  The officials who discussed the case spoke on condition of
anonymity because the case remains under investigation.  A Pentagon spokesman, Navy Captain John Kirby, told
reporters the suspect is being brought to the U.S. and declined
to name the destination.  He said the transfer isn’t related to
when charges will be filed against the soldier and his name will
be made public.  “The movement is completely separate from the process
ongoing now with respect to investigation and prosecutorial
work, so I wouldn’t read anything into his movement in terms of
trying to second-guess the timing of charges,” Kirby said.
“They are completely separate.”  Investigators continue to seek a motive for the March 11
killings in which the soldier opened fire on civilians in their
homes, according to an Army memo to Congress. The incident
threatens to erode U.S.-Afghan relations, drain remaining U.S.
and European support for the war and add pressure to speed troop
withdrawals.  Generally ‘Mild-Mannered’  The soldier, originally from the Midwest, was highly
decorated and is “in general very mild-mannered,” according to
Browne, who represented serial killer Ted Bundy, executed in
1989, and, more recently, 20-year-old Colton Harris-Moore, known
as the “Barefoot Bandit” for stealing aircraft, boats and cars
in a multistate crime spree.  Browne, 65, joined the King County Public Defender’s Office
in 1975 and became chief trial attorney, according to a 1998
 Seattle  Times profile. After starting his own practice in the
late 1970s, he represented Benjamin Ng, accused of helping to
kill 13 people in  Washington ’s worst mass-murder, according to
the newspaper. The jury spared Ng’s life.  The shooting suspect arrived in Afghanistan on Dec. 3 from
Lewis-McChord, the Army said in a memo prepared for members of
Congress. It was his first deployment to the country after three
tours in Iraq, Pentagon spokesman  George Little  has said.  “He and the family were told that his tours in the  Middle
East  were over, and then literally overnight that changed,”
Browne said.  Qualified Sniper  The Afghan shooting suspect trained as an infantryman and
was a qualified sniper, according to a U.S. defense official
familiar with the case. The alleged gunman’s job in Afghanistan
was providing “force protection” for a Special Forces
compound, said a second official. The officials spoke on
condition of anonymity because charges haven’t been filed.  Before his duty in Afghanistan, the soldier’s most recent
tour in  Iraq  ended in 2010, an official said. Browne said the
soldier suffered a head injury in a vehicle rollover accident
and lost part of a foot in another incident. The lawyer said his
client got a screening for the head injury at his U.S. base,
though it’s unclear how complete the exam was or if he was
suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.  “I’ve read from reports that he had a screening
evaluation,” Richard Adler, a Seattle psychiatrist working with
Browne, said at the news conference. “Screening evaluations are
different from thorough, complete, comprehensive examinations.”  Two Villages  Last weekend, the soldier hiked to a village 800 meters
(0.5 miles) south of his base near Kandahar city and then to
another village 500 meters north of the base to commit the
killings, the Army said in the memo to Congress.  The soldier has spent his entire career at Lewis-McChord,
Browne said. The soldier’s wife and two children have been moved
inside the base for their safety, the official said.  In reaction to the shootings, Afghan President  Hamid Karzai 
told visiting U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  yesterday that
U.S.-led coalition forces must leave rural areas and withdraw to
major bases, according to a statement from Karzai’s office.  American troops triggered riots last month by burning
copies of the Koran, the Islamic scripture, in a rubbish pit at
the main U.S. base in the country. In January, Afghans protested
over a video that showed U.S. Marines urinating on the bodies of
Afghans they had killed.  Home Base  Lewis-McChord, the biggest base on the U.S. West Coast, has
been the focus of headlines and government inquiries into
suicides, deaths and crimes by soldiers based there. Some
veterans have said repeated deployments and inadequate mental-
 health services  are contributing factors.  In a previous case of civilian killings in Afghanistan, a
soldier was convicted last year of leading a rogue Army unit
from Joint Base Lewis-McChord -- where the suspect in the new
case is based -- that killed three Afghan civilians for sport.
That soldier, Staff Sergeant Calvin Gibbs, was sentenced to life
in prison.  “There is discussion of the death penalty, understandably
I think in this situation,” Browne said. “It’s certainly not
off the table at this point. It’s our hope that maybe it will
be. We don’t know anything about our client’s state of mind, we
don’t know anything about the facts of the case, and whether
they can even prove he did what he’s accused of.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  