-- Afghans Detained in U.S. Defense Chief Panetta Runway Incident
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-16T10:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/afghans-detained-in-u-s-defense-chief-panetta-runway-incident.html
Three people were detained after an
Afghan tried to drive his truck into a welcoming party during
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ’s arrival at a military base in
southern Afghanistan this week, a U.S. defense official said.  The three included the Afghan driver’s father and brother,
the official told reporters on condition of anonymity. Like the
driver, the three were interpreters for coalition forces in
Helmand Province, the official said.  The driver, who ditched the vehicle and emerged in flames,
died yesterday of his burns. The official was uncertain whether
the three were still in custody and didn’t know whether the
Afghan driver had been armed.  U.S. authorities haven’t changed their assessment that the
driver was unlikely to have targeted Panetta directly, the
official told reporters traveling with the defense chief on his
way back to Washington today. It’s unlikely the driver could
have known who was arriving on the busy airstrip at the British
Camp Bastion, officials said.  The new U.S. Marine commander in southern  Afghanistan  and
his British deputy were among the welcoming party, which
scattered when the vehicle barreled toward them, the defense
official said. In addition to Afghanistan, Panetta also made
stops in Kyrgyzstan and the  United Arab Emirates .  “I think he had an intent to harm,” Lieutenant General
Curtis Scaparrotti told reporters traveling with Panetta earlier
this week, referring to the driver. “I think he tried to hit
people on the ramp,” he said without elaborating.  Koran Burning  The incident was the latest clash between Afghans and
Americans since the burning of copies of the Koran last month at
the main U.S. military base outside the capital Kabul. The
resulting tensions cast doubt on the Obama administration’s
strategy of working closely with Afghans to prepare them for
taking over security fully by the end of 2014.  The March 11 shooting of 16 Afghan civilians, allegedly by
an American soldier, has also cast a shadow over the
relationship, though the killings haven’t sparked any violent
confrontations.  The vehicle, a British military SUV, was reported as stolen
about 30 minutes before the incident with the arrival party, the
official said. It was taken from Camp Leatherneck, a U.S. Marine
base adjacent to Camp Bastion.  The driver ran into a British soldier with the stolen
vehicle before the runway incident, the U.S. official said. The
British soldier is recovering, the official said.  At the runway, base personnel noticed smoke and saw the
Afghan driver on fire at about the time Panetta’s plane was
taxiing, the official said. The military cargo plane was
diverted to park on another part of the runway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  