-- Lagarde Lacks Votes in Plan Boosting IMF Resources, China Clout
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-03-16T17:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/lagarde-lacks-votes-in-plan-boosting-imf-resources-china-clout.html
The head of the  International
Monetary Fund  urged the U.S. and other member nations to ratify
a 2010 decision that would double the fund’s permanent resources
as it seeks to quell the European debt crisis.  As of March 12, IMF states holding a 53 percent stake in
the fund had ratified the agreement, with 70 percent needed for
passage, an IMF staff report said today. A related measure on
board seats had approval from 45 percent of the voting power,
compared with 85 percent needed.  “I urge remaining countries to complete the necessary
legislative steps and other legal measures quickly to implement
this important agreement within the agreed time frame,” IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in an e-mailed
statement.  The lack of final approval deprives the Washington-based
IMF of new resources as it seeks more funds to meet potential
loan demand linked to  Europe . It also pushes back changes that
will make China the third-largest member at the 187-country IMF
and weaken European influence.  The IMF staff said a “substantial effort” was needed to
meet a tentative October deadline. At stake are the IMF’s
 quotas , which determine nations’ voting rights and access to
funding.  Under the agreement, the amount the IMF could draw on
anytime would double to about $730 billion. The IMF currently
has about  $391 billion  available to lend under a combination of
permanent resources and a temporary emergency pool. The
agreement is separate from Lagarde’s efforts to secure an
additional $500 billion in temporary lending resources.  The agreement’s future hinges in part on approval by the
U.S., the largest IMF member with about 17 percent of votes and
18 percent of quota. The package hasn’t yet been discussed by
Congress, where Republican lawmakers have introduced a bill to
rescind a  credit line  the U.S. gave the IMF in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  