-- Air Berlin Full-Year Loss Widens on Arab Spring, German Tax
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-03-16T13:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/air-berlin-s-full-year-loss-widens-on-arab-spring-german-taxes.html
Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,  Europe ’s third-
biggest discount carrier, said losses widened last year as tax
and fuel expenses crimped margins and political unrest in North
Africa led to a decline in the number of tourist flights.  The Berlin-based airline had a net loss of 271.8 million
euros ($348 million), versus 97.2 million euros a year earlier,
it said today in a statement. The average loss  estimated  by
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was 169 million euros.  Air Berlin, almost 30 percent owned by  Etihad Airways  after
a deal in December, paid 229.2 million euros more for fuel, and
a German airport tax introduced at the start of 2011 cost it
165.6 million euros. Targeted savings of 200 million euros will
all be implemented this year, while first-quarter results should
improve after occupancy approached 75 percent in January for the
first time since the company began monthly records, it said.  “The numbers are very bad, worse than expected, but the
planned savings for 2012 are very ambitious,” said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt who
recommends selling Air Berlin shares. “Those savings and the
better first quarter look to be relatively good news.”  Shares Drop  Air Berlin, which revealed that it’s in code-share talks
with Air France less than a week before it’s due to join the
British Airways-led Oneworld alliance, fell as much as 3.5
percent. The stock was trading 0.5 percent lower at 2.29 euros
as of 2:14 p.m. in Frankfurt, taking the decline this year to
8.3 percent and valuing the company at 267 million euros.  While sales rose 14 percent to 4.23 billion euros, spurred
by the acquisition of remaining shares of Vienna-based carrier
Niki Luftfahrt GmbH and single-seat ticket bookings favored by
business travelers, the operating loss widened to 247 million
euros from 9.3 million euros, and Chief Executive Officer
Hartmut Mehdorn declined to provide estimates for 2012.  “The slump in tourism resulting from the political unrest
in Egypt and Tunisia hit us particularly hard,” said the CEO,
who assumed the role on an interim basis in September and said
today he has been asked to stay until the end of 2013. “The same
applies to the introduction of the aviation tax in  Germany .”  About 65 percent of savings sought in 2012 will come in the
second half, boosting profitability for the 12 months, though
figures this quarter should exceed targets, Air Berlin said.
Revenue will also gain this year and the carrier is seeking a 5
percent gain in the per-passenger yield, a measure of fares.  Etihad Holding  Air Berlin (AB1)  has cut routes and flights as slowing economies
hurt demand, reducing capacity by more than 1 million seats to
save 250 million euros and pare debt by 50 million euros. It’s
postponing receipt 19 jets in 2012 and 2013 and closing bases in
Erfurt and Dortmund, shaving $508 million from spending.  Mehdorn said at an earnings briefing that Air Berlin is in
talks with the French unit of  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Europe’s
biggest airline, about an agreement that would allow the two
carriers to place their codes on each other’s flights.  A deal might be reached in time for the winter timetable,
he said. The plan is being coordinated alongside Abu Dhabi-based
Etihad, with which Air Berlin has also agreed to codeshare.  Etihad agreed a $350 million package of financing and funds
for planes with Air Berlin in December. The Gulf carrier reckons
a 105 million-euro equity investment will be recouped in extra
revenue in two years, making it a better bet for cracking the
tightly regulated German market than adding new airliners.  Etihad, the third-biggest Middle Eastern carrier, doesn’t
plan to increase its stake further, Mehdorn said.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Germany’s biggest airline, reported
a full-year net loss of 13 million euros on Feb. 7 as high fuel
costs and the unprofitable U.K.-based BMI unit that it’s in the
process of selling weighed on profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in  Frankfurt  at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  