-- Lakers Trade 5-Time Champ Fisher for Hill as NBA Deadline Passes
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/lakers-trade-5-time-champ-fisher-for-hill-as-nba-deadline-passes.html
The  Los Angeles Lakers  traded away
five-time National Basketball Association champion Derek Fisher
and two first-round draft picks before yesterday’s deadline.  The Lakers acquired three players as the team looks to
return to the NBA Finals for the eighth time in 13 seasons.  The Lakers sent a first-round draft pick and Fisher, a 37-
year-old guard who is the president of the NBA Players
Association, to the Houston Rockets in return for Jordan Hill.  “Few who have worn the Lakers uniform have done so with as
much class as Derek,” Lakers owner Jerry Buss said in a
statement on the team’s website.  Los Angeles also dealt forward Luke Walton, guard Jason Kapono and its 2012 first-round pick to  Cleveland  for guard
Ramon Sessions and forward Christian Eyenga, the Cavaliers said
in an e-mailed release.  As part of the deal with the Lakers, Cleveland also retains
the right to swap its 2013 first-round pick with that of the
Lakers, according to the Cavaliers’ statement.  In total 17 players and eight draft picks were moved prior
to the 3 p.m. New York deadline. Perhaps the biggest news
focused on a player who stayed put.  Howard Stays Put  Orlando  Magic center Dwight Howard, the three-time NBA
Defensive Player of the Year, announced yesterday that he’d
waive a clause in his contract that would have allowed him to
become a free agent after this season. That kept him off the
trading block and under contract with Orlando through the
2012-13 season.  The  New Jersey Nets , mentioned as a possible destination
for Howard, gave up a first-round pick to acquire forward Gerald Wallace from the  Portland Trail Blazers , general manager Billy King said on the team’s website. The Nets sent forwards Mehmet Okur and Shawne Williams and  New Jersey ’s first-round draft pick
in 2012 to the Trail Blazers in exchange for Wallace, an All-
Star in 2010.  “We are excited to add Gerald’s experience and
toughness,” King said. “His leadership and defensive prowess
will be assets to our team going forward.”  The Trail Blazers, who yesterday fired coach Nate McMillan
a day after a 42-point defeat to the  New York Knicks , also
traded 37-year-old center Marcus Camby to the  Houston Rockets 
for guard Jonny Flynn, center Hasheem Thabeet and a conditional
2012 second-round pick, according to the league.  Camby, the league’s Defensive Player of the Year in 2007,
has led the NBA in blocks four times, most recently in 2008.
Thabeet and Flynn, both in their third NBA season, provide youth
to the Trail Blazers, who are last in the Western Conference’s
Northwest Division.  Blazers Cut Oden  In addition, Portland waived former No. 1 overall pick Greg Oden. The 24-year-old center, who is due to become a free agent
at the end of the season, has been limited to 82 games because
of injury since being drafted in 2007.  The Washington Wizards acquired center Nene, forward Brian Cook and a 2015 second-round draft pick in a three-team trade
with the Denver Nuggets and  Los Angeles  Clippers, Wizards
President Ernie Grunfeld announced on the team’s website.  Washington sent centers JaVale McGee and Ronny Turiaf to
the Nuggets, and guard Nick Young to the Clippers. Nene has
spent his entire 10-year career in Denver. Cook and the draft
pick came from Los Angeles.  Elsewhere, the  Philadelphia 76ers  said they acquired
guard/forward Sam Young from the Memphis Grizzlies in exchange
for the rights to forward Ricky Sanchez. The  Indiana Pacers 
traded a 2012 second-round pick and cash to the  Toronto Raptors 
for guard Leandro Barbosa, the 2007 NBA Sixth Man of the Year.
The trade was announced by the Raptors in an e-mailed release.  The  San Antonio Spurs  sent forward Richard Jefferson, guard
T.J. Ford and a 2012 first-round pick to the  Golden State
Warriors  for guard Stephen Jackson, according to the team’s
website. Jefferson spent the first seven years of his career
with the Nets; Ford announced his retirement from the league
this week.  Atlanta traded a 2012 second-round pick to the Warriors in
exchange for cash, Hawks’ General Manager Rick Sund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  