-- Malaysia Said to Prepare for Potential Election in May or June
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2012-03-16T02:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/malaysia-said-to-prepare-for-potential-election-in-may-or-june.html
Malaysia’s government is discussing
the possibility of an early election in May or June, ahead of
the due date in early 2013, according to four officials who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.  Prime Minister Najib Razak is scheduled to speak on March
26 to as many as 4,000 information ministry staff, who help
oversee elections, the government officials said. One date
proposed for the contest is June 3, according to three
of the officials.  The ruling National Front coalition is seeking to extend
its 55 years in power, and an early vote would allow Najib to
take advantage of rising public approval after the government
announced cash handouts and vowed to overhaul security laws.
Satisfaction with Najib’s leadership rose to 69 percent last
month from 59 percent in August, according to a poll by the
Merdeka Center for Opinion Research.  “All signs seem to be pointing toward an election at the
end of May or early June,” Ong Kian Ming, a political analyst
at UCSI University in  Kuala Lumpur , said by phone. “It’s the
best timing for Najib. If he does wait longer there may be other
scandals that emerge and the goodwill that he’s enjoying from
the budget handouts given out earlier this year may be lost.”  Election Sweeteners  While Najib has offered election sweeteners, he is also
grappling with a potential scandal after a member of the ruling
party said she’ll resign from the Cabinet amid a corruption
probe against her husband. Shahrizat Abdul Jalil will step down
next month as minister for women, family and community,
according to the Star newspaper.  Najib had already sparked speculation of an early vote when
he said in December that preparations had begun for the contest.
His budget announced in October featured cash payments to low-
income families.  Malaysia will also announce plans for a minimum wage this
month, a government official said earlier this week. Najib’s
cabinet has yet to complete the plan, according to the official.  Najib’s rising popularity has reduced the risk of a
surprise election result such as one that occurred in 2008 and
led to a stock market sell-off, according to a March 13 report
from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. In 2008, the ruling National
Front lost a third of its seats.  Stock Rise  Since Najib took office in April 3, 2009, the benchmark
 FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  has risen 74 percent compared
with a 47 percent gain for the MSCI Asia Pacific index.  “The Prime Minister is focused on delivering prosperity,
security and democracy for all Malaysians and will call an
election when the time is right for the country,” a Malaysian
government spokesperson said by e-mail.  Malaysia’s opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  was acquitted of
sodomy charges in January that he claimed were politically
motivated. He pledged to “clamor for reform” in a bid to
unseat Najib after the verdict.  Gross domestic product may expand 5 percent to 6 percent
this year, Najib said in the annual budget speech on Oct. 7. The
 economy  expanded by 5.1 percent last year, the government said
Feb. 15.  Before 2008, the worst showing for the National Front was
in 1969, when candidates representing urban ethnic Chinese and
rural Islamic opposition groups won more than a third of seats
in Parliament. Ethnic Chinese victory marches prompted a
backlash from Malay groups that led to emergency rule.  Najib’s father, Abdul Razak, took over as prime minister in
1970 and responded by creating an affirmative-action policy that
gave Malays educational, housing and job preferences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  