-- Amazon Sees Further Price Drops in Cloud, Pressuring Microsoft
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-03-16T16:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/amazon-sees-further-price-drops-in-cloud-pressuring-microsoft.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which dropped
prices on its Internet-based cloud-computing service last week,
said it will keep cutting when it can, putting pressure on
competitors like  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to keep its own prices low.  Customers of Amazon’s EC2 service, which lets clients run
their programs on the online retailer’s server computers, saw
price cuts of as much as 37 percent on March 5, and other Amazon
cloud service prices were trimmed as well. Microsoft  responded 
days later with reductions on its rival Azure services.  “We expect prices to be lower and lower over time, and
load volumes to be higher and higher,” said Adam Selipsky, a
vice president at Amazon Web Services. Amazon has lowered prices
19 times in the 6 years it has sold Amazon Web Services, which
has gained customers as more companies seek to run and store
applications in outside data centers instead of maintaining the
servers themselves.  As they tussle over price, the resulting narrower profit
margins may be tough to swallow for both companies. Microsoft is
under pressure from investors concerned about its entry into
markets where costs are higher than its traditional software
business. Meanwhile, Amazon’s stock has slid about 25 percent
from a record in October as expanded investments in areas such
as cloud services and the Kindle Fire tablet halved margins in
2011.  “It’s another round of a race to the bottom, and this
won’t be the last one,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC
Partners in  New York . “Amazon has made it pretty clear that
they are interested in share over profits, at least for now.”  Margin Shock  Microsoft and Amazon are jousting to stay competitive on
price for a reason: The market for so-called public cloud
services will increase from $21.5 billion in 2010 to $72.9
billion in 2015, according to the most recent  forecast  from
researcher IDC, released in June.  As a veteran of the retail business -- with its razor-thin
margins -- Seattle-based Amazon is more adept at dealing with
pricing pressure than Microsoft, analysts said.  Amazon’s margins are about 10 percent on cloud services, a
higher rate than its retail businesses, estimates  David Smith ,
an analyst at Gartner Inc. For Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, whose operating margins are 60 percent or wider on
Windows and Office software, the scantier cloud profits are a
more difficult adjustment, he said.  Amazon’s overall operating margin -- an indicator of
profitability that measures revenue minus operating expenses --
narrowed by more than half to 1.8 percent last year, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Microsoft’s was little changed at
39 percent in fiscal 2011.  Passing On Savings  “Amazon is setting the price, and that’s the way it’s
going to be for some time,” said Smith. While Selipsky said the
company is trying to pass along its operational savings to
customers, Gartner’s Smith said the reductions are more about
pressuring rivals. “It’s in their best interest to cut because
they force the others to lower prices.”  Pricing pressure is likely to persist as new companies
enter the market.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is now testing a competing
service and plans to release it officially this spring, said
Michael Thacker, a spokesman.  Google last week also trimmed the price of its cloud-based
storage service. Amazon had cut the price on its competing
service last month.  Meredith Lynch, a spokeswoman for Microsoft, declined to
comment on the price competition.  The only way Amazon might lose pricing power is if an
overseas provider with even lower costs enters the cloud-
services market, or a company that operates in another industry
with low margins, such as a website-registration company like  Go
Daddy Group Inc. (DADY) , starts to offer the same services, said Smith.  “It’s a commodity business,” said BGC’s Gillis. “These
are ubiquitous services where you win with massive scale, and
the way that you achieve massive scale is to lower the price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  