-- Man Group Sees Hedge Fund Demand From Asia-Pacific Investors
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-03-16T03:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/man-group-sees-hedge-fund-demand-from-asia-pacific-investors-1-.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge fund, is seeing demand for hedge funds
from sovereign and institutional investors in the Asia-Pacific
region, said Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke .  “They are looking for a degree of capital protection,”
Clarke said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in  Hong
Kong  today. “They’re looking for liquidity in uncertain markets.
And most of them have the requirements to continue to deploy
assets in markets.”  About 37 percent of institutional investors in the Asia-
Pacific region plan to increase allocations to hedge funds,
helping expand the assets in the global industry, according to a
February  survey  by Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm,
and the Global Absolute Return Congress, a meeting organizer.  The investors have retained interest in  hedge funds  even
after 68 percent of them said hedge fund returns in 2011 failed
to meet their expectations, according to the survey. Hedge funds
globally  lost  on average 5 percent last year in the second-worst
annual return since Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.
started to track data in 1990.  More Risk Taking  Clarke said he also sees investors taking more risks,
adding that equity long-short funds that bet on rising and
falling stock prices will do well, he said. Credit and
commodity-related strategies will also be appealing to investors,
he added, without elaborating.  “This is the beginning of a significant shift from bonds
into equities and other strategies,” he said.  Man Group’s assets under management rose 1.9 percent in the
first two months this year to $59.5 billion, reversing last
year’s decline, as investor redemptions slowed.  It raised about a quarter of its global assets from  Asia  as
of September. In November, it appointed Li Yifei to head its
Chinese office. Li worked for Viacom Inc. in  China  and was
managing director of the entertainment company’s  MTV Networks 
division in the country.  International hedge funds registered in  Shanghai  may be
allowed to raise $5 billion in the Chinese currency for overseas
investment, the country’s Caixin Online reported on March 1.  Europe Debt Crisis  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis led to investment losses,
prompting investors to redeem from Man Group’s funds in search
of safer assets last year. Analysts cut their estimates for Man
Group’s 2012 earnings, concluding that the decline in assets and
the investment performance of its largest hedge fund, AHL
Diversified, would threaten fee revenues.  Clients withdrew a net $2.5 billion from Man Group’s funds
in the fourth quarter amid concern that the European debt crisis
would make it more difficult for money managers to make profits.
Since the end of March 2011, assets managed by the firm have
fallen 14 percent from $69.1 billion.  The company’s investment funds, which include hedge funds
and the so-called long-only strategies that bet on rising asset
prices, lost a net $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter.  AHL (MAHLDGB) , a $21 billion program that uses computer algorithms to
spot profitable trades in  futures markets , climbed 2.5 percent
this year through Feb. 27. Man Group bought GLG Partners LP in
2010 for $1.6 billion to expand business.  Man Group announced in January a plan to trim costs by 10
percent by cutting pay and jobs.  Adjusted pretax  profit  in the nine months through December
was $262 million compared with $599 million in the 12 months
through March 2011. Man Group has changed its year-end reporting
period to December.  Man Group’s share price rose almost 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 