-- Manchester United Names Ex-JPMorgan Banker as Vice Chairman
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-16T15:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/manchester-united-names-ex-j-p-morgan-banker-as-vice-chairman.html
Former banker Ed Woodward, who
quit JPMorgan Chase & Co. to join  Manchester United  following
the Glazer family’s takeover in 2005, has been appointed as the
soccer club’s vice chairman.  Chief of staff Woodward, who operates from the 19-time
English champion’s London sales office, is responsible for
managing the club’s commercial operation, which last year
brought record sales of more than 100 million pounds ($158.5
million), or about a third of its annual revenue.  Woodward was at JPMorgan when it helped the Glazers, owners
of the  National Football League ’s  Tampa Bay Buccaneers , secure a
790 million pounds leveraged buyout of United. In January 2010,
he oversaw the club’s 500 million pounds bond sale and is
responsible for plans to raise $1 billion from an initial public
offering in  Singapore .  The new post doesn’t change Woodward’s role, which sees him
report directly to co-chairman Joel Glazer, and Chief Executive
Officer David Gill remains responsible for the club’s soccer
affairs, which includes negotiating player trades and salary
negotiations.  “Ed’s role will not change, but the board feels this
change makes his responsibilities on the commercial side much
clearer,” Manchester United spokesman Philip Townsend said in
an e-mailed statement.  The club’s pretax profit in the year-ended June 30 was 29.7
million pounds, compared with a loss of 15 million pounds in the
previous year.  Contract  Woodward and Commercial Director Richard Arnold introduced
changes to the team’s marketing strategy which led to a slew of
deals with companies, ranging from Malaysian snack-brand Mr.
Potato to Chilean wine producer Concha y Toro. In August the
team signed a 40 million-pound, four-year contract that gives
shipping company DHL the rights to put its logo on its training
apparel. Aon Corp. pays 20 million pounds per year for jersey
sponsorship.  United currently stands atop the Premier League after 28
games, one point ahead of rival neighbor  Manchester City . United
was eliminated yesterday by  Athletic Bilbao  from the Europa
League, European soccer’s second-tier competition, meaning it
won’t play a cup final for the first time in a decade. United
plays at Wolverhampton in the league in two days.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Tariq Panja in London at +44-20-7073-3677 or
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at +44-20-7673-2284 or
 celser@bloomberg.net  