-- Pettitte Ends Retirement in One-Year Contract With Yankees
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/andy-pettitte-ends-retirement-in-one-year-deal-with-yankees.html
Former All-Star pitcher  Andy Pettitte  signed a minor-league contract to return to the  New
York Yankees , ending his one-season retirement.  The one-year deal includes an invitation to the Major
League Baseball team’s spring training camp, the Yankees said in
a statement. Financial terms weren’t disclosed. The deal is
worth $2.5 million, according to the Yankees Entertainment &
Sports Network.  “My desire to work is back,” Pettitte said on a
conference call yesterday. “The commitment level wasn’t there
last year. I don’t know if it was because I had a year off, just
my desire to work was back. This is where I’m at right now.”  Pettitte, 39, said in February 2011 that he decided to end
his 16-year major league career because he didn’t want to play
another season although he was healthy.  “When people asked me if I would ever come back, I said
I’d probably be too embarrassed to come back because I’m
retired,” Pettitte said. “That’s really where I’ve been over
the last three or four days, I am embarrassed I’m coming back.
But then I’m like, ‘What can I do?’ Things have changed. I sure
don’t want to look back 10 years from now and say, ‘Man, I wish
I would have done that.’”  ‘He Can Help’  Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said yesterday that
the left-hander approached him during the offseason about
possibly returning.  “If he’s healthy, he can help us significantly,” Cashman
said on WFAN Radio in  New York . He said Pettitte may need
between six and 10 weeks to be ready to pitch in the major
leagues.  Pettitte was the first retiree among the Yankees’ “Core
Four,” a quartet of players who helped win four World Series
from 1996 to 2000. Catcher  Jorge Posada  retired this season.
Relief pitcher Mariano Rivera says he has made up his mind about
retirement and will play at least this year. Shortstop  Derek Jeter  has given no indications about when he might stop playing.  Pettitte said the day he announced he was leaving that he
knew he wouldn’t play in 2011 and didn’t rule out a future
return.  ‘Never Say Never’  “You can never say never,” he said. “I don’t think I
would be scared, if I literally went through this whole season
and I had hurt in my stomach that I wanted to pitch, to maybe
try it again.”  The left-hander helped the Yankees win five  World Series 
titles in 13 seasons in the Bronx, setting a record with 19
postseason victories. He was an All-Star in 2010 before a groin
injury limited his activity during the second half of that
season.  Pettitte returns with a 240-138 career record and a 3.88
earned run average, twice winning 20 games in a season. His 203
wins for the Yankees are third most in franchise history, behind
 Whitey Ford  (236) and Red Ruffing (231). He went 11-3 with a
3.83 ERA in 2010.  Pettitte pitched for three years with the  Houston Astros 
before returning to the Yankees in 2007. He said helping the
team win the 2009 World Series in the first year in its new
stadium was the most special part of his career.  Pettitte said he considered retiring after 2008, but the
draw of the new stadium kept him in a Yankees uniform. He put
off retirement in 2010 as well, he said, because he felt he owed
it to himself and the team to try to repeat as champions.  Pettitte has acknowledged that he used human growth
hormone, a banned strength builder, to help recover from
injuries. He was among potential witnesses in the U.S. case
against  Roger Clemens , a former teammate and training partner
who is accused of lying to a congressional committee about his
own steroid use. Clemens is set to go on trial for a second time
in  Washington  after his original case ended in a mistrial over
the prosecution’s presentation of barred evidence in July 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  