-- Manning Works Out for Elway and Denver Broncos Officials at Duke
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-03-17T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/manning-took-physical-worked-out-for-49ers-this-week-espn-says.html
Peyton Manning  worked out for the
 Denver Broncos  and was reported to have met with the San
Francisco 49ers, a team previously not listed among his suitors.  Manning, 35, the National Football League’s most-coveted
free agent, threw about 50 to 60 passes in front of John Elway
and other Broncos officials yesterday at  Duke University  in
Durham, North Carolina.  “We enjoyed visiting with Peyton today in N.C.,” Elway,
the Broncos’ executive vice president for football operations,
wrote on Twitter. “He threw the ball great and looked very
comfortable out there.”  Duke coach David Cutcliffe, who was offensive coordinator
at the University of Tennessee when Manning played quarterback
there in 1994 to 1997 and remains one of his friends, told
reporters after the workout that “he can throw the ball far
enough to beat people.”  “It’s hard to count the number of balls, but probably 50
or 60 balls and these are game-like throws,” Cutcliffe said.
“He’s throwing the football well and he’s worked hard to get to
this point.”  The NFL Network said Manning also is scheduled to work out
for the  Tennessee Titans  at some point.  ESPN reported that Manning worked out for the 49ers and had
a physical exam with a team doctor earlier this week. The
network said on its website that Manning threw passes on March
13 in Durham in front of 49ers coach  Jim Harbaugh , citing a
person close to the team who requested anonymity.  Bob Lange, a spokesman for the 49ers, said last night in an
e-mail that “we do not have any information to share at this
time.”  A four-time league Most Valuable Player, Manning was cut by
the  Indianapolis Colts  on March 7 after missing the 2011 season
following neck-fusion surgery. Manning said at the time that he
still had work left in his attempt to return to Pro Bowl form.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  