-- Apple Awaits as Austin Digs Deeper to Net Texas Expansion
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-03-16T03:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/apple-hits-pause-as-austin-digs-deeper-to-net-texas-plant.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may spurn Austin and go
to the Phoenix area to build an operations center that Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  said last week would bring 3,600 jobs to his
state’s capital, according to an Austin official.  Arizona’s biggest metropolitan area remains an alternative
for the Cupertino, California-based maker of iPhones, iPads and
Macintosh computers, Kevin Johns, Austin’s director of economic
growth and redevelopment services, said after a City Council
hearing on Apple’s expansion plans.  “There is no doubt we would be neck and neck and provide
anything Austin could provide and then some,” Mesa Mayor  Scott Smith  said. He said his city, just east of Phoenix, was among
Arizona sites being weighed for an Americas operations center.  Austin’s council is scheduled to vote March 22 on an $8.6
million incentive, adding to a $21 million state grant and
whatever Travis County, which includes the city, can offer to
Apple, which is sitting on almost $100 billion in cash or
equivalents. The company’s top tax and government affairs
executives met with the council yesterday on the incentives.  “We’re just trying to respond to what seems to be a very
fair evaluation of a couple of cities,” Johns said. “We’re
offering $8.6 million in tax abatement and in return we expect
to receive more than $14 million in benefits, so it is very good
for them and very good for us.”  ‘Looking Forward’  The company is “looking forward to building a new campus
in Austin, which will more than double the size of our workforce
there over the next decade,” according to a statement from
Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman. The company has about 3,500
workers in the Austin area today and won’t comment on
competition between sites, she said.  In another city east of Phoenix, Chandler Mayor Jay Tibshraeny said a site near an Intel Corp. project was one of
the finalists for Apple. He said a snag in the state capital
became an issue.  “I was told they needed some kind of tax policy assurances
at the state level that didn’t happen in the time frame they
needed it,” Tibshraeny said.  Perry, a Republican who bowed out of the race for the 2012
presidential nomination in January, trumpeted “Apple’s
commitment to create these new jobs in  Texas ” in a March 9
statement. The governor said the company’s $304 million
investment was made “in exchange” for the state’s offer of $21
million from the Texas Enterprise Fund over 10 years.  Local Aid  The deal was “contingent upon the finalization of
contracts and a local incentive agreement” with Austin and the
county, according to the governor’s statement. The city’s
incentives would be in the form of property tax relief over a
period of 14 years, Johns said. He said Travis County is
considering a tax abatement plan smaller than Austin’s.  Apple, the world’s most valuable company with a market
capitalization of $546 billion, reached a  record $600.01  a share
before closing at $585.56 on Nasdaq yesterday. The company has
about 64,400 employees worldwide.  The company’s Austin area workers are mostly in sales,
administrative and finance for the Americas region, Johns said.  Apple’s expansion would create 650 new full-time jobs with
an average salary of $63,950 by the end of January 2015, with
another 2,985 jobs added through 2021, according to an Austin
report. The company would build a 200,000 square-foot structure,
followed by an 800,000 square-foot expansion as market
conditions warrant, Johns said.  Arizona Interest  “I can’t get into the incentives that were offered but the
state of  Arizona  was interested in securing this facility,”
said Matthew Benson, a spokesman for Governor Jan Brewer, a
Republican. “It sounds like they’ve identified Austin as their
site, which is not surprising since they have an existing site”
there.  A site in Phoenix was rejected by Apple because the company
said it would be too difficult to get permission to build on the
property, which is controlled by the state land department, said
Dave Krietor, the deputy city manager. He said Mayor Greg Stanton learned of the interest in the location and made efforts
to work with Apple about two weeks ago.  “It was too late,” Krietor said. “They already had
selected Austin.”  The Texas Enterprise Fund has invested $443.4 million since
its creation in 2003, generating more than 62,000 new jobs,
Perry said in the March 9 statement. Arizona has a $25 million
deal-closing fund established last year with the creation of the
Arizona Commerce Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  