-- Apple Resellers From Vermont to South Dakota Gird for IPad Debut
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/apple-resellers-from-vermont-to-south-dakota-gird-for-ipad-debut.html
As supplies of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new
iPad run thin after it goes on sale today, Fred Hadd will feel
the pinch as much as anyone.  Hadd owns  Computer Village , a reseller of electronics with
outlets in South Dakota, Montana and Wyoming -- three of only
six U.S.  states  that don’t have their own Apple retail store.  Apple may sell 2.5 million or more iPads this weekend,
according to  Carl Howe , an  analyst  at Yankee Group. Predicted
demand for the new iPad, which will feature a more powerful
processor and higher-resolution screen, has helped Apple extend
its lead as the world’s most valuable company. It also means
long lines and surging sales for Computer Village and other far-
flung sellers, which are likely to sell out before Apple’s
better-stocked 363 official outlets.  “We get calls every few minutes,” said Hadd, who’s based
in  Rapid City ,  South Dakota , an eight-hour drive from the
nearest Apple store. “They want them, and they want them now.”  The challenge for Hadd and other sellers is getting enough
supply. Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , prioritizes its
own stores and  website , making it harder for independent shops
to get new products. Hadd keeps a waiting list at his office,
located about 20 miles from  Mount Rushmore , and says he doesn’t
mind the lag. Each new iPad and iPhone introduction brings in
visitors, even when shoppers can’t get the latest device.  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., predicts
that Apple will sell more than 1 million iPads on day one alone.  IPad Wait Times  Following Apple’s unveiling of the new iPad at a press
conference last week, online preorders quickly maxed out. Wait
times for Web orders now extend to as many as three weeks. That
backlog will send many customers to Apple’s chain of stores,
said Howe, who correctly predicted Apple would sell more than 4
million iPhones in the weekend after the 4S debut in October.  At Apple’s glass-walled store in Sydney’s George Street,
employees cheered and counted down the 10 seconds until doors
opened at 8 a.m. local time. A line of at least 200 people
snaked 328 feet (100 meters) around three sides of the city
block. Customers will probably follow suit throughout the day in
cities stretching from  Singapore  to San Francisco.  In the two years since the first model went on  sale , the
iPad has become Apple’s second-best selling product, behind the
iPhone. Sales of the device  doubled  to $9.15 billion last
quarter, exceeding Mac revenue. Apple is facing competition from
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire, as well as the planned
introduction of new devices from  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  running a new  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  operating system.  New Retail Head  CityMac  is a reseller in Traverse City,  Michigan , a city in
the northern part of the state, about two hours from the closest
Apple store. While remote stores run out fast, they also have a
leg up over big-box retailers that vie with Apple in bigger
cities, said Jeff Broderick, co-owner of CityMac.  “Not having a corporate store in the immediate vicinity is
an advantage,” he said. “We are going to have a busy day.”  Apple is debuting its third-generation iPad as it
transitions to a new head of retail operations. Apple said in
January that it hired John Browett to take over for  Ron Johnson ,
who left Apple to become CEO of  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  Browett was the
CEO of  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , Apple’s largest authorized dealer in
the U.K. Browett is due to begin at Apple in April.  Last quarter, $6.1 billion of Apple’s $46.3 billion in
sales came from its retail stores. The company’s website and
network of resellers made up much of the remaining purchases.  In addition to smaller outfits like Hadd’s Computer
Village, larger sellers include Dixons,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Best Buy Co. (BBY)   ‘Metrics for Everything’  Hadd said Apple requires resellers to meet many
requirements, such as a 25 percent jump in sales each year. To
be an authorized shop for making repairs, the store also must
meet certain service goals, he said.  “Apple has metrics for everything,” he said.  Hadd isn’t just gaining consumers. He’s also luring
business from companies and local governments, markets that have
traditionally gone to rival PC makers, such as Hewlett-Packard
and Dell. The  Rapid City police  and fire departments are buying
iPads from Computer Village, Hadd said, along with local health
centers and schools. His annual sales have been rising about 35
percent to 45 percent in recent years, he said.  Not all resellers are as lucky as owners of rural stores,
said Gary Allen, whose website  ifoAppleStore.com  has been
tracking Apple’s retail business since 2003. When Apple decides
to build a new store in an area, the results are often grim for
the outside dealer.  Frenemies  “If an Apple store came to Fargo and there’s an ordinary
retailer there doing ordinary retail store things, then that
Apple store would be a killer,” said Allen, whose site attracts
about 4 million visitors a month.  The biggest challenge is that Apple keeps much of the
inventory for its newest releases, he said.  “If a reseller does have the authority to sell a new iPad,
they are probably going to get five, not 105,” he said.  Resellers in the U.S. and  Europe  have filed separate
lawsuits against Apple, accusing the company of favoring its own
outlets. The cases are ongoing. Apple spokeswoman Amy Bessette
declined to comment.  Don Mayer, the CEO and co-founder of  Small Dog Electronics ,
which as locations in Vermont and New Hampshire, said he’s
cultivated a “very positive” relationship with Apple even as he
vies with the computer maker. Apple accounts for about 80
percent of the products he sells, he said.  “We love our relationship with Apple,” Mayer said. “They’re
our best friend, and our worst enemy. They’re our biggest
competition, and they’re our biggest supplier.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  