-- Apple Loss in Motorola Mobility Patent Case Upheld by Agency
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-03-16T21:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/apple-s-loss-in-motorola-mobility-patent-case-will-stand.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s loss in a case where
it accused phone maker  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  of patent
infringement will stand, a U.S. trade agency said today.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said it rejected
Apple’s claims that Judge Theodore Essex erred in finding that
Motorola Mobility wasn’t infringing one Apple patent and that
two other patents were invalid.  The case is part of a broader battle that Cupertino,
California-based Apple is waging across four continents against
makers of phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software,
which the company claims copies features of the iPhone and iPad.
Google is buying Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion.  The ITC complaint targeted Libertyville, Illinois-based
Motorola Mobility’s Droid, Droid 2, Droid X, Cliq, BackFlip,
Devour and Charm phones, as well as the Xoom tablet.  The commission said it examined the record and determined
to review part of the judge’s decision, though that would follow
with a “finding of no violation.” The full decision will be
issued later, the commission said in today’s statement.  Representatives for Apple and Motorola Mobility didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Android was the platform on almost 49 percent of the
smartphone subscribers as of January, while Apple’s iOS was on
almost 30 percent, according to market researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) 
Among manufacturers, Apple had 12.8 percent share of the market
and Motorola Mobility had 13.2 percent, the researcher said
March 6.  Tablet Devices  According to market research firm  Gartner Inc. (IT) , 103.5
million tablet devices will be sold in 2012, with Apple
accounting for two-thirds of those.  The patent that Essex said was not infringed was issued in
October 2010 and covers devices that can react to different
types of manual input, such as tapping, sliding or pinching.  One of the patents found to be invalid, issued in February
2010, is for a touch panel that can recognize multiple touches
by the fingers of a user. The other patent, which was issued in
1995, is for a way to add components without having to run an
installation program or rebooting.  Motorola Mobility has its own complaint against Apple
pending at the trade agency. ITC Judge Thomas Pender is
scheduled to release his findings in that case on April 23.  The companies also have filed civil suits against each
other on other patents, with one trial scheduled to begin in
April in federal court in  Chicago .  The Apple case is In the Matter of Mobile Devices and
Related Software, 337-750, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  