-- ArcelorMittal to Boost Brazilian Iron-Ore Output 65% in 2013
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-03-16T23:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/arcelormittal-to-boost-brazil-iron-ore-output-to-7-1mt-in-2013.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest
steelmaker, plans to boost iron-ore output in  Brazil  65 percent
to 7.1 million metric tons next year as it seeks to raise its
self-sufficiency of the ingredient to make steel.  ArcelorMittal is spending $125 million to expand iron-ore
mines in Brazil, where it expects to produce 4.3 million metric
tons this year, Sebastiao Costa Filho, the head of the company’s
mining business in Brazil, said in a telephone interview from
 Belo Horizonte  today. The company produced about 5.3 million
tons in 2011, he said.  Steel companies have been expanding iron-ore reserves as
prices for the key  raw material  have risen  almost 150 percent
in the past three years. Arcelor, based in Luxembourg, expects
to produce 100 million metric tons by 2015, up from 54 million
tons last year, as it taps mining assets in countries including
 Canada , Brazil and Liberia, according to a Feb. 27  presentation .  “Iron ore together with coal represents 80 percent of
steel production costs. As we are the biggest global producer,
the more costs we reduce, the more competitive we become in
steel,” Costa, 53, said.  Arcelor is expanding its Andrade and Serra Azul mines, in
Brazil’s state of  Minas Gerais , from which it supplies its own
steel plants in Brazil and also sells to local customers
including  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) , Costa said.
The company will export about 800,000 metric tons in the first
half of the year, he said.  Port Access Sought  Arcelor expects to develop its Serra Azul mine further if
it gains access to a port to be able to export more, Costa said.
The company is in “advanced talks” with Usiminas, as Brazil’s
second-largest steelmaker is known, and port operator
 Multiterminais  to jointly bid for a port concession in the Rio
de Janeiro state, he said.  “Accessing a terminal will mean we have the chance to send
our iron ore overseas, being able to make new investments,”
Costa said. “Port access is the most problematic logistic in
Brazil these days.”  Arcelor  gained  0.6 percent to 15.83 euros at the close in
Amsterdam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  