-- Archbishop of Canterbury Williams to Step Down in December
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-03-16T14:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/archbishop-of-canterbury-williams-to-step-down-in-december-1-.html
The head of the Church of England,
 Rowan Williams , will step down at the end of this year after
serving as Archbishop of Canterbury since 2002.  The archbishop, 61, is returning to academic life and has
accepted the position of master of Magdalene College, Cambridge,
with effect from January 2013, the church said in a  statement on
its website  today.  “It has been an immense privilege to serve as Archbishop
of Canterbury over the past decade, and moving on has not been
an easy decision,” Williams said in the statement. “During the
time remaining there is much to do, and I ask your prayers and
support in this period and beyond.”  Williams’s time as the 104th Archbishop of Canterbury, and
thus the leader of the 85 million-strong global Anglican
communion, has been marked by disputes over the introduction of
women bishops and the ordination of gay clergy. His resignation
may open the way for the Archbishop of York, John Sentamu, who
holds the second-highest post in the Church of  England 
hierarchy, to take over, even though he’s clashed with the U.K.
government over plans to allow same-sex civil marriages.  ‘Anxiety and Anger’  Williams has been critical of the policies of Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s government. In June last year, he used
a slot as guest editor of the New Statesman magazine to write
that the coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats lacked
a democratic mandate for its policies to cut spending and
overhaul the  National Health Service  and education and that
voters felt “anxiety and anger” as a result. Cameron said at
the time that he disagreed “profoundly” with many of the
archbishop’s views.  “I would like to thank Rowan Williams for the dedicated
service as Archbishop of Canterbury,” Cameron said in a
statement. “As a man of great learning and humility, he guided
the church through time of challenge and change. He sought to
unite different communities and offer a profoundly humane sense
of moral leadership that was respected by people of all faiths
and none. As prime minister, I have been grateful for his
support and advice.”  Williams, who was appointed by Cameron’s predecessor,  Tony Blair , opposed the invasion of  Iraq  by U.S. and U.K. forces in
2003 and repeatedly attacked the war and the handling of its
aftermath.  ‘Intellectual Integrity’  The archbishop “brought to the office a vision, an
intellectual integrity, an openness to all, and a deep
spirituality that has weathered the trials and challenges
through which the Church of England has been passing,” Blair
said in an e-mailed statement.  Williams  studied at both Cambridge and Oxford universities,
became a lecturer in divinity at Cambridge in 1983 and then
moved to Oxford as professor of divinity in 1986. He became
Bishop of Monmouth in 1991 and then Archbishop of  Wales  in 1999.  Divisions within the church over homosexuality hit the
headlines soon after the start of his tenure as its most senior
cleric.  The Episcopal Church in the U.S. enraged traditionalists in
2003 by consecrating the first openly gay bishop, Gene Robinson,
in  New Hampshire .  Another gay clergyman, Jeffrey John, withdrew his
acceptance of an appointment as Bishop of Reading, west of
London, in 2003 after protests.  Defections  In November 2010, five Church of England bishops joined the
Roman Catholic Church, taking advantage of a structure set up by
the Vatican to welcome Anglicans disaffected over issues such as
female bishops and gay clergy.  Responsibility for choosing the next Archbishop of
Canterbury rests with the Crown Nominations Commission, which
will submit the name of a preferred candidate and a second
appointable candidate to Cameron. The premier is
constitutionally responsible for advising  Queen Elizabeth II ,
who is supreme governor of the Church of England.  Sentamu is 6/4 favorite to succeed Williams, bookmaker
William Hill Plc said in an e-mailed statement. That means a
successful 4-pound bet would win 6 pounds, plus the return of
the stake.  Richard Chartres , the Bishop of  London , is second
favorite at 7/4.  Sentamu became the Church of England’s first black
archbishop in 2005. Born in  Uganda  in 1949, he qualified as a
lawyer and fled to Britain in 1974 from persecution under the
regime of Idi Amin, the East African country’s dictator.  ‘Life-Giving’  “Our partnership in the gospel over the past six years has
been the most creative period of my ministry,” Sentamu said of
Williams  in a statement . “It has been life-giving to have led
missions together, gone on retreats and prayed together. In his
company I have drunk deeply from the wells of God’s mercy and
love and it has all been joyful. He is a real brother to me in
Christ.”  Sentamu  told BBC television on March 11  that proposals
backed by Cameron to allow gay couples to marry in civil
ceremonies were an “unjustified change” to the law and
required the consent of the Church of England. The plans
wouldn’t allow for religious  same-sex marriages .  The Bishop of London helped to officiate at the wedding
last year of  Prince William  and  Catherine Middleton . He became
embroiled in controversy in October when  St. Paul’s Cathedral ,
in the city’s financial district, closed its doors for the first
time since World War II after anti-capitalist protests set up a
tented camp outside. The bishop called on the protesters to
leave and backed legal action to remove them. Three members of
the cathedral clergy resigned. The camp was cleared last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  