-- Harvard Goes Down Fighting in First NCAA Appearance Since 1946
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-03-16T04:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/harvard-goes-down-fighting-in-first-ncaa-appearance-since-1946.html
Harvard University junior Ben
Samuels flew to Denver from Boston and then drove seven hours to
 Albuquerque ,  New Mexico , to witness the school’s first game in
college basketball's national men's tournament for 66 years.  “Just about anyone in the area with a Harvard connection
is here,” the 21-year-old student of Near Eastern language and
civilizations said in a phone interview before last night’s
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament game.  The 12th-seeded Crimson never gave up against fifth-seeded
Vanderbilt University (25-10), even when they trailed by 18
points with less than eight minutes remaining. Harvard closed
the gap to five points before losing 79-70.  “I was really impressed with the effort that our kids gave
to make the game interesting toward the end,” Harvard coach
Tommy Amaker told a news conference. “I can’t say enough about
the fight that we had and the effort that we put forth to stay
relevant in this particular basketball game.”  Harvard finished the most successful season in the 101-year
history of its basketball program with a 26-5 record.  Fans gathered to see the game in restaurants and bars in
Harvard Square in the center of Cambridge,  Massachusetts , which
is surrounded by the school’s campus.  Josh Moore, the assistant general manager of the
university’s  Malkin Athletic Center , said his admiration has
grown in the two years he’s been keeping statistics for the
team.  “They have a lot of character,” Moore said in Tommy
Doyle’s pub. “They play with a lot of heart, a lot of desire.”  Home From Afghanistan  Peter Moores contemplated traveling to New Mexico for the
game before opting to watch it in the nearby Grafton Street
restaurant. Moores, a 2000 Harvard graduate, recently joined a
 law firm  in Boston after returning from a stint in the Judge
Advocate General’s Corps of the U.S. Army National Guard in
 Afghanistan .  “He was planning his trip to Albuquerque,” said his wife,
Erin, a 2006 Harvard Business School graduate. “He was in
 Cleveland  and it’s about a 24-hour drive, but he was thinking
about it.”  Nashville-based Vanderbilt -- which is sometimes referred
to as the Harvard of the South -- also was a fifth seed last
year when it lost its opening game to No. 12 Richmond. Last
night’s win was the first for the Commodores in the tournament
since they reached the round of 16 in 2007.  NBA’s Linsanity  Harvard’s basketball program attracted national attention
this year when economics graduate Jeremy Lin took over as the
 New York Knicks ’ point guard in the  National Basketball
Association . Lin is the first Harvard alumnus in the NBA since
 Ed Smith  made 11 appearances for the Knicks in 1953-54.  Harvard clinched its first outright  Ivy League  championship
and an automatic NCAA berth when the  University of Pennsylvania 
lost 62-52 March 6 against  Princeton University .  “It’s a huge step forward,” Crimson forward  Keith Wright 
said after last night’s game. “We’re leaving our mark here at
the university and on the basketball program itself. It just
means a lot to me that I’ve had an effect on such a prestigious
institution.”  Harvard only led twice last night -- each time for less
than half a minute during the first half.  The Crimson trailed 33-23 at halftime and Vanderbilt
extended its lead to 18 points with 7:52 to play before Harvard
rallied to trail 70-65 with 1:51 remaining.  The Crimson never got closer and the Commodores made nine
free throws before Harvard’s Brandyn Curry closed out the
scoring with a layup 17 seconds from the end.  “We didn’t come out with a victory, but this is something
that we’re going to carry with us for the rest of our lives,”
Wright added.  Rivard Leads Crimson  John Jenkins  scored 27 points for the Commodores, while
Laurent Rivard led Harvard with 20.  The Crimson are now 0-3 in the tournament after losses to
Ohio State and  New York University  in 1946. In 69 NCAA
appearances, Ivy League teams now have a 40-79 record and are
2-13 since 2000.  Vanderbilt, which is 10-13 in the tournament and upset No.
1-ranked  Kentucky  to win the  Southeastern Conference  tournament
on March 11, tomorrow meets  Wisconsin , a No. 4 seed for the
third straight year. The Badgers beat Montana 73-49 yesterday
for their most lopsided victory in the tournament.  “Hopefully we’ll play a little more solidly throughout the
game on Saturday,” Vanderbilt coach Kevin Stallings said in a
televised interview. “We got a little loose there in the second
half and we’re not a team that can afford to get loose with the
ball.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dex McLuskey in  Dallas   at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  