-- Asia Currencies Slide in Week as Fed Stance Boosts Dollar Demand
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-03-16T21:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/asia-currencies-slide-in-week-as-fed-stance-boosts-dollar-demand.html
Asian currencies had a second
weekly decline as an improving U.S. economy and the  Federal
Reserve ’s decision not to embark on further monetary easing
boosted demand for the dollar.  Malaysia’s ringgit led losses after the government reported
factory production rose the least in six months in January
following data last week showing the smallest increase in
exports since 2010. The rupee posted its worst weekly losing
streak for the year after policy makers left  interest rates 
unchanged, citing inflation risks caused by higher  oil prices .  “This week’s main trend was the dollar’s appreciation
supported by signs of U.S. economic improvement,” said Minori Uchida, a senior analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. “Based on the series of data recently, the market also
views the Fed may not keep low interest rates until 2014 as
previously predicted.”  The ringgit fell 1.7 percent from a week ago to 3.0613 per
dollar in  Kuala Lumpur  yesterday, after reaching a seven-week
low on March 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Philippine peso declined 1.1 percent to 43.068, the rupee
dropped 0.7 percent to 50.1912, and South Korea’s won lost 0.7
percent to 1,125.78.  Other reports from Asia this week signaled economic growth
in the region is starting to slow. Thailand’s exports contracted
for a third month in January, while  China  reported its worst
trade deficit since at least 1989 for February. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY) , which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.5 percent.  U.S. Data Stimulus  In contrast, U.S. data issued this week showed Americans
applied for fewer jobless benefits, growth in retail sales
accelerated and manufacturing gained momentum. The  Dollar Index (DXY) 
traded on ICE Futures in  New York , which tracks the currency
against those of six major trading partners, rose for a third
week and reached its highest level in almost two months.  China’s yuan fell for a third week after the government
reported the smallest increase in consumer prices in 20 months
on March 9. The central bank weakened its daily reference rate
by 0.25 percent yesterday, the most in a week, to 6.3200 per
dollar. The currency dropped 0.2 percent from March 9 to 6.3227
in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System.  “China’s policy makers are definitely increasing
volatility,” said Craig Chan, the Singapore-based head of
foreign exchange for  Asia  outside of  Japan  at Nomura Holdings
Inc. “They want to eventually move to a more market-driven
currency.”  Oil Pressure  The won traded near a one-month low after the Bank of Korea
said on March 14 that the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly jumped
to 3.7 percent in February, the highest in almost a year.  Indonesia ’s rupiah dropped 0.4 percent to 9,156 per dollar
and hit a two-month low of 9,218 on March 15. The currency
completed a second weekly decline after overseas investors cut
holdings of sovereign debt on concern government plans to raise
energy prices will stoke inflation.  Global funds  have trimmed bond ownership by 6.1 trillion
rupiah ($665 million) since Feb. 22, when President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said fuel subsidies must be reduced.  “The biggest factor driving the rupiah is still the plan
to raise fuel prices, which caused inflation expectations in
Indonesia to rise significantly,” said Mika Martumpal, an
analyst at PT Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta.  Elsewhere this week,  Thailand ’s baht fell 0.5 percent to
30.75 per dollar, while Taiwan’s dollar slipped 0.2 percent to
NT$29.562 and Vietnam’s dong rose 0.1 percent to 20,820.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 