-- Aveo, Domino’s Pizza, LSB Industries: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-03-18T15:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/aveo-domino-s-pizza-lsb-industries-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading tomorrow. Stock symbols
are in parentheses.  Aveo Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AVEO)  : The maker of an
experimental medicine for kidney cancer delayed its annual
report filing and said it is evaluating its allocation agreement
with Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503 JT).  BATS Global Markets Inc. (BATS): The company may be
attractive as the third-biggest U.S. stock exchange operator
prepares to sell 6.3 million shares to the public on March 22,
Barron’s reported, without citing anyone.  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  : The pizza-delivery chain
completed its recapitalization and declared a special dividend
of $3 a share.  LSB Industries Inc. (LXU)  : The maker of chemical and
climate-control products said its Pryor, Oklahoma, facility was
shut down for unplanned maintenance because of excess heat.
Operating income will be reduced by about $4 million.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  : The Swiss drugmaker may rise if it
improves earnings with a new pipeline of products and provides
healthy dividend payments, Barron’s reported.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  : The chipmaker is poised to rise 30
percent or more during the next year as its thousands of patents
give it an advantage in mobile-market expansion, Barron’s
reported.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  : The hospital owner may
stall until management proves it’s capable of turning around
business without being acquired, Barron’s reported in its “The
Trader” column.  Total SA (FP)  : The American depositary receipts of
France’s biggest energy company may rise to the mid-$60s within
a year if the oil producer boosts output, Barron’s reported.  YPF SA (YPFD)  : The Argentine oil producer may be a risky
investment as the government mulls control of the company,
Barron’s reported in its “The Trader” column.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 