-- Baht Rises, Trimming Weekly Loss, as Investors Buy Thai Assets
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-16T01:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/baht-rises-trimming-weekly-loss-as-investors-buy-thai-assets.html
Thailand ’s baht strengthened,
snapping a two-day loss, as international investors raised
holdings of the nation’s assets on optimism growth in  Southeast
Asia ’s second-largest economy will improve this year.  Global funds purchased $427 million more Thai equities than
they sold this month through yesterday, and bought a net $2
billion of government debt, according to data from the stock
exchange and the Thai Bond Market Association. The baht was
poised for a third weekly loss as signs the U.S. recovery is
gathering pace damped speculation the  Federal Reserve  will do
more monetary easing, a move that may increase the amount of
cash available to be invested in emerging-markets.  “The risk-on mood is still prevailing in the market and
therefore, the  emerging markets  have been seeing fund inflows,”
said Minori Uchida, senior analyst in  Tokyo  at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “But this week’s main trend was the
dollar’s appreciation supported by signs of U.S. economic
improvement.”  The baht advanced 0.2 percent to 30.73 per dollar as of
8:39 a.m. in Bangkok, trimming its weekly decline to 0.5 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached
30.87 yesterday, the weakest level since Feb. 17.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of foreign-exchange
swings used to price options, was little changed at 6.525
percent from yesterday and unchanged from a week ago.  The Federal Reserve said on March 13 it expects “moderate
economic growth” and predicted the U.S. unemployment rate
“will decline gradually.” Thailand’s gross domestic product
may expand between 5.5 percent and 6.5 percent this year,
compared with  growth  of 0.1 percent last year, Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra said on March 7.  The yield on the 3.25 percent government notes due June
2017 climbed 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 3.65
percent this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
was the  biggest  weekly increase since October 2010. The rate
declined one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 