-- Foreclosure Whistleblower Wins $18 Million in Bank Accord
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-03-16T22:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/bank-whistle-blower-wins-18-million-payday-in-foreclosure-deal.html
Attorney  Lynn Szymoniak  had spent a
career investigating insurance fraud when a bank moved to
foreclose on her  Florida  home in 2008. Almost four years later,
the fraud she said she uncovered by combing through mortgage
documents earned her $18 million.  Szymoniak, 63, is among six whistle-blowers who will pocket
$46.5 million as part of a $25 billion national foreclosure
settlement that state and federal officials reached in February
with five banks, including  Bank of America Corp . and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to the U.S. Justice Department.  “When they did this to her, they picked the wrong person
at the wrong time in the wrong place,” Richard Harpootlian,
Szymoniak’s attorney in two whistle-blower cases, said in an
interview. “They stuck their hand into the beehive.”  Szymoniak’s examination, in which she relied on her
experience as an insurance-fraud investigator, led to her claims
against banks for submitting fraudulent documents to the federal
government asserting that they owned loans insured by the
 Federal Housing Administration , she said.  The national foreclosure settlement with the five banks,
which resolves claims of abusive foreclosure practices, provides
mortgage relief to borrowers, pays $1.5 billion to those who
lost their homes to foreclosure, and sets standards for how the
banks service mortgage loans.  Whistle-Blowers’ Share  As part of the agreement, whistle-blower claims are being
settled for about $228 million, according to court papers filed
in federal court in  Washington . A group of six whistle-blowers
will receive $46.5 million out of that amount, said  Alisa
Finelli , a Justice Department spokeswoman.  Szymoniak’s foreclosure case began in July 2008 when
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , as trustee for a mortgage securitization
trust, sued to seize her  Palm Beach Gardens , Florida, home,
which was once worth $1.3 million. The bank couldn’t prove it
owned her loan and claimed it had lost the mortgage note, she
said.  John Gallagher , a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, declined to comment on Szymoniak’s foreclosure case.  Like many homeowners, Szymoniak said she was surprised by
the subprime mortgage crisis and its effect on the U.S. real-
estate market. She stopped making mortgage payments in 2008
after a battle with cancer wiped out her savings and she cut
back on work to care for her mother, who was sick, she said in
an interview.  ‘Pretty Obvious’  Szymoniak said she was first alerted to problems in the
paperwork on her foreclosure when Deutsche Bank said it acquired
her mortgage note in October 2008, three months after the bank
sued her over the loan.  “So I began doing what I’ve done for years -- go out and
investigate,” she said. “It was pretty obvious to me that the
paperwork was fraudulent.”  Her work quickly uncovered widespread document fraud in the
mortgage industry, she said, and eventually led to the filing of
her whistle-blower cases in 2010.  The whistle-blower claims resolved in the national
settlement include a case filed in Atlanta in 2006 in which
banks are accused of defrauding military veterans and the U.S.
government.  Veterans’ Refinancing  The banks violated rules under a Department of Veterans
Affairs program for refinancing  mortgage loans  by charging
improper fees to veterans, according to the complaint. The banks
hid those fees and obtained government guarantees on the loans,
according to the complaint.  The two whistle-blowers, Victor Bibby and Brian Donnelly,
will split $11.7 million out of the $45 million JPMorgan agreed
to pay to settle the veterans case, said  Brandon Peak , a lawyer
working on the case. Claims against other banks in the case are
pending.  The settlement underscores the benefits provided to
taxpayers from whistle-blowers and the incentives for those who
expose fraud through so-called qui tam cases, Peak said.  “This is what qui tam actions are for -- to incentivize
people to come forward and expose fraud,” he said. “The
taxpayers actually receive this money back that they never would
have received absent these whistle-blowers.”  Robo-Signed Documents  Szymoniak said her review of mortgage documents uncovered
the practice known as robo-signing, in which bank officials and
contractors signed documents without verifying the information.
Tens of thousands of documents were affected, and the same
people also used various job titles on the forms, she said.  Szymoniak was the first whistleblower to find reams of
documents signed by Linda Green, an employee of a mortgage-
processing company, that contained questionable signatures,
Harpootlian said.  “These documents were clearly signed by different people
in different places, with different signatures, on the same
dates,” Harpootlian said.  It took her “less than five days” to figure out that the
practices were widespread, Szymoniak added.  Szymoniak decided to approach law-enforcement officials
with her suspicions that taxpayers may have been defrauded as
the fraudulent documents were submitted to the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development by banks seeking to collect on
government-insured loans, she said.  AIG Lawsuit  Her discoveries also prompted her to hire Harpootlian, who
had retained Szymoniak in the past as an expert witness in a
lawsuit against the insurer American International Group Inc.,
to file her whistle-blower claims.  Szymoniak was also represented by  Ken Suggs , another South
Carolina-based plaintiffs’ lawyer and  Reuben Guttman , a
Washington-based attorney who specializes in whistle-blower
litigation.  Most whistle-blower cases are brought by company insiders
who uncover wrongdoing within their own corporations or a
competitor’s, said  Joel Hesch , a former Justice Department
lawyer who is now a professor at Liberty University Law School
in  Virginia . A person doesn’t have to be an insider to file a
false-claims case, said Hesch, who spent 16 years litigating
whistle-blower cases on behalf of the government.  The government turns down about 80 percent of whistle-
blower cases it reviews as a required step in the litigation,
Hesch said. If the government rejects the case, plaintiffs are
free to press their claims on their own.  Prepared to Sue  Szymoniak said she was prepared to do just that if the
government failed to join her suit over mortgage-foreclosure
practices.  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on the whistle-blower cases resolved as part
the national foreclosure settlement.  Shirley Norton , a
spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America,
didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  The three other lenders that agreed to the national
settlement were Detroit-based  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Gina Proia,
an Ally Financial spokeswoman, declined to comment. Wells Fargo
spokeswoman Vickee Adams didn’t return an e-mail seeking
comment.  Mark Rodgers , a Citigroup spokesman, also declined to
comment on the claims. The New York-based bank has added
resources to ensure foreclosures are processed correctly, he
said in an e-mailed statement.  “The changes and safeguards implemented give Citigroup
confidence that there are no systemic issues in its existing
foreclosure processes,” he said.  Szymoniak said she’s unsure what she’ll do with the $18
million award. Deutsche Bank is proceeding with its foreclosure
action against her home, she said.  “Even if I pay off the mortgage, I would own a house with
no clear title, so I still couldn’t sell it,” she said.  The national foreclosure settlement case is U.S. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 12-00361, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  