-- Barcelona, AC Milan to Meet in Champions League Quarterfinals
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-16T13:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/barcelona-to-play-ac-milan-in-champions-league-quarterfinals.html
Former winners  Barcelona  and AC
Milan will meet again in this season’s  Champions League  after
being drawn together for the quarterfinals.  Defending champion Barcelona and seven-time winner Milan
were paired in the tournament’s group stage, with the Spanish
club winning 3-2 in  Italy  before a 2-2 tie at home. Milan will
host the first game, with the second at the Camp Nou stadium.  “I think it will be balanced,” Milan director  Umberto Gandini  said on the Champions League website. “It’s a game
every player dreams to play, both teams will be motivated.”  Chelsea, the last English team remaining in  Europe ’s top
club competition, will face Benfica, Real Madrid meets APOEL
Nicosia and  Bayern Munich  plays Marseille as determined by
today’s draw in Nyon, Switzerland.  The first round of quarterfinal matches will be played
March 27 and 28, with the second games April 3 and 4. The
Champions League final is May 19 at the  Allianz Arena  in Munich.  Barcelona, led by  Lionel Messi , the competition’s leading
scorer with 12 goals, is seeking its fourth Champions League
title in seven seasons. It’s won five and drawn four in 13
previous meetings with Milan, which last won the title in 2007.  Chelsea will take on Benfica after beating Napoli on
Branislav Ivanovic’s extra-time goal two days ago. England is
the only county to have a quarterfinalist every year since the
competition expanded to more than 16 teams in the 1997-98
season.  “It’s a good one for us but it doesn’t matter who you get
at this stage,” Chelsea Chief Executive Ron Gourlay said on the
club’s website. “It was important to get the away game first
and hopefully we can build the foundation from there.”  APOEL’s reward for being the first team from Cyprus to
reach the quarterfinals is a meeting with Real  Madrid , the
record nine-time winner. APOEL advanced by beating Lyon in a
penalty shootout, with goalkeeper Dionisios Chiotis making two
saves.  “APOEL has reached the quarterfinals, which means they’re
a good team,” Real club director Emilio Butragueno said. “We
have to focus on every detail and be alert.”  Bayern Munich will continue its quest to play in the final
on its home field by taking on Marseille, which knocked out
Inter Milan in the last round on away goals. Four-time winner
Bayern advanced by beating Basle 7-1 on aggregate.  “It’s tricky, it’s one of the teams I didn’t want,”
Marseille President Vincent Labrune said. “I think our German
friends are happier with this draw -- happier than us.”  The semifinal draw was also held with the Marseille-Bayern
winner set to face APOEL or Real Madrid and Benfica or Chelsea
taking on Milan or Barcelona. Those matches will be played April
17-18 and 24-25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 