-- BCE to Buy Astral Media for $3 Billion to Add TV Channels
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-03-16T21:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/bce-to-buy-astral-media-for-3-billion-to-add-tv-channels.html
The Montreal Canadiens’ 1980s
hockey rivalry with the  Quebec  Nordiques was known as the Battle
of Quebec. A new  battle  may be set to begin after  BCE Inc. (BCE) 
agreed to buy  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A) , strengthening its footprint in
the French-speaking province as it takes on  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B)   BCE’s C$3 billion ($3 billion) cash and stock purchase of
Astral gives  Canada ’s biggest telecommunications company 22 new
television channels, including MusiquePlus and Super Ecran, to
challenge Montreal-based Quebecor.  The two companies are already locked in a battle over
Quebecers’ spending on cable and smartphone subscriptions after
Quebecor, which operates the local Videotron cable service and
TVA television network, last year began selling smartphones.  The rivalry may intensify on the ice too. Pierre Karl Peladeau, chief executive officer of Quebecor, yesterday vowed
to bring a  National Hockey League  franchise to Quebec City after
the Nordiques moved to Denver in 1995. BCE owns a minority stake
in the  Montreal Canadiens , who play at the Bell Centre, named
after the company’s phone business.  “They’re muscling into Quebecor’s market,” said Grant Dawson, managing director of Canadian credit at Manulife Asset
Management in Toronto, which owns BCE bonds among the C$16
billion it oversees.  “Astral fits well with what Bell is
trying to do on content. There really aren’t many media assets
of this magnitude that Bell could have bought.”  The deal is BCE CEO George Cope’s third major acquisition
since 2010 as he looks to add content that he can sell on
smartphones and tablets in what he calls his “four-screen”
strategy.  “Does this enhance our competitive position in Quebec?
Without a doubt it does,” Cope told analysts on a conference
call.  Fight on Quebec Turf  BCE, also based in  Montreal , lacked French content other
than French sports channel RDS. Buying Astral bolsters that
content, said Vice Chairman Martine Turcotte.  “Astral is going to teach us how to be even more
competitive in Quebec,” she told reporters in Montreal.  “They’re able to fight on that Quebec turf a little bit
better with having more content available,” said  Greg Eckel , a
 fund manager  with Morgan Meighen & Associates Ltd. in Toronto
that manages about C$1.2 billion and doesn’t own BCE or Astral.  Quebecor yesterday said sales last year climbed 5.2 percent
to C$4.21 billion as it added 154,500 data-hungry mobile phone
subscribers. The company said it’s adding content to sell to
those customers and confirmed it’s agreed to naming rights for
25-years for a future hockey arena in  Quebec City .  Tools it Needs  “Quebecor Media now has all the tools it needs to pursue
its goals, which are to manage a world-class multipurpose center
and to bring a National Hockey League team to Quebec City,”
Peladeau said in the statement.  Astral, which has about 2,800 employees, generated net
income of C$55.8 million last quarter on sales of C$271.1
million. The class A shares soared 34 percent to C$48.55 at 4
p.m. in Toronto. BCE fell 1.1 percent to $39.64 and Quebecor
gained 0.5 percent to C$36.09.  Since 2010, BCE has signed three acquisitions worth $7.6
billion, including debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Astral Media will be the largest cash deal and comes
three months after BCE and  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  agreed to
buy a controlling stake in  Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment
Ltd. (3371Q)  in a $1.3 billion deal to add the  Toronto Maple Leafs , the
most valuable team in the National Hockey League. BCE agreed to
buy Canadian broadcaster CTV in 2010 for C$1.3 billion in cash
and C$1.7 billion in debt, giving it 30 specialty channels
including sports channel TSN.  Ramping up Deals  In his first two years since becoming CEO in mid-2008, Cope
focused on cutting jobs and other operating costs and spent less
than $500 million on acquisitions, according to the data. Since
then he has been ramping up deals to add content as  consumer
spending  on wireless data spending soars. Data revenue at BCE’s
Bell Mobility unit jumped 32 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, outpacing total sales growth of 10 percent.  Ian Greenberg, president and CEO of Astral, will join the
board as part of the agreement. Abgreen Holdings Ltd., the
holding company of the Greenberg family, controlled 63.7 percent
of Astral Media’s voting shares according to an October filing.  Holders of Astral class A non-voting stock will get C$50 a
share, Montreal-based BCE said today in a statement. That’s 38
percent more than yesterday’s closing price. BCE will also
assume C$380 million of Astral debt.  “We thought about this for a few months and had several
approaches,” Greenberg told analysts. “It was a matter of a
getting a deal that made sense for shareholders and our 2,800
employees.”  The deal values Astral at 9.9 times trailing 12-month
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
median of 14.6 times for media takeovers globally worth at least
$500 million, the data show.  “Bell was wise to be preemptive and seek this out without
an auction process,” said Manulife’s Dawson. “If the market
had known that the Astral Media assets had been available, you
may have seen an auction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  