-- Best Treasury Forecaster Says 10-Year Yield to Drop From Highs
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-03-16T16:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/best-treasury-forecaster-says-10-year-yield-to-drop-from-highs.html
FTN Financial Chief Economist
Christopher Low, the most accurate forecaster of Treasury note
yields last year, said slowing U.S. economic growth will push
10-year yields down from the four-month highs reached this week.  Yields on  10-year notes  climbed to 2.36 percent today, the
highest since Oct. 28, as traders bet growth will accelerate
after the  Federal Reserve  raised its assessment of the economy
on March 13. Yields, which ended last year at 1.88 percent, will
finish 2012 at 2.1 percent, Low said in an interview today.  “We actually expected  interest rates  would rise in the
first and second quarter of this year,” said Low, who was the
only one among 70 analysts in a Bloomberg survey who predicted
the yield would fall to 2 percent by the end of last year.
“People tend to start hiring more in the spring time,  oil
prices  are high and there would be some inflation fears. We
figured the employment data would probably stay strong up until
May. After that, I don’t think it can be sustained.”  Improvement in the labor market isn’t sustainable at
current levels, business investment is slowing rapidly and
foreign demand for exports will decline, said Low, who is based
in  New York .  Employers in the U.S. boosted payrolls more than forecast
in February and the jobless rate held at 8.3 percent. The
227,000 increase in payrolls followed a revised 284,000
gain in January that was bigger than first estimated, Labor
Department figures showed March 9. Job growth over the last six
months was the strongest since 2006.  Fed Speculation  “We expect interest rates to fall in the second half of
this year,” Low said. While yields may climb to 2.5 percent
over the next few months, they will trade primarily within a
range of 1.8 percent to 2.3 percent, he said.  Low expects the Fed will embark upon a third round of asset
purchases, or quantitative easing, of $750 billion to $1
trillion by the third quarter and will focus on mortgage-backed
securities.  “The market has taken it off the table although the Fed
hasn’t,” Low said, pointing to the March 13 Fed statement
reiterating that “the Committee will regularly review the size
and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to
adjust those holdings as appropriate to promote a stronger
economic recovery in a context of  price stability .”  “If job growth slows, then the market will anticipate a
third round of QE, then yields will move down,” Low said. “QE
is out of the question until the inflation situation quiets
down. The only inflation pressure in the CPI today is gasoline
prices. Once gas prices stabilize, the inflation threat is
gone.”  Consumer Prices  The consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent in February,
matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, after increasing 0.2 percent the prior month, the Labor
Department said today. The so-called core measure, which
excludes more volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.1
percent, less than the 0.2 percent projected.  Low forecasts U.S. gross domestic product growth of 2
percent for 2012, compared with 2.2 percent in a survey of
economists by Bloomberg News. A separate survey showed GDP of
the Group of 10 nations will drop to 1.15 percent this year,
from 1.31 percent in 2011.  “Global GDP is slowing, and because of that, we expect
exports to slow,” Low said. “Congress is spending a little
less than they did a year ago, which means less stimulus than
what we had. When you look at that as a contribution to GDP,
it’s negative. That’s one of the reasons the Fed is committed to
monetary stimulus if they can.”  “The European crisis will return to the front page,” Low
said. “U.S. investors are going to have to start looking at
 Europe  again in the next four to five months. The same funding
issues in the banking system will re-emerge. Their banking
system is significantly more fragile than ours.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  