-- Bolivia Weighing First International Bond Sale Since 1920s
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-16T22:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/bolivia-weighing-first-international-bond-sale-since-1920s-1-.html
Bolivia  is considering tapping
international debt markets for the first time since 1920 with a
sale of as much as $500 million in bonds this year, Finance
Minister Luis Arce said.  Bolivia is working with Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in placing the sale, Arce told
reporters today at the Inter-American Development Bank’s annual
meeting in Montevideo, Uruguay. The government expects the bonds
to yield less than 10 percent, he said in an interview after his
news conference.  The government would use the funds for mining and
electricity projects, Arce said. The country should be in a
position to export energy to  Brazil , Peru and Chile and to
create more value-added mining exports to accelerate economic
growth, he said.  “This is the best moment for Bolivia to enter
international financial markets,” Arce said in the interview.
“The markets will see that Bolivia can meet its obligations and
be just like any other country in  Latin America .”  The land-locked South American nation’s economy will expand
5.5 percent this year after growth of 5.1 percent last year, he
said. Bolivia doesn’t need the funds to fuel deficit spending,
he added, saying that Bolivia had an estimated budget surplus of
0.8 percent of gross domestic product last year.  ‘Great Opportunities’  “We want to take advantage of capital flows in Latin
America that are escaping from  Europe  and the U.S.,” Arce, 48,
said. “Latin America has great opportunities and Bolivia as
well and it’s important to use this capital to help sustain
economic growth.”  Bolivia’s economy is poised to grow 4.5 percent this year,
according to estimates by the  International Monetary Fund .  Standard & Poor’s  raised Bolivia’s credit rating in May
last year to B+ from B, four levels below investment grade,
putting the country on the same level as Venezuela, Nigeria, the
Dominican Republic and Sri Lanka.  Arce, who joined the central bank in 1987, received a
degree in economics from the Universidad Mayor de San Andres in
Bolivia and a master’s degree in economics from the University
of Warwick in  England . He became Bolivia’s finance minister in
2006 under President  Evo Morales .  Bolivia’s annual inflation slowed in February to 4.64
percent from 5.86 percent in January, the national statistics
institute reported. Last year, consumer prices rose 6.9 percent.
Central bank reserves climbed to $12.7 billion on March 12 from
$9.7 billion a year earlier. Reserves are above the country’s
“optimal” level of $8 billion to $8.5 billion, Arce said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Montevideo at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  