-- Bovespa-Index Futures Advance on Commodities Gain, U.S. Optimism
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-03-16T12:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/bovespa-index-futures-advance-on-commodities-gain-u-s-optimism.html
Bovespa futures climbed, a sign the
equity measure may add to a weekly gain, as higher commodities
prices boosted the outlook for  Brazil ’s biggest companies amid
optimism about the U.S. recovery.  Telefonica Brasil SA (VIVT4)  may move after the phone company said
its board approved a restructuring plan that includes grouping
all non-telecommunications assets into its Telefonica Data SA
unit.  Minerva SA (BEEF3)  may be active after  Standard & Poor’s  raised
the meatpacker’s credit rating to B+ from B.  Bovespa futures gained 0.3 percent to 68,345 at 9:10 a.m.
in Sao Paulo. Brazil’s benchmark stock gauge is up 1.6 percent
this week. The real was little changed at 1.7988 per  U.S. dollar 
today. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
added 0.2 percent.  “Investors are optimistic about the U.S. data to be
released this morning, especially the industrial output and the
consumer confidence reports,” Mauricio Nakahodo, senior
economist at CM Capital Markets in  Sao Paulo , wrote in a note to
clients. “The latest figures show that the  U.S. economy  is
recovering.”  U.S. industrial output may have increased 0.4 percent in in
February, while a preliminary index of consumer sentiment is
expected to have climbed to a one-year high in March, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Jobless claims claims fell
last week to match a four-year low, and manufacturing the New
York region expanded this month at the fastest pace since June
2010, data released yesterday showed.  The Bovespa has advanced 19 percent this year after
slumping 18 percent in 2011, buoyed by Brazil’s interest-rate
cuts, signs of growth in the U.S. and renewed optimism  Europe 
may be closer to solving its debt crisis. The gauge trades at
11.1 times analysts’ earnings estimates, which compares with a
10.9 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders  moved  7.14 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
yesterday ($3.97 billion), data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a daily average of 7.21 billion reais this year
through March 8, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  