-- BP Judge Sets May Conference on $7.8 Billion Settlement
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-03-17T15:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/bp-reaches-estimated-7-8-billion-deal-with-spill-victims.html
The first  BP Plc (BP\)  trial plan
conference after a private plaintiffs’ settlement with an
estimated value of $7.8 billion will be held May 3 to discuss
environmental claims related to the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  spill.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans concluded
yesterday that “a further status conference should be conducted
following the filing of the proposed class settlement,”
according to a court filing. The details of the proposed
settlement must be filed by April 16, the judge ordered.  The judge will meet behind closed doors in his chambers
with lawyers from BP and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner and operator of
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig involved in the spill, along
with attorneys for federal and state governments.  BP said March 2 it would pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property
damage and injuries. The settlement, to be paid from a $20
billion trust for spill victims set up in 2010, doesn’t resolve
federal and state government environmental damage claims. BP has
set aside $37 billion to cover spill costs.  BP may face as much as $17.6 billion in civil pollution
fines under the U.S. Clean Water Act, based on the government’s
estimate of barrels spilled.  That law provides for fines of as much as $1,100 for each
barrel of oil spilled as a result of simple negligence, often
described as a failure to exercise ordinary care. The maximum
fine would increase to $4,300 a barrel if BP or the other
defendants are found to have been grossly negligent, meaning a
conscious action or omission caused the spill.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of  Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  