-- Brazil Real’s World-Worst Rout Deepens on Government Measures
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-16T21:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/brazil-real-s-world-worst-rout-deepens-on-government-measures.html
Brazil ’s real dropped for a third
straight week as the government imposed more measures to weaken
the currency and bolster exports.  The real fell 0.1 percent to 1.7998 per  U.S. dollar , from
1.7983 yesterday, extending its drop this week to 0.5 percent.
The currency has lost 4.6 percent since the end of February,
making it the worst performer in the world. Yields on the
interest-rate futures contract due in January rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.98 percent today. The
yields increased 33 basis points this week.  Brazil has expanded taxes on foreign loans and bonds issued
abroad as part of measures to shield the real from what
President  Dilma Rousseff  called a “monetary tsunami” from
developed nations seeking to weaken their currencies and foster
export growth. The central bank also bought dollars in the
foreign-exchange market, a move that Italo Abucater, head of
 currency trading  at Icap do Brasil DTVM, said showed policy
makers don’t want the real to strengthen beyond 1.8 per dollar.  “The central bank signaled that the floor for the dollar
is 1.8,” Abucater said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The market is
expecting more action from the central bank or more measures.”  Policy makers stepped up dollar purchases this month after
the real touched 1.6890 per U.S. dollar on Feb. 28, the
strongest level since Oct. 31. The real has gained 3.7 percent
this year and 61 percent over the past eight years, the most in
 emerging markets , hurting manufacturers competing against
foreign companies by making their goods more expensive in dollar
terms.  Currency Derivatives  Overseas bond sales of $1.6 billion this week by Brazilian
companies including Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Banco BMG SA
may spur the central bank to intervene again next week, said
Joao Medeiros, head of currency trading at Pioneer Corretora in
Sao Paulo.  “The central bank has paralyzed the real at 1.80,”
Medeiros said in a telephone interview. “If the market has
inflows, and people selling dollars pressure the real to
appreciate, it will continue buying dollars.”  Brazil’s international reserves rose $51 million on March
15 to $354.97 billion, the central bank said in a report
released today.  Rousseff removed a tax on currency derivatives for
exporters today to help lower their costs. The so-called IOF tax
for exporters will be eliminated on condition that their
exposure to currency derivatives, used to hedge against
exchange-rate fluctuations, doesn’t exceed 1.2 times the value
of their previous year’s exports, according to a decree
published today in the official gazette.  Rate Cuts  Brazil “doesn’t want to broadly weaken the real -- it
wants to support certain sectors,”  Eduardo Suarez , a currency
strategist at Scotia Capital Inc., said by phone from Toronto.
“The measures now seem to be much more targeted” than in the
past two years, he said.  Interest-rate futures yields surged this week after policy
makers said they see a “high probability” that they’ll cut
benchmark borrowing costs to levels just above the record low of
8.75 percent, according to minutes of their March 6-7 meeting
released yesterday. Yields on rate futures surged because
traders had been expecting the bank to lower the rate more than
that this year.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini stepped up the pace of rate cuts on March 7, reducing
the overnight rate to 9.75 percent, to spur growth and curb
gains in the real by diminishing the allure of the country’s
fixed-income assets. The central bank has reduced the rate 275
basis points since August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  