-- Brazil Lawsuit May Cost Multinationals $39 Billion in Back Taxes
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-03-16T20:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/brazil-lawsuit-may-cost-multinationals-39-billion-in-back-taxes.html
Brazil ’s government would collect
70 billion reais ($39 billion) if the Supreme Court rules that
overseas profits by local companies are subject to taxation,
according to estimates by the tax agency.  The high court yesterday decided to postpone a ruling on a
lawsuit filed a decade ago by the National Industry
Confederation that would exempt Brazilian multinationals from a
2001 measure requiring them to pay taxes on earnings abroad.  Among the companies that would be affected are  Vale SA (VALE3) , the
world’s largest iron-ore producer, Deutsche Bank AG said in a
report released on March 15. The Rio de Janeiro-based miner
could be forced to pay as much as $17 billion it hasn’t
provisioned should the government win the lawsuit, Deutsche Bank
said.  The losses other Brazilian multinationals may face are
difficult to estimate because of a lack of transparency, the
bank said.  Brazilian companies could cancel plans to invest abroad if
the court upholds the tax, Cristiane Romano, a partner at Sao
Paulo-based law firm Machado Meyer Sendacz & Opice, said in a
phone interview.  Vale is separately challenging in Brazil’s courts a 30.7
billion reais tax charge for profits earned by foreign
subsidiaries from 1996 to 2008 after losing an appeal to keep
the dispute at an administrative level.  Vale said on March 14 that a Brazilian court freed it from
making collateral payments as part of the dispute until a final
ruling is made. The decision overturned claims including a 1.6
billion reais guarantee payment, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  Vale said last week it didn’t make provisions to cover
potential losses over the dispute because it expects a favorable
decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 