-- Brides Toast Outdoor Weddings as Fruit Growers Fret Forecast
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/brides-toast-outdoor-weddings-as-fruit-growers-fret-forecast.html
Above-normal U.S. temperatures that
have depressed natural gas prices and threatened some crops are
being celebrated by brides with outdoor ceremonies and cocktails
in March.  A streak that led to the fourth-warmest U.S. winter on
record will continue for the next three months, the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  said. States in the
south, mid-Atlantic and New England regions will have at least a
33 percent chance of warm weather from March through May, NOAA
said.  Unseasonable spring temperatures mean  Washington ’s cherry
trees may reach their peak bloom before planners of the
capital’s National Cherry Blossom Festival expected. Crops such
as apples and apricots could be damaged by frost. In the winners
column are brides-to-be who book weddings during the less-
expensive off-peak month of March while enjoying May-like
weather.  “Two years ago we had a snowstorm in March,” Tara
Buchanan, a wedding planner with EBE Events and Entertainment in
Philadelphia, said in an interview. “Now these brides are over
the moon that they’re able to have outdoor ceremonies and
cocktail parties in March.”  Temperatures around the U.S. have been as high as 35
degrees Fahrenheit (19.4 Celsius) above normal in the past week,
with 400 record highs set on March 14, said Laura Furgione,
deputy director of the  National Weather Service . Temperatures in
 Detroit  reached 75 degrees this week, 30 degrees above normal,
according to the  National Weather Service  office in White Lake,
 Michigan . Last March 14 temperatures reached 39.  `May-like Warmth'  “We’re already feeling May-like warmth in parts of the
country this week,” Furgione said yesterday in a conference
call by U.S. weather agencies with reporters.  Expenditures for natural gas, the primary fuel used to heat
about half of U.S. homes, are on track to be the lowest in nine
years, primarily because of warm weather, the Energy Department
said. The average household is expected to pay about $629 to
heat with natural gas this winter, down 13 percent from last
winter and the lowest since the 2002-2003 season.  NOAA’s forecast for March, April and May calls for
temperatures about one degree above normal with one or two
extreme temperature events over the period, according to Ed O’Lenic, chief of the operations branch of NOAA’s Climate
Prediction Center. Though demand for power during the spring
typically wanes, temperature spikes could present challenges for
utilities if air conditioners get switched on, according to  Paul Patterson , a New York-based analyst for Glenrock Associates LLC.  Power Plants  “There are a large number of units taken down for regular
maintenance,” Patterson said in an interview. “If you have a
situation where you have a strong increase in demand, it can
have a disproportionate impact.”  Natural gas for April delivery fell 0.5 cent, or 0.2
percent, to settle at $2.279 per million British thermal units
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The futures, which are down
24 percent this year, fell to $2.204 on March 13, the lowest
intraday price since Feb. 15, 2002.  In New Jersey, February averaged 38.5 degrees, 4.7 degrees
above the 1981-2000 normal, according to the Office of the  New
Jersey  State Climatologist at  Rutgers University  in  New
Brunswick . Vegetation is two to three weeks ahead of typical
bloom, and magnolias, cherry trees and spring bulbs are nearing
peak in some areas of the Garden State.  Cherry Blossom Festival  Office workers in the New Jersey Statehouse turned on
window air conditioners March 14 as temperatures reached 74
degrees, 4 degrees short of the record set in 1990, according to
NOAA. The normal high is 51 degrees.  Unseasonably warm temperatures are vexing organizers of the
Cherry Blossom Festival in Washington. The festival begins March
20 and planners were expecting blossoms along the Tidal Basin
and around the Jefferson Memorial to peak between March 24-31.  Now, the National Park Service is predicting the Yoshino
cherry trees peak bloom, when 70 percent of the blossoms are
open, to be between March 20 and 23. The average peak bloom
occurs on April 4.  This winter in the contiguous U.S. was the warmest since
the record winter of 2000, the climate center said.
Meteorologists designate winter as being from Dec. 1 to Feb. 29.
The calendar start to spring is based on the equinox.  Crops Confused  Crops such as apples and apricots are also confused by the
warmer-than-normal weather, according to David Wolfe, a plant
and soil scientist at  Cornell University  in Ithaca,  New York .
Buds that start opening earlier than normal become vulnerable to
frost damage that can ultimately reduce fruit yields.  Farmers watch such trends and adjust planting schedules
annually, Wolfe said. Peaches typically grown in  Georgia  may
someday be an option for New York while apples may flourish in
 Canada .  “We’re really worried about frost damage this spring
because if temperatures get anywhere back to near normal, we’re
likely to have a few frost events,” Wolfe said in an interview.
“The longer this warm period in the middle of winter gets, the
more vulnerable they get.”  A warm spring means a shorter season for East Coast ski
resorts that have already suffered at the expense of warmer
winter temperatures. In four of the last five years, the
Sugarbush ski resort in Warren,  Vermont , has been open through
the first week of May, according to Winthrop Smith Jr., a former
Merrill Lynch & Co. executive whose company,  Summit Ventures (PEF1756) ,
owns the resort.  Spring Skiing  “If the NOAA forecast is accurate, that’s probably
unlikely this year,” Smith said in an interview. “It does make
a difference. Right now the spring skiing is fabulous.”  The bad news for skiers is good news for brides who are
increasingly taking advantage of warmer winter and early spring
weather, Buchanan said. February or March weddings, which are
now more likely to include outdoor options, can be as much as 25
percent cheaper than May or June affairs, Buchanan said.  “It used to be that you could never do anything outside
after October,” Buchanan said. “I had an outdoor ceremony in
December.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  