-- Brown Tax Would Miss Estimate by $2 Billion, Analyst Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-03-16T22:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/brown-tax-would-generate-2-billion-less-than-plan-analyst-says.html
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s tax-increase
compromise, reached with a  California (STOCA1)  teachers union this week,
would fall more than $2 billion short of his forecast next year,
according to a legislative analysis.  The temporary income- and sales-tax increases Brown wants
voters to pass in November would generate $6.8 billion in the
fiscal year that starts July 1, not the $9 billion Brown’s
budget office estimates, the Legislative Analyst’s Office said
today in a  report .  Brown’s March 14 accord with the California Federation of
Teachers combines elements of his proposal with their competing
measure. The deal between the Democrat and the state’s second-
largest school union, which had campaigned for a so-called
millionaires’ tax, raises the burden on top earners while
curbing a sales-levy increase sought by the governor.  The agreement would ask voters to raise the  sales tax ,
already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent, and boost rates on income starting at $250,000. Those
making $1 million or more, now taxed at 10.3 percent, would pay
13.3 percent, the most of any state.  Brown wants to use the money, coupled with spending cuts,
to offset a projected $9.2 billion deficit over the next 15
months. If voters reject the increases, he has proposed cutting
almost $5 billion from school budgets next year.  California’s Legislative Analyst’s Office doesn’t calculate
as much capital-gains tax income as Brown’s forecast, said H.D.
Palmer, the governor’s finance spokesman. The analyst’s office
had previously made a similar projection about his initial
proposal, before the compromise.  “It’s the same difference, just a different initiative,”
Palmer said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  