-- Buffett Awards Wall Street-Sized Pay Praised by Dimon
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-03-16T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/buffett-awards-wall-street-sized-pay-praised-by-dimon.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Chief
Executive Officer Warren Buffett, who has said banker greed
helped deepen the U.S. financial crisis, attracts the workers he
wants with compensation that competes with Wall Street awards.  Berkshire gave $17.4 million in 2011 compensation to Thomas P. Nerney, CEO of its United States Liability Insurance Group;
$12.4 million to Geico Corp. CEO Tony Nicely and the National
Indemnity Co. unit gave $9.26 million to Ajit Jain, according to
filings to state regulators. Berkshire, which is set to send its
annual-meeting notice to shareholders today, said in last year’s
proxy that Buffett’s salary remains $100,000 at his request.  Buffett, whose office in Omaha, Nebraska, is more than
1,000 miles from New York’s financial center, endeared himself
to bank critics last year by decrying  income inequality  and
calling for higher taxes on the wealthy. Still, his pay
practices won praise from JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO Jamie Dimon,
who said last month he would bet the top 20 or 30 people at
Berkshire make more than the biggest earners at his bank.  “Whether it’s  Warren Buffett  or Jamie Dimon, they all pay
a lot,” said  Charles Elson , director of the University of
Delaware’s Center for Corporate Governance. “Pay is out of
control everywhere.”  Berkshire Class A shares declined 4.7 percent in New York
last year as JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, slid 22
percent. Both companies underperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, which ended 2011 little changed.  Think Like Owners  Buffett, whose Berkshire stock is valued at more than $40
billion, has said he gives bonuses to encourage managers to
think less like employees and more like owners. He told
shareholders last year he once offered to pay  David Sokol  a
bonus of  $50 million  if performance targets were met. Sokol left
Berkshire in April.  “We’ve paid out very large bonuses at Berkshire in the
past, but we’ve always paid them out for performance,” Buffett,
81, said in a January 2010 interview. “I love getting talented
people doing great things for us, and I’ll pay them
accordingly.”  Berkshire’s statements to state regulators show that more
than 20 managers at insurance units earned at least $1 million
last year.  Gregory Abel , CEO of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.,
made $9.9 million for 2011, according to the unit’s annual
report. Berkshire’s filings to the Securities and Exchange
Commission show that no executive officer at the parent company
has reached $1 million in at least a decade through 2010.  Dimon’s Defense  Dimon, who got $20.8 million in 2010 compensation, has
defended banker pay from criticism by lawmakers and journalists.
“You don’t even make money!” Dimon said to reporters at
 JPMorgan (JPM) ’s Feb. 28 investor presentation. JPMorgan paid the
25,999 employees at its investment bank an average of $341,552
last year, or about 34 percent of the unit’s revenue.  “Warren Buffett does an exceptional job,” Dimon, 56, said
at the meeting. “I’ll make you a bet he pays his top 20 or 30
people more than we do. We need top talent. You cannot run these
businesses with second-rate talent.”  Dimon had no specific knowledge of Berkshire’s compensation
packages, said JPMorgan spokesman  Joe Evangelisti , who declined
to give details on his bank’s top earners. Buffett didn’t
respond to a request for comment e-mailed to an assistant.  Nerney’s compensation declined 11 percent from 2010, while
Nicely’s rose 7.7 percent and Jain’s advanced 6.1 percent at
National Indemnity. Underwriting profit at Geico, which Nicely
has led for 18 years, fell 48 percent to $576 million last year,
while revenue rose 7.6 percent to $15.4 billion. The 2011
underwriting loss at Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, which
Jain runs, was $714 million.  Adding Value  Buffett uses the premium revenue collected by insurance
units to help fund the  stock picks  and takeovers that have made
Berkshire into a $200 billion provider of energy,  consumer goods 
and luxury flights. Jain, 60, has “added a great many billions
of dollars” to Berkshire’s value since starting his operation
in 1985, Buffett said in this year’s  annual letter .  Nerney’s unit, with a staff of 591, is part of Berkshire
Hathaway Primary Group, a collection of carriers that cover
risks from medical malpractice to boating accidents. Nerney,
whose unit is based in Wayne,  Pennsylvania , writes so-called
excess and surplus policies, which typically cover risks that
aren’t addressed in the traditional insurance market.  “It sounds very easy to do, but I assure you it’s not,”
Joseph Calandro, managing director at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
in  New York , said in an interview. “A good excess and surplus
lines underwriter is as rare as a good investor and generally
just as profitable.” Calandro previously worked at an excess
and surplus subsidiary of Berkshire’s General Re.  Buffett’s Own Compensation  Buffett has taken a $100,000 salary for more than a quarter
century, while accepting additional compensation from Berkshire
in the form of security services valued at about $350,000 in
2010. His chief financial officer, Marc Hamburg, was the top
earning executive officer at the parent company in 2010 with
compensation of $924,750. JPMorgan CFO Douglas Braunstein was
awarded $16.1 million in 2010, while the investment banking
chief, Jes Staley, had $13.6 million, an SEC filing shows.  Buffett has praised Dimon’s leadership and said he is a
shareholder of New York-based JPMorgan. Berkshire holds more
than $12 billion of stock in JPMorgan’s rival  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
and Buffett’s company made a $5 billion investment in Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. at the depths of the 2008 crisis. Goldman Sachs
reported about $14 million in 2010 compensation for both CEO
 Lloyd Blankfein  and  Gary Cohn , the chief operating officer, down
from more than $40 million for each for 2008.  New Regulations  Buffett, a supporter of President Barack Obama, has called
for a “policeman” to oversee banking conduct and challenged
Republicans in Congress to address the widening gap between the
“ultra rich” and other Americans.  “There are lot of people who would like nothing better
than to take Warren down a peg or two on this particular
issue,”  Jay Lorsch , a  corporate-governance  professor at  Harvard
Business School  in Boston, said in an interview. “Here’s the
poster child, the guy who is arguing for parity in pay and
reducing executive pay.”  Obama blamed lenders in his January State of the Union
address for the 2008 credit freeze, saying their wrong-way bets
“left innocent, hard-working Americans holding the bag.”
Lobby groups representing financial firms including JPMorgan and
Bank of America Corp. fought against the creation of Obama’s new
watchdog, the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection bureau, as an
independent agency, saying it would create needless bureaucracy.  Dimon, who was once dubbed Obama’s “favorite banker” by
the New York Times, publicly questioned Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  in June on financial regulatory costs. Net
income at JPMorgan rose 9.2 percent to $19 billion last year.  “Jamie’s irritated understandably by some of this stuff,”
said James Armstrong, president of Berkshire investor Henry H.
Armstrong Associates. “But I don’t think Berkshire is saying
one thing and doing another” with compensation, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in  Detroit  at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  