-- Buffett’s USG Leads Building-Supplier Gains as Housing Steadies
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/buffett-s-usg-leads-building-supplier-gains-as-housing-steadies.html
Building-materials suppliers
battered by a six-year slump in U.S. new-home construction are
rallying as investors bet that the worst is over.  USG Corp. (USG) , the wallboard producer whose largest investor is
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , rose 71 percent this
year before today to lead the advance among a group of 22 U.S.
materials makers, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. That beat
the 12 percent jump in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “They are some of the biggest gains you could have, but
they’re the hardest decisions to make because it takes the most
faith,” said Bill Smead, portfolio manager with Smead Capital
Management Inc. in  Seattle , which oversees $190 million and
holds  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  in its Smead Value Fund to take advantage
of the improving housing market. “The market is anticipating 9
to 12 months ahead, and that’s this rally.”  The industry is signaling that a rebound may be under way
even with housing starts mired near the lowest levels in more
than 50 years. A gauge of  homebuilder sentiment  has risen five
straight months in the longest climb since 2003 and may extend
the streak when new data are released March 19, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  That’s translating into 2012 stock-price increases for the
makers of faucets, paint and other materials used in new-home
construction and remodeling.  ‘Coming Into Place’  “It’s not up, up and away,” said John Kasprzak Jr., an
analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond, Virginia, whose
recommendations include buying shares of insulation maker  Owens
Corning (OC)  Inc. and holding USG. “The point is that the pieces are
coming into place in the puzzle for a cyclical upturn.”  USG’s surge reverses a 40 percent plunge in 2011. Cement-
and-wallboard maker  Eagle Materials Inc. (EXP)  and  Armstrong World
Industries Inc. (AWI) , a manufacturer of flooring and cabinets, both
rose at least 30 percent this year through yesterday.  Owens Corning, furnace-maker  Lennox International Inc. (LII)  and
 Fortune Brands Home & Security Inc. (FBHS) , which makes Moen faucets
and Therma-Tru doors, rose more than 25 percent this year
through yesterday.  “There are areas for opportunity in this sector
particularly because it’s been so depressed,” said  Michelle Meyer , senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New
York . “You don’t need to see that big of a turnaround in
activity to start to matter for these businesses. If they have a
longer time horizon, this could be a very attractive place to
start investing.”  Historically Weak  While U.S. housing starts rose in each of the past two
years after tumbling 39 percent in 2009, the market remains
historically weak: 2011’s total was less than a third of the
2.07 million peak in 2005, Commerce Department data show.  Starts in February probably ran at an annual rate of
697,000, the average estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ahead of a March 20 Commerce Department report.
January’s rate was 699,000 units.  “There are a lot of people making bets that we’re at an
inflection point,” said Bob Stewart, an executive vice
president of Dallas-based Eagle. “We’ll see.”  Price increases are one measure of stability for an
industry emerging from a free fall. Eagle is now raising cement
prices by $5 to $8 a ton (907 kilograms) in most markets and
boosted wallboard prices in January by 35 percent.  “In some regions of the country we are definitely seeing
some green shoots,” Stewart said in an interview. “How
sustainable they are, I don’t know.”  Sales Trough  Eagle may post its first annual revenue increase since 2007
in the fiscal year ending March 31. Still, sales of $490
million, the average estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey, would be 43 percent lower than for fiscal 2006.  Masco Corp. (MAS) , the maker of KraftMaid cabinets and Behr
paint, has cut employment “basically in half,” Chief Executive
Officer Tim Wadhams said at a March 6 conference. The Taylor,
Michigan-based company had 31,000 workers at the end of 2011.  Masco, which gets about  three-fourths  of its sales from its
repair and remodeling business, and USG, the maker of Sheetrock-
brand wallboard, started posting  annual losses  in 2008.  The Chicago-based company is “entering 2012 with very
modest expectations,” according to CEO James Metcalf. He said
on a Feb. 6 conference call that USG has been “0-for-4 on where
we think the market’s been the last four years.”  ‘Dead Wrong’  His caution echoed the sentiments of Buffett, whose
Berkshire Hathaway held 16.2 percent of the outstanding shares
in USG as of Dec. 31. The billionaire investor said last month
in his  annual letter to shareholders  that he was “dead wrong”
in 2010 in predicting a housing recovery would happen within a
year.  USG jumped 12 percent yesterday to $17.41 at the close in
New York, while Eagle gained 3 percent to $35.23. Armstrong
World was up 0.1 percent to $57.13, and Owens Corning rose 2.6
percent to $36.98 for the eighth advance in nine trading
sessions.  The suppliers’ rally follows a 31 percent jump in the
 Standard & Poor’s 1500 Homebuilding Index. (S15HOME)  Los Angeles-based  KB
Home (KBH)  led the gauge of 11 companies with a 94 percent jump, after
plunging 50 percent in 2011.  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , whose appliance
lineup includes refrigerators and dryers, soared 66 percent this
year before today, while Home Depot, the biggest home-
improvement retailer, has climbed 17 percent.  Risk, Reward  Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica Bank in Dallas,
sees “moderate improvement” in existing home sales, which ran
at an annual rate of 4.57 million in January. A potential
negative looms with foreclosed homes coming into the market, he
said.  “It’s justified to feel a little more optimistic about
housing,” Dye said in an interview. “But at the same time
there are still a lot of risks.”  While February’s U.S. home-foreclosure tally of 206,900 was
down almost a third from two years earlier, it was still almost
double the 2006 figure, RealtyTrac Inc. data show.  RealtyTrac CEO Brandon Moore said this week that the $25
billion settlement between state attorneys general and the five
largest home lenders removed some barriers to property seizures,
setting up foreclosure increases in the coming months.  For investors, one of the questions is whether housing-
related stocks are outpacing the market’s fundamentals, said
 Mark Vitner , senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  ‘Little More Exuberant’  “I sense that folks are beginning to get ahead of
themselves and thinking ‘Alright, let the good times roll’ when
really the recovery is just getting started,” Vitner said in an
interview. “The stock market tends to get a little more
exuberant about things. It’s anticipatory.”  Vitner estimates there will be a 10 percent increase in  new
housing starts  in 2012, and that it may take four or five years
to return to the usual annual level of about 1.6 million units.  For Alex Hannigan, president of a custom homebuilding firm
in Orlando,  Florida , that bears his name, progress is measured
by recent standards, not the benchmarks of the last decade.  He built two houses last year, after completing just one in
2010 and 13 in 2006 and 2007. Average prices have slipped to
about $900,000 now from about $1.2 million then, he said.  “I personally feel we have gotten to a point where we are
at the bottom,” he said. “I envision this being a better year.
If I can build three this year, four the next and five the next,
I would be happy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in  Dallas  at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  