-- Bulgarian Premier Names Dobrev as Economy, Energy Minister
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-03-16T12:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/bulgaria-premier-appoints-dobrev-as-economy-energy-minister-1-.html
Traicho Traikov, a former Bulgarian
economy and energy minister fired for delaying work on energy
projects, will be succeeded by his deputy, Delyan Dobrev, Prime
Minister  Boiko Borissov  said.  Traikov was dismissed late yesterday after returning from a
visit to Qatar with Borissov. He delayed work on projects
including the South Stream pipeline, which would ship natural
gas from Russia to  Europe , and other projects including links
with the natural gas grids in neighboring Greece and  Romania ,
Borissov said in an interview with Bulgarian National Television
in Sofia today.  “We have no time to waste,” Borissov said. “Nothing has
moved in the three years he was in charge of one of the most
difficult ministries. Work on these projects must be sped up, so
that after four years we can show people what we have done and
ask to be re-elected.”  Borissov also dismissed his third health minister, Stefan
Konstantinov, for failing to modernize the country’s health-care
system. He will be succeeded by Dessislava Atanasova, the head
of Parliament’s health-care committee, Borissov said. The
government’s term ends in July 2013.  Pending Decision  Dobrev, 34, in charge of energy at the ministry, will have
to decide at the end of this month whether to continue
construction of a 2,000-megawatt nuclear power plant at Belene
on the Danube with Rosatom,  Russia ’s state-run nuclear company,
Borissov said.  Bulgaria  has delayed the decision for three years
squabbling with Russia over the plant’s cost.  The decision will depend on a report by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
which Bulgaria hired as a consultant to estimate costs, find new
investors and carry out an electricity market study.  “I expect the conclusions of the report to be presented as
soon as it is completed,” Borissov said.  The European Union’s poorest country in terms of output per
capita, gets most of its oil and gas from Russia and seeks to
diversify its energy sources. Traikov sought to overturn
Parliament’s Jan. 18 decision to ban hydraulic fracturing, which
thwarted  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s plans to explore for gas deposits in
the Balkan country.  “The ban was imposed in response to people’s concerns
their land will be contaminated by the explorations,” Borissov
said. “The moratorium will last for as long as people feel
uncertain about this exploration method.”  Traikov attributed the dismissal to his firm position in
negotiations with Russia and his demands that Russia should cut
the construction cost of the Belene plant, reduce  gas prices  by
as much as 15 percent in a new supply contract and increase
returns from the South Stream pipeline above 8 percent.  “Time will show the real reasons for my dismissal,”
Traikov told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  