-- Calvin Klein Browses $1.3 Billion Fair, Warhol Drag Queen Sells
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-03-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/calvin-klein-browses-1-3-billion-fair-warhol-drag-queen-sells.html
Fashion designer  Calvin Klein  was
among the VIPs browsing at the world’s biggest art and antiques
fair as portraits of King  Henry VIII  and a New York drag queen
were among sales each worth more than $2 million.  The full-length portrait of the Tudor monarch was offered
at 2.5 million pounds ($3.9 million) by the London-based dealer
 Mark Weiss , one of 261 exhibitors at the 25th European Fine Art
Fair, Tefaf, in the Dutch town of Maastricht. The recently
discovered canvas, by an unknown English artist and dating from
about 1600, was sold to an agent representing a European
collector, said Weiss.  Tefaf is  Europe ’s biggest commercial event devoted to art
ranging from antiquity to the 21st century, with $1.3 billion of
works on offer. Though dealers in  Old Masters  are its core
exhibitors, a shortage of museum-quality historic paintings and
collectors’ shifting tastes have resulted in an increasing
emphasis on more recent material. The 10-day fair, organized by
dealers, attracts about 70,000 visitors.  “This is a special fair that attracts top-notch European
collectors,” said Matt Carey-Williams, director of the London-
based gallery  Haunch of Venison . “Where else can you buy
something that’s 1,000 years old and a painting that’s still
wet?”  Haunch sold a 2012 drawing of writhing figures by the Iraq-
born Ahmed Alsoudani to a U.S. collector for $65,000.  Whitney Director  Adam Weinberg , director of the Whitney Museum of American
Art, was also spotted at the preview, as was Sheikh Saud al
Thani of Qatar, a Tefaf regular, and European collectors such as
Mick Flick from  Germany  and Mimi Dussolier from  Belgium .  As has been increasingly the case in recent years, most of
the early momentum was from modern contemporary works.  New York-based dealer Christophe van de Weghe sold Andy Warhol’s 1975 silkscreen drag-queen study “Ladies and
Gentleman,” priced at 1.7 million euros ($2.2 million), to a
German collector. A 1965  Alexander Calder  hanging mobile,
“Untitled,” tagged at 1.2 million euros, was also among Van de
Weghe’s sales.  The most expensive work in the fair is the unique 1977
Henry Moore black-marble sculpture, “Reclining Figure: Curved,”
offered by the Montreal-based dealer Laundau Fine Art for $35
million. The price had risen after a record 19.1 million pounds
was paid for a 1951 Moore bronze of a reclining figure at
 Christie’s International (CHRS)  in February, said dealers. The stone
sculpture wasn’t among the confirmed purchases during the early
hours of the fair.  Chinese Share  This year,  Tefaf  had made a concerted effort to attract
collectors from  China , which in 2011 overtook the U.S. as the
world’s biggest market for art and antiques, according to a
report commissioned by the European Fine Art Foundation and
published today. China had a 30 percent share of the world’s
auction and dealer sales in 2011, amounting to 46.1 billion
euros, the report said.  More than 100 Chinese collectors accepted invitations to
Tefaf 2012. At least two large groups were seen browsing the
booths, particularly those specializing in Asian art. They made
purchases from the Brussels-based dealer Gisele Croes, who sold
eight Chinese pieces within the first three hours of the
preview, ranging in price from 180,000 euros to 650,000 euros.  “Business is quicker this year,” said Croes, who remembers
how news of the Japanese tsunami darkened the mood at Tefaf
2011.  Glazed Vase  The  London ,  New York  and Hong Kong dealer  Littleton &
Hennessy  is offering a 14th or 15th century Longquan celadon-
glazed meiping vase and cover. One of the few remaining examples
to retain its original lid, it quickly attracted a reserve from
a North American collector, priced at 3.2 million euros.  Old Master exhibitors were reluctant to test the market
with major-name paintings priced at more than $10 million --
exactly the sort of works on which the fair’s reputation has
been built over the last quarter of a century.  Last year, New York-based dealer  Otto Naumann  brought and
wasn’t able to sell a Rembrandt priced at $47 million. This year
the dealer is showing 35 paintings ranging from $65,000 to $2.5
million.  “I haven’t seen any masterpieces,” Morgan Long, director of
investment at the London-based Fine Art Fund, said in an
interview. “If the Old Master dealers don’t bring really great
things, then it risks bringing down the reputation of the fair.
Maybe they just aren’t available anymore.”  Virginal Lady  “A Young Lady Playing the Virginal” by the 17th-century 
Dutch artist Gerrit Dou is one of the few stand-out Old Masters.
Bought at Christie’s, New York, in January, and now cleaned,
this panel painting is priced about 4 million pounds on the
booth of London-based dealer Johnny van Haeften. It also hadn’t
attracted a formal reserve during the first six hours of the
preview.  As the fair entered its second day, dealers said the mood 
at Tefaf was more positive than 2011.  “There are more bodies, more buyers,” said San Francisco-
based dealer Anthony Meier. “The atmosphere is altogether more 
festive than a year ago.”   Meier sold the 1987 Gerhard Richter landscape “Kleine 
Strasse (629-3)” to a European collector. The photo-based 
canvas, showing a deserted country road flanked by trees, was 
priced at about $5 million.   Meier was one of several dealers who watched collectors 
jostling with each other for free food and Champagne at Tefaf's 
crowded evening preview. Attendance at the opening event was 
10,314, an increase of 4 percent on 2011, said the organizers.   Warhol Drawings  A display of newly-discovered early works on paper by 
Warhol attracted droves of buyers to the booth of the Munich 
dealer  Daniel Blau . Dating from the 1950s and influenced by 
contemporary advertising, these line drawings had been found in 
the  Andy Warhol  Foundation. Blau sold 20 of the cache of 50 on 
the opening night for prices ranging from 20,000 euros to 60,000 
euros to buyers that included a Hong Kong Chinese. The booth was 
re-hung with a new selection the following day.   Leading sales in the Old Master section of the fair 
included a still life by the early 18th-century Dutch still-life 
painter Jan Van Huysum.   The artist's signed and dated 1730 mahogany panel painting 
“Flowers in a Terracotta Vase” was sold by Sotheby's-owned 
subsidiary Noortman Master Paintings of Amsterdam to another 
European collector, priced at 4.8 million euros.   The painting had sold at auction for $7.3 million at 
 Sotheby's (BID)  New York in January 2006, underlining perceptions that 
high-quality Old Masters are maintaining, if not enhancing their 
value in the current market.  Tefaf Maastricht runs through March 25. Information:
 http://www.Tefaf.com .  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 