-- Canada January Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-16T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/canada-january-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s manufacturing shipments report for January released
by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales declined 0.9% to $49.6 billion in
January, the second decrease in seven months. The decrease
partly reflected a drop in production in the aerospace
product and parts industry. Lower sales in the primary metals,
machinery and other transportation equipment industries also
contributed to the overall decline. Excluding the aerospace
industry, sales were virtually unchanged from December.  Sales decreased in 11 of 21 industries representing
approximately 44% of Canadian manufacturing. Sales of durable
goods fell 2.4% while those of non-durable goods rose 0.6%.  Constant dollar manufacturing sales fell 1.1% in January,
reflecting a decrease in the volume of manufactured goods.
This was the first decline in constant dollar sales in three
months.  Manufacturing sales decline  Aerospace product and parts posts largest decline  Production in the aerospace product and parts industry
dropped 34.0% to $913 million in January, the third decrease
in four months.  Manufacturing sales in the primary metal industry were
down 3.5% to $4.1 billion, despite a 1.8% rise in prices as
indicated by the Industrial Product  Price Index . The declines
were concentrated in alumina and aluminum production and
processing as well as non-ferrous metal production and
processing. Notwithstanding the decline, sales were 4.9%
higher than in January 2011.  In January, machinery manufacturers reported a 4.5%
decline in sales to $3.0 billion, the second consecutive
decline. Lower sales were widespread in the industry. Sales
in January were at their third-highest level since the series
began.  Automobile industry continues to strengthen  Higher sales in the  motor vehicle  (assembly) and motor
vehicle parts industries offset a portion of the overall
decline in manufacturing in January.  Sales in the motor vehicle (assembly) industry rose 2.6%
to $4.5 billion, the seventh consecutive month of sales
increases. Sales in the industry have grown 37.4% since June
2011, the most recent low. In January 2012, sales in the
industry were at their highest level since November 2007.  Similarly, sales in the motor vehicle parts industry
advanced 6.2% in January to $2.1 billion, the fifth
consecutive monthly increase. Most motor vehicle parts
manufacturers reported higher sales.  During the three month period following the March 2011
Japanese tsunami, Canadian motor vehicle (assembly) sales
fell 11.6% to their June 2011 low of $3.3 billion. For the
same period, motor vehicle (assembly) sales in the United
States decreased 3.4%. Since June 2011, sales in the Canadian
industry have advanced 37.4%, a stronger gain than was
recorded for the US industry (+6.4%).  Sales in the combined motor vehicle parts and motor
vehicle body and trailer industries in  Canada  and the United
Sales also declined in the months following the tsunami.
Combined sales in Canada for the two industries decreased
3.8% from March to a low of $1.8 billion in May 2011. Since
then, combined sales have gained 33.6% to $2.4 billion in
January 2012. Total sales for the equivalent industries in
the US rose 4.0% over the same period.  Largest sales decrease in Quebec  Sales declined in five provinces in January, with  Quebec 
posting the largest decrease in dollar terms.  Sales in Quebec declined 3.9% to $11.6 billion, the first
decrease following four months of gains. A 37.3% drop in
production in the aerospace product and parts industry was
largely responsible for the provincial decrease. Lower sales
in the plastics and rubber products (-15.3%) and machinery (-
10.9%) industries also contributed to the overall decline.
The decreases were partly offset by a 6.2% gain in the
petroleum and coal products industry.  In  New Brunswick , sales decreased 5.1% to $1.5 billion,
the fourth consecutive monthly decline. A decline in non-
durable goods sales was responsible for most of the
provincial decrease.  Ontario’s manufacturing sales edged down 0.3% to $22.9
billion, with 9 of 21 industries posting lower sales. Sales
were down 8.8% in the primary metal industry. Sales declines
also occurred in the machinery (-6.4%) and petroleum and coal
products industries (-4.5%). Gains in the food (+4.3%), motor
vehicle (assembly) (+3.3%) and motor vehicle parts (+5.8%)
industries offset most of the decreases.  In  Nova Scotia , a 7.6% advance in sales partly reflected
gains in the non-durable goods industries. A 2.0% gain in
British Columbia largely stemmed from higher sales in the
primary metals (+12.5%) and wood products (+5.3%) industries.
Sales in Alberta rose 0.9%, reflecting increases in 16 of 21
industries; lower sales in the  food industry  offset a portion
of the gains.  Inventory levels rise  Inventories rose 1.1% in January to $65.3 billion, the
15th gain in 16 months. Inventories were up in 19 of 21
industries.  Inventory levels in the transportation equipment industry
increased 2.9%, largely reflecting a 5.6% gain in the
aerospace product and parts industry.  In the primary metal industry, inventories increased 1.9%.
Higher levels of raw material and finished product
inventories were responsible for the overall increase.  Computer and electronic product inventories advanced 4.0%,
largely reflecting a rise in raw materials on hand (+5.0%).  A 4.0% decline in inventories of petroleum and coal
products offset a portion of the gains. The decrease in the
industry stemmed from an 8.8% decline in raw material
inventories and a 5.9% decline of goods-in-process.  Inventory levels rise  The inventory-to-sales ratio advanced to 1.32 in January
from 1.29 in December. The inventory-to-sales ratio is a
measure of the time, in months, that would be required to
exhaust inventories if sales were to remain at their current
level.  The inventory-to-sales ratio increases  Unfilled orders edge downward  Unfilled orders edged down 0.2% to $60.6 billion. Since
September 2011, unfilled orders have been relatively stable.  In January, a decrease in the aerospace product and parts
industry was mostly responsible for the decline. Excluding
the aerospace product and parts industry, unfilled orders
rose 0.6%. In the aerospace product and parts industry,
unfilled orders declined 1.0% to $28.9 billion. The decline
reflected a higher value for the Canadian dollar relative to
the American dollar in January, as a large portion of
unfilled orders in the  aerospace industry  are held in US
dollars.  Gains in unfilled orders were led by the computer and
electronic products industry and the electrical equipment,
appliance and component industry.  Unfilled orders edge downward  New orders  New orders increased 0.8% in January to $49.5 billion,
reflecting gains in 13 industries. A drop in the aerospace
product and parts industry offset most of the gains.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and are
expressed in current dollars unless otherwise specified.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated for
the three previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills,
clothing, leather and allied products, paper, printing and
related support activities, petroleum and coal products,
chemicals, and plastics and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components,
transportation equipment, furniture and related products and
miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the aerospace industry and shipbuilding industries,
the value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting monthly
sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change in
inventories of goods in process and finished products
manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will contribute
to future sales assuming that the orders are not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the current
month or not. New orders are measured as the sum of sales for
the current month plus the change in unfilled orders from the
previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  