-- Canada January International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-16T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/canada-january-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for January
released by  Statistics Canada .  Foreign investors reduced their holdings of Canadian
securities by $4.2 billion in January after a cumulative
acquisition of $55.1 billion in the previous six months.
Canadian investors acquired foreign securities for a ninth
straight month as they added $1.3 billion to their holdings,
purchasing equities while selling debt instruments.  Foreign portfolio investment in Canadian securities  Non-residents make first divestment in Canadian short-term paper
since June 2011  Foreign investors removed $4.6 billion from their holdings of
Canadian short-term instruments in January after accumulating
$26.0 billion in the second half of 2011. The divestment was
primarily in Federal Treasury bills where retirements exceeded
acquisitions. This was partly offset by foreign investment of
$1.1 billion in provincial government and corporate paper.  Non-resident acquisitions of Canadian bonds slowed to $1.9
billion in January. Inflows were led by purchases of federal and
provincial bonds on the secondary market, mainly by investors
from the  United Kingdom . These acquisitions were moderated by
net retirements of provincial bonds for a fourth straight month.
Canadian long-term yields increased eight basis points in
January, with the resulting differential between long- and
short-term rates widening by five basis points.  Non-residents sell Canadian shares as prices increase  Foreign investors reduced their holdings of Canadian stocks
by $1.4 billion in January, as Canadian equity prices gained
4.2% in the month. On a geographical basis, sales were led by
investors from the United Kingdom, with a $1.1 billion
divestment. This was the first monthly divestment in Canadian
stocks since April 2011, and the largest since November 2008.  Canadian investment in foreign equity markets sustained  Canadians added a further $3.4 billion of foreign stocks to
their holdings in January, spread evenly between US and non-US
equities. US equity prices increased 4.4% as all other major
world stock markets also posted gains during the month. Demand
in January was led by Canadian pension funds. January marked the
13th straight month of investment in foreign stocks, a period
during which Canadians have added nearly $30 billion to their
portfolios.  Canadian portfolio investment in foreign securities1  Canadians reduce their holdings of foreign debt instruments  Canadian investors reduced their holdings of foreign debt
instruments by $2.1 billion in January. The divestment, the
first in four months, was mainly in US  government bonds  and
Treasury bills. This was partially offset by a fourth straight
monthly acquisition of US corporate bonds. US long-term  interest
rates  were up by eight basis points in January, the first
increase in three months.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions cover
portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money market
instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well as
warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity of
one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  