-- Canadian Dollar Falls on Bets Fed Will Maintain Stimulus
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-03-16T21:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-set-for-10th-weekly-gain.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped against
most of its major counterparts as North American currencies slid
after a U.S. inflation report supported speculation that the
 Federal Reserve  will maintain monetary stimulus.  The Canadian currency fell along with the greenback and
Mexican peso after a U.S. gauge of consumer prices excluding
food and energy rose in February less than forecast. The
Canadian dollar gained for the 10th week versus the yen in the
longest winning streak since 2005 as crude oil, the nation’s
biggest export, advanced.  “The Canadian dollar is generally reflective of the
strengths and weaknesses of the U.S.,” said Ravi Bharadwaj, a
market analyst at  Western Union Co. (WU) ’s Western Union Business
Solutions unit in  Washington . “It is not surprising to see it
pinch at the heels of the greenback after the consumer prices
report.”  Canada’s currency was little changed at 99.17 cents per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0084. Against the yen, the loonie slid 0.2 percent to 84.13,
paring its weekly rally to 1.1 percent. The Canadian dollar was
down 0.1 percent versus the greenback this week.  Futures on  crude oil  increased 2 percent to $107.19 a
barrel in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent. The S&P/TSX Composite Index advanced 0.3 percent.  Drop in Bonds  Government benchmark 10-year bonds fell for a fourth
straight day, driving the yield up by four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.24 percent after touching 2.30 percent,
the highest level since Oct. 31. Canadian 10-year  bonds  yield
about six basis points less than their U.S. counterparts. At the
end of December, they yielded six basis points more.  Canadian  government bonds  have lost 1.5 percent this year
and are headed for the worst quarter since 2009 as the U.S.
recovery accelerates and traders perceive policy makers are
containing the European sovereign-debt crisis.  Foreigners were net sellers of Canadian securities in
January, marking the first loss in holdings in seven months,
government figures showed today. Investors slowed purchases of
Canadian bonds to C$1.87 billion ($1.87 billion), following an
accumulation of C$3.10 billion in December.  Canada’s dollar, which tends to trade as a proxy for global
growth on speculation its economy will benefit from demand for
raw materials, is the best performer in the past month among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, having appreciated 1 percent. The  U.S. dollar 
has advanced 0.4 percent.  “On crosses, we’re very positive on commodity currencies,
particularly Canada,” said Geoffrey Kendrick, head of European
currency strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  London , in a
telephone interview. “Canada is basically a high-beta play on
U.S. growth.” Crosses are trades with currencies other than the
U.S. dollar, and “beta” refers to an asset’s sensitivity to
changes in underlying measures of risk appetite.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  