-- Cancer Drug Benefits May Be Eroded by Other Medications
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/cancer-drug-benefits-may-be-harmed-by-effect-of-other-medicines.html
As many as 74 percent of patients
on targeted cancer drugs have taken other medicines that may
limit the cancer therapy’s effectiveness or cause toxic side
effects, a study found.  Researchers at  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  found that 23
percent to 57 percent of patients on targeted cancer drugs were
also prescribed medicines that may have blunted the effect of
the cancer treatment. Twenty-four percent to 74 percent of the
patients received drugs that may have added toxic side effects
when used at the same time as the cancer therapies.  “Oncologists are not always aware of other medications
prescribed by other doctors and vice-versa, which can pose a
real hazard for their patients on oral cancer therapies,” said
Steven Bowlin, an author of the study and senior director at
Medco’s research division, in a statement.  The researchers examined drug claims data for 11,600 cancer
patients who had taken one of nine targeted cancer pills,
including the leukemia drug Gleevec from Basel, Switzerland-
based  Novartis AG (NOVN) , during a 29-month period ending in mid-2010.
A large range of possible interactions was reviewed and the
research didn’t prove that patients were harmed by taking other
medications such as certain heartburn drugs, antibiotics or
steroids, Bowlin said in a telephone interview.  There are numerous ways drugs may interfere with one
another and most possible interactions don’t cause harm, he
said. The study results are being presented today at the
 American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics 
annual meeting.  Gleevec Patients  For Gleevec, 43 percent of the 4,617 cancer patients taking
the therapy got medicines that may reduce its effectiveness,
while 68 percent received drugs that might increase toxicity.
The doctors who prescribed the potentially interfering drugs
were usually primary-care physicians and other noncancer
specialists, the study found.  Anything that may reduce a cancer drug’s effectiveness “is
obviously very concerning,”  Eric Stanek , vice president of
research at Medco and a study author, said in an interview.
“You don’t want to wait and see if the cancer comes back” to
realize there is a problem.  Other drugs examined included the kidney cancer drug Sutent
from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and the lung cancer drug Tarceva from  Roche
Holding AG. (ROG)   The next step in the Medco research will be to examine
whether any of the Gleevec patients were harmed by the
potentially interfering drug combinations, Bowlin said. Results
from this follow-up may be ready in a year.  Medco, based in  Franklin Lakes ,  New Jersey , manages
pharmacy benefits for 65 million Americans and has agreed to be
acquired by St. Louis-based  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  The deal would
create the largest U.S. manager of pharmacy benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  