-- Cardinal Health Drug Shipments in Florida Blocked by Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-16T18:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/cardinal-health-drug-shipments-in-florida-blocked-by-court-1-.html
Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH)  must stop
distributing controlled substances from its Lakeland,  Florida ,
center as an appeals court weighs the legality of a U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration order blocking the shipments.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  today rejected
Cardinal Health’s request to put on hold a lower court’s Feb. 29
decision upholding the DEA suspension.  Cardinal Health “has not satisfied the stringent
requirements for an injunction pending court review,” the three
judge panel ruled.  U.S. District Judge Reggie Walton on Feb. 29 said that the
government sufficiently proved that the distribution facility
posed a public safety threat by shipping heavy volumes of the
prescription painkiller oxycodone to pharmacies, including two
owned by a unit of  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)   Debbie Mitchell, a Cardinal Health spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the
ruling.  Walton, on March 14, ordered two CVS stores in Sanford,
Florida, to stop filling prescriptions of controlled substances
during the DEA investigation. He said the DEA produced enough
information to show that pharmacists at the stores filled
prescriptions for the painkiller oxycodone that they knew or
should have known would lead to the drug being diverted for
illegal uses.  CVS Appeal  CVS appealed that ruling and Walton’s order was temporarily
placed on hold.  The three judges in today’s ruling on Cardinal Health --
U.S. Circuit Judges Karen LeCraft Henderson, David Tatel and
Janice Rogers Brown -- are the same ones considering the CVS
appeal.  The DEA suspended the licenses of the pharmacies and a
Florida distribution facility owned by Cardinal Health Inc. on
Feb. 2 after determining that continued operations posed an
imminent danger to the public, according to court filings.  The cases are Cardinal Health v.  U.S. Department of
Justice , 12-05061, and Holiday CVS LLC v. Holder, 12-05072,  U.S.
Court of Appeals , District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  