-- Chalco Swings to 2nd-Half Loss, May Continue Unprofitable
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-16T16:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/chalco-swings-to-2nd-half-loss-may-continue-unprofitable.html
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest producer of the lightweight metal, swung to a
wider-than-expected loss in the second half of 2011 and said it
may also be unprofitable in the first quarter of this year.  Net loss was 174.6 million yuan ($28 million) in the six
months ended Dec. 31, compared with a profit of 247.4 million
yuan a year ago, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
Chalco full-year earnings announced late yesterday. The loss is
wider than the 43.6 million yuan median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Aluminum prices  in  London  dropped 30 percent from May to a
17-month low in December amid concerns that the European
sovereign-debt crisis and a slowdown in the  U.S. economy  may
curb demand for commodities. China’s monetary tightening also
led to higher interest costs, Chalco said.  Finance costs rose on “consecutive interest hikes (and)
the increase in the size of debts,” Chalco said. “The surge in
the cost of raw materials, fuels and power” resulted in
narrower profit margins for the company’s major products.  The company said it will give details of the first-quarter
loss in its quarterly report. Three calls to the mobile phone of
Shen Hui, a Chalco spokeswoman, went unanswered.  Net finance costs surged to 3.29 billion yuan for all of
last year from 2.5 billion of in 2010, according to the
statement. Full-year net income plunged to 238 million yuan from
778 million yuan in 2010, it said. The mean estimate from 11
analysts was for a profit of 369 million yuan.  Chalco shares  climbed 0.5 percent to close at HK$4.06
yesterday in  Hong Kong  before the earnings announcement,
compared with a 0.2 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index . The stock has fallen 46 percent in the past 12 months.  Growth Target  Premier  Wen Jiabao  last week pared the nation’s annual
growth target to 7.5 percent this year from the 8 percent in
place since 2005, a signal that the government is determined to
cut reliance on exports and  capital spending  in favor of
consumption.  Aluminium prices in London, having fallen 2.2 percent this
month, are being dragged down by the uncertain outlook for
Chinese growth, B.L. Bagra, Chairman of National Aluminium Co.,
 India ’s third-biggest producer, said. The smelter is delaying
the restart of the shuttered 10 percent of its capacity on signs
the economy is stalling in  China , the biggest user of the light
metal.  Global demand growth for aluminum may slow to 7 percent
this year, from 10 percent in 2011, United Co. Rusal, the
world’s largest producer, said last month.  Power Prices  China raised retail power prices by an average 0.03 yuan a
kilowatt-hour from Dec. 1, squeezing profits at smelters that
don’t have access to cheaper fuel. That will raise costs by as
much as 500 yuan for producing a ton of aluminum, equivalent to
an increase of as much as 5 percent of total costs, Chalco’s
Shen said in January.  Chalco will seek to raise as much as 8 billion yuan in a
private share offering to help fund an alumina plant and ore
processing facility, the company said March 9, cutting an
earlier target of 9 billion yuan after its share price fell.  The nation’s demand growth of aluminum, a lightweight metal
used in aircraft, beverage cans and car parts, may slow to 6.6
percent this year from 11.5 percent in 2011, Li Dongguang, head
of international trading with Aluminum Corp. of China, Chalco’s
parent, said in a company newsletter Feb. 11.  China, producer of 41 percent of the world’s aluminum, may
increase its share of capacity to 60 percent by the end of 2015
as smelters expand into western regions where power is cheaper.  More than 15 million metric tons of production capacity is
planned to be built by the end of 2015 in western areas
including Xinjiang,  Inner Mongolia  and Qinghai, according to Wen
Xianjun, deputy chairman of the China Nonferrous Metals Industry
Association.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  