-- Obama Uses Lincoln to Needle Republicans Battling in Illinois
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-17T04:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/chicago-area-draws-america-s-top-political-brands-in-same-day.html
As  Mitt Romney  and  Rick Santorum 
intensified their push for votes in Illinois, President  Barack Obama  used a fundraising trip yesterday to his hometown of
Chicago to poke fun at the contentious Republican race.  At a fundraiser in Chicago, Obama mentioned another
president who, like him, adopted Illinois as his home state,
 Abraham Lincoln . “Welcome to the Land of Lincoln,” he said of
the Republicans seeking to run against him. “Maybe some Lincoln
will rub off on them while they are here.”  Ahead of the state’s March 20 primary, Romney deployed his
top surrogate to paint Santorum as unqualified for the White
House. New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , appearing on Romney’s
behalf in suburban  Chicago , also told several hundred students
and others that their votes next week could be decisive.  “Governor Romney needs to show our party and our country
that he’s not only competing everywhere, but that he can win
everywhere,” he said at Elmhurst College. “Illinois, you are
going to turn the corner for Mitt Romney on Tuesday.”  Santorum, speaking to reporters in the Chicago suburb of
Arlington Heights, predicted a strong Illinois showing.  “We’re going to do well here, certainly better than anyone
expected,” he said.  Both Santorum, 53, and Romney, 65, were scheduled to
campaign in the state today.  Newspaper Endorsement  Romney yesterday won the endorsement of the  Chicago
Tribune , the state’s largest newspaper.  Obama often points to Lincoln as one of his role models,
and, after invoking his name for the quip at the fundraiser, he
praised the 16th president’s use of the federal government to
advance transportation, education and scientific projects.  “Lincoln, the first Republican president, knew that if we
as a nation through our federal government didn’t act to
facilitate these things, then they likely wouldn’t happen, and
as a result, we’d all be worse off,” Obama said at the Palmer
House Hilton Hotel in Chicago’s downtown.  The president took note of the Republican campaign attack
ads airing in the state, saying they aren’t exactly in keeping
with Lincoln’s call for “appealing to the better angels of our
nature.”  Romney Event  Romney made a morning appearance at a pancake restaurant in
Rosemont, Illinois, before flying to  Puerto Rico  ahead of its
March 18 nominating contest and in his remarks targeted Obama.  “This president has failed us when it comes to gasoline
and energy,” Romney said.  Christie, in his appearance, argued that Romney’s
Republican rivals -- former Pennsylvania Senator Santorum,
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  of  Texas  -- should be ruled out because they have spent
time in Congress.  “Let’s be very leery, very wary of sending another member
of Congress to the White House,” Christie said, referring to
Obama’s service as a senator from Illinois before winning the
White House.  Unlike Romney, who served a term as governor of
 Massachusetts , his challengers “don’t know the first thing most
of the time about using executive authority,” Christie said.  Romney’s campaign has also begun airing a television ad in
the Chicago market that calls Santorum an “economic
lightweight.”  Santorum, responding to Christie’s criticism of
congressional resumes, said such claims are “funny” and
pointed to Romney’s lack of foreign policy experience.  ‘No Vision’  He repeatedly mentioned Romney’s financial advantage and
said his opponent has “no vision for the country that’s
positive.”  Santorum campaigned earlier yesterday in  Missouri , which
holds caucuses today, and criticized Romney.  “We have to have a candidate that’s going to energize our
base, get them excited -- just like we did in 2010 -- someone
who’s authentic, someone who hasn’t taken every side of every
issue throughout their political career,” he said at the Main
Street  Music Hall  in Osage Beach, Missouri.  Santorum contrasted his own Senate record as an anti-
abortion activist with Romney’s as an abortion-rights supporter.  “At the end of his governor’s term, when he decided to run
for president, he had a conversion,” Santorum said. “We don’t
need someone who had convenient conversion experiences on a
whole host of issues.”  Ad Spending  Romney and his allies are dominating  television advertising 
in  Illinois , according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG,
which tracks advertising.  Ads from Romney’s campaign and Restore Our Future, a
political action committee backing him, appeared 1,773 times on
Illinois broadcast stations through March 15, CMAG data show.  Restore Our Future also supplied 435 ads to stations in
Iowa, Kentucky and Missouri that reach some Illinois residents.
All together, the ads from Romney and Restore Our Future cost $2
million to air.  Red White and Blue Fund, a political action committee
backing Santorum, began its Illinois advertising on March 15
with six ads in the Rockford area.  Obama aimed to raise more than $5 million for his re-
election bid in yesterday’s fundraising trip that ended in
Atlanta and included a private gathering at the home of film
actor and producer Tyler Perry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Arlington Heights, Illinois, at 
5919 or  jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at  at
   jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  