-- Chile Keeps 5% Rate as Prospect of Colombia-Like Rise Looms
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-03-16T12:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/chile-keeps-5-rate-as-prospect-of-colombia-like-increase-looms.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its key
 interest rate  unchanged for a second month yesterday as traders
bet accelerating inflation and growth will prompt policy makers
to join their peers in Colombia and tighten monetary policy.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
held the overnight rate at 5 percent, as forecast by all 17
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg , saying growth had exceeded
estimates. It was the first time since November that at least
some analysts hadn’t forecast a rate reduction.  Chile has the third-highest borrowing costs among major
rate-setting central banks in Latin America behind Brazil and
Colombia after the economy expanded 6.3 percent last year, the
fastest pace since 1997. A central bank survey of analysts and
traders shows Chile will follow  Colombia ’s lead in raising rates
within the next 12 months as growth remains resilient, rather
than opting for monetary easing like Brazil.  “The bias has changed from a cut to flat rates or an
increase this year,” Mario Arend, chief economist at Celfin
Capital SA, said by phone after the decision. “The central bank
recognizes that the U.S. has had a better performance and that
 Europe ’s financial tensions have declined.”  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 481.6 per  U.S. dollar  at 9:28
a.m. Santiago time from 482.25 yesterday.  Traders and investors surveyed by the central bank on March
13 forecast rates will remain unchanged for six months, before
rising to 5.25 percent by March 2013. They had forecast a rate
cut by June in the Feb. 21 poll. A separate survey of economists
this week forecast no change in rates in 2012 and an increase
within 23 months.  Economic Growth  “Any future changes in the monetary policy rate will
depend on the effects of domestic and external macroeconomic
conditions on the inflationary outlook,” the central bank said
in a statement accompanying yesterday’s decision.  The world’s  leading copper producer  grew 5.5 percent in
January from the year-earlier period, up from 5.3 percent in
December and 4 percent in November.  Gross domestic product will expand 4.1 percent in 2012,
trailing Colombia’s 4.9 percent expansion and leading  Brazil ’s
3.4 percent increase, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Colombia in February raised its key interest rate to 5.25
percent in a bid to stabilize the fastest economic growth since
2006, while Brazil last week cut borrowing costs to 9.75
percent, bringing it below 10 percent for the second time on
record.  Chile’s next interest rate move will be an increase as
policy makers strive to contain growth and inflation, Alfredo Coutino, Latin America director at Moody’s Analytics, said by
phone March 14. A repeat of January’s surprise rate reduction is
unlikely, he said.  ‘Cool Off’  “There was no real justification to cut the rate in
January on the argument of a deterioration of external
conditions,” Coutino said. “The economy needs to cool off, and
the only way to do that is cooling domestic demand through
monetary tightening.”  The central bank polled economists and traders this month
after data showed  inflation  reached a higher-than-forecast 4.4
percent in February. Unemployment in January was a lower-than-
estimated 6.6 percent and wages in the month surged 6.7 percent
from the year earlier.  “Domestically, economic activity and domestic demand have
tended to outperform forecasts,” policy makers said in
yesterday’s statement. “The labor market remains tight and
nominal wages show increased dynamism.”  Chile’s one-year interest rate swaps, which reflect
traders’ views of average borrowing costs, rose to 5.26 percent
yesterday from 4.68 percent on Feb. 14 when the bank previously
met and 4.48 percent the day after policy makers reduced
borrowing costs.  “We expect the monetary policy council to remain on hold
in the near term,”  Alberto Ramos , a senior  Latin America 
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a note e-mailed
to investors after the decision. “The bias could be upgraded
from neutral to hawkish in case domestic demand growth remains
strong and inflationary pressures persist and propagate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  