-- China’s Stocks Rise, Paring Weekly Loss
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-16T07:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/china-s-stocks-rise-paring-weekly-loss-on-resilient-earnings.html
China’s stocks  rose as consumer
companies extended the biggest weekly rally among industry
groups on speculation they will benefit most from government
efforts to focus on domestic demand to support economic growth.  Liquor makers  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519)  and Wuliangye Yibin Co.
advanced at least 3.1 percent after Shenyin & Wanguo Securities
Co. recommended buying consumer stocks. Jiangling Motors Corp.,
the commercial vehicle partner with Ford Motor Co. gained 2.6
percent after net income rose 9.3 percent last year. Shanghai
Pudong Development Bank, the Chinese partner of Citigroup Inc.,
added 0.7 percent after profit jumped 42 percent in 2011.  “Earnings don’t look bad and valuations are attractive,”
said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “Even though the economy is
still slowing, the market expects it to find a bottom by the end
of the first quarter.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 30.96 points, or 1.3
percent, to 2,404.74 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 1.5
percent to 2,623.52. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added
0.6 percent in New York yesterday.  About 16.6 billion shares changed hands in the Shanghai
Composite yesterday, or 33 percent higher than the daily average
this year. Thirty-day  volatility  on the gauge was at 16.42,
close to its highest level in almost two weeks.  Weekly Loss  The Shanghai Composite retreated 1.4 percent this week, the
biggest weekly loss since January, after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
 home prices  are still far from reasonable levels. The slump
pared this year’s gains to 9.3 percent in 2012. Stocks in the
index trade at 10 times estimated profit, compared with a record
low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6,  weekly data  compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  A measure of consumer staples stocks in the CSI 300 gained
3.4 percent, the most among the 10 industry groups today and
this week. Kweichow Moutai,  China ’s biggest producer of baijiu
liquor by market value, rose 4.4 percent to 207.59 yuan, the
biggest gain since August. Wuliangye, the second largest, added
3.1 percent to 37.35 yuan. Luzhou Laojiao Co., a spirits
producer in Sichuan province, jumped 4.8 percent to 45.47 yuan.  Consumer stocks may be in favor as property-related shares
are getting riskier and small-capitalization equities face
earnings risk, Ling Peng, a strategist at Shenyin & Wanguo,
wrote in a report.  A relaxation of curbs on the  property market  would lead to
“chaos,” Wen said at a March 14 press conference in Beijing.
China trimmed the nation’s economic growth target to 7.5 percent
from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005, a signal that
leaders are seeking to shift toward expansion driven more by
domestic consumption instead of exports.  Hard Landing Risk  The government also highlighted plans to endorse higher
minimum wages during this month’s meeting of the National
People’s Congress to reduce the risk of a slowdown turning into
a so-called hard landing.  “If you look at the Chinese data, you should stop debating
about a hard landing,”  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
chief Asian and emerging-market strategist, said at a conference
in  Singapore  on March 14. “China is in a hard landing. Car
sales are down, cement production is down, steel production is
down, construction stocks are down. It’s not a debate anymore,
it’s a fact.”  Earnings Growth  Listed companies have started to announce annual earnings
reports and will finish before the end of April. They may post
the slowest earnings growth since 2008, when profits dropped 11
percent amid the global financial crisis, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Two hundred and sixty-three companies in the Shanghai
Composite have released annual earnings. They posted profit
growth of 14 percent on average, trailing analyst estimates by
6.8 percent, Bloomberg data showed. That compared with an
increase of 38 percent in the previous year.  Jiangling Motors gained 2.6 percent to 22.52 yuan after
reporting net income of 1.87 billion yuan last year. Xinzhi
Motor Co. jumped 40.6 percent to 22.50 yuan on its first day of
trading in Shenzhen. Pudong Bank rose 0.7 percent to 9.25 yuan.  China will allow exchange-traded funds of  Hong Kong  shares
to list on mainland exchanges “soon,” K.C. Chan, Hong Kong’s
Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury, said in an
interview in  New York  yesterday.  The process of getting Hong Kong stocks to trade on the
Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges as ETFs is “almost near
completion,” Chan said. “The final step would be for the
regulators in China” to review companies’ applications to start
the funds, he said.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.5 percent to $38.86
yesterday, climbing for the second day this week.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  