-- China Plans Faster Land Approval, Tax-Free Imports for Shale
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-16T07:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/china-plans-faster-land-approval-tax-free-import-to-boost-shale.html
China  pledged to prioritize land
approvals for shale-gas exploration, allow tax-free equipment
imports and offer subsidies to companies including  PetroChina
Co. (857)  tapping the largest reserves of the unconventional fuel.  The country aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters of
shale gas annually by 2015 and ramp up output to between 60
billion and 100 billion by the end of the decade, the National
Development and Reform Commission  said , citing a plan drafted by
the National Energy Administration. The goals match estimates
issued by the Ministry of Land and Resources previously.  China has yet to produce shale gas commercially as its
explorers struggle to overcome the lack of domestic drilling
expertise and geology that is tougher than in the U.S., where
output has surged 15-fold in the past decade. A “breakthrough”
would be needed by 2015 for the country to achieve its targets,
the Energy Administration said today.  “The 2015 goal sounds achievable, but having 10 times as
much production by 2020 sounds very aggressive,” said  Gordon Kwan , the Hong Kong-based head of regional oil and gas research
at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. “Unless China can figure out its
technology quickly, I don’t see that goal could be easily
achieved.”  Natural gas accounted for less than 4 percent of China’s
energy supplies as of last year, compared with a goal by the
NDRC set in 2000 to boost the share of the fuel to 10 percent by
2010, according to Kwan. “They have overestimated and under-
delivered before,” he said.  Technology, Subsidies  The government plans to offer fiscal support for the
development of shale gas, including a subsidy structure based on
a system in place for coal-bed methane production,  Li Cheng , a
vice director at the Ministry of Finance, said at a media
briefing in Beijing today.  China will offer subsidies to encourage domestic companies
to tap the resource, Zhang Dawei, deputy head of the Strategic
Research Center at the land ministry, said on Oct. 20. The
subsidy will be higher than the 0.2 yuan (3 cents) per cubic
meter provided for coal-bed methane because gas is harder to
extract from shale rock, Zhang said.  “If we can make a breakthrough in key exploration and
development technologies by 2015,” then it is “very likely”
the 2020 target will be achieved, Zhang Yuqing, head of the
Energy Administration’s oil and gas department, said at today’s
media briefing.  China will allow tax-free import of some drilling equipment
that can’t be manufactured domestically, the NDRC said, citing
the Energy Administration’s plan for the five years ending 2015.  Shale Auctions  The Chinese government will hold one or two auctions of
shale-gas blocks this year, the land ministry said on March 1.
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , the nation’s second-largest
oil company, and Henan Provincial Coal Seam Gas Development and
Utilization Co. won the rights to explore two areas in the
country’s first shale-gas auction in June.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , which has started exploring its first shale-gas
site in China, plans to increase investments in North American
shale projects to acquire technology to develop domestic fields,
Chairman Wang Yilin said on March 5.  China National Petroleum Corp., the parent of Hong Kong-
listed PetroChina, agreed in June to form a venture with  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to improve its drilling efficiency after taking
11 months to complete the nation’s first shale well.  Shale-Gas Reserves  China holds 25.08 trillion cubic meters of exploitable
onshore shale-gas reserves, the land ministry  said  on March 1,
citing a nationwide survey. That’s part of an estimated 134.42
trillion cubic meters of total gas reserves in the country,
according to the ministry.  Proven exploitable shale-gas reserves may reach 200 billion
cubic meters by 2015, the NDRC, the country’s top economic
planning agency, said today.  The U.S. has 482 trillion cubic feet (13.65 trillion cubic
meters) of technically recoverable gas from shale formations,
the Energy Information Administration said in a Jan. 23
estimate. U.S. shale-gas output rose to 15 billion cubic feet in
2010 from 1 billion in 2000, according to industry consultant
IHS Energy.  For Related News and Information:
Top Gas Stories: {TGAS GO}  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net ;
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net ;
Jiang Jianguo in Shanghai at 
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  