-- China Money Rate Drops for Fourth Week as Debt Redemptions Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-16T09:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/china-money-rate-drops-for-fourth-week-as-debt-redemptions-rise.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
completed a fourth weekly drop on speculation the supply of cash
will increase as debt redemptions rise this month.  The People’s Bank of China  withdrew  a net 57 billion yuan
($9 billion) of capital from the financial system this week,
compared with a 3 billion yuan injection last week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Some 254 billion yuan of central
bank bills and  repurchase agreements  will mature this month,
compared with 12 billion yuan in February, according to data
from China Merchants Bank Co.  “The market is abundant with cash,” said Wang Huane, a
senior bond trader at Qilu Bank Co. in Jinan, capital of eastern
Shandong province. “The central bank may maintain the capital-
draining level to prevent the market from running wild.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped nine basis points this week to
2.90 percent as of 4:47 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The rate rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, today.  The central bank yesterday allowed the yield on 91-day
repurchase contracts to drop two basis points to 3.14 percent,
the first decline in three years. The one-year swap contract,
the fixed cost needed to receive the floating seven-day
repurchase rate, fell four basis points in the week to 3.15
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate was
little changed today.  The yield on the 3.94 percent government bonds due January
2021 was unchanged this week at 3.56 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. It decreased one basis point today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  