-- Chinese Companies Forced to Falsify Data, Government Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-16T07:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/chinese-companies-forced-to-falsify-economic-data-bureau-says.html
China ’s  statistics bureau  said
local officials forced some hotels, coal miners and aluminum
makers to report false numbers, highlighting flaws in data
tracking the world’s second-largest economy.  Statistics officials in Hejin city in northern Shanxi
province gave companies “seriously untrue” numbers to submit
for 2011, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics said
in a  statement  on its website dated March 12.  Discrepancies between national and local numbers for 
gross domestic product indicate the task that remains for 
officials seeking to bolster confidence in the statistics 
system. So far, steps have included crackdowns on leaks of 
market-moving numbers and direct online reporting of data by 
companies to limit opportunities for provincial officials to 
massage the numbers.  “The national bureau is demonstrating its resolve in
improving the nation’s data accuracy but it has a long way to
go,” said Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of
America Corp. In general, national-level data from the bureau is
“more trustworthy” while local numbers “need a closer look.”  The bureau urged regions, departments and individuals to
learn a lesson from the Hejin case, without commenting on the
frequency of such incidents. It also urged statistics officials
to not violate laws and regulations.  Numbers Don’t Add Up  Layers in the data collecting system have added to
inaccuracies and discrepancies. In 2011, the 31 provincial-level
governments reported a combined GDP of 51.8 trillion yuan ($8.2
trillion), 4.6 trillion yuan higher than the national  figure 
calculated by the statistics bureau, the state-backed Economic
Daily reported in February.  The bureau last month started using a unified system to
directly collect output, retail sales and investment data from
700,000 companies, to boost accuracy and reduce manipulation,
agency head  Ma Jiantang  said Feb. 14. Any tampering or
falsification will be treated “seriously,” Ma said.  The NBS has notified the Hejin government of irregularities
and the officials responsible are being “dealt with,”
according to the March 12 statement. In a separate release dated
Feb. 21, the bureau said officials in Yongchuan district,
Chongqing, had interfered in companies’ data reporting in
November.  Last year, China jailed two officials for leaking
classified economic data in its highest profile crackdown on
selective disclosure linked to  insider trading .  Secret Information  Wu Chaoming, a researcher with the People’s Bank of China
was sentenced to six years in prison for willfully revealing
secret information to 15 people in the securities industry, Li
Zhongcheng, a state prosecutor said in October. Sun Zhen, a
former secretary in the country’s statistics bureau, received
five years on similar charges.  The government began public efforts to combat the challenge
of leaks in April last year and in July brought forward the
monthly release dates for some figures to reduce the chance of
early disclosure. Some of those who disclosed information got
“handsome” lecture fees for speaking to securities brokerages,
while others traded stocks for profit, said Du Yongsheng, a
spokesman for the National Administration for Protection of
State Secrets.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  