-- China Will Ensure Sanctions Won’t Stop Iran Oil Shipments
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-16T11:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/china-will-ensure-tankers-can-haul-iran-oil-china-shipping-says.html
China , the biggest buyer of Iranian
oil, will take steps to prevent European trade sanctions from
disrupting shipments from the Persian Gulf nation, said tanker
operator China Shipping Development Co.  The government has discussed ways to help shipping
companies get insurance once sanctions against  Iran  take effect
July 1, General Manager Yan Zhichong told reporters in Hong Kong
today. The ministry of transport and National Development Reform
Commission held special meetings on the issue, he said.  “The attitude is clear -- we must make sure that the
volume of our shipments will not drop,” Yan said. “The
government regards it as a very important issue.”  China may nominate an insurer to cover oil shipments from
Iran to ensure that supplies can continue, Yan said. European
Union sanctions on Iran threaten to disrupt oil shipments
because about 95 percent of the world’s tankers are insured
against risks such as oil spills by the 13 members of the
London-based  International Group  of P&I Clubs, according to
Andrew Bardot, its secretary and executive officer.  China Shipping Development (1138)  had a fleet of 72 tankers at the
end of last year. The company is part of state-controlled China
Shipping Group Co., the nation’s biggest sea-cargo carrier after
China Ocean Shipping Group Co.  Iranian Cargoes  China Shipping so far hasn’t had any disruptions in its
cargoes from Iran, Yan said. The Asian nation is underwriting
some oil shipments, according to the  International Energy
Agency .  As originally agreed, the EU embargo approved Jan. 23 would
affect coverage for vessels carrying Iranian oil, insurers and
shipowners said. Now the 27-nation bloc is considering an
exception for “third-party liability insurance and
environmental liability insurance,” according to a draft of the
regulation obtained by Bloomberg News.  The proposal would allow tankers owned outside the EU to
continue carrying Iranian oil even if they are insured in
 Europe , Bardot said March 14. The draft has been sent to
national governments and the bloc hopes to complete the
regulation within a month, according to an EU official with
knowledge of the matter.  About 22 percent of Iranian oil exports go to China,
according to U.S. Department of Energy estimates. The Asian
nation opposes trade restrictions against Iran and said oil
sanctions aren’t “constructive,” the official Xinhua News
Agency reported Jan. 26, citing comments from the Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs .  The EU and U.S. have imposed sanctions on Iran because of
the nation’s nuclear program. Iran has said the project is only
for civilian use.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  