-- Lehigh Upsets Duke, Norfolk State Also Wins as an NCAA 15th Seed
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-17T05:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/cincinnati-holds-off-texas-in-ncaa-men-s-basketball-tournament.html
It had been 11 years since a 15th-
seeded team won in the National Collegiate Athletic Association
men’s basketball tournament, and then it happened twice in less
than three hours.  Lehigh University pulled off one of the biggest upsets in
tournament history, defeating four-time national champion  Duke
University . That shocker came after another No. 15 seed, Norfolk
State, beat No. 2  Missouri .  Lehigh (27-7), which never had won in four previous NCAA
appearances, triumphed 75-70 against Duke, which has 96 NCAA
wins and a national championship as recently as 2010.  “The game has taken me to incredible highs and the game
will take you to incredible lows,” Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski
said in a televised interview. “Today is one of those
incredible lows.”  Four No. 2 seeds had lost their opening game at the
tournament since 1985, most recently in 2001 when Hampton
defeated Iowa State.  Yesterday, Virginia-based Norfolk State ousted Missouri 86-84 
in the West Regional and then Lehigh, from Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania , 
defeated the Blue Devils (27-7) in the South Regional.  Missouri was a 20 1/2-point favorite in Las Vegas odds,
while Duke was favored by 12 points.  The Lehigh upset occurred in Greensboro, North Carolina,
about an hour away from Duke’s campus in Durham. Duke had been a
perfect 12-0 in NCAA tournament games in Greensboro and 32-4 in
tournament games in the state of North Carolina.  C.J. McCollum, the Patriot League player of the year, had
30 points to lead Lehigh.  ‘Suspend Disbelief’  “I told our guys we really needed to suspend disbelief,”
said Lehigh coach Brett Reed. “We had confidence and belief in
ourselves.”  Norfolk State (26-9) got 26 points and 14 rebounds from
Kyle O’Quinn in its defeat of Missouri.  “I feel good,” Norfolk State coach Anthony Evans said in
a televised interview. “They played hard, they did what we
asked them to do.”  The third round begins today with three  Big East  conference
and three Big Ten conference teams in action.  Syracuse (32-2), a Big East team and one of the four
regional No. 1 seeds, plays Kansas State in the East Regional.
No. 2 seed  Ohio  State of the Big Ten faces Gonzaga in another
East Regional matchup, while No. 4 seed  Wisconsin  of the Big Ten
takes on No. 5 Vanderbilt in another game in that regional.  In the South Regional, top seed Kentucky (33-2) plays Iowa
State, fourth-seeded Indiana of the Big Ten plays Virginia
Commonwealth and No. 3 Baylor meets  Colorado .  Third-Round Matchups  In the West Regional, Big East tournament champion
Louisville plays New Mexico and Marquette of the Big East goes
against Murray State.  The teams that won yesterday play their third-round games
tomorrow. Lehigh faces Xavier and Norfolk State plays  Florida .  Michigan  State, the top seed in the West Regional, defeated
 Long Island University (43466MF)  yesterday and moved on to play Saint
Louis. Cincinnati will meet Florida State in the East Regional.  All teams in the Midwest Regional were in action yesterday,
setting up third-round games tomorrow between top-seeded  North
Carolina  and Creighton; South Florida and Ohio, which upset
fourth-seeded Michigan; third-seeded Georgetown and North
Carolina State, and Purdue and No. 2 seed Kansas.  The NCAA tournament concludes April 2 in New Orleans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 