-- Cisco’s Chambers Sees Bigger Software Focus After NDS Deal
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/cisco-s-chambers-sees-bigger-software-focus-after-nds-deal.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Chambers  says he intends to make software a bigger
focus after the company agreed to buy  NDS Group Ltd. (NNDS)  for about
$5 billion to tap demand for next-generation video services.  The company is “moving to a more software-based model,”
Chambers said yesterday, as  San Jose , California-based Cisco
announced its biggest acquisition in six years and its first
major purchase since beginning a turnaround plan last year to
improve profitability.  Cisco, the largest maker of equipment for  computer
networks , will get software from NDS that operates in millions
of homes, running cable set-top boxes, powering digital video
recorders and enforcing copyright restrictions that prevent
piracy. The company, which has about $46.7 billion in cash and
cash equivalents in the U.S. and overseas, has pledged to be
aggressive in technology acquisitions.  “I think that’s where they need to be,” Matt Robison, an
analyst with Wunderlich Securities in  San Francisco  who
recommends buying the stock, said in an interview. “They need
to wrap software around their hardware so they can get more
account control and offset all the price pressure on hardware.”  NDS’s software makes sure that paid content gets to the
right device, whether it’s a cable box, smart TV, tablet
computer or mobile phone. Cisco also needs more advanced
software to generate recurring revenue from subscriptions and to
build on its existing networking gear, Chambers said on a
conference call yesterday.  Cisco fell 1.4 percent to $19.91 at the close in New York,
valuing the company at $107.2 billion and giving it a gain so
far this year of 10 percent.  Turnaround Plan  Chambers is looking to add more profitable products as part
of a turnaround plan undertaken last year, when he cut jobs and
eliminated businesses. The company, trying to reignite growth
after market-share losses to rivals, has become more competitive
on price.  Last month, Cisco reported fiscal second-quarter earnings
and sales that beat estimates, defying concerns that delays in
network upgrades by phone and cable companies would drag down
revenue.  NDS is Cisco’s biggest deal since it bought Scientific-
Atlanta Inc. in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Based in Middlesex,  England , NDS makes software for pay-TV
channels used by British Sky Broadcasting Corp. and DirecTV and
is co-owned by Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  and London private-
equity firm Permira Advisers LLP.  Video Technology  News Corp. and Permira agreed to take NDS private in 2008
in a deal that gave New York-based News Corp. a 49 percent stake
and Permira the remaining 51 percent. News Corp. had previously
held 72 percent.  As part of the purchase, Cisco will get operations in
 India ,  China ,  Israel , the U.K. and  France  as well as about 5,000
NDS employees, who will join Cisco’s video technology business
for service providers. The purchase price, compared to the
earnings NDS makes before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, is in line with what News Corp. and Permira paid
when they took the company private, according to Cisco.  The boards of both companies have approved the transaction,
which is subject to regulatory review and will be completed in
the second half, Cisco said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Centerview
Partners LLP advised Cisco on the transaction.  Overseas Earnings  Cisco is using some of its cash parked overseas to pay for
the acquisition, which includes debt and retention-based
incentives.  The company is part of a U.S. group that has been lobbying
for a repatriation tax holiday for offshore profits. When
overseas earnings are brought back to the U.S., the money is
taxed at the federal and state combined corporate rate of 39.5
percent, minus credits. Chambers has advocated lowering the
rate, saying companies that do business internationally are
taxed twice, once in the local market and then again when
earnings are repatriated to the U.S.  (Cisco hosted a call to discuss the deal yesterday. For a
replay, call +1-800-469-5424 in the U.S. and +1-203-369-3287
from elsewhere.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  