-- Tyco, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, GE in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-23T20:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/citigroup-jpmorgan-morgan-stanley-madoff-ge-in-court-news.html
(Corrects to add new law firm statement describing
Kozlowski’s job in first item in story published March 16.)  The new home of felon and ex- Tyco
International Ltd. (TYC)  Chief Executive Officer Dennis Kozlowski,
while not furnished with the $6,000 shower curtain and paintings
by Monet and Renoir that decorated his previous  Manhattan  abode,
offers a stunning view of Central Park and the  New York  skyline.  Convicted in 2005 of looting his company, Kozlowski was
transferred from an upstate prison to a minimum-security
facility on Manhattan’s 110th Street near Fifth Avenue, on the
north border of the park, Bloomberg News’ Bob Van Voris and
Patricia Hurtado report. Kozlowski leaves every weekday morning
to participate in a work-release program, said Peter Cutler, a
spokesman for the New York State Department of Corrections and
Community Supervision.  Alan Lewis, Kozlowski’s lead lawyer and a partner at Carter
Ledyard & Milburn LLP, said in an e-mailed statement that the
ex-CEO works as a clerk at a software company, revising an
earlier comment by partner Michael Shapiro in a telephone
interview that Kozlowski worked as a financial consultant. The
two attorneys co-chair New York-based Carter Ledyard’s white
collar practice, according to its website.  Kozlowski, still serving a prison sentence of 8 1/3 to 25
years, must return every work night to his new home, known as
the Lincoln Correctional Facility, Cutler said. He is permitted
to spend Saturday nights outside the prison, according to
Cutler.  Kozlowski, along with former Chief Financial Officer Mark
Swartz, was convicted in June 2005 of securities fraud, grand
larceny and falsifying business records.  Swartz also has been transferred to the Lincoln facility
and is participating in work-release, according to his lawyer,
 Charles Stillman . Stillman declined to provide any additional
details of his client’s status.  The jury, in New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan,
found that Kozlowski and Swartz stole about $137 million from
Tyco in unauthorized compensation and made $410 million from the
sale of inflated stock. An earlier trial resulted in a mistrial
after a juror reported receiving threats.  Kozlowski, 65, has his first parole hearing next month and
could be released as soon as Aug. 25, Cutler said.  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pre-Trial  Citigroup-SEC Trial Is Delayed by Federal Appeals Court  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission won a delay in the trial of a lawsuit the agency
brought against the bank while an appeals court considers a
judge’s refusal to approve their $285 million settlement.  In November, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff declined to
approve the accord resolving claims that New York-based
Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, misled investors in a $1
billion financial product linked to risky mortgages. He ordered
them to go to trial, which was scheduled for July 16.  “The SEC and Citigroup have made a strong showing of
likelihood of success in setting aside the district court’s
rejection of their settlement,” the court wrote.  In his decision, Rakoff criticized the agency’s practice of
settling without requiring the subject of the allegations to
admit wrongdoing, and said the proposed accord was “neither
fair, nor reasonable, nor adequate, nor in the public
interest.” The agreement didn’t provide him with “any proven
or admitted facts” to inform his judgment, he said.  Rakoff didn’t return a call seeking comment on the appeals-
court ruling. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman,
said the company was pleased with the appeals court’s ruling.  “We agree to settlements when the terms reflect what we
reasonably believe we could obtain if we prevailed at trial,
without the risk of delay and uncertainty that comes with
litigation,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s enforcement
division, said in a statement yesterday. “This settlement
approach preserves resources that we can use to stop other
frauds and protect other victims.”  In December, the appeals court halted the lower-court
proceedings until it made the ruling it did yesterday.  The appeals court said yesterday that while it found
likelihood of success on the appeal for the purposes of halting
the lower-court proceedings, that didn’t mean the panel that
hears the merits of the case will do so.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-05227, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (New York). The district court case is
11-cv-7387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  JPMorgan Sued by Assured Guaranty Over Mortgage Securities  Assured Guaranty Corp. (AGO)  sued JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMC
Mortgage and Bear Stearns units in New York state court,
accusing them of making misrepresentations to market mortgage-
backed securities.  The lawsuit was brought in connection with a mortgage-
backed securities transaction known as SACO I Trust 2005-GPI,
sold in September 2005, which has experienced cumulative losses
of more than $75 million, resulting in more than $43 million in
claims to be paid by the plaintiff, a New York-based unit of
Hamilton, Bermuda-based insurer Assured Guaranty Ltd.  “The transaction that Bear Stearns marketed and
effectuated based on its materially false and misleading
representations and disclosures has failed miserably,” Assured
Guaranty said in its complaint. “An overwhelming percentage of
the loans that Bear Stearns securitized in the transaction
either have been written off as total losses or are severely
delinquent.”  EMC Mortgage was a unit of Bear Stearns Cos. until the
investment bank was bought by  JPMorgan (JPM)  in 2008.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Assured Guaranty Corp. v. EMC Mortgage LLC,
650805/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan.)  Morgan Stanley Sues Sterling Stamos Over $17.6 Million  Morgan Stanley sued Sterling Stamos funds over $17.6
million in distributions, which it claims were withheld from a
hedging affiliate that owned units in a liquidating trust set up
by the money management firm  The Sterling Stamos firm was established by Peter Stamos,
chairman of Major League Baseball’s investment advisory board,
with the New York Mets owners as partners, and has $9.5 billion
of assets under management, according to court documents.  The firm’s funds told Morgan Stanley they were holding
distributions in escrow because they feared they would face
competing claims on the money from two of the investment bank’s
units even after being told there was no risk of that, Morgan
Stanley said in a filing in New York state court yesterday.  “Even with these airtight assurances, defendants continue
to refuse to turn over the funds due to MS hedging,” it said in
the filing.  Morgan Stanley is seeking return of the money, plus
interest. Stamos didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Morgan Stanley & Co. v. Sterling Stamos
Security Fund LP, 650796/2012, Supreme Court of the State of New
York, County of New York.  BP Whistle-Blower Seeks ‘Immediate’ Action in Atlantis Case  BP Plc (BP\) ’s Atlantis facility, its second-largest oil producer
in the  Gulf of Mexico , remains unsafe and is operating under
permits BP obtained by lying to regulators, a whistle-blower
said in court filings.  “Immediate court action is needed to remedy unsafe
conditions on Atlantis,”  Mikal Watts , an attorney for former BP
contractor Kenneth Abbott, said in papers filed yesterday
seeking a trial date in federal court in Houston, where the case
has been pending since 2009.  “BP has falsely certified compliance with critical
environmental and safety regulations” to pump billions of
dollars in petroleum from the offshore facility, the lawyer
said. “BP’s corporate policy and practice is to buy its way out
after it is caught and then do it again.”  Abbott sued London-based BP in 2009 on behalf of the U.S.
government, seeking to get a judge to shut down Atlantis, which
produces about 120,000 barrels of oil daily, according to court
records. Abbott said the judge should appoint a special master
to oversee measures to bring the offshore facility into
compliance with safety and environmental laws.  He also seeks $7.8 billion from BP, which he estimated in
court papers is the value of oil and gas the company has pumped
through Atlantis since it came online in 2007.  BP said in its own court filings that Atlantis is safe and
that Abbott’s complaints were dismissed by federal regulators
who investigated the issue after the April 2010 blowout of BP’s
Macondo well drilled by the Deepwater Horizon. The Atlantis
production platform is located about 100 miles (161 kilometers)
south of where the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig disaster
occurred.  “We fundamentally disagree with plaintiffs’ claims in this
lawsuit,”  Daren Beaudo , a BP spokesman, said yesterday in an e-
mail. “The Department of Interior conducted a thorough
investigation of Mr. Abbott’s lawsuit allegations and concluded
that Mr. Abbott’s allegations are unfounded and the Atlantis
platform is safe and should continue to be operated by BP.”  Lawyers for BP and Abbott will meet before U.S. District
Judge Lynn Hughes on March 19. Abbott’s lawyers said they will
seek an immediate hearing on safety issues.  The case is United States of America Ex Rel. Abbott v. BP
Exploration and Production Inc., 4:09-cv-01193, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Apollo Bid for Great Wolf Resorts Challenged by Shareholders  Great Wolf Resorts Inc. (WOLF)  was sued by investors who said a
proposed $703 million sale to private-equity firm  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  undervalues the water-park operator.  The deal, which would pay shareholders $5 a share in cash
and assume outstanding debt, is inadequate, given that the
company’s own financial adviser, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.,
valued the company as high as $7.98 a share, David Raul,
custodian for Pinchus E. Raul Utma, said in a complaint filed
March 15 in Delaware Chancery Court.  The proposed transaction “was the result of an unfair and
flawed sales process in which Apollo was favored over other
interested parties,” Raul said in the complaint.  Great Wolf, which runs 11 family entertainment parks
throughout North America, said March 13 that the sale would
maximize  shareholder  value and help refine and promote the
brand. The deal represented a 19 percent premium over Madison,
Wisconsin-based Great Wolf’s closing stock price on March 12,
the company said in a statement.  In a separate lawsuit, shareholder Scott Ferguson accused
directors of breaching their fiduciary duty by enacting a
shareholder rights plan, or poison pill, to make it more
difficult for an acquirer other than New York-based Apollo to
buy Great Wolf.  The proposed deal includes a no-solicitation provision and
a $5.3 million termination fee, Ferguson said in his complaint.
Both Ferguson and Raul seek to represent all Great Wolf
shareholders in an effort to get the court to bar the deal.  Michael Fox, a spokesman for Great Wolf from ICR Inc.,
didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment on the complaints.  The cases are Ferguson v. Great Wolf Resorts Inc., CA7329;
Raul v. Schaefer, CA7328, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Education Management Preys on Students, Ex-Recruiter Claims  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the second-largest U.S. for-
profit college chain, defrauded U.S. taxpayers by paying illegal
bonuses to recruiters who cited falsified job-placement data to
lure students, a former employee claimed in a lawsuit.  Education Management used “boiler-room” tactics to
receive millions of dollars in federally backed student loans
and grants, Jason Sobek, a former recruiter for the company’s
South University, said in a complaint unsealed March 14 in
Pittsburgh federal court. The company targeted “troubled”
students, including the homeless and mentally ill, according to
the lawsuit.  For-profit colleges, which can receive as much as 90
percent of their revenue from federal financial-aid programs,
are under scrutiny by Congress, state attorneys general and
federal prosecutors for their sales practices and student-loan
default rates. The Justice Department and several states joined
a separate whistle-blower case last year against Education
Management that makes similar allegations.  Education Management “had a corps of recruiters, all well-
trained in sales and closing techniques, who perfected the art
of preying on the hopes and dreams of vulnerable students
desperately seeking better lives,” Sobek said in his complaint,
which was filed in 2010. He worked as an associate director of
admissions from June 2008 until November 2010.  Jacquelyn Muller, a spokeswoman for Pittsburgh-based
Education Management, didn’t return messages seeking comment.  The Justice Department hasn’t intervened in this case
though it is still investigating, Andrew Stone, an attorney for
Sobek, said in a phone interview.  Margaret Philbin, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney David J.
Hickton in Pittsburgh, didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment on Sobek’s complaint.  The case is U.S., ex. rel. Jason Sobek v. Education
Management, 10-cv-0131, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  For more, click here.  Sands China Faces $375 Million Compensation Claim in Macau Court  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the casino operator controlled by
billionaire Sheldon Adelson’s  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , said a
Macau company filed a compensation claim of 3 billion patacas
($375 million) against its subsidiary and three other companies.  Asian American Entertainment Corp., which filed the claim
with the Macau judicial court, is seeking compensation for
damages resulting from the alleged breach of agreements related
to a bid for the Macau government’s award of gaming concessions
in 2001, Sands said yesterday in a statement to Hong Kong’s
stock exchange.  Sands’ subsidiary Venetian Macau SA and LVS (Nevada)
International Holdings Inc., Las Vegas Sands LLC and Venetian
Casino Resort Hotel LLC were the four companies named in the
claim, according to the statement.  The claim relates to events that occurred before Venetian
Macau was incorporated in June 2002, Sands said, without
disclosing details. Sands China spokeswoman Mabel Wu declined to
comment further.  The New York Times reported on March 13 that Asian American
Entertainment was Sands’ former partner, controlled by the
Taiwanese businessman Shi Sheng Hao. The company accused Sands
of improperly breaking off a 2001 agreement to bid for a Macau
casino license, the report said, citing a court filing.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Rakoff Takes Mets-Related Case to Review ‘Good Faith’ Issue  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who will oversee a trial of
whether the New York Mets owners acted in “good faith” when
they took $303 million from Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, said
he will take another case to examine similar issues.  Maxam Capital Management LLC and founder Sandra Manzke were
sued for $100 million in principal by Madoff trustee  Irving
Picard . Rakoff, who has about 280 Mets-related cases already,
said he will remove the case from bankruptcy court to decide
Picard’s rights and obligations under non-bankruptcy law,
according to a court order filed in Manhattan yesterday.  The judge will determine whether Picard can nullify
transfers owed by a brokerage to a customer, and what standard
of proof the trustee must meet “in order to show that
defendants did not receive transfers in good faith,” he said.  The Mets owners’ trial is set to start March 19 in
Manhattan.  The Maxam case is Picard v. Maxam Absolute Return Fund LP,
11-cv-7428, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Rajaratnam to Invoke Fifth Amendment If Judge Orders Deposition  Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group LLC co-founder serving 11
years in prison for insider trading, will invoke his
constitutional right against self-incrimination if ordered to
give a deposition, his lawyer said.  Rajaratnam will invoke the Fifth Amendment if New York
State Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten directs him to
testify in the case from the Federal Medical Center Devens in
Ayers, Massachusetts, where he’s been incarcerated since
December, Samidh Guha, the attorney, said in a court filing.  Lawyers for Diversified Group, a tax-shelter promoter,
asked Bransten on Feb. 15 to allow them to depose Rajaratnam and
Galleon Group co-founder Gary Rosenbach as part of a 2010
lawsuit. Guha has asked Bransten to deny the request, saying
Rajaratnam is entitled to Fifth Amendment privileges while he is
appealing his conviction. A hearing was held in the case March
13 and Bransten hasn’t ruled yet, a court clerk said.  Rajaratnam and his wife, Asha, along with Rosenbach and his
wife, Susan, sued Diversified in 2005, saying they were tricked
into investing in an illegal tax shelter. The lawsuit sought to
recover at least $15 million in interest, penalties and fees
that Rajaratnam and Rosenbach paid to the IRS. It didn’t seek
the taxes they paid.  Rajaratnam and Rosenbach won a 2009 arbitrators’ decision
against Diversified and its president for $5.8 million,
according to court records. Diversified and its founder were
found to have committed fraud in the marketing, promotion and
implementation of the tax shelter sold to Rajaratnam, Rosenbach
and their wives.  In 2010, Diversified sued a tax attorney and three
consulting firms over the structuring of the tax shelter -- the
lawsuit for which they seek to depose Rajaratnam and Rosenbach.  The case is Diversified Group Inc. v. Marcum & Kleigman
LLP, 450286/2010, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Helmerich & Payne Rig Manager Denies Lying About Tests  A former manager at drilling-rig operator  Helmerich & Payne
Inc. (HP)  pleaded not guilty to a charge of lying to a federal agent
reviewing blowout-prevention testing and records of rigs in the
Gulf of Mexico.  Federal prosecutors said Donald Hudson lied to an
investigator with the Office of the Inspector General at the
U.S. Interior Department when he denied directing others to
falsify blowout-prevention testing records.  “Not guilty,” Hudson said at his arraignment in federal
court in New Orleans yesterday.  Magistrate Judge Louis Moore Jr. accepted the plea and set
a trial date for April 30. Moore said Hudson didn’t have to be
held in custody because he had no prior criminal history.  “You’re free to go,” Moore told the defendant.  The U.S. said Hudson was employed by Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Helmerich & Payne as a drilling-rig manager in May 2010, a time
of heightened vigilance in the gulf after the blast that killed
11 crew members aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig operated by  BP
Plc (BP/) , an unrelated incident that triggered the nation’s worst
offshore oil spill.  The company said it was cooperating with a grand jury
investigation of the matter.  The case is U.S. v. Hudson, 12-cr-115, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-GE Manager Is Convicted of Murder, Gets Life Sentence  Hemy Neuman, a former GE Energy manager, was found guilty
of murder in the shooting death of a co-worker’s husband and
sentenced 90 minutes later by a Georgia judge to imprisonment
for life with no possibility of parole.  A jury in Decatur, Georgia, where the killing happened in
November 2010, delivered the guilty verdict yesterday after
deliberating a day and a half.  After a break, Superior Court Judge Gregory Adams began
hearing arguments on the sentence. While the jury found Neuman
is mentally ill, he faced a mandatory life sentence under
Georgia law. The mental-illness finding means he will receive
treatment.  Neuman pleaded not guilty by reason of temporary insanity
in the killing of Russell “Rusty” Sneiderman, 36, the husband
of a GE Energy subordinate with whom he had a relationship
called an obsession by lawyers for both sides.  The judge called the crime a “for lack of a better word,
planned execution.” Sneiderman was killed in front of the day
care center where he had dropped off his 2-year-old son.  Robert James, the DeKalb County district attorney, told the
judge that Neuman “savagely gunned down” Sneiderman and
deserved the sentence that Adams imposed.  “He had limitless potential which will now never be
realized,” the victim’s brother, Steve, told the judge. “He
was a great father. All of that love is silenced forever.”  He urged Adams to “show him the same mercy he showed
Rusty” and impose life without parole.  Neuman spoke in his own behalf.  “A lot of what Mr. Sneiderman said about Rusty Sneiderman
is true,” Neuman said. “He was a good man. I am so so so sorry
for their loss.”  He didn’t ask for a lighter sentence. His lawyer Doug
Peters asked for the possibility of parole because of Neuman’s
mental illness.  The case is State v. Neuman, 11CR1364-5, Georgia Superior
Court, DeKalb County (Decatur).  For more, click here.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  N.Y. Woman Charged With Running Brothel Gets New Lawyer  Anna Gristina, a New York woman charged with running a
brothel that prosecutors said catered to high-net-worth clients,
will have a new lawyer, Gary Greenwald, who has represented
Mafia leader Vincent Gigante.  Justice Juan Merchan of state Supreme Court in Manhattan
yesterday accepted Greenwald as Gristina’s new lawyer and
rejected Greenwald’s request to reduce her bail, which is set at
$1 million in cash, or a $2 million bond.  Yesterday’s hearing had been set to argue whether Gristina
could use her former lawyer’s Tribeca loft to satisfy a $2
million bond requirement. The legal issues are no longer
relevant since the man offering his apartment, Peter Gleason, is
no longer Gristina’s lawyer, Merchan said.  Gleason maintained his offer to use his $2.5 million
apartment to guarantee her appearance for trial, and have her
and her family stay with him. Gristina, the mother of four, has
pleaded not guilty.  Greenwald argued that her bail should be much lower
considering co-defendant Jaynie Baker is out on $100,000 bail,
and concerns that Gristina is a flight risk aren’t valid.  Gristina, 44, a Scot who lived in Monroe, New York, is a
legal permanent resident of the U.S. Baker, 30, has also pleaded
not guilty to charges of promoting prostitution along with
Gristina.  The case is People v. Gristina, 12-00751, New York state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 