-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Rose in February as Gasoline Jumped
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-03-16T12:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/consumer-prices-in-u-s-rise-on-fuel-other-costs-little-changed.html
The cost of living in the U.S. rose
in February by the most in 10 months, reflecting a jump in
gasoline that failed to spread to other goods and services.  The consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent, matching the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after
increasing 0.2 percent the prior month, the Labor Department
reported today in Washington. The so-called  core measure , which
excludes more volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.1
percent, less than projected.  The biggest jump in gasoline in more than a year accounted
for about 80 percent of the increase in prices last month,
leaving households with less money to spend on other goods and
services. Federal Reserve policy makers say the advance in fuel
costs will be temporary, and most see little risk inflation will
flare out of control as unemployment exceeds 8 percent.  “There are some worries from the energy prices
perspective, but the Fed and most people realize that the
increase will probably be transitory,” said  Benjamin Reitzes  ,
an economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “Outside of
energy prices, there is not much risk for the consumer.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in June
rose 0.2 percent to 1,399.3 at 8:31 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury
securities  trimmed losses,, with the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note at 2.32 percent, down from a high of 2.35 percent in
the minutes before the data was released.  Survey Results  Estimates of the 80 economists surveyed ranged from
increases of 0.2 percent to 0.6 percent.  Consumer prices increased 2.9 percent in the 12 months
ended in February, the same as in January.  The gain in the core gauge followed a 0.2 percent increase
in January and was smaller than the 0.2 percent gain  median 
forecast of economists surveyed. They were up 2.2 percent for
the last 12 months, compared with 2.3 percent for the 12 months
ended in January.  Today’s report showed energy costs increased 3.2 percent
from a month earlier. Gasoline jumped 6 percent, the most since
December 2010.  Escalating  oil prices  has pushed up the cost of the fuel.
Regular gasoline in February averaged $3.56 a gallon, or 18
cents more than January, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
auto group. It was the highest monthly average since September.  The cost has kept climbing, reaching $3.82 on March 14, the
highest in 10 months.  Fed’s View  The Fed, nonetheless, said it anticipates that the pressure
on consumer prices from energy will wane later in the year.  “Inflation has been subdued in recent months although
prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased lately,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement following a
March 13 meeting. Oil will “push up inflation temporarily, but
the committee anticipates that subsequently inflation will run
at or below the rate that it judges most consistent with its
dual mandate” of stable prices and maximum employment.  The central bank’s preferred inflation gauge, the measure
calculated by the Commerce Department and tied to  consumer
spending , rose at a 1.2 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter. Fed officials have set an explicit inflation goal of 2
percent.  Today’s report showed food costs were little changed, the
least since July 2010.  Clothing Less Expensive  The increase in the core measure reflected higher prices
for new cars and hotel stays. Clothing costs dropped by the most
since July 2006, and used-cars were also cheaper last month.  “We feel like inflation will moderate,”  Charles Holley ,
chief financial officer at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , said during a
March 7 investor conference. “The one wildcard, though, is
going to be gas prices. If oil continues to go up, I think that
could be a drag on economies around the world.”  Paychecks are failing to keep up with even limited
inflation, another Labor Department report today showed. Hourly
earnings adjusted for prices dropped 0.3% in February, and were
down 1.1 percent over the past 12 months, today’s report showed.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed prices paid to
producers rose 0.4 percent in February, paced by the gain in
energy expenses. Import prices, reported March 14, also climbed
0.4 percent.  The CPI is the broadest of the three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  