-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Drops on Gasoline Prices: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-16T20:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-unexpectedly-decreased-in-march.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly dropped in March as this year’s 17 percent jump in
gasoline prices threatens to squeeze household budgets.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer  sentiment  fell to 74.3, the lowest this year,
from 75.3 the prior month. The gauge was projected to rise to
76, according to the median forecast of 70 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. A government report today showed that
consumer prices rose in February by the most in 10 months, with
gasoline accounting for 80 percent of the increase.  The sentiment gauge contrasts with the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index, which climbed last week to the highest level
since 2008. Reports this week showed claims for  unemployment
benefits  declined, matching a four-year low, and retail sales
rose in February by the most in five months, indicating
households are weathering the increase in fuel costs.  “The rise in gasoline prices appears to be a worry but not
a game-changer yet,” said Michael Gapen, a senior U.S.
economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, who predicted
the sentiment index would drop to 74. “Households are saying
‘yes, gasoline takes a bit out of my pocket, but other energy
costs are lower, and the labor market looks better so incomes
will rise.’”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent to
1,404.17 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in  New York , the highest
since May 2008. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note climbed
to 2.29 percent from 2.28 percent late yesterday.  Cost of Living  Americans are growing more concerned about the rising cost
of living, today’s confidence survey showed. Consumers said they
expect an inflation rate of 4 percent over the next  12 months ,
the highest since May, compared with 3.3 percent in the prior
survey.  Fuel costs may be the culprit. The average price of a
gallon of  regular gasoline  at the pump rose to $3.83 on March
15, the most since May, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring organization.  “Miserable,” said Kevin Lawn, 34, an electrician from
Monrovia,  Maryland . “That’s how gas prices feel.”  Lawn said his 13-year-old son will probably have to curtail
his trips to competitive motocross races because of the price of
gasoline. “This past weekend I spent $300 in fuel costs just to
go to  North Carolina ,” he said.  At the same time, an improving labor market is giving many
Americans cause for optimism. Payroll growth in February capped
the best six months since 2006, and the  unemployment rate  stayed
at 8.3 percent, a three-year low.  ‘Better Shape’  “American consumers and the overall economy are in much
better shape than they were a year ago,”  Don Johnson , vice
president of U.S. sales operation for  General Motors Co. (GM) , said
on a March 1 conference call.  “Based on what we see in terms of pent-up demand and
importantly the strength of the economy, we do not believe that
short-term fluctuations in pump prices will curtail industry
growth this year,” he said.  Stocks are also giving consumers a lift. The  S&P 500  is on
pace for the best first quarter since 1998, after rallying 12
percent this year.  A record 38 percent of those polled in the confidence
survey said the most important economic development was an
increase in employment. Asked about their view of the jobless
rate in the year ahead, respondents were the most optimistic
since 1984.  Income Levels  How Americans perceive the outlook varies by income.
Households making less than $75,000 a year were less likely to
say the economy will keep improving, while those with higher
salaries were more optimistic.  Republicans seeking their party’s nomination for president,
including former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , blame President
 Barack Obama  for the increase in energy costs.  Obama countered yesterday that his detractors are “stuck
in the past.”  “They dismiss wind power; they dismiss solar power; they
make jokes about biofuels,” Obama told students at Prince
George’s Community College in Largo, Maryland, outside
Washington. “They were against raising fuel standards. I guess
they like gas-guzzlers.”  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions , which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
climbed to 84.2 from 83 the prior month.  Expectations Index  The index of  consumer expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
dropped to 68 from a one-year high of 70.3.  Today’s Labor Department report on the cost of living
showed that the consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent in
February, the most since April, after increasing 0.2 percent the
prior month. From a year earlier, prices rose 2.9 percent in
February. The so-called core measure, which excludes more
volatile food and energy costs, advanced 0.1 percent from the
prior month.  A separate report today from the Fed showed industrial
production was little changed in February as automakers cut back
following a surge the previous month and mining declined.  Output at factories, mines and utilities fell short of the
median projection in a Bloomberg News survey of economists that
called for a 0.4 percent gain. January production was revised to
a 0.4 percent increase, previously reported as no change.
Factory production, which makes up about 75 percent of total
output, rose at the slowest pace in three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  