-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Rose as Gasoline Costs Climbed
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-rose-as-gasoline-costs-climbed.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose in February as gasoline prices climbed, economists
said before a report today.  The consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent, the most in
10 months, after advancing 0.2 percent in January, according to
the median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The so-called core, which excludes volatile food and energy
expenses, may have climbed 0.2 percent for a second month.
 Industrial production  probably rebounded in February, another
report may show.  Filling up an automobile’s gas tank in February cost the
most in five months, leaving households with less money to spend
on other goods and services. Federal Reserve policy makers, who
project the jump in fuel will be temporary, see little risk
inflation will flare out of control as  unemployment  in excess of
8 percent makes companies less willing to charge more.  “Rising gasoline prices aren’t a good thing because
households cannot avoid them,” said  Paul Dales , a senior U.S.
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “But outside of
that, inflation isn’t going to really rock the boat too much for
too many households.”  The Labor Department’s data is due at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington . Economists’ estimates ranged from increases of 0.2
percent to 0.6 percent.  The median forecast would mean consumer prices climbed 2.9
percent over the past 12 months, matching the gain in January as
the smallest since March 2011. The core index is projected to
increase 2.2 percent from February 2011, down from the 2.3
percent in the year to January.  Industrial Production  Output at the nation’s factories, mines and utilities
climbed 0.4 percent last month after no change in January,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey before a
Fed report at 9:15 a.m. in Washington. Stronger retail sales and
sustained corporate investment in new equipment are bolstering
manufacturers, which have been leading the expansion.  Oil prices  have soared because of tensions in the  Middle
East . Crude oil for April delivery was $105.37 a barrel at the
close yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , up 6.6
percent so far this year.  The escalation in oil prices has pushed up the cost of
gasoline. Regular fuel in February averaged $3.56 a gallon, or
18 cents more than January, according to AAA, the nation’s
biggest auto group. It was the highest monthly average since
September.  The cost of the fuel has kept climbing, reaching $3.82 on
March 14, the highest in 10 months.  Fed on Energy  The Fed, nonetheless, said it anticipates that the pressure
on consumer prices from energy will wane later in the year.  “Inflation has been subdued in recent months although
prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased lately,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement following a
March 13 meeting. Oil will “push up inflation temporarily, but
the committee anticipates that subsequently inflation will run
at or below the rate that it judges most consistent with its
dual mandate” of stable prices and maximum employment.  The central bank’s preferred inflation gauge, the measure
calculated by the Commerce Department and tied to  consumer
spending , rose at a 1.2 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter. Fed officials have set an explicit inflation goal of 2
percent.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed prices paid to
producers rose 0.4 percent in February, paced by the gain in
energy expenses. Import prices, reported March 14, also climbed
0.4 percent.  Wal-Mart Stores  “We feel like inflation will moderate,”  Charles Holley ,
chief financial officer at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , said during a
March 7 investor conference. “The one wildcard, though, is
going to be gas prices. If oil continues to go up, I think that
could be a drag on economies around the world.”  The CPI is the broadest of the three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  