-- Copper Heads for Weekly Advance as U.S. Rebound May Spur Demand
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-03-16T12:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/copper-pares-weekly-gain-on-rising-china-stockpiles-correct-.html
Copper headed for a weekly gain in
 New York  on speculation demand will increase as the economy
rebounds in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest consumer of the
metal.  A report today may show U.S. factory output rose, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Retail sales in the
country climbed the most in five months and manufacturing
strengthened in the New York and Philadelphia regions, figures
showed this week. Concern that copper supply may fail to meet
demand also has helped to lift prices this year.  “The news coming out of the U.S. is positive,” Jaspar
Crawley, a broker at Triland Metals Ltd. in  London , said by
phone. “Traders expect a little bit more consumption out of the
U.S. Better economic numbers are definitely having an impact.”  Copper for May delivery advanced 0.2 percent to $3.9065 a
pound by 8:04 a.m. on the Comex in New York. Prices are up 1.2
percent this week and 14 percent in 2012. The three-month
contract rose 0.3 percent to $8,588 a metric ton on the London
Metal Exchange.  Immediate-delivery copper on the LME traded at a premium of
$28 to three-month metal, a seventh session of so-called
backwardation that may signal concern about supply.  U.S. industrial output climbed 0.4 percent in February,
according to the survey. The figures are due at 9:15 a.m. New
York time.  Rio, Freeport  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME are down 29 percent
this year to the lowest level since July 2009. Demand for
refined metal will increase by 6.5 million tons by 2020,  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO)  said. Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., the
second-biggest miner of the metal, yesterday cut its production
target for the current quarter.  “The global copper market thus remains extremely tight,
which should lend support to the price,”  Daniel Briesemann , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a report.  LME copper inventories shrank for a 17th session to 263,825
tons, capping a 24th weekly drop, according to daily exchange
figures. At the same time, stocks monitored by the Shanghai
Futures Exchange are at the highest level since at least 2003
after gaining for a third week to 227,276 tons, weekly data from
the bourse showed today.  Orders to draw copper from LME warehouses fell 3.1 percent
to 86,875 tons.  Freeport said yesterday a stoppage and interruptions at its
Grasberg mine in  Indonesia  will cut first-quarter copper
production by about 80 million pounds (36,287 tons). Copper ore
is “one of the most challenging materials to extract,” Rio
said today in its annual review.  Aluminum, tin and lead gained on the LME. Nickel fell and
zinc was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  