-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Reach Nine-Month Low as Economy Strengthens
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-16T21:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-reach-9-month-low-on-economic-data.html
A benchmark gauge company credit
risk fell for the eighth consecutive day, the longest streak
since December, reaching the lowest level in more than nine
months on positive economic signals in the U.S.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 1.5 basis points to a mid-price of
88.5 basis points as of 5:07 p.m. in New York, extending the
weekly decrease to 7.2 basis points, the most since January,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  The gauge slid this week as the  Federal Reserve  raised its
assessment of the economy and refrained from new actions to
lower borrowing costs. A Labor Department report yesterday
showed claims for jobless benefits matching the lowest in four
years, even as data today showed confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly dropped in March as this year’s 17 percent jump in
gasoline prices may constrain household budgets.  “Global markets remain strong and the risk-on trade is on
- for now,”  Scott MacDonald , head of research at MC Asset
Management Holdings LLC, wrote in an e-mail. “While the bulls
are out, we have concerns that the risk-on trade may be short
term as downside risks are mounting, in particular with  Iran  and
 oil prices .”  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined
from 120.3 on Jan. 2. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, narrowed 0.87 basis point to 25.38
basis points. The gauge falls when investors favor assets such
as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived safety
of  government securities .  Default swaps on Residential Capital, Ally Financial Inc.’s
mortgage unit, surged this week after a report that Fortress
Investment Group LLC is in talks to pay more than $1 billion to
acquire assets as part of the unit’s bankruptcy.  Fortress would buy parts of the Residential Capital unit,
including some of its servicing business, as part of a ResCap
bankruptcy filing in the coming weeks, according to three people
with direct knowledge of the matter who asked for anonymity
because the process is private. ResCap is lining up as much as
$2 billion in loans to fund operations when it files, they said.  Contracts tied to ResCap debt added 6.8 percentage points
to 72.8 percent upfront, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a
year, meaning it would cost $7.28 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of ResCap’s debt.  The Fed said this week that 15 of the 19 biggest U.S. banks
could maintain adequate capital levels in a recession scenario.
Contracts tied to the biggest U.S. banks fell, with those linked
to Bank of America Corp. easing 57.8 basis points to 204.1, and
those on Morgan Stanley declining 44.8 to 282.6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  