-- Credit Suisse Joins JPMorgan in Calling Earnings Growth
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-03-16T11:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/credit-suisse-joins-jpmorgan-in-calling-earnings-growth.html
Credit Suisse Group Inc. equity
strategists joined JPMorgan Chase & Co. in switching to a
forecast for European earnings growth this year.  A team led by  Andrew Garthwaite  at the Swiss bank increased
its estimate for 2012 profit growth to 1 percent today. The
brokerage had predicted a contraction of 5 percent. JPMorgan’s
Mislav Matejka changed his prediction on March 12 to 5 percent
earnings growth from a previous forecast of stagnation.
Analysts’ earnings revisions in the region have turned positive,
meaning upgrades outnumber downgrades, for the first time in
almost a year, according to Citigroup Inc. data.  Improved earnings would give bulls more room to argue that
stocks will extend gains. Valuations have climbed at the fastest
pace since 2009 even though several European nations have
entered a recession. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has risen 11
percent this year as the  European Central Bank  lent $1.3
trillion to banks to keep credit markets open.  “Investors want to see a more fundamentally driven rally,
rather than a low-quality technical rebound, and confirmation
through the earnings revisions turning positive may drive the
next leg,” Matejka, a London-based strategist at JPMorgan, said
in a phone interview today. “We think earnings revisions
bottoming out will allow investors to participate with more
confidence.”  Positive Earnings Revisions  Data (CGEREUXU)  from Citigroup on Feb. 17 showed that positive
revisions in analysts’ European earnings projections outnumbered
negative changes on a weekly basis for the first time since May
2011 after economic reports in the U.S. exceeded estimates.
Negative annual profit revisions on Stoxx 600 companies
outnumbered upgrades by 7 percent last week, according to data
from JPMorgan, their smallest majority since March 2011.  “If this trend is sustained, it will help support stock
markets,” Citigroup strategists led by  Robert Buckland  wrote in
a report on March 12.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  is trading at 11.34 times the estimated
profits of its members, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
compared with 9.1 times in September. The jump in the ratio is
the steepest for any six-month period since October 2009, the
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  