-- Crosby Returns as Penguins Rout Rangers for 10th Straight Win
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-03-16T05:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/crosby-returns-as-penguins-rout-rangers-for-10th-straight-win.html
The  Pittsburgh Penguins  welcomed
captain  Sidney Crosby  back from injury with a 5-2 rout of the
 New York Rangers , their 10th straight win in the  National Hockey
League .  Crosby, who has missed 59 games during the past two seasons
because of concussions and their effects, had one assist in last
night’s win over the Eastern Conference-leading Rangers at
Madison Square Garden in  New York .  “This game is a lot more than about Sidney Crosby coming
back,” Penguins coach Dan Bylsma told reporters. “If we want
to catch the Rangers, and catch first in our division, and
hopefully first in the conference, we have to beat them.”  The Rangers (44-19-7) have 95 points, 12 more than the
 Boston  Bruins of the Northeast Division in the race for the
conference’s top seed in the playoffs. New York leads the
 Atlantic Division  by four points over the Penguins (43-21-5),
with the NHL listing division leaders in the first three playoff
spots no matter their point totals.  Pittsburgh’s Matt Cooke scored the first of his two goals
less than three minutes into the first period. Carl Hagelin tied
it 10 minutes later and Evgeni Malkin got a goal 1:19 into the
second period before Cooke added his second score 72 seconds
later to give the Penguins a 3-1 advantage. New York’s Marian Gaborik narrowed the gap with his 35th goal of the season 5 1/2
minutes before the end of the period.  Crosby Gets Assist  The Penguins dominated the third period and scored through
Chris Kunitz, whose goal was assisted by Crosby and James Neal,
and Pascal Dupuis.  “We had some struggles on the back end as far as their
quickness and they capitalized,” Rangers coach John Tortorella
told reporters. “We were gaining momentum in the second, at the
end of the second, but it doesn’t take them too many chances to
score some goals and they certainly showed that tonight.”  Crosby, 24, sustained head injuries in last year’s Jan. 1
Winter Classic against the  Washington Capitals  and again four
days later against the Tampa Bay Lightning. He missed the rest
of the 2010-11 NHL season.  Crosby returned to the ice this season for eight games
until he was sidelined when concussion-like symptoms returned
during a game against Boston on Dec. 5. After that collision, he
was diagnosed with a soft-tissue injury in his neck.  After winning their first two games against the Penguins
this season, New York has lost three in a row to its rival. The
teams meet for the last time in the regular season on April 5 in
Pittsburgh.  “We get them one more time,” Rangers center  Brad Richards 
said. “We’re still in first place and we’re still a good
team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  