-- Crown Estate Plans $630 Million Revamp on London’s Regent Street
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-03-16T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/crown-estate-plans-630-million-revamp-on-london-s-regent-street.html
The  Crown Estate , the property
company that generates income for Queen Elizabeth II, plans to
spend 400 million pounds ($630 million) redeveloping an area
near London’s  Piccadilly Circus .  The St. James’s Market project will create 245,000 square
feet (22,760 square meters) of offices, shops and restaurants on
Regent Street and Haymarket as well as a new public square, the
company said in an e-mailed statement today. Crown Estate said
it would seek planning approval for the development, with
construction set to start late next year.  “The regeneration of St. James’s Market is an opportunity
to revive a neglected location,” said James Cooksey, Crown
Estate’s head of the district.  The project is the second part of a 500 million-pound
revival of the St. James’s neighborhood, which vies with  Hong
Kong  as the world’s most expensive office market. It follows a 1
billion-pound revamp that made Regent Street one of London’s top
shopping areas and helped persuade  Norway ’s sovereign-wealth
fund to buy a 25 percent stake for 443 million pounds.  The London-based company is trying to attract higher-paying
retailers and office tenants to the St. James’s leg of Regent
Street, which wasn’t included in the deal with Norway. Crown
Estate owns half of the real estate in St. James’s. The first
phase of the renovation, the Gateway project near Piccadilly
Circus, involved a 100 million-pound venture with Healthcare of
Ontario Pension Plan.  Queen Elizabeth II  While the Crown Estate is one of  Queen Elizabeth II ’s
“hereditary possessions,” she doesn’t own the company as
private property. The U.K. treasury collects its earnings and,
under the  Sovereign Grant Act  approved by lawmakers last year,
provides the monarch with 15 percent of the company’s annual
earnings. Profit was 230.9 million pounds for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 2011.  As well as the Regent Street shops, the Crown Estate also
owns shopping centers, golf courses, Ascot Racecourse, parks,
farms, and “virtually all the U.K.’s seabed” out to the 12-
mile nautical limit, according to documents posted on the
company’s  website .  Farmers sold hay and straw at St. James’s Market for 200
years until it made way for a development of Regent Street in
the early 19th century. As part of the project announced today,
Crown Estate will provide 40,000 square feet of new residential
space in other locations in St. James’s.  Carlyle Group LP, a Washington-based private-equity firm,
last month bought a property next to St. James’s Palace in
central  London  from the Crown Estate for 36.5 million pounds and
said it plans to build luxury apartments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 