-- Treasuries Extend Slump as S&P 500 Adds to Weekly Gain
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-03-16T20:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/crude-oil-won-gain-on-u-s-growth-optimism-asian-stocks-fall.html
Treasury 10-year notes extended the
biggest weekly drop in eight months amid concern inflation may
accelerate as the economy improves. Oil increased, while U.S.
stocks capped the biggest weekly gain of the year.  Ten-year Treasury yields added one basis point to 2.29
percent at 4 p.m. in New York after the cost of living in the
U.S. rose the most in 10 months. The benchmark note’s rate
surged 26 basis points this week. The  S&P 500  added 0.1 percent
to 1,404.17, the highest since May 2008, and climbed 2.4 percent
in five days. The VIX, the benchmark gauge of U.S. stock
options, slid to an almost five-year low. Oil halted a two-day
drop as the dollar fell versus 14 of 16 major peers.  Stocks rallied this week, Treasuries slid and money-market
rates rose after the Federal Open Market Committee members
raised their assessment of the  U.S. economy  on March 13. Reports
yesterday showing growth in manufacturing in America’s northeast
and a drop in jobless claims also bolstered confidence in the
world’s largest economy.  “We’ve seen stronger data in the U.S.,” said Ira Jersey,
an interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Credit Suisse Group
AG, one of 21 primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the
central bank. “The Treasury market is trading on U.S.
fundamentals and Fed expectations.”  The difference in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities climbed to 2.41 percentage
points, the most since August, as investors sought a hedge
against rising prices.  The consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent in February,
matching the median economist forecast and reflecting a jump in
gasoline that failed to spread to other goods and services. The
so-called core measure, which excludes more volatile food and
energy costs, climbed 0.1 percent, less than projected.  Fed Statement  The Fed’s policy statement on March 13 drove money-market
derivative traders to bring forward the time when they predict
the Fed will first lift its target of zero to 0.25 percent and
damped speculation the Fed will buy more debt in a third round
of quantitative easing, or QE3.  Forward markets for overnight index swaps, whose rate shows
what traders expect the federal funds effective rate to average
over the life of the contract, signal a quarter percentage point
advance in approximately the September and October 2013 period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of March 15. Last
month, such an increase in the effective rate wasn’t predicted
until early 2014. This year the effective rate has averaged 0.15
percentage point below the top end of the target range that the
Fed reiterated three days ago.  Gains Pared  The S&P 500 pared  early gains  today after reports on
industrial production and  consumer confidence  trailed estimates,
tempering optimism about the economy after data yesterday showed
jobless claims matched a four-year low and a Fed gauge of
manufacturing in the New York area showed the strongest growth
in a year. The  Dow (INDU)  Jones Industrial Average slipped 20.14
points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,232.62 to snap a streak of seven
straight gains and retreat from the highest level since 2007.  Energy, raw-material producers and financial shares led
gains among the  10 main groups  in the S&P 500, while consumer-
discretionary companies and utilities fell the most. Bank of
America Corp. and Alcoa Inc. rose at least 1.4 percent for the
biggest gains in the Dow, while United Technologies Corp.,
Microsoft Corp. and Walt Disney Co. fell the most.  The S&P 500 closed above 1,400 for the first time in almost
four years yesterday and is up almost 12 percent this year,
poised for its best first quarter since 1998.  Financials Rally  Financial shares in the S&P 500 rose 5.9 percent as a group
this week to lead gains among 10 industries after most U.S.
banks passed Fed stress tests. The group has surged 21 percent
this year.  Thomas Lee , JPMorgan’s chief U.S. equity strategist,
and  Jonathan Golub , his counterpart at UBS AG, said in reports
that financial companies may add to the rally if longer-term
 interest rates  continue to rise, boosting profitability from
lending.  The yield curve, or difference between rates on 10-year and
two-year Treasuries, climbed to a five-month high of 193 basis
points today.  “We believe this week’s move in Treasuries is the
culmination of recent economic success,” Golub wrote in a
report dated today.  Quadruple Witching  Futures and options on equity indexes expire today in a
process known as quadruple witching. About 1.1 billion shares of
S&P 500 companies changed hands in the first hour of trading,
almost double the average for that time period over the past 10
days. About 8.3 billion shares had changed hands on all U.S.
exchanges by the end of the day, the second-busiest session of
the year.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index slid
6.2 percent to 14.47, the lowest level on a closing basis since
June 2007, amid reduced demand for options to protect against
losses in stocks. The gauge known as the  VIX (VIX)  lost 15 percent
this week, its biggest slide in more than three months.  Oil increased 1.9 percent to $107.06 a barrel on
speculation demand will climb as the economy gains momentum.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday rising  oil
prices  show “we still face a dangerous and uncertain world”
and there’s no easy way to lower gasoline costs.  Brent crude ,
gasoline, heating oil and natural gas rose at least 2 percent to
lead gains among 13 of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI Index,
which rallied 1.5 percent for its biggest gain in almost a
month.  European Shares  Three shares gained for every two that fell in the Stoxx
600. Subsea 7 SA, the oilfield-services provider formerly known
as Acergy SA, rose 5.3 percent after declaring a special
dividend and saying it will buy back shares.  Porsche SE (PAH3) 
retreated 3.6 percent as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. downgraded
the sports-car maker.  The German five-year yield rose nine basis points to 1.06
percent, its highest level of the year.  The yen was poised for its sixth consecutive weekly decline
against the dollar. The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S.
currency against those of six trading partners, slipped 0.5
percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.2 percent, trimming
its weekly gain to 0.3 percent.  India ’s Sensex index fell 1.2
percent and  Russia ’s  Micex Index (MICEX)  lost 0.7 percent.  China’s
Shanghai Composite Index (IFB1)  increased 1.3 percent, halting a two-
day slide. Emerging-market equity funds lured $456 million for
the week ended March 14, Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Markus
Rosgen  wrote in a report today, citing data compiled by EPFR
Global.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  