-- Cuban Dissidents Evicted at Request of Local Church Leaders
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-16T17:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/cuban-dissidents-evicted-at-request-of-local-church-leaders.html
Cuban police evicted 13 dissidents
from a Catholic Church in  Havana  at the request of local Church
leaders, 10 days before Pope Benedict XVI visits the communist
island.  The protest by 13 men and women was “illegitimate and
irresponsible,” as it intended to turn the church into a place
of public political demonstration, said Orland Marquez, a
spokesman for the Havana Archdiocese.  “If they are men and women that consider themselves
Catholics, they should act as such,” Marquez said in a
statement. Similar protests in other parts of the country were
abandoned because groups considered them “disrespectful to the
church,” he said.  The protesters entered the church in the evening of March
13, demanding that Pope Benedict XVI hear their grievances
during his March 26-28 visit. The Church’s decision to call in
the police failed to honor the tradition of an institution that
has served as a sanctuary for the people, said Dr. Jose Azel,
senior researcher at the Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American
Studies at the  University of Miami .  “This protest is part of the impotence of the Cuban
people,” he said in a phone interview. “They are basically
asking for freedom through the Catholic Church, which
historically is a place of refuge for the people, and it appears
it was not heard in this case.”  The dissidents were removed from the interior of the
Nuestra Señora de la Caridad Church in central Havana “without
resistance,” Marquez said. The police had assured the Church
its agents would not carry weapons and that the protesters would
be transferred to a police station and later to their homes, he
said.  ‘Repression’  “I look at this protest as symbolic of the repression that
exists in Cuba,” Azel said.  Pope Benedict XVI ’s visit will be only the second visit by
the head of the Catholic Church to Cuba. Pope  John Paul II 
visited the island in January 1998.  The Archdiocese said this week’s protests will not disrupt
the Pope’s visit.  “No one has the right to disrupt the celebratory spirit of
the faithful Cubans, and many other citizens, that await the
visit of the Saint Pope Benedict XVI to Cuba with jubilation and
hope,” Marquez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 