-- Dallas, Fort Worth Seen Struck by Severe Thunderstorms Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-16T19:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/dallas-fort-worth-seen-struck-by-severe-thunderstorms-next-week.html
Dallas and  Fort Worth  may be hit by
severe thunderstorms early next week, according to the National
Weather Service.  A line of severe storms, with possible high winds and
tornadoes, is expected for parts of eastern Texas, Oklahoma,
western Missouri and Arkansas, according to the U.S.  Storm
Prediction Center  in Norman, Oklahoma.  “It may be our first good round of severe weather for the
spring season,” Jason Dunn, a weather service meteorologist in
Fort Worth, said by phone today.  The storm center has received reports of 152 tornadoes,
which have killed at least 40 people, so far this month. There
were five reports of the violent storms across eastern Michigan
yesterday.  Thunderstorms and tornadoes killed at least 552 people, the
most in 75 years, and caused $25 billion in insured losses last
year across the U.S., making them the deadliest types of natural
disasters for the period, according to the  Insurance Information
Institute  in  New York .  From 1991 to 2010, tornadoes caused 30 percent of all
catastrophic losses in the U.S., second only to hurricanes,
which accounted for 44 percent, according to the institute.  The severity and the timing of the storms expected on March
19 is still being determined, Dunn said. The system that will
bring the unsettled weather is now moving into the western U.S.  “The most likely chance for severe weather would be in the
afternoon,” Dunn said.  The threat of severe storms may push eastward as the week
unfolds, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania . The storms also may bring hail and the potential
for flooding, according to AccuWeather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  