-- Daniels Says Republicans Must Specify Deficit Cuts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-17T04:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/daniels-says-republicans-must-get-specific-on-how-to-cut-deficit.html
Republican Governor  Mitch Daniels 
of  Indiana (BEESIN)  said his party’s presidential candidates must get
specific on how they would reduce the federal  budget deficit ,
suggesting that has to include tax increases.  “It is time for candidates to, I believe, propose specific
remedies or steps to address this very, I think, survival-level
issue,” Daniels said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “It
threatens the essence of the American promise, upward
mobility.”  He said “it’s a great opportunity for our party to speak
more openly and inclusively.”  Daniels said President  Barack Obama  was “completely AWOL”
on closing the $1.3 trillion  deficit , and while the Republican
presidential candidates “have spoken more forthrightly” than
the president, they haven’t done so “nearly to the extent that
the moment requires.”  Daniels, 62, also said that the differences between the top
contenders for the Republican presidential nomination aren’t
great, even as former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney
emphasizes economic issues and former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum 
of  Pennsylvania  focuses more on social issues.  Entitlement Programs  Deficit-reduction talks deadlocked in Congress last year as
Democrats pushed for raising taxes on higher-income Americans
while Republicans insisted on cuts in spending on Medicare and
other federal entitlement programs.  Daniels said any deficit-reduction package would include
“modernizing the entitlements” and “greater revenues.”
Overhauling entitlement programs should include changes that
would result in more benefits flowing to the neediest Americans,
he said.  “Everyone, starting with the most affluent, must
participate in this,” Daniels said. “There are smart and dumb
ways to do that. My strong encouragement is for closing tax
loopholes and stop sending benefits that really should be
concentrated and preserved for the most vulnerable among us.”  “The pain and sacrifice is going to come through inaction,
not the -- I think -- reasonably moderate steps” lawmakers
could start taking now, he said.  Nomination Contest  Daniels, who declined to run for president this year,
dismissed suggestions from Senator  Jim DeMint  of  South Carolina 
that the party’s nominating convention could turn to him if none
of the candidates had a majority of the delegates.  He said someone would get enough delegates before the
national convention in Tampa in August, and while he didn’t know
when that would happen, he said he was “rooting for it” not to
occur until after the May 8 Republican primary in Indiana.  Daniels said Romney at this point would be favored to win
the state’s primary, though “each of the current candidates
would arrive with some chance to be competitive.”  While Romney and Santorum continue to attack each other and
compete for delegates by emphasizing their differences, Daniels
said, “They’re more similar in views and outlook than they let
on, or the dynamics of their running against each other allows
them to show. I don’t think that the differences are nearly so
wide as is sometimes perceived.”  Indiana  Republicans also have a primary for  U.S. Senate ,
where incumbent  Richard Lugar  faces a challenge from state
Treasurer Richard Mourdock, who is backed by Tea Party groups.
Lugar, who lives in northern  Virginia , was ruled ineligible to
vote in his home precinct in Indiana, a decision that doesn’t
affect his eligibility to run.  Daniels called the election board’s March 15 decision
“partisan mischief” by local Democrats and said he expects
Lugar, who was first elected to the Senate in 1976, to prevail.  “I do believe he’ll win,” Daniels said. “He’s still a
great asset to this state and to the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  