-- Deutsche Bank Management Shakeup Has Jain, Fitschen Stamp
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-03-16T16:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/deutsche-bank-management-shakeup-has-jain-fitschen-stamp.html
Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen,
who take over as co-chief executive officers of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
at the end of May, reorganized the company’s management as they
began to put their mark on  Germany ’s largest bank.  Stephan Leithner, 45, Stuart Lewis, 46, and Henry Ritchotte, 48, will join the management board on June 1, the
Frankfurt-based bank said today in a statement. Chief Risk
Officer Hugo Banziger, 56, and Chief Operating Officer Hermann- Josef Lamberti, 56, will leave the company on May 31, Deutsche
Bank said.  Jain, 49, the investment-banking chief, and Fitschen, 63,
who runs Germany, are promoting bankers they worked closely with
as they balance the firm’s role as a global investment bank and
a lender with long-standing ties to German companies. They take
over after a decade in which CEO  Josef Ackermann  built up the
investment- and consumer-banking businesses and steered the
company through the financial and sovereign debt crises.  “The new heads can be more effective in implementing new
ideas if they appoint executives they’re close to,” said Dieter Hein, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH near  Frankfurt  who has a
buy rating on the company. “The speed of management changes is
positive because it means Deutsche Bank’s new CEOs can smoothly
take over operations.”  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  rose 25 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 38.67 euros
in Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 31 percent this year,
valuing the company at about 36 billion euros ($47.4 billion).  BaFin Opposition  Banziger, consumer-banking head  Rainer Neske , 47, and Chief
Financial Officer  Stefan Krause , 49, were also among candidates
for the top job at Deutsche Bank, people with knowledge of the
deliberations said in July.  Deutsche Bank proposed Lewis as its risk chief after German
financial regulator BaFin opposed the planned appointment of
William Broeksmit, the head of risk portfolio optimization at
the corporate and investment bank, a person close to the
supervisory board said yesterday.  BaFin and Deutsche Bank discussed multiple candidates, and
Lewis was selected based on the regulator’s criteria, the person
said. Broeksmit didn’t receive unanimous support from BaFin
because of concern that he lacked experience managing a large
number of employees, the person said.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  defended BaFin
today when asked if the authority had intervened in Deutsche
Bank’s personnel decisions.  Avoiding Risks  “The regulator doesn’t massively interfere in the
personnel plans of financial institutions -- it carries out its
legal obligation,” he told reporters in Berlin. “There isn’t
the slightest doubt over BaFin’s competence and seriousness.”  Banziger’s responsibilities will be split between
management board members, according to Deutsche Bank.  Lewis, currently deputy chief risk officer and head of risk
for the corporate and investment bank, will be in charge of
market, credit and operational risk. Leithner, co-head of
investment-banking coverage and advisory, will lead legal and
compliance in addition to global human resources and regional
management in  Europe , excluding Germany, the statement reads.
Banziger’s supervision of treasury will be passed to Krause, the
person familiar with the matter said last week.  “It’s clear that since 2007, the job of risk officer has
become more important and Banziger did a great job at steering
the bank away from risks, which really paid off,” said Manfred Jaisfeld, an analyst with  National-Bank AG (2000Q)  in Essen, who
recommends investors buy Deutsche Bank shares. “The fact that
they split the job illustrates that.”  Expanding Committee  Jaisfeld cited the bank’s “relatively low” risks related
to U.S. subprime mortgages compared with some European peers and
a “manageable” portfolio of southern European sovereign debt
as examples of successful risk management.  Ritchotte, currently COO for the global markets division,
will oversee technology, operations and strategy on the
management committee, Deutsche Bank said.  The company will also expand its group executive committee
to 18 members from 12 effective June 1, Deutsche Bank said in a
separate e-mailed statement today. The committee is the second-
highest ranking body after the management board and helps
coordinate the businesses and regions.  Colin Fan, the head of credit trading and  emerging markets ,
and Rob Rankin, who leads the Asia-Pacific region, will head the
investment-banking unit, according to the statement. Fan will
join Rankin on the group executive committee.  Running Asia  Gunit Chadha, CEO for  India , and Alan Cloete, head of
global finance and foreign exchange, will replace Rankin, 48, in
the Asia Pacific region and join the GEC. Chadha, 50, will be
based in  Singapore , while Cloete, 49, will move to  Hong Kong 
from  London .  Other executives joining the committee are David Folkerts- Landau, head of research, Colin Grassie, CEO for the U.K.,
Christian Ricken, COO of private and business clients and
Richard Walker, general counsel, according to the statement. The
bank said it will announce a successor to Americas CEO Seth Waugh. Like Waugh, his replacement will be a GEC member.  Michele Faissola, who oversees rates and commodities, will
head a combined asset and  wealth-management  operation, according
to the statement. Asset management head  Kevin Parker  and Pierre De Weck, who leads private wealth management, will stand down as
GEC members on May 31, Deutsche Bank said.  No Bailout  The division Faissola would oversee combines asset and
wealth management and similar businesses that are now part of
the investment bank such as exchange-traded funds, said the
person familiar with the matter.  Deutsche Bank said last month that it’s holding exclusive
talks to sell part of its asset-management divisions to U.S.
money manager Guggenheim Partners LLC.  Ackermann, 64, said on a conference call last month that
the fact that Deutsche Bank didn’t take a taxpayer-funded
bailout to survive the financial crisis following the collapse
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  has benefited its image among
clients. As chairman of the  Institute of International Finance ,
he helped broker a deal on creditors taking losses on Greek debt
as part of a bailout of the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 