-- Drogba to Stay at Chelsea as ‘Long as Possible’: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-16T06:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/drogba-to-stay-at-chelsea-as-long-as-possible-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the
Web.  Drogba’s Desire     Chelsea striker Didier Drogba, who is out of contract at
the end of the season, said he wants to extend his stay at the
Blues after helping the team reach the Champions League
quarterfinals by beating Napoli, the  Sun reported .  “I am not master of my fate, but I will stay as long as
possible,” the Sun cited Drogba as saying. “I am happy here,
to experience moments like these against Napoli. I hope there
will be many others.”  Lampard Warning  Drogba’s teammate,  Frank Lampard , told Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  that the team will suffer if senior players are
discarded in the offseason, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Lampard and Drogba are among a group of longer-serving
players who were told their futures at Stamford Bridge were in
the balance following the March 4 firing of Andre Villas-Boas as
manager, the newspaper added.  “You’re not talking about old boys whose careers are
flitting out,” the Telegraph cited Lampard as saying. “They’re
players that want to play, players that want to win.”  Bellamy for Britain  Liverpool’s  Craig Bellamy  has been asked to confirm his
availability for the  Great Britain  team at this year’s London
Olympics, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Wales forward would seriously consider playing for the
team if selected in manager Stuart Pearce’s squad even though
the Football Association of Wales is opposed to the idea of its
players representing Great Britain, the Mail added.  Mertesacker Missing  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said defender Per Mertesacker, who underwent ankle ligament surgery in February,
is unlikely to play again before the end of the season, the
 Daily Express reported .  “There are only six weeks to go, so I don’t think he’ll be
sharp enough to come back and play,” the Express cited Wenger
as saying. “He would need to train.”  Fulham Playmaker   Fulham opened contract talks with Moussa Dembele as
Tottenham, Liverpool and Arsenal track the 24-year-old Belgian
playmaker, the  Mail reported .  Dembele, who earns about 35,000 pounds a week, will be
given a significant pay rise to sign an extension to his current
deal that expires in just over 12 months, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  