-- Dublin Bars Fight Decline as St. Patrick’s Day Provides Respite
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-03-16T14:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/dublin-bars-fight-decline-as-st-patrick-s-day-provides-respite.html
As Dubliners prepare to celebrate
St. Patrick’s Day, the city’s bars will be teeming. It’s what
happens after last orders are called this weekend that’s
worrying pub owners.  Pub sales have fallen 26 percent since the  property market 
collapsed in 2008 and unemployment rose, data compiled by
 Ireland’s statistics office  show. Tomorrow, the nation’s
celebration of its patron saint combined with a televised rugby
match against  England  provide for a rare bumper weekend.  “It is a huge trading weekend for us,” said Donall
O’Keefe, head of the  Licensed Vintners Association , which
represents 90 percent of the Irish capital’s publicans. “We’d
love if every week was like this.”  Dublin pubs are fighting the slump in business with a 1
million-euro ($1.3 million) marketing campaign called “ Dublin
Does Fridays .” Sales have plunged as the jobless rate tripled
since 2007 to an average 14.2 percent last year and emigration
rose to the highest since the 19th century.  About 76,400 people left Ireland in the 12 months ended
last April, according to the statistics office. Many of those
departing are under 30, the natural customer of Irish bars. In
addition, about 40 percent of all alcohol bought was drunk at
home in 2009 and 2010, up from 31 percent five years earlier,
data show.  Friday Evening  C&C Group Plc (GCC) , the Dublin-based cider maker, has fallen
about 68 percent in Dublin over the last five years, reducing
the company’s market value to 1.3 billion euros. Nigeria has
overtaken Ireland as Guinness’s largest market.  “One of things that has become very obvious is that Friday
evening after work has got weaker,” O’Keefe said. “Friday
evening after work is a very natural time to go for a pint.
You’ve had a busy week at work but when you down tools on a
Friday, the barriers to going to a pub are lowest.”  The “Dublin Does Fridays” campaign runs for nine weeks.
It’s partly funded by suppliers such as  Diageo Plc (DGE)  and  Pernod
Ricard (RI)  SA, and includes advertising on radio, billboards,
YouTube, Twitter and Facebook as well as promotions by bars in
the city.  Fifty-Six Bottles  While alcohol consumption has fallen from its peak levels,
the 80 percent of Irish adults who drink consume the equivalent
of about 56 bottles of vodka a year, according to a report
released last month by a government-appointed group of experts,
mainly health officials.  The group proposed minimum pricing for alcohol, a ban on
alcohol sponsorship at sporting events and a so-called social
responsibility levy on the drinks industry.  “The concept is based on the idea that the polluter
pays,” said  Rolande Anderson , who represented the Irish College
of General Practitioners on the government panel and opposes the
discounted sale of alcohol in gas stations and supermarkets.  Roisin Shorthall, a junior minister at Ireland’s Health
Ministry, said in an interview with Dublin-based RTE today that
she is “well disposed” to the expert group’s recommendations
and wants to break the link between alcohol and national
celebrations.  “In the days leading up to St. Patrick’s Day, we see
people staggering out of supermarkets with big slabs of beer and
other drinks,” Shorthall told RTE. “We are trying get the
message to people that you don’t have to get tanked up to enjoy
yourself.”  Shop Promotions  O’Keefe defends the bar trade, and says the problem lies
more with aggressive price promotion by liquor stores and
supermarkets. While the number of bars in Ireland fell by about
20 percent in the 12 years to 2010, the number of stores selling
alcohol has more than quadrupled, according to the country’s tax
authorities.  “The pub is both the most controlled and social
environment to consume alcohol,” O’Keefe said. “We have a
world class pub culture in Dublin and a lot of us take for
granted how good our pubs are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  