-- Dynegy Disputes Examiner’s Fraudulent Transfer Finding
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-03-16T20:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/dynegy-disputes-examiner-s-fraudulent-transfer-finding.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  disputed an examiner’s
conclusion that its purchase of coal-fired  power plants  from a
unit that later entered bankruptcy was a fraudulent transfer
that harmed creditors.  “Dynegy is both troubled and disappointed by the
examiner’s report as we continue to believe our restructuring
activities benefited all stakeholders and were conducted in the
proper manner,” Chief Executive Officer Robert C. Flexon said
today in a statement.  The Houston-based company put subsidiary Dynegy Holdings
LLC and four of its units into bankruptcy in November after
moving ownership of the coal-fired plants to the parent. The
transaction was a fraudulent transfer, examiner Susheel Kirpalani said in a report filed March 9 in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court (14001L)  in Poughkeepsie,  New York .  The examiner’s conclusions aren’t binding on U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Cecelia Morris, who this week scheduled an
April 4 hearing to consider a request by U.S. Trustee Tracy Hope Davis to appoint an independent manager for Dynegy Holdings.
Kirpalani found “gross mismanagement” at the company, Davis
said in court papers.  Kirpalani improperly assumed that Dynegy Holdings was
insolvent at the time of the transfer, Dynegy said today in a
court filing. Documents and other evidence also showed that
Dynegy didn’t intend to hinder or delay creditors, the company
said.  ‘Errors Are Glaring’  “The errors are glaring,” Dynegy said in the filing.
“Given the ability to assess the credibility of witnesses, the
court will find that the debtors, the company and their
respective officers and directors acted responsibly, properly,
and lawfully.”  Kirpalani, a lawyer at  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan
LLP (496224L) , was appointed in January to investigate the pre-bankruptcy
reorganization. Dynegy put the units into Chapter 11 court
protection with a restructuring agreement backed by a group of
bondholders including Franklin Advisers Inc. and Avenue Capital
Group, according to court documents.  “The Dynegy Inc. board favored paths that benefited Dynegy
Inc. and its stockholders to the detriment of Dynegy Holdings
and its creditors,” Kirpalani wrote in his report.  Bondholders’ Suit  The bankruptcy filing came after bondholders sued the
company over the reorganization, saying it moved assets out of
their reach to benefit shareholders of the Dynegy parent,
including billionaire  Carl Icahn .  Dynegy rose 42 percent to 89 cents in New York, the highest
closing price since the examiner filed his report. The shares
have fallen 83 percent since shareholders led by Icahn and
Seneca Capital rejected a $604.5 million takeover by  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  in November 2010.  Dynegy Holdings’ $1 billion of 7.75 percent senior
unsecured notes due June 2019 rose 0.25 cent on the dollar to 70
cents at 12:12 p.m. New York time today, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. That debt is up from 57.5 cents on Jan. 20, its low
this year, the data show.  Dynegy is the fourth-largest U.S. independent power
producer by revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Its coal unit owns and operates six plants in  Illinois  with a
combined capacity of 3,132 megawatts, according to the company
website. That’s enough to power 2.5 million average U.S. homes,
based on Energy Department data.  The case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  