-- Sants Will Step Down as U.K.’s Financial Regulatory Chief
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-03-16T13:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/hector-sants-will-step-down-as-u-k-s-financial-watchdog-chief.html
Hector Sants, the chief executive
officer of the U.K. Financial Services Authority, will step down
at the end of June after leading the regulator through much of
the global financial crisis.  Sants, 56, also won’t lead the Prudential Regulation
Authority, a unit of the Bank of England that will be
responsible for banking supervision starting next year, the FSA
said in an e-mailed statement.  Andrew Bailey , head of U.K.
banking supervision, will take over Sants’s role on an interim
basis.  As head of the FSA, Sants was a key figure in the 2008
negotiations that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., with one book saying he prevented  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
from buying some of its assets. The FSA had been heavily
criticised over the near collapse of Northern Rock Plc and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   “I know he’s worked very hard since the crisis,”  Richard Reid , research director for the International Centre for
Financial Regulation, said in a telephone interview. “He’s
worked tirelessly to try and recover some of the reputation of
the FSA,” said Reid, a former colleague of Sants at UBS AG.  This is the second time Sants has resigned from the FSA. He
announced his departure in February 2010, but later agreed to
stay on after the government proposed handing supervisory powers
to the  Bank of England . Before joining the FSA, Sants was an
executive at Credit Suisse Group AG, where he led the bank’s
European, Middle East and Asia business.  ‘Proud’ of Acheivements  “I am proud of what the FSA has achieved during my time in
charge, through what have been incredibly challenging times,”
Sants said in the statement. “I would like to thank all of my
colleagues for their dedication, support and hard work. I know I
leave the organization in very capable hands.”  “I am sad that Hector Sants has decided to stand down,”
 Mervyn King , governor of the Bank of England, said in an e-
mailed statement. “I am very grateful to him for staying on for
longer than he had planned.”  Sants, who was paid 806,0000 pounds ($1.27 million) in the
last financial year according to the FSA’s annual report, will
have to wait another six months after his departure until he can
start another job. He would have been a deputy governor of the
U.K.’s central bank had he stayed.  Margaret Cole , the FSA’s former director of enforcement,
said last month that she would leave the agency. She became at
least the 10th senior official to leave the regulator since the
government said in 2010 it would abolish the FSA and replace it
with the PRA and a consumer watchdog called the Financial
Conduct Authority.  ‘Traumatic’ Change  “Change is traumatic for any organisation and the FSA is
no different,” Greg Brandman, a partner at Eversheds LLP and
former FSA enforcement manager, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Ongoing uncertainty about who will be at the helm during a
period of radical regulatory change is bad for the FSA and bad
for the City.”  A plan to save  Lehman Brothers  in the midst of the 2008
financial crisis fell through when Sants blocked an attempt by
Barclays to buy some of its assets, according to “In Fed We
Trust,” the book by David Wessel, a Wall Street Journal
reporter.  Sants refused to waive regulations requiring London-based
Barclays to hold a shareholder vote before guaranteeing Lehman’s
liabilities, Wessel said.  Misselling Crackdown  As FSA CEO, Sants led a crackdown on banks’ misselling of
payment protection insurance to consumers last year, which could
cost lenders as much as 9 billion pounds in compensation.  “My biggest disappointment of my time at the FSA has been
the failure of firms, in particular senior management, to learn
the lessons of past misselling,” Sants said in a speech in
 London  in June.  He warned in his most recent speech that the U.K.’s
approach of assessing lenders using subjective judgments would
collide with a European style of supervision that relies on
“tick-box prudential regulation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  