-- Hedge Fund Founder Kim Admits Larceny in $6 Million Fraud
-- B y   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-16T20:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/hedge-fund-founder-kim-admits-larceny-in-6-million-fraud.html
Brian Kim, founder and operator of
the hedge fund Liquid Capital Management LLC, pleaded guilty to
grand larceny after being accused by Manhattan prosecutors of
running a $6 million  Ponzi scheme .  Kim entered the plea today before Justice Charles Solomon
of New York State Supreme court in Manhattan, admitting nine of
26 counts against him. The punishment for the most serious is as
much as 25 years in prison. Sentencing was set for April 20.  Kim, 36, who fled overseas when he was about to be tried in
another case, apologized for dragging out the proceedings.  “I know these matters could have been resolved a long time
ago,” he told the court. He said he had no “malicious
intent.”  Kim was taken into custody in October 2011 by authorities
in  Hong Kong , where he fled before a U.S. trial scheduled to
begin in January 2011 on charges that he stole $430,000 from a
 Manhattan  condominium complex where he lived.  He admitted that crime today as well. Kim told the judge
the stolen money went to his investors.  The Ponzi scheme indictment in February 2011 charged him
with running a fraud from January 2003 to January 2011.  Kim told clients they were investing in safe and stable
securities, prosecutors said. Instead, he traded in highly
speculative contracts and diverted money to himself, they said.  “The defendant induced his clients to make risky and
speculative investments by portraying himself as an accomplished
trader and money manager,” District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr.
said in a statement after the charges were filed.  Claims to Clients  Kim and his employees told prospective clients the fund
generated returns of more than 240 percent and hid his losses by
making new investments look like profits, the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission said in a civil suit.  Shopping trips in New York at Coach and  Barneys New York ,
skiing in  Vermont  and gambling excursions to  Atlantic City ,  New
Jersey , were funded by withdrawals from the fund, the CFTC said.
Kim “is the sole and managing member” of the New York-based
company, the agency said in its February 2011 complaint.  Just before the trial for the condominium complex theft,
Kim fled to Hong Kong using a fraudulently obtained U.S.
passport, according to prosecutors.  “He’s suffered from these crimes,” Kim’s lawyer, Justin
Levine, told the court. “And he will continue to suffer.”  The state case is People v. Kim, 2011/86, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan). The CFTC suit is
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Kim, 11-cv-01013,
and the federal criminal case over the passport fraud is U.S. v.
Kim, 11-cr-00642, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Thomas in New York
at   ithomas15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 