-- Medtronic’s EnTrust Gets U.K. Safety Alert for Battery Life
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-16T16:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/medtronic-entrust-device-gets-u-k-safety-alert-for-battery-life.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s EnTrust
defibrillator, used to shock a stopped heart back into a normal
rhythm, has a battery defect that may leave patients vulnerable
to dangerous electrical abnormalities, British regulators said.  Patients with the devices should be checked immediately by
their cardiologists to ensure that the defibrillators are
properly programmed to give an audible alert if the battery runs
low, according to the  Medicines and Healthcare products
Regulatory Agency . The devices may stop providing electrical
pacing and lose the ability to shock the heart because an
internal short circuit may cause the batteries to rapidly
deplete, the agency said today in a  statement .  Patients should be checked every three months and enrolled
in the CareLink program that can help monitor problems, the MHRA
said. The agency said it doesn’t recommend removing the devices,
which are prone to fail because of battery depletion more than
2.5 years after they are implanted. While Minneapolis-based
Medtronic is investigating the issue, the defect appears to be
limited to the EnTrust defibrillators, the agency said.  About 69,000 EnTrust devices have been sold worldwide since
2005, the agency said. Less than 1 percent of patients have
experienced the rapid voltage decline that triggered the safety
alert, the MHRA said. It’s unclear how many devices may be
affected after they have been in the body for more than 30
months, the agency said.  There have been no patient deaths or serious injuries
because of the battery issue, Medtronic said in a statement.
While patients typically have three months of normal operation
after a weak battery signals a need for replacement, the EnTrust
devices may give out sooner, the company said.  Medtronic settled lawsuits claiming that it hid battery
defects in its Marquis line of defibrillators for $114.1 million
in 2008. The company didn’t admit any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  