-- Tendulkar Scores His 100th Century in International Cricket
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-17T01:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/tendulkar-breaks-100-century-barrier-in-international-cricket.html
Sachin Tendulkar  became the first
player to score 100 international cricket centuries during
India’s Asia Cup one-day loss to  Bangladesh , ending his yearlong
wait to reach the milestone.  Tendulkar, the leading run-scorer in Test and one-day
matches, reached the mark with a single off Shakib Al Hasan at
the Sher-e-Bangla National Cricket Stadium in Dhaka yesterday.
He now has 51 centuries in elite five-day Tests and 49 in one-
dayers, including his first against Bangladesh, which won by
five wickets. He reached 114 before falling to Mashrafe Mortaza.  It’s the latest record for Tendulkar, 38, in a career that
began at 16. In the past two years, the right-hander became the
first player to hit a one-day international double-century,
score 50 Test hundreds, amass an unprecedented 15,000 Test runs
and set the record for Test matches played. In April, he helped
 India  win its first Cricket  World Cup  title since 1983.  “This is indeed a magnificent feat and not likely to be
easily emulated,” Haroon Lorgat, International Cricket Council
chief executive, said in a statement. “The number 100 is
special for a batsman and to record 100 centuries for your
country is a massive statement.”  Mumbai-born Tendulkar had been stuck on 99 centuries since
hitting 111 against South Africa on March 12, 2011, at the World
Cup. His drought spanned 33 innings during which he’d twice got
out in the 90s and passed 50 on eight occasions.  English Sweep  He averaged 34 in the Test series in  England  in July and
August that the home team swept 4-0. His highest score in the
first three matches was 56, then he reached 91 before getting
out leg-before-wicket.  Tendulkar got to within six runs on Nov. 25 in the third
Test against the West Indies, disappointing his hometown crowd
in Mumbai by edging the ball to a fielder when on 94.  In December’s first Test against  Australia  in  Melbourne ,
Tendulkar top scored for India in both innings with 73 and 32.
He made 41 on the opening day of the second match in Sydney,
then got out for 80 in the second innings on a pitch where
Australia captain  Michael Clarke  racked up a ground-record 329
not out the previous day and two of his teammates hit centuries.  Tendulkar didn’t score more than 25 runs in the third and
fourth Tests in Adelaide and Perth as India slumped to its
second straight 4-0 series loss away from home. His century
drought extended into the three-nation one-day series in
Australia, where he managed a top score of 48 in seven innings.  ‘Luckless’  “In Australia, I felt luckless,” Tendulkar said in
comments on the India cricket board’s website. “It doesn’t
matter how many hundreds you score, you still have to put your
head down and grind it out and do the job for the team.”  After scoring six in India’s Asia Cup opener against  Sri
Lanka , Tendulkar made the breakthrough yesterday. Tendulkar’s
run rate slowed as he neared the record mark and he scored a
series of singles before clipping Al Hasan to square leg to
bring up his 100. He removed his helmet and raised his bat
skyward as even the opponents came to shake his hand in
celebration.  Tendulkar, who made his debut against India’s archrival
 Pakistan  in 1989, registered his first three-figure score in
Tests against England in 1990 at age 17. His  Test average  of
55.44 is the highest by any Indian who batted at least 20 times
and is 15th in a list headed by Donald Bradman on 99.94.  10,000 Runs  Former teammate  Rahul Dravid , Australia’s  Ricky Ponting ,
 South Africa ’s  Jacques Kallis  and  Mahela Jayawardene  of Sri
Lanka are the only other active players to have scored more than
10,000 Test runs. Dravid, who retired from international cricket
on March 9, has the second-best Test run tally with 13,288.
Ponting is second on the century-makers list with a total of 71.  Tendulkar is the only player to have scored more than
18,000 runs in one-day internationals.  “There’s Sachin and then there’s daylight,” former
Australia spin bowler  Shane Warne , whose 708 Test wickets are
the second most in history, said in May when asked to rate the
batsmen he’s played against.  Nicknamed “Little Master,” the 5-foot-5 Tendulkar is an
idol in India, where cricket is the most popular sport among the
country’s population of 1.2 billion. He earns about $8 million a
year from salary and endorsements, according to Forbes magazine,
and was given the honorary rank of group captain by the  Indian
Air Force  in 2010 in recognition of his “glorious achievements
as a cricketer and sports icon.”  “He has made India proud,” Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
said in a statement. “Tendulkar’s long career has been a
triumph of class, character and courage.”  Child-Like  Former India captain Sunil Gavaskar, who was the first
cricketer to reach 10,000 Test runs, said in an interview with
India’s Telegraph newspaper in November that Tendulkar’s
technique, temperament and “almost child-like enthusiasm” set
him apart from his peers.  Having finally notched his 100th century, the focus will
shift to new targets, according to former teammate Sameer Dighe,
who played alongside Tendulkar for India and Mumbai.  “The uncertainty has now been put to rest and analysts
will now be working on what new benchmark to ask him to
achieve,” Dighe said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  