-- Eni Says Mozambique ‘Transforming’ as Africa Leads Growth
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-03-16T11:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/eni-says-mozambique-transforming-as-africa-leads-growth-1-.html
Eni SpA (ENI)  Chief Executive Officer
 Paolo Scaroni  said the company’s gas discovery in  Mozambique  is
“transforming” as African fields drive growth.  The company expects output to gain more than 3 percent a
year until 2015, it said in a  presentation  to investors on its
website. Projects in African nations including Angola, Gabon and
Mozambique may allow for growth of 3 percent through 2021.  “In Mozambique we made the biggest discovery in our
history,” Scaroni said in an interview in London yesterday.
“This is a transforming discovery for us and it’s a
transforming discovery for Mozambique as well.”  Output is returning in  Libya , where Eni is the largest
producer, after the conflict that ousted  Muammar Qaddafi  shut
down most oil and gas fields in the country and caused Eni’s
production to drop 13 percent last year. The Rome-based company,
which gets 55 percent of production in Africa, found about 30
trillion cubic feet of gas in waters off Mozambique in 2011.  “Eni is transitioning from a European-bias gas
conglomerate to a global upstream operator with a portfolio
offering a competitive growth,” Theepan Jothilingam, an analyst
at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote today in an e-mailed report.
“Mozambique continues to offer notable upside potential” with
“significant opportunities in the  Barents Sea , Indonesia,
Angola and  Australia .”  Sell Assets  New projects will add about 700,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day to output from 2012 to 2015, the company said.
It also plans to dispose of assets, which produce about 40,000
barrels a day mostly in the  North Sea , according to Claudio Descalzi, head of exploration and production.  “The success we have in our exploration activity means we
are very prudent in our acquisitions,” Scaroni said. “I am
talking about major acquisitions. Of course, we are always ready
to do small deals.”  Spending on exploration and production will rise 14 percent
to 44.8 billion euros ($58.6 billion) through 2015. Total
investment, including in gas and power, refining and marketing,
and chemical businesses will be 59.6 billion euros, according to
Chief Financial Officer Alessandro Bernini.  Production at Eni will rise to about 2 million barrels of
oil equivalent a day in 2015 from 1.6 million barrels last year,
according to Mediobanca SpA, which assumed a depletion rate of
about 3 percent. The long-term production growth forecast has
been increased by one percentage point, partly because of the
Mamba field’s projected contribution in Mozambique.  Iraq Boost  Outside  Africa , the company is seeking to raise production
at Iraq’s Zubair field. Eni plans to increase output at the
field to 300,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2013 from
250,000 barrels, Descalzi said.  Scaroni said he may sell Eni’s 3.7 billion euro stake in
 Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP) , Portugal’s largest oil company, before
2014.  Under Lisbon-based Galp’s shareholder agreement, Eni must
win permission for a sale from Amorim Energia, a 33 percent
shareholder controlled by billionaire Americo Amorim and partly
owned by Angola’s Sonangol EP, and state-owned Portuguese lender
Caixa Geral de Depositos SA, which has 1 percent of the company.
The agreement is in force until March 2014.  “Certainly, Eni divestment has to have their approval,”
Scaroni said. Galp “is doing well, so we are really not in any
hurry to sell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  