-- Merkel Leaves Door Open to Combining Euro-Area Bailout Funds
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-03-16T12:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/merkel-leaves-door-open-to-crisis-bailout-funds-combination.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
left the door open to boosting the euro-area financial backstop,
saying that a decision on reinforcing the firewall will be made
in time for International Monetary Fund meetings next month.  Merkel said that European finance ministers have discussed
“combination possibilities” for the permanent and the
temporary rescue funds ahead of a March 30 meeting in
Copenhagen. Ministers may decide to increase the region’s crisis
fund to a total capacity of 692 billion euros ($904 billion)
when they meet, a euro-area official said separately.  “What’s clear is that we need to settle on a position
with a view to the IMF’s spring meeting because the topic will
surely come up and because there have been offers by the
international community” to boost the IMF’s anti-crisis
resources, Merkel told reporters in Munich today. “You can
count on us setting the course by the end of March.”  Finance ministers are weighing what to do with the
temporary European Financial Stability Facility, which manages
rescue programs for Ireland,  Portugal  and  Greece , and its
permanent successor, the European Stability Mechanism. Their
decision, a signal of how much aid euro nations are willing to
provide in a crisis flare-up, affects how much other countries
will contribute to a global crisis backstop.  That figure of 692 billion euros represents the least
ambitious, and therefore most attainable, proposal for expanding
the 17-nation euro zone’s firewall, the official said. Other
options are still on the table, with potential total capacity
ranging from 500 billion euros, if ministers do nothing, to a
maximum of 940 billion euros.  ‘No Question’  Merkel, speaking after talks with trade and industry
representatives, reiterated her opposition to lifting the 500
billion-euro ceiling on the ESM, saying there is “no question”
of expanding it. Business leaders she talked to said they don’t
want an “unlimited permanent rescue fund” and she agrees, she
said. That means it’s “extremely important” the limit stands.  If the ministers do nothing, the ESM’s 500 billion-euro
limit will be the firewall’s binding constraint. Available funds
would be less because the EFSF has already committed 192 billion
to the three bailouts under way.  Under the least-ambitious option, the ESM would be allowed
to start fresh with its entire half-trillion euro capacity
available for future use. The EFSF would continue to administer
the programs in progress while its unused capacity would no
longer be available.  Other Options  Under other options, ministers might allow the EFSF’s 248
billion euros in unused capacity to remain available until at
least June 2013, when the EFSF is slated to phase out. The money
could be kept available until then, or it could be set aside
through a political decision that ministers could revisit if
needed, the official said.  Led by the U.S., major world powers have held back on
increasing the IMF’s crisis-fighting resources until the euro
area does more to help itself. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said this week that there is a  “certain link” 
between the firewall decision and a bigger role for the IMF.  Europe  has some breathing room as it considers the firewall
because the crisis has abated for now, the euro area official
said. For the moment, there are no further requests for bailout
programs; Greece has just this week won approval for its 130
billion-euro second rescue program.  Third Program  Before Greece could seek a third program, it would need to
show efforts to comply with the conditions of its most recent
bailout. If Greece still needed more rescue money after meeting
all of the program’s conditions, the euro area would probably be
willing to provide it, the official said.  New budget rules have strengthened the euro area by
requiring member countries to act more collectively in their
financial planning, the official said, hailing  Spain ’s decision
to accept EU-mandated fiscal cuts as it revises its fiscal
targets. Even if a country needs to change its budget numbers,
it should not act alone if it wants to remain in the currency
union, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 