-- Merkel Allies Cite Limit to Bailout Backing Before Firewall Call
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-16T08:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/merkel-allies-cite-limit-to-bailout-backing-before-firewall-call.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
facing a growing number of critics in her own party to her debt-
crisis policies, potentially hindering a European compromise on
the firewall to limit contagion from Greece.  Three lawmakers in Merkel’s bloc defied party leaders to
reject the Greek bailout on Feb. 27 after voting to strengthen
the rescue fund in September. Merkel depended on the opposition
to push through the 130 billion-euro ($172 billion) package due
to defectors in her caucus, made up of the  Christian Democratic
Union  and its Bavarian  sister party , the  Christian Social Union .  “My support is not without its limits,” Paul Lehrieder, a
CSU lawmaker from the baroque Bavarian city of  Wuerzburg  who
switched to oppose the Greek bailout, said in an interview. “I
admire the strength with which the chancellor fights, but I just
can’t support this program.”  European finance ministers meet March 30-31 to decide
reinforcing the financial firewall against the crisis by
allowing the temporary rescue fund to run together with the 500
billion-euro permanent European Stability Mechanism when it
comes into force in July. German officials, including Merkel and
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , have resisted international
calls to expand the ESM to safeguard Spain and  Italy .  All three flip-floppers in the CDU/CSU caucus cited doubts
that the Greek government can carry out reforms demanded as a
condition for the rescue. Two of the three distinguished between
that ballot and their Sept. 29 “yes” votes, which expanded the
scope of the temporary European Financial Stability Facility.  ‘Right Thing’  “I have two kids and I want to be able to tell them in 20
years that I did the right thing,” said Lehrieder, a 52-year-
old lawyer who was once the mayor of the Bavarian hamlet of
Gaukoenigshofen. He’s been in the lower house, or Bundestag,
since 2005, the year Merkel became chancellor.  Thirteen lawmakers in Merkel’s CDU/CSU faction voted
against the Greek bailout; nine had voted against the EFSF
enhancements, while one went from an abstention to a “no”
vote. Three changed to oppose Merkel between the two ballots:
Lehrieder; Christian von Stetten, a CDU lawmaker from
Schwaebisch Hall - Hohenlohe; and Stephan Stracke, a CSU
legislator from the alpine district of Ostallgaeu.  Four lawmakers from Merkel’s  Free Democratic Party 
coalition partner also voted against it. Merkel’s coalition
controls 330 seats of the 620 seats in the Bundestag, with 237
CDU/CSU lawmakers and 93 Free Democrats. The main opposition
 Social Democrats  and Greens, both of which backed the Greek aid
package, have 146 seats and 68 seats respectively. The anti-
capitalist Left Party which opposed the bill has 76 seats.  ‘Stand by Europe’  “We will continue to stand by  Europe , but you can’t rely
on the coalition anymore and the majorities will decline,”
 Juergen Trittin , co-leader of the Green parliamentary group,
said in an interview. Sixty-three Green lawmakers voted in favor
of the Greek bailout. None voted against.  Stetten, who hold the hereditary title of baron and whose
family traces its roots to the 11th century, said his vote
didn’t signal diminished support for Merkel.  “It’s not a vote against the chancellor, but rather purely
a question of substance,” Stetten, 41, a CDU lawmaker whose
district lies in a winegrowing region in southwest  Germany , said
in an interview in Berlin.  The baron’s act of rebellion drew the attention of party
colleagues because he’s the chairman of a group within the
caucus that represents  small- and mid-size companies , he said.  ‘Independent Mind’  “They know I have an independent mind, that I didn’t do it
to annoy the chancellor,” Stetten said.  Lehrieder and Stetten both declined to say if they’ll back
the ESM, which is due to replace the EFSF this year, in a vote
likely to be held in May. Merkel’s Cabinet approved the ESM bill
two days ago.  Though there is little doubt that Merkel will pass future
euro-related votes with the help of the opposition, the
chancellor will need to maintain backing from her own coalition
with national elections next year, said Ulrich von Alemann, a
professor of political science at the University of Dusseldorf.  “She’ll be thinking more and more about 2013,” Alemann
said by phone on March 14.  The third defector, 37-year-old Stracke, who represents an
alpine district that’s home to the  Neuschwanstein Castle , said
 Greece  should leave the euro.  “In addition to the necessary reforms, the Greeks would be
better helped if they left the euro area,” Stracke told his
local newspaper, the  Allgaeuer Zeitung , in a March 6 interview.  As a freshman lawmaker who took his seat in 2009, Stracke
told the newspaper that the prospect of opposing Merkel gave him
pause for thought, though discipline in the chancellor’s caucus
wasn’t enough for him to budge from his opposition.  “I do feel a sense of my responsibility,” Stracke told
the newspaper. “My decision came out of many conversations,
especially with colleagues in the CSU caucus in the Bundestag. I
considered the issue very well and stood by my position.”  Stracke didn’t respond to several requests by Bloomberg
News seeking an explanation for his vote on the Greek package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  