-- Mets Owners Begin Trial to Deny $303 Million to Madoff Trustee
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/mets-owners-begin-trial-to-deny-303-million-to-madoff-trustee.html
The New York Mets owners are about
to try to convince a jury they have the right to keep $303
million they withdrew from  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  For Mets owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, a defeat in a
trial that begins Monday could deal another blow to the baseball
team’s finances, after the partners lost $500 million with the
con man. For Madoff trustee  Irving Picard , a loss might make it
difficult to take investors’ principal in some of the 280
similar lawsuits awaiting U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s
attention after the Mets trial.  “The stakes are greater for Katz and Wilpon,” said  Peter Henning , a former Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer who
teaches at  Wayne State University  in  Detroit . “If they were to
lose, it’s Armageddon for the team -- and they have to come up
with a lot of cash. The stakes are less for Picard because he
doesn’t have skin in the game.”  Rakoff ruled on March 5 that the Mets defendants must
return to Picard as much as $83 million in fictitious profits
from Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme  and face a trial over whether they
blinded themselves to Madoff’s fraud and should give back
principal they withdrew before the fraud became public in 2008.
In the ruling, Rakoff said he is “skeptical” that Picard can
prove Wilpon and Katz acted in bad faith.  “When you have a judge who has already indicated hostility
to one party’s theories, it’s going to be an uphill battle for
that party,” said Michael Clark, a former federal prosecutor at
Duane Morris LLP in Houston who has tried about 100 cases.
“Even with a jury, a judge can strongly influence the
outcome.”  Screening Jurors  In screening jurors, it would be risky for Picard’s lawyers
to ask if they have read press reports about the judge’s
skepticism, Clark said. “If they haven’t read it, you’ve
brought it to their attention.”  The trustee’s lawyers “would certainly want to know” how
many prospective jurors have strong feelings about the Mets, he
said. Conversely, the Mets owners’ lawyers will want to know how
many have strong feelings about the team’s owners, he said.  “A lot of people feel the owners are responsible for the
team’s problems,” said Clark.  Wilpon and Katz must prove they acted in good faith when
they took their money from the Madoff brokerage, Rakoff said on
March 14. Rakoff hasn’t yet ruled on what evidence each side
will be allowed to present to the jury.  The Mets owners intend to use Hall of Fame pitcher  Sandy Koufax  and former Manhattan  District Attorney  Robert Morgenthau
to show the jury they were unaware Madoff was a con man, they
said in court papers.  Preview of Evidence  Koufax and Morgenthau were named on a list of 12 witnesses,
including Wilpon and Katz themselves, whom the owners plan to
call at the trial. The disclosures came in a flurry of court
papers filed this week, giving a preview of the evidence both
sides expect to present to nine jurors in the 10-day trial in
Manhattan federal court. The timeframe may bring a verdict
before the Mets open the baseball season against the  Atlanta
Braves  on April 5. Picard has objected to the calling of Koufax
and Morgenthau, and Rakoff hasn’t ruled on whether he will
permit it.  Trimming the team’s costs, the Mets owners cut the basic
payroll to about $90 million this season, from $140 million last
year. They also have sold seven minority stakes in the team,
valued at $20 million each, mostly to existing business
partners, Wilpon said last month. The money will be used to pay
$65 million of short term loans from  Major League Baseball  and
Bank of America Corp. A $303 million loss in the trial would
hurt.  Picard’s Fees  Picard, a  New York  bankruptcy lawyer, wants Rakoff to stop
the Mets owners from discussing his fees in front of the jury.
He and his  law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged about
$273 million for their work on the Madoff estate so far. Like
the Mets, he can appeal to a higher court if he loses.  However, Rakoff is making it harder for the trustee to use
lawsuits to pay other Madoff customers. Besides cutting Picard’s
original claims against the Mets by about two-thirds, Rakoff and
another district judge, Colleen McMahon, have tossed about $90
billion of Picard’s claims against banks including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Picard is appealing the rulings.  Koufax, who was elected to Baseball’s Hall of Fame in 1972,
played high school baseball with  Fred Wilpon  in  Brooklyn ,
according to a court filing. He held a Madoff account maintained
by the Mets’ owners.  Morgenthau will testify that in 2006 Wilpon donated
$500,000 to the Police Athletic League, of which Morgenthau was
chairman. Wilpon suggested to Morgenthau that the money be
invested with Madoff’s firm, according to the filing.  Old Friend  Wilpon wouldn’t have encouraged Koufax, one of his oldest
friends, and Morgenthau, who was then Manhattan District
Attorney, to invest in Madoff’s firm if he had thought it was a
fraud, the Mets owners argued.  Picard asked Rakoff to bar the testimony of Koufax and
Morgenthau, claiming their testimony is intended to improperly
influence the jury in favor of the defendants.  Picard sued Wilpon and Katz in 2010, along with dozens of
family members, trusts and related businesses, trying to get $1
billion in profits and principal they withdrew from their Madoff
accounts. In a series of rulings, Rakoff has limited the amount
Picard may claim.  Earlier this week, the judge dismissed 32 of the
defendants, including Brooklyn Baseball Company LLC, Charles 15
Associates and Sterling American Property III LP, saying they
weren’t affected by the trustee’s remaining claims against the
Mets owners.  Fictitious Profit  Rakoff said he will decide separately how much of the $83
million must be given up, and by whom. The sum represents
fictitious profit from the Ponzi scheme in the two years before
it collapsed. To take it back, Picard has said he only has to
prove that Madoff was running a fraud.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, and is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina .  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net 
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  