-- European REITs May Become Takeover Targets on Low Valuations
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-03-16T15:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/european-reits-may-become-takeover-targets-on-low-valuations.html
European real estate investment
trusts have become likely takeover targets after share prices
failed to keep pace with asset values, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said.  Companies that may attract bids include the U.K.’s
 Hammerson Plc (HMSO) ,  Big Yellow Group Plc (BYG) ,  Helical Bar Plc (HLCL) , Metric
Property Investments Plc and Workspace Group Plc and Amsterdam-
based  Eurocommercial Properties NV (ECMPA) , analyst Harm Meijer said in
a note to investors. REITs in  Europe  are trading at an average
discount to their net asset values of 29 percent, he said.  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the biggest U.S. mall owner,
this month agreed to buy 28.7 percent of its European shopping-
center operator Klepierre SA for about 1.52 billion euros ($2
billion), giving it the largest stake. British Land Co. and  Land
Securities Group Plc (LAND)  should consider becoming buyers because
their  capital costs  are below the industry’s average and prices
are low, according to Meijer.  “The whole European sector looks vulnerable” he said. The
European REIT market is now in a “shape up or ship out” mood
and failure by management to focus and improve will result in
“horrendous” shareholder returns or buyouts, Meijer said by
telephone.  The value of European REITs may rise 14 percent within the
next 12 months, and the U.K. should perform best at 16.5
percent, according to Meijer. The U.K.’s FTSE 350 Real Estate
Investment Trust Index has risen 7.8 percent since Simon’s
purchase of the  Klepierre (LI)  stake.  ‘Superior Returns’  Hammerson’s discount to net asset value should narrow after
the company sells its office portfolio, JPMorgan said in the
note. The developer decided to focus on retail assets because
they expect “superior returns” compared with office buildings,
Chief Executive Officer David Atkins said in a Feb. 24
presentation to analysts.  Hammerson typically trades at a 23 percent discount to net
asset value compared with a 13.6 percent discount at retail
specialist  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc. (CSCG) , Sue Munden, a
real estate analyst at Seymour Pierce Ltd., said by telephone.  “The market values them differently,” Munden said. She
has a reduce rating on Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc,
meaning she expects its absolute return to be down 5 percent to
10 percent over the next 12 months. She doesn’t have a rating on
Hammerson shares.  Hammerson rose as much as 2.3 percent today, the most since
March 8 when Simon announced the Klepierre deal. The shares were
up 1.2 percent as of 3:20 p.m. The FTSE 350 REITs Index was up
1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 