-- Europe Stocks Post Weekly Gain on Global Economic Outlook
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/europe-stocks-post-weekly-gain-on-global-economic-outlook.html
European stocks  posted their
biggest weekly rally since early February as reports from the
U.S. to Germany indicated growth is gaining pace and the  Federal
Reserve  raised its assessment of the world’s biggest economy.  Shares of  insurance (SXIP)  companies and banks led the advance,
with  Aegon NV (AGN)  and Credit Suisse Group AG jumping at least 11
percent each.  Pirelli & C. SpA (PC) ,  Europe ’s third-largest
tiremaker, soared 15 percent as profit beat analysts’ estimates.  The Stoxx 600 Europe Index climbed 2.6 percent to 272.40
during the week. The measure has rallied 11 percent this year on
optimism that the euro area will contain the sovereign-debt
crisis and as U.S. economic reports beat forecasts.  “The  U.S. economy  is a very, very strong support for the
market,” said Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  who helps oversee
$7.5 billion at Notz Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “The data is
confirming that the economy really is rebounding, and more
rapidly than expected. We’ve turned the page.”  The mean daily volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx
600 this week was 8.6 percent higher than the average in the
last 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of option prices on the
Euro Stoxx 50 index, slid 4.3 percent to 18.52 on March 16, its
lowest level since April.  Gathering Strength  Strains in global financial markets have eased and the U.S.
labor market is gathering strength, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said on March 13. At the same time, the unemployment
rate is “elevated” and “significant downside risks” remain,
it said. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is sticking to
his plan to the keep benchmark interest rate close to zero
through at least 2014.  In Germany, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research
in Mannheim said on March 13 its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which seeks to predict economic developments six
months in advance, rose to 22.3 from 5.4 in February. That was
the fourth straight increase.  The number of Americans applying for jobless benefits fell
by 14,000 to 351,000 in the week ended March 10, U.S. Labor
Department figures showed on March 15. That matched a four-year
low, first reached a month earlier.  National benchmark indexes rose in all of Europe’s 18
western markets except Portugal. France’s CAC 40 Index jumped
3.1 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index added 1.3 percent, while
 Germany ’s DAX Index rallied 4 percent.  New York, Philadelphia  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in March at
the fastest pace since June 2010, while Philadelphia factory
output grew the most in almost a year, according to reports on
March 15.  Retail sales in the U.S. rose in February by the most in
five months, a report on March 13 showed, reflecting broad-based
gains that indicate the world’s largest economy is picking up.
The 1.1 percent advance matched the median forecast of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a 0.6 percent
increase in January that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed in Washington.  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly dropped in
March, a sign rising fuel costs may be starting to weigh on the
economic outlook, a report showed on March 16. American
industrial production was little changed in February, another
release on the same day showed.  Greek Rescue  Finance ministers from the 17 nations that use the euro
approved the 130 billion-euro second bailout package for  Greece ,
at their meeting in Brussels on March 12. The agreement capped
months of grueling negotiations between Greece, the IMF and
euro-area authorities.  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO) , a Greek phone
company, surged 15 percent for the largest increase in the
benchmark ASE index, which has gained 12 percent so far this
year.  Insurance (SXIP)  shares rallied 7 percent, for the biggest gain
among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 as U.S. Treasury
yields rose, highlighting reinvestment opportunities. The yield
on the 2 percent note has risen 28 basis points this week, the
most since July. Aegon, the Dutch owner of U.S. insurer
Transamerica Corp., jumped 15 percent.  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-
largest insurer, soared 10 percent.  Banks posted the second-largest increase, climbing 5.3
percent and tracking gains in U.S. bank shares. The Fed on March
13 said 15 of the nation’s largest 19 banks could maintain
adequate capital levels even in a recession scenario.  Credit Suisse (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, increased
11 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest, gained 9.8
percent.  Pirelli, Aixtron  Pirelli surged 15 percent. The company on March 12 posted
2011 profit of 451.6 million euros, exceeding the 314.3 million-
euro analyst estimate, and increased its dividend to 27 euro
cents.  Aixtron SE, which manufactures equipment for the
semiconductor industry, soared 19 percent. The stock was raised
to  buy  from hold at Deutsche Bank AG on March 15. The analysts
cited “early indications of a recovery in the LED industry
demand.”  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the world’s biggest salmon farmer,
jumped 13 percent after Nordea Markets advised investors to stop
selling the stock because fish prices are higher than expected.
Nordea on March 13 raised its recommendation on the stock to
hold from sell, and RS Platou Markets lifted its recommendation
on the shares to buy from neutral the next day.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the Argos chain owner, advanced 14
percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended buying the shares in a
note to investors on March 14 as U.K. shoppers return to stores
in a “more stable” economy.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) , a miner of the precious metal in
Africa, sank 9.8 percent as the price of gold dropped 3.4
percent this week in  London .  Davide Campari-Milano SpA (CPR)  tumbled 7.8 percent. The maker of
Wild Turkey bourbon on March 12 reported full-year net income of
159.2 million euros, missing the average analyst estimate of
172.3 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 