-- Euro-Region Exports Increased in January, Bolstering Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-03-16T10:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/euro-region-exports-increased-in-january-bolstering-economy.html
European exports rose for a third
month in January, adding to signs the region’s economy is
regaining strength after shrinking in the fourth quarter.  Exports from the euro-area advanced a seasonally adjusted
1.3 percent from December, when they increased 0.9 percent, the
European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
Imports rose 2.4 percent from the previous month, when they
slipped 0.4 percent. The  trade surplus  narrowed to 5.9 billion
euros ($7.7 billion) from 7.4 billion euros.  European companies are relying on global export demand to
bolster sales as governments across the region cut spending and
raise taxes to plug budget gaps, eroding  consumer spending .
While gross domestic product dropped 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, the economy has since shown some signs of stabilization
with economic confidence rising a second month in February and
German investor sentiment surging in March.  “We expect euro-zone gross domestic product to contract
further in the first quarter of 2012 and very possibly in the
second quarter as well,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London  in an e-mailed note
before today’s release. “Companies are under serious pressure
to keep their labor forces as tight as possible to contain their
costs in the face of current weakened demand.”  Global Economy  The euro pared losses after the data were released, trading
at $1.3059 at 11:06 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.2 percent.  The  European Central Bank ’s latest forecasts show that the
euro-region economy may shrink 0.1 percent this year before
expanding 1.1 percent in 2013. Exports may increase 2.6 percent
and 4.4 percent this year and next, it projected.  The euro’s 6 percent decline against the dollar over the
past year has helped encourage exports as the global economy
regains strength. The  U.S. economy , the world’s largest, will
strengthen through 2012, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Claims for jobless benefits dropped last week to
match a four-year low and U.S. consumer confidence rose to the
highest since 2008.  Germany’s export-driven economy has helped soften the
region’s economic slowdown. German GDP may rise 0.6 percent this
year, compared with contractions in Italy, Belgium,  Greece  and
Spain, according to the European Commission.  Hugo Boss AG (BOS) , the German luxury clothing maker controlled
by buyout firm Permira Advisers, on March 14 forecast operating
profit will rise more than 10 percent this year, helped by Asian
demand, with Chief Executive Officer Claus-Dietrich Lahrs
calling the first 2 1/2 months of 2012 “satisfactory.”  Exports to U.S.  “Our business is buzzing,” Bernd Scheifele, chief
executive officer of  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-
largest cement maker, said on March 15. “Germany won’t see a
recession this year.”  Exports to the U.S. rose a non-seasonally adjusted 8
percent in 2011 from a year earlier, while shipments to the
U.K., the euro area’s largest market, increased 9 percent,
today’s report showed. Exports to  China  and  Russia  surged 21
percent and 25 percent, respectively, and Japan shipments
climbed 13 percent in that period. Detailed trade data are
published with a one-month lag.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  