-- Mexico to Limit Brazil Vehicle Exports Under Three-Year Pact
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o
-- 2012-03-16T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/mexico-to-limit-brazil-vehicle-exports-under-three-year-pact.html
Mexico  agreed to quotas on its
vehicle sales to Brazil over the next three years, a move that
will reverse a surge in Mexican auto exports to  Latin America ’s
largest economy.  Mexican car exports will be capped at $1.45 billion over
the year starting March 19 and will be allowed to rise to $1.64
billion by the third year of the agreement, Mexican Economy
Minister Bruno Ferrari said yesterday during an event in Mexico
City. All limits will be removed after the third year, he said.  “We achieved an agreement that is incremental, and an
agreement that is temporary,” Ferrari said. “In other words, I
think it’s something very beneficial for the industry.”  Brazil  in February sought to revise a deal on car and truck
shipments after the nation’s deficit with Mexico in auto exports
tripled last year to $1.55 billion, according to Brazilian
government data. The South American nation is working to
strengthen an industrial sector hurt by a stronger real, which
has climbed 29 percent against the dollar since the start of
2009, while the  Mexican peso  has appreciated 8 percent against
the dollar during the same period.  Mexican cars would have faced tariffs of as much as 65
percent to enter Brazil if no agreement was reached, Ferrari
said. Without the agreement “there would be no exports of
Mexican vehicles to Brazil,” he said.  Brazil’s market has grown in importance for auto exporters,
with 5.6 percent of Mexico’s vehicles sold abroad going to the
South American nation in 2011, compared with 1.5 percent in
2007, according to information on the Economy Ministry  website .
The percentage of total vehicles going to the U.S. declined to
64.4 percent from 74.3 percent over the same period.  Mexican car exports to Brazil almost doubled in 2011 to
147,000 units compared to 78,000 in 2010, said Eduardo Solis,
president of the Mexican Automotive Industry Association, or
AMIA, at the same event yesterday.  Rising Imbalance  Mexico, Latin America’s second-largest economy, exported
“about $2 billion” of vehicles to Brazil last year, Deputy
Economy Minister Francisco de Rosenzweig said on the sidelines
of the same event yesterday. That’s 27.5 percent higher than the
quota established during the first year of the agreement.  The deal will also mandate that cars produced in both
countries use a certain percentage of “regional” parts. This
will be 35 percent in the first year and 40 percent by the fifth
year.  Mexico registered a  trade surplus  with Brazil last year for
the first time since a prior auto trade agreement known as ACE
55 went into effect in 2003, Mexico’s Economy Ministry said in a
Feb. 28 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net 
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  