-- Mexico Likely to Keep Rate Steady as Inflation Slows Amid Growth
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-03-16T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/mexico-likely-to-keep-rate-steady-as-inflation-slows-amid-growth.html
Mexico’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for the 25th
consecutive meeting today after inflation slowed to within the
target range and economic growth picked up.  The bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, will
leave the overnight lending rate at a record low of 4.5 percent,
according to all 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The decision
will be announced at 9 a.m. local time.  The effect of a drought in the north of the country has 
eased in the past few months, pushing down food costs and 
allowing annual inflation to slow in February for the first time 
in five months to 3.87 percent. While inflation moderates, 
economic growth has proved more resilient than expected by the 
central bank earlier this year, with industrial production rising 
4.2 percent in January, the fastest pace in eight months.  “Growth is doing very well, inflation is contained,” said
Delia Paredes, chief economist at Grupo Financiero Banorte, in
 Mexico  City. “The central bank will probably extend its
pause.”  Banco de Mexico, as the central bank is known, will
probably keep rates unchanged beyond November, when Banorte had
previously forecast a rate increase, Paredes said. Banorte
hasn’t formally changed its forecast, she said.  Consumer prices last month rose 0.20 percent after a 0.71
percent increase in January, which pushed the annual inflation
rate to 4.05 percent, the fastest pace since 2010 and above
policy makers’ 2 percent to 4 percent target range for the first
time in 13 months.  ‘Balanced Growth’  “There’s no risk of inflation creeping beyond the 4
percent maximum that the central bank” set, Finance Minister
Jose Antonio Meade said March 8 in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  Even as  Europe ’s debt crisis has damped global demand,
growth in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy has shown signs
of rebounding in 2012.  Car exports surged 24.9 percent in February from the year
earlier and formal  job creation  in the same period reached about
130,000, the highest monthly rate in five years, President
Felipe Calderon said March 14.  The economy is experiencing “balanced growth,” Meade said
March 13, the day January’s industrial output figure beat all 16
analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey. “Elements in the
domestic environment and the external environment have
improved.”  Meade said in the March 8 interview that exports will
probably climb from last year’s record high and that growth
could have “positive surprises.”  U.S., Rate Stability  Carstens said Feb. 23 that gross domestic product may climb
close to 4 percent this year if U.S. data keeps improving. The
bank has forecast economic growth of 3 percent to 4 percent,
compared with 3.9 percent in 2011.  Claims for jobless benefits in the U.S. dropped last week
to match the lowest level in four years, Labor Department
figures showed yesterday. A recovery in the world’s biggest
economy will help fuel stronger growth in Mexico, which
sends 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  Since  Banco de Mexico  cut its overnight rate to 4.5 percent
on July 17, 2009,  Brazil ’s central bank has changed its Selic
rate fourteen times, including rate reductions at its last five
meetings.  In the minutes of their March 6-7 meeting at which they cut
the benchmark rate by 75 basis points to 9.75 percent, Brazilian
policy makers signaled that they will lower borrowing costs to 9
percent.  Elsewhere in Latin America,  Chile  kept its overnight rate
at 5 percent for the second consecutive month yesterday while
Peru has kept its rate at 4.25 percent for 10 straight months.
Banco de la Republica  Colombia  has raised borrowing costs twice
in 2012.  Targeting  Banco de Mexico on Jan. 20 kept its benchmark interest rate
at 4.5 percent, saying “the current monetary policy posture is
conducive to reaching the permanent inflation target,”
according to the meeting’s minutes published Feb. 3.  The peso has appreciated 10 percent this year, the best
performance among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg worldwide. In trading yesterday, the peso rose 0.5
percent to 12.6575 per dollar from 12.7265 on March 14.  The yield on Mexico’s peso-denominated debt due in 2024
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.52
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose
0.22 centavo to 130.05 centavos per peso.  Following today’s decision, the central bank will next meet
to decide on rates April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 