-- Mexican Shorter-Term Peso Bonds Decline After Rate Decision
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-03-16T21:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/mexican-shorter-term-peso-bonds-decline-after-rate-decision.html
Shorter-term Mexican peso bonds
slumped, pushing yields to a two-week high, after policy makers
left the country’s benchmark interest rate unchanged and said
the outlook for the economy has improved.  The yield on fixed-rate peso bonds due in December 2013
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.81 percent
at 3 p.m. in  Mexico  City, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield at close was the highest since March 5. The
price fell 0.03 centavo to 105.34 centavos per peso.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 12.6692 per  U.S. dollar , from
12.6575 yesterday. The currency dropped 0.2 percent this week,
paring its gain this year to 10 percent.  Banco de Mexico policy makers left the country’s key rate
unchanged at 4.5 percent today and said the “balance of risks
for economic growth has improved” as the outlook for the U.S.,
which buys 80 percent of Mexican exports, has gotten better. The
bank has left the rate unchanged since July 2009.  “The market readily accepts that the bias to the downside
where you could see a rate-cutting exercise is probably no
longer there,”  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-
income research at IdeaGlobal, said by phone from  New York .
“The next shift is probably in the other direction.”  Mexican industrial production rose 4.2 percent in January
from a year earlier, higher than all 16 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg, the national statistics agency said
earlier this week. Retail sales in the U.S. increased in
February by the most in five months, according to the Commerce
Department.  “Not only is the export side very dynamic, but there’s
also a domestic component there that could be a little stronger
than expected,” Alvarez said.  Longer-Term Bonds  Mexico’s longer-term peso bonds posted the biggest slump in
five weeks as a strengthening U.S. economy spurred a sell-off in
Treasuries, the benchmark for borrowing costs in the Latin
American country.  The yield on peso-denominated debt due in 2024 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.53 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Today’s move pushed the
weekly advance to 15 basis points, the most since the period
ended Feb. 10. The price on the securities, known as Mbonos,
fell 0.10 centavo to 129.95 centavos per peso today.  The bonds trade “as a quasi-fixed premium” over U.S.
Treasury spreads because of the high-correlation between the
countries’ economies, according to Siobhan Morden, head of Latin
America strategy at Jefferies & Co. The  yield  on 10-year U.S.
notes traded at the highest since October after the  Federal
Reserve  this week raised its assessment of the economy and said
strains in global financial markets have eased.  “For its obvious economic integration with the U.S., the
two markets trade very similarly,” Morden said by phone from
New York.  The 10-year yield on the U.S. securities rose 27 basis
points this week to 2.3 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  