-- FDA Staff Questions Benefits of Glaxo, Merck Cancer Drugs
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-16T20:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/fda-says-glaxo-merck-cancer-drugs-may-not-show-enough-benefit.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)  and  Merck &
Co. (MRK)  and  Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA) ’s drugs for a rare, often
deadly form of cancer may not offer enough benefits to be worth
risks including heart and kidney ailments, U.S. regulators said.  While Votrient from London-based Glaxo kept sarcoma from
spreading in soft tissue, it didn’t prolong patients’ lives,
 Food and Drug Administration  staff wrote in a  report  today.
Ridaforolimus, developed by Merck and Ariad, didn’t keep
patients alive longer or stop progression of the disease,
according to an FDA  report .  Votrient and the Merck-Ariad drug, which might be called
Taltorvic if approved, would be the first targeted treatments
for a cancer that invades soft tissue such as muscle, tendons
and fat outside the stomach and intestines. Chemotherapy is now
used for these tumors.  “If patients come to the oncologist with cancer, they want
to be cured,” said Gary Schwartz, chief of melanoma and sarcoma
service at the  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in  New
York , in a telephone interview. “But with sarcoma, they aren’t
cured, they want to live longer.”  The median survival of patients diagnosed with soft-tissue
sarcoma that is spreading is about a year, according to the FDA
documents.  Advisers to FDA are scheduled to meet March 20 to review
the drugs. The agency is set to decide on Glaxo’s drug by May 6
and Merck’s medicine by June 5.  Ariad fell less than 1 percent to $15.41 at the close of
New York trading. Merck declined less than 1 percent to $38.03.
Glaxo also dropped less than 1 percent to 1,423.5 pence in
 London .  Sarcoma Varieties  About 10,000 cases of soft-tissue sarcoma are diagnosed
each year, Richard Riedel, an oncologist and assistant professor
at the Duke University School of Medicine in Durham,  North
Carolina , said in a telephone interview.  There are about 50 types of soft-tissue sarcoma, which are
different from carcinomas that arise from cells, according to
the  American Cancer Society . Most sarcomas are in the arms and
legs or internal organs, according to the  National Cancer
Institute .  Sarcoma tumors also can develop in bone tissue. About 2,500
new cases are diagnosed a year, according to the University of
 California ,  San Francisco . Ridaforolimus, the experimental drug
from  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck and Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Ariad, also would treat bone sarcoma.  Chemotherapy is effective at shrinking the tumor in 20
percent to 25 percent of patients, said  Scott Okuno , an
oncologist at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota . Once
tumors have spread, a minority of patients are cured, he said in
a telephone interview.  ‘Most Effective Drugs’  “These are the most-effective drugs we have,” Okuno said.
“The sarcoma community is always looking for newer agents that
have efficacy.”  In rare cases, tumors develop in the stomach and small
intestine. Two existing drugs are approved for these
gastrointestinal sarcomas:  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Sutent and  Novartis
AG (NOVN) ’s Gleevec.  While Glaxo’s Votrient increased progression-free survival,
it didn’t have a significant effect on overall survival,
according to FDA staff. The difference between Merck and Ariad’s
drug and placebo at increasing progression-free survival is
small, the FDA said. The agency asked the panel to weigh whether
either drug’s benefits outweigh the risks.  Longer Than Placebo  Glaxo’s Votrient, chemically known as pazopanib, enabled
patients to live a median 4.6 months, or 3.1 months longer than
placebo, while the disease stopped advancing, according to a
 statement  from the London-based company. The final-phase trial
studied 369 patients with certain metastatic soft tissue
sarcomas that didn’t respond to chemotherapy.  The trial excluded patients with gastrointestinal tumors.
The FDA approved Votrient in 2009 to treat advanced renal cell
carcinoma.  There’s “quite a bit of excitement” about expanding
approval for Votrient, said Riedel, who has done consulting work
for Merck. It’s an oral medication that blocks proteins that
send growth signals to cancer cells, he said.  Ridaforolimus Effect  Patients stayed alive and free of disease progression on
Merck and Ariad’s ridaforolimus for a median 17.7 weeks, or 3.1
weeks longer than placebo, according to a  statement  from the
company. The final-phase trial tested 711 patients, 347 on the
compound, with soft-tissue sarcoma that spread to other areas of
the body or bone sarcomas that previously responded favorably to
chemotherapy.  Merck interprets the data differently. Ridaforolimus
prolonged life without disease progression 6 weeks longer than
placebo, Eric Rubin, vice president and therapeutic area head of
oncology clinical trial development at Merck, plans to tell the
advisory panel.  “We do think that’s clinically meaningful,” he said.  Since patients can’t stay on chemotherapy indefinitely
because of harsh side effects, ridaforolimus would be used to
delay progression of the disease after the treatment, Rubin said
in a telephone interview. The medication inhibits a pathway
activated in sarcoma, he said.  Merck is responsible for the development and worldwide
commercialization of ridaforolimus in oncology, while Ariad has
co-promotion rights in the U.S., Pamela Eisele, a Merck
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  