-- Fed’s Evans Calls for More Stimulus Even as Economy Strengthens
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-03-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/fed-s-evans-calls-for-more-stimulus-even-as-economy-strengthens.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Chicago
President Charles Evans said the central bank should step up
record monetary stimulus even as the economy shows signs of
gaining traction.  “ Monetary policy  can and should take additional steps to
facilitate a more robust economic expansion,” Evans said in the
text of remarks today in Frankfurt. “Even the more optimistic
forecasts see output increasing only moderately above its
potential growth rates.”  Evans, one of the Fed’s most outspoken advocates for more
easing, reiterated his view that the central bank should commit
to hold borrowing costs low until the  unemployment rate  falls
below 7 percent. The Federal Open Market Committee kept policy
unchanged this week, noting an improved job market while
maintaining that “significant downside risks” remain.  Policy makers must not “buy too quickly” into the notion
that inflation expectations may soon surge or “we’ll end up
following overly restrictive policies that could unnecessarily
risk condemning the  U.S. economy  to a lost decade -- or even
more,” Evans said in a speech at the International Research
Forum on Monetary Policy. He doesn’t vote on the FOMC this year.  The FOMC raised its assessment of the economy in its March
13 meeting, saying the unemployment rate has “declined notably
in recent months” and the U.S. will see “moderate economic
growth.” The Committee repeated that economic conditions will
probably require the bank to maintain near-zero rates through at
least late 2014.  Jobless Benefits  Data released since the Fed meeting mostly point to a
continued expansion in the world’s largest economy, with Labor
Department figures yesterday showing  claims for jobless benefits 
dropped last week to match a four-week low in the period ended
March 10.  The brightening outlook and a more optimistic Fed have
fueled speculation that the central bank may not begin another
round of asset purchases, spurring the biggest weekly drop in
eight months in Treasury 10-year notes. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,404.89 at 2:30 p.m. in  New York .
The index closed yesterday above 1,400 for the first time since
2008.  Still, the  jobless rate  that at 8.3 percent in February,
far from the range of 5.2 percent to 6 percent that Fed
officials say is consistent with maximum employment. Evans said
policy makers should tie their commitment to keeping low rates
until either the unemployment rate falls below 7 percent or the
medium-term outlook for inflation breaches 3 percent.  “As an accountable central bank in a democratic society,
the Federal Reserve has an obligation to clearly articulate what
it is trying to achieve with monetary policy,” he said. “The
economic thresholds I am proposing put a higher and more
predictable standard on the removal of accommodation.”  Evans, who was the only member of the FOMC to dissent in
favor of more stimulus in 2011, has led the Chicago Fed since
September 2007. The district bank head represents a region that
includes  Iowa  and most of Illinois,  Indiana ,  Michigan  and
 Wisconsin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  