-- France Bans Growing of Genetically Modified Monsanto Corn
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-16T19:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/france-bans-cultivation-of-genetically-modified-monsanto-corn.html
France will temporarily ban the
growing of  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s genetically modified corn MON810 ahead
of guidance by European regulators on the crop’s safety, the
agriculture and environment ministries said.  The ban will come into force on March 18 after the European
Commission, the European Union’s regulatory arm, told France it
didn’t plan immediate measures against the Monsanto corn, the
ministries wrote in a joint e-mailed statement today.  France last month asked the EU to suspend approval for
MON810, citing recent scientific studies that show growing the
corn variety poses “important risks” to the environment. The
commission told France it has consulted the European Food Safety
Authority and doesn’t plan any urgent measure ahead of the
opinion, the ministries wrote.  “Because of the proximity of the planting period, the
 Agriculture Ministry  has decided today to take a precautionary
measure that means to temporarily prohibit the cultivation of
the corn MON810 on the national territory in order to protect
the environment,” according to the statement.  France is the European Union’s largest corn grower, data
from the bloc show. Last year, French farmers planted corn on
1.55 million hectares (3.8 million acres), producing 15.5
million metric tons of the grain, according to crop office
FranceAgriMer.  Monsanto’s MON810 is a so-called Bt corn that includes a
genetic modification that makes the plant toxic to insect pests
including the European corn borer.  “The new ban is not justified by scientific evidence,”
John Combest, a spokesman for Monsanto, said in a e-mail today.
The company does not market MON810 in  France  because “we seek
planting where we have broad farmer and government support,”
Combest said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  