-- Gasco Energy’s Utah Plan Draws Natural-Gas Wells Opponents
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-03-16T21:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/gasco-energy-s-drilling-plan-draws-natural-gas-opponents-in-utah.html
Gasco Energy Inc. (GSX) ’s plan to drill
natural-gas wells on federal land in  Utah  drew opposition from
environmental groups that said the work may cause air pollution
and hurt tourism in the Desolation Canyon area.  Gasco’s proposal for more than 1,000 wells in Utah’s Uintah
and Duchesne counties received environmental clearance today
from the Interior Department in a final  environmental impact
statement . The agency gave tentative approval to drill 1,298
wells over 15 years, and will issue a final decision after a 30
day waiting period.  The agency, led by Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar , released
the statement as the U.S. energy industry and Republicans in
Congress say the administration is limiting oil and natural-gas
production on federal lands while gasoline prices are soaring.  “It’s bewildering that Secretary Salazar -- who has been
such a strong advocate of conserving America’s great outdoors --
- would allow turning Desolation Canyon into an industrial
wasteland,” said Sharon Buccino, director of Land and Wildlife
program at the New York-based Natural Resources Defense Council.
“Desolation Canyon has some of the most stunning wilderness
vistas found anywhere.”  The canyon, designated a National Historic Landmark by the
U.S. in 1968, is a popular recreational area along the Green
River southwest of  Salt Lake City .  ‘Safely, Responsibly’  “Today’s announcement represents an important step in our
efforts to expand domestic energy production here in Utah and
across the country,” said Juan Palma, the Utah state director
for the Bureau of Land Management.  The agency, a unit of the Interior department, would ensure
the development “happens safely and responsibly with a minimal
surface footprint,” he said.  A phone call to the company seeking comment on the decision
wasn’t returned.  Gasco, based in Englewood,  Colorado , was unchanged at 29
cents in NYSE Amex trading today, and touched 32 cents during
the day.  Gasco had asked for permission to drill 1,491 wells over 15
years, according to the filing posted in the Federal Register.  The Environmental Protection Agency said it supports the
Interior Department’s decision.  “We worked closely together to address environmental and
public-health impacts and believe the final environmental impact
statement addresses them well,” the EPA said in an e-mail.
“The Gasco Project is a good example of a domestic energy
development project that will go forward with vital safeguards
to control pollution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  