-- Gasoline Gains as Dollar Retreats After Consumer Price Report
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-03-16T20:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/gasoline-gains-as-dollar-retreats-after-consumer-price-report.html
Gasoline advanced to a 10-month
high on speculation fuel demand will improve along with the  U.S.
economy  as the dollar retreated after a report on February
consumer prices.  Futures rose as a Labor Department report showed that the
consumer prices,  excluding  volatile food and energy costs,
climbed 1 percent, less than projected. The modest inflation
lessened concern the  Federal Reserve  would raise U.S. interest
rates. The dollar sank 0.7 percent against the euro at 3:25 p.m.
in New York, reducing the investment appeal of commodities.  “The Fed will have more wiggle room to keep rates low
longer,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest
in  Chicago . “The dollar came back down a bit and the euro
spiked up a little bit.”  Gasoline for April delivery rose 6.84 cents, or 2.1
percent, to settle at $3.3569 a gallon on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Futures gained 0.7 percent this week and
have surged 25 percent this year, the best performer in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities.  The consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent, matching the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after
increasing 0.2 percent the prior month, the Labor Department
reported today.  The biggest jump in gasoline in more than a year accounted
for about 80 percent of the increase in consumer prices last
month, according to the report. Fed policy makers say the
advance in fuel costs will be temporary, and most see little
risk inflation will flare out of control as unemployment exceeds
8 percent.  SPR Discussion  Gasoline slid 1.7 percent yesterday on concern that higher
pump prices would reduce demand and after reports that President
 Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron discussed
using U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserves to stem price increases.  Obama and Cameron discussed energy costs on March 14
without making a decision on using strategic stockpiles, said
 Jay Carney , the White House press secretary.  “Today, there’s the disappointment that the U.S. and the
U.K. said imminent release of the SPR is not happening,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoline  demand  over the four weeks ended March 9 dropped
7.2 percent from a year earlier, the Energy Department reported
March 14.  Heating oil for April delivery advanced 5.94 cents, or 1.8
percent, to settle at $3.2819 a gallon. Prices gained 0.6
percent this week and have risen 12 percent this year.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 1
cent to $3.831 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest motoring group. Prices are up 17 percent this
year and are 7.8 percent higher than a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  