-- Geithner Says No Quick Fix to Gas Prices in an ‘Uncertain World’
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-03-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/geithner-says-no-quick-fix-to-gas-prices-in-an-uncertain-world-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said there’s no easy way to reduce  gasoline  prices
because the cost of oil is influenced by a “dangerous and
uncertain world.”  Geithner, in a speech last night to the  Economic Club of
New York , also said he is encouraged by prospects for the  U.S.
economy  even if “ unemployment  is very high, and is improving
more gradually than any of us would like.”  “We still face a dangerous and uncertain world, as the
rise in oil prices demonstrates,” Geithner said. “Americans
are feeling the effects of higher gas prices. There is no quick
and easy fix to this problem, but it reinforces the need for
more progress to develop additional sources of energy of all
forms.”  Geithner is joining the administration’s response to
Republican critics who blame President  Barack Obama  for high
energy costs. Obama has been focusing on energy in public
appearances and speeches as rising gasoline prices threaten to
impede the recovery.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  promised in a Feb. 22
Republican debate that as president he would pursue an energy
program including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge so “every American can look forward to $2.50 per gallon
gasoline.” Fellow candidate  Mitt Romney  said Obama “has tried
to slow the growth of oil and gas production in this country,
and coal production,” in a March 1 speech in Fargo,  North
Dakota .  $3.82 a Gallon  The national average retail price of unleaded regular
gasoline in the U.S. climbed to $3.82 a gallon on March 14, the
highest in 10 months, according to a daily survey by the
American Automobile Association. Oil in  New York  advanced above
$110 a barrel on March 1 for the first time since May as
escalating tension between  Iran  and the U.S. and Europe
threatened supplies.  So far, U.S. consumer confidence and spending have
withstood the impact of higher gasoline prices. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index rose to a four-year high in the week
ended March 11, a report yesterday showed. Retail sales advanced
1.1 percent in February, the most in five months, after a 0.6
percent rise in January that was larger than previously
estimated.  Geithner said the U.S. faces “additional challenges, with
Europe confronting a severe and protracted crisis and the world
engaged in a struggle with Iran, which is adding to upward
pressure on  oil prices .”  Obama, Cameron  The price of oil in New York fell as much as 1.6 percent
yesterday after Reuters reported that Obama and U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  agreed to cooperate on a release from
stockpiles, including the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
Futures pared the decline after  Jay Carney , the White House
press secretary, said reports that the leaders reached any kind
of agreement are “inaccurate.”  “While growth is gradually getting stronger, we still have
very high levels of unemployment, poverty and other damage left
over from the crisis,” Geithner said.  Initial claims for jobless benefits dropped last week to
match a four-year low. Job growth in February capped the best
six months since 2006, and the  unemployment rate  stayed at 8.3
percent, a three-year low.  U.S. stocks rose yesterday, sending the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index above 1,400 for the first time since 2008.  On  Europe ’s debt crisis, Geithner said that “if you look
back to where the world was in October, the Europeans are making
some progress.”  ‘Acute’ Tensions  “The combined effects of those actions have substantially
calmed the really acute financial tensions over the last 18
months, and that’s very important because what they’ve done is
make more convincing that they want to take the risk of
catastrophic outcome out of the market,” he said.  Geithner said the broader challenges the U.S. faces “are
more difficult in part because other nations -- China, Mexico
and  Brazil , for example -- are getting better at making market
economies grow and develop.”  “Their success, though it brings considerable economic
benefits to us, has put a lot of pressure on large parts of the
American workforce engaged in making things that other countries
are getting better at,” he said.  Geithner reiterated the Obama administration’s push to
revise the U.S. corporate tax system, which he called a
“complex and unfair mess of subsidies.”  “We can’t offer Americans the illusion of tax cuts that
pay for themselves,” Geithner said. “No responsible politician
can offer the nation fiscal sustainability through trillions in
unpaid-for tax cuts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  