-- George Clooney Arrested at Sudan Protest in Washington
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/george-clooney-arrested-at-sudan-protest-in-washington-1-.html
George Clooney , the Academy Award-
winning movie actor, was arrested outside the Sudanese Embassy
in Washington while protesting attacks by the African nation’s
government on its southern regions and blocking of humanitarian
aid.  Clooney, 50, was taken into custody yesterday and charged
with crossing a police line, a misdemeanor, according to George
Ogilvie, a Secret Service spokesman. He was taken to a police
station for processing, Ogilvie said.  He paid a $100 penalty and was released, according to
Gwendolyn Crump, a police spokeswoman.  Sixteen others arrested in the group that was protesting
included NAACP President Benjamin Jealous, Martin Luther King III and Democratic U.S. representatives Jim Moran and Jim McGovern, according to Ogilvie.  The Hollywood star testified March 14 before the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee claiming the Sudanese government was
killing its own people and blocking aid to the Nuba mountains
and the  Blue Nile  regions.  That evening, he was among the guests invited by President
 Barack Obama  to a state dinner honoring U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron .  Clooney, at the Senate hearing, described a visit this
month to southern  Sudan  where he witnessed hundreds of people
seeking to hide in caves from Sudanese bombings.  Senate Testimony  “The south has all of its oil and the north has the
pipelines and refineries,” he told senators. “For years, the
north has been taking the oil and keeping most of the profits,
buying bombs and rockets and using them on Darfur, the Blue
Nile, Abyei and the Nuba mountains.”  Clooney won the  Oscar  for best actor in a supporting role
in 2005 for his performance in “Syriana.” He has been
nominated once for directing, twice for screenwriting and three
times for best actor in a leading role, according to the motion
picture Academy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 