-- Bunds Extend Worst Week for 4 Months on U.S. Data as Crisis Ebbs
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-16T16:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/german-bund-yield-set-for-biggest-weekly-increase-since-november.html
German bunds fell, extending their
biggest weekly drop since November, amid a global selloff in
 government bonds  spurred by bets U.S. economic growth is
gathering pace and the European debt crisis is abating.  Two-year note yields climbed to a  three-month high  after
the head of  Europe ’s bailout fund Klaus Regling said efforts to
contain the region’s sovereign woes are working and he’s
planning three debt sales next week. Irish debt fell as the
nation’s Finance Minister said he expects to cut growth
forecasts for this year.  “The catalyst for the selloff in bunds has been U.S.-
led,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “We’re seeing
some undermining of the idea of low rates for a long time. The
market is beginning to change its mind, and that’s dragging
long-term rates higher across the board.”  The German 10-year yield rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 2.05 percent at 4:34 p.m.  London  time. It
earlier reached 2.07 percent, the highest since Dec. 13. The
yield has risen 26 basis points this week, the biggest increase
since the five-day period ending Nov. 25. The 2 percent bond due
January 2022 fell 0.7, or 7 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,318) face
amount, to 99.58.  Two-year yields climbed five basis points to 0.33 percent,
after reaching 0.36 percent, the most since Dec. 7.  Bund Market Volatility  Volatility in Germany’s debt was the highest in euro-area
markets today according to measures of 10-year bonds, two- and
10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps, followed by
 Finland .  Ten-year Treasuries fell for an eighth day as a report
showed the U.S. cost of living rose in February by the most in
10 months, adding to concern inflation may accelerate as the
economy strengthens. The consumer-price index climbed 0.4
percent in February after increasing 0.2 percent the prior
month, the Labor Department reported today.  “There’s still a drag on bunds from the U.S., where we’ve
seen some positive economic data,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in London.
“There’s a lack of bad news in the  euro zone , and that’s helped
sentiment.”  Bund yields may continue to rise toward 2.35 percent should
they break through a key support level, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch said, citing technical indicators.  Support Break  “German rates are threatening to break” through 2.05
percent,  MacNeil Curry , the bank’s New York-based head of
foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical strategy, wrote in
a note to clients. A sustained move above 2.05 percent could see
bunds rise “towards 2.35 percent in the sessions and weeks
ahead,” he wrote.  Support refers to a level on a chart where orders to buy
are grouped. The stronger the support, the more selling is
needed to breach it.  The yield on Irish bonds maturing in October 2020 rose
after Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said yesterday he expects
to cut the government’s 1.3 percent economic growth forecast for
this year when the government revises its figures next month.  Ireland will still meet its full-year budget deficit target
of 8.6 percent of gross domestic product, Noonan said in Paris
yesterday, according to Paul Bolger, a spokesman for the
ministry, who confirmed the comments by the minister.  The yield on Ireland’s 2020 securities advanced one basis
point to 6.86 percent.  European Rescue Fund  The European Financial Stability Facility may sell as much
as 1.5 billion euros in 20-year to 30-year bonds on March 19 and
3 billion euros or more in benchmark five-year notes on March
22, the chief executive officer of the euro-region’s 440
billion-euro rescue fund said today.  Euro-area finance ministers will decide this month on how
to handle the combined capacity of the EFSF and its successor
rescue fund, Regling said in comments to news agencies released
today. The ministers will meet on March 30 in Copenhagen.  Greece  plans to sell 1 billion euros of 91-day bills on
March 20, the Public Debt Management Agency in  Athens  said
today. The nation sold three-month bills on Feb. 14 at an
average yield of 4.61 percent.  Germany ’s 10-year break-even rate gained for a fourth day
even after the nation said today it plans to sell 2 billion
euros of a new index-linked bond maturing in April 2023 on March
21. The gauge of inflation expectations widened two basis points
to 1.74 percentage point.  Year-to-Date Loss  German government bonds made a loss of 0.8 percent this
year after returning 9.7 percent in 2011, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Treasuries fell 1.7 percent since Dec. 31,
the indexes show, while Irish debt has returned 10 percent.  The rate on 10-year bunds, Europe’s benchmark government
debt securities, climbed as high as 3.51 percent on April 11,
2011. The average in the past 10 years is 3.64 percent.  The average yield on 1,277 government debt securities in
Merrill Lynch’s Global Sovereign Broad Market Plus Index climbed
to 1.764 percent yesterday from 1.666 percent on March 1. The
yield was 2.249 percent a year ago.  “I’d expect to see some support for bunds with yields at
current levels,”  Credit Agricole ’s Chatwell said. Rates “may
slip below 2 percent again,” he said. “The caveat would be if
we see a violent selloff in Treasuries, and that takes the bund
yield higher no matter what support we have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  