-- Germany’s Schaeuble Declines to Rule Out Juncker Succession
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-03-16T10:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/germany-s-schaeuble-declines-to-rule-out-juncker-succession.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  declined to speculate on a report that he is a
candidate to succeed Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker as leader
of the group of euro-area finance ministers.  The Financial Times Deutschland newspaper reported today
that  Chancellor Angela Merkel  was pressing her European
counterparts for Schaeuble to succeed Juncker as so-called
eurogroup head, without saying where it got the information.  Asked whether he would be the next eurogroup chief,
Schaeuble said that Juncker has announced he doesn’t want to
continue and “I haven’t heard any more about this.” The next
eurogroup chairman will be chosen “from the circle of finance
ministers,” he said.  European Union finance ministers are due to meet in
Copenhagen on March 30-31 with decisions looming on four top
jobs at institutions including the  European Central Bank  and the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  “We have a few other duties at the moment than to deal
with personnel speculation that relates to the future,”
Schaeuble told reporters in Berlin. “Maybe that’s interesting
for the media, but we have a few other things to do.”  Finland’s Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  has said he’s not
seeking to succeed Juncker, whose term as chairman of the group
of euro-region finance ministers ends this summer. Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , who is also finance minister, suggested
this week that he’s too busy to take on an additional job.  Juncker, who is Luxembourg’s prime minister, said March 12
that Yves Mersch, the country’s central bank governor, has a
“very good” chance of replacing Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo on
the ECB’s Executive Board from June 1.  The four-year term of  Germany ’s  Thomas Mirow  as head of the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development ends in July,
while the euro region’s permanent backstop, the European
Stability Mechanism, needs a chief when it becomes operational
in July. Germany’s Klaus Regling already heads the temporary
rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  