-- Gleacher Delays Filing as Mortgage Unit Deemed in Default
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-03-16T15:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/gleacher-delays-filing-as-mortgage-unit-deemed-in-default.html
Gleacher & Co. delayed the filing
of its annual report after a mortgage-lending unit that the New
York-based securities firm has been building since 2010 was
deemed this month in default under agreements with its lenders.  The subsidiary, ClearPoint Funding Inc., was able to obtain
waivers from the three providers of its so-called warehouse
lines of credit as its parent provided additional guarantees on
some of its obligations, Gleacher said today in a  filing  with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Warehouse lines are used
to finance lenders’ new mortgages until they’re sold.  The default may reflect how smaller lenders are being
roiled by companies pulling back from roles as so-called
aggregators in the mortgage industry, even as competitors seek
to fill the gap. In the past six months, MetLife Inc. shuttered
almost its entire home-loan unit, Bank of America Corp. closed a
division that purchased mortgages from correspondents and Ally
Financial Inc. has said it’s reducing such buying.  “In recent months, ClearPoint has experienced liquidity
constraints” that “have resulted principally from the rapid
expansion of ClearPoint’s business coupled with an unanticipated
slowdown in loan purchases by one of ClearPoint’s principal loan
purchasers,” Gleacher said in the filing.  The  company  dropped 4 cents to $1.28 a share as of 11:30 a.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Gleacher agreed to buy ClearPoint in 2010, seeking to
capitalize on the collapse of hundreds of originators from 2006
through 2009 and later retreats by survivors from areas such as
lending through brokers, Mark Pappas, who has headed the unit,
said at the time.  Overseeing ClearPoint  Pappas and Robert Fine, who has overseen ClearPoint as the
head of Gleacher’s mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed
securities and rates division, didn’t immediately return
telephone messages seeking comment. Pappas was a founder of a
lending unit of MortgageIT Holdings Inc., which Deutsche Bank AG
bought in 2007 and then closed during the financial crisis.  ClearPoint was deemed in default by its warehouse lenders
because of “covenants relating to liquidity, net profit/loss
and certain notices for various periods from October 2011,”
according to the filing. Gleacher said it has guaranteed
obligations related to the lender’s need to return some borrowed
funds if it can’t sell loans in certain timeframes.  While there is a “highly liquid market for these loans,”
the guarantees may cause Gleacher to face a “liquidity
shortfall” in certain circumstances that would have “material
adverse effect” on the heath of the company or subsidiaries,
according to the filing. The firm expects to submit its annual
report within 15 days of the normal deadline, it said.  Packaging Loans  Aggregators in the mortgage industry are the companies that
package loans that they make, fund through brokers or buy into
securities, which are now almost all government-backed. The role
is usually taken on by firms that retain the contracts to
service mortgages that get split off from the actual debt.  ClearPoint’s revenue totaled $46.9 million last year as it
posted a net loss of $3.7 million, according to the company’s
earnings report last month. The unit’s $20.8 million of revenue
last quarter was “significantly higher than the third quarter,
which is again proof of concept,” Gleacher Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Hughes said on a Feb. 9 conference call with
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  