-- GM Sees Europe Pricing Weakness Causing Broad Capacity Cuts
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-03-16T20:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/gm-sees-europe-pricing-weakness-leading-to-broad-capacity-cuts.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  sees “clearly
deteriorating” sales and pricing in Europe’s car market leading
to restructuring across the industry, according to analysts who
met with the automaker’s management yesterday.  Analysts met with Dan Ammann, GM’s chief financial officer,
and James Davlin, treasurer of the Detroit-based automaker,
according to Citigroup Inc. Europe’s vehicle pricing has
“worsened significantly” during the past three to four months,
 Rod Lache , a New York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote
today in a research note on the meeting.  “GM appears to expect a more substantial industry volume
decline during this cycle,” Lache wrote. The automaker “thus
expects more substantial capacity reductions and by a broader”
group of automakers.  GM, which lost $747 million in  Europe  last year before
interest and taxes, will take two to three months to announce a
restructuring plan for the region, Karl-Friedrich Stracke, head
of  GM Europe , told reporters March 6 at the Geneva motor show.
GM will have to spend at least $1 billion to revive its Europe
operations, according to estimates from three analysts last
month. The company has lost $15.6 billion in Europe since 1999.  GM told analysts yesterday that Europe is a “clearly
deteriorating environment” and “very tough,”  Peter Nesvold , a
New York-based analyst for Jefferies & Co., wrote in a report.  “Pricing appears likely to trend lower until either
volumes rebound or capacity exits the industry,” Nesvold wrote.
“Neither seems to be likely in the near term.”  GM-Peugeot Alliance  GM fell 1.8 percent to $25.57 at the close in New York. The
 shares  have gained 26 percent this year.  Jim Cain , a GM spokesman, didn’t reply to telephone and e-
mail messages seeking comment. European auto executives have
predicted a drop in deliveries of about 5 percent this year in
the region, the fifth straight annual decline.  GM is paying about 320 million euros ($420 million) to
acquire 7 percent of  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-
largest carmaker, according to a March 5 regulatory filing. The
two companies are forming an alliance for purchasing and vehicle
development to reduce costs by about $2 billion annually within
five years.  “Investors have met the alliance with some skepticism and
it is our view that the alliance does get to the crux of the
issue, which is addressing overcapacity,” Joseph Spak, a New
York-based analyst for RBC Capital Markets, wrote in a report.
“In GM’s view, they supplied a modest amount of capital for a
reasonable amount of upside but the payoff is years away.”  Spak rates GM shares outperform, and Citigroup’s Itay Michaeli and Deutsche Bank’s Lache have buy ratings. Nesvold of
Jefferies rates GM hold.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  fell 0.9 percent to 129.80 at the close in
Frankfurt.  Renault SA (RNO)  slid 0.9 percent to 41.99 euros while
Peugeot gained 0.7 percent to 13.12 euros in Paris.  Fiat SpA (F) ,
which is also controls Chrysler Group LLC, declined 1.3 percent
to 4.78 euros in Milan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  