-- Goldman Should Be Barred From Returning More Capital, Bair Says
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-03-16T09:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/goldman-should-be-barred-from-returning-more-capital-bair-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  should be
prohibited from boosting its  dividend  or repurchasing stock
because Federal Reserve stress tests showed the investment bank
is too leveraged, according to former regulator  Sheila Bair .  The leverage ratios of four financial firms dropped below 4
percent under the stressed scenario, according to test results
the Fed released this week. Two of those firms,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  MetLife Inc. (MET) , were prohibited from raising dividends or
repurchasing shares. The central bank approved the capital plans
of two others, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.  “No distribution should have been approved that would
bring the leverage ratio below 4 percent,” Bair, the former
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said yesterday
in an interview. “With leverage of 25-to-1, during a crisis,
these banks would likely suffer a run.”  Bair, before leaving the FDIC in July, fought for the
 leverage ratio  to be more central in U.S. and international bank
regulations. Even though her ideas were accepted initially at
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the European Union
has since balked at implementing a leverage ratio in addition to
other  capital requirements .  The leverage ratio caps bank borrowing based on total
assets on the  balance sheet , ignoring the riskiness of different
holdings. When a bank is highly leveraged, a small change in
asset prices is enough to wipe out capital, making it insolvent.  Minimum Threshold  The Fed set a leverage ratio of 3 percent, the minimum
required by U.S. law, as the threshold for 15 of the 19 banks
that underwent stress tests. Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
Citigroup were in the 3 percent group. MetLife, the largest U.S.
life insurer and owner of a banking operation, was in the 4
percent group. All of the firms are based in New York.  Bear Stearns Cos. and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  both
had capital ratios that met regulatory requirements, based on
their risk-weighted assets, just before they collapsed in 2008.
Their simple leverage exceeded 33-to-1, or was below 3 percent.  The two investment banks faced a run from their short-term
creditors who refused to renew overnight or weekly loans when
concern about the value of their assets mounted. Investors focus
on the leverage ratio, not-risk-based capital measures, during
market turmoil, Bair said.  “This underscores another weakness of the tests: They
didn’t really stress liquidity,” said Bair, now a senior
adviser at Pew Charitable Trusts, a Washington-based nonprofit.
“The investment banks are particularly vulnerable to liquidity
failures because they don’t have a large, core deposit base.”  Bair’s Advice  Bair had asked the Fed, in one of her last moves at the
FDIC, to reject banks’ requests to distribute capital after the
2011 stress tests. The Fed didn’t heed the advice, approving
dividend increases for lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The tests still were “very valuable” because they
provided transparency, Bair said.  Morgan Stanley, in its capital plan to the Fed, asked only
to increase the firm’s stake in a retail brokerage joint venture
with Citigroup, the company said in a March 13 statement.
Goldman Sachs said its plan to repurchase common stock and
potentially raise the dividend was approved.  Spokesmen for Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley declined to
respond to Bair’s comments.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed
spokeswoman, declined to comment on Bair’s remarks.  The two firms became bank holding companies after Lehman
collapsed, giving them unlimited access to Fed funding, like
commercial banks. While both companies have commercial-banking
units, deposits account for less than 10 percent of their
liabilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or @yalman_bn on Twitter.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 