-- Goldman Op-Ed Writer Got $150 for Unsolicited Critique
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-16T19:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/goldman-sachs-op-ed-submitted-to-new-york-times-unsolicited.html
The  New York Times (NYT) , drawing
criticism for running an op-ed by a former  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  executive attacking the bank, said the piece was one of
thousands of unsolicited submissions it receives weekly.  “We got it by e-mail,”  New York  Times editorial page
editor Andrew Rosenthal said in a telephone interview. Smith was
paid about $150 for his submission, a typical amount, said a
person with direct knowledge of the situation who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public. The newspaper
pays varying amounts for its op-eds, except to public figures or
politicians, the person said.  Wall Street , including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman , has faulted the newspaper for publishing
an op-ed piece based on the view of one among more than 30,000
Goldman Sachs employees. All the facts that could be checked
were checked in Smith’s submission, Rosenthal said.  “The purpose of the op-ed page is to air an important
position,” Rosenthal said. “We’re saying, ‘This is
interesting,’ and by the way, ‘interesting,’ very often means
it’ll make you crazy.”  In the March 14 op-ed that explained why he was quitting,
 Greg Smith  called Goldman Sachs’s culture “toxic and
destructive.”  Goldman Sachs Chairman and CEO Lloyd Blankfein rebutted
Smith’s claims in a  letter  to employees the same day, saying his
assertions didn’t reflect the New York-based bank’s values and
how the “vast majority” of its employees think about their
firm.  Piece Merited Publication  Morgan Stanley’s Gorman said he told staff not to circulate
the op-ed.  “I was surprised that anyone would run an op-ed piece
based upon the view of a single employee,” Gorman said today at
an event in New York hosted by Fortune magazine.  Smith was identified by the newspaper as an executive
director and head of the bank’s U.S. equity derivatives business
in  Europe . While Smith wasn’t among the most senior executives
at Goldman Sachs, his screed against the firm’s culture merited
publication, Rosenthal said.  Rosenthal declined to say when Smith’s letter was received
and how long it took for the editorial staff to verify the
submission. The majority of op-ed pieces are commissioned, or
from writers who have previously written for the section, he
said.  “Very few come over the transom queue,” Rosenthal said.
“Some of them famously have -- this is one of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  