-- Goldman Op-Ed Shows Need for Volcker Rule, Democrats Say
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-03-16T20:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/goldman-employee-reinforces-need-for-volcker-rule-democrats-say.html
The  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
employee who criticized the company’s culture in a newspaper
column bolsters the case for Wall Street restrictions like the
Volcker rule, congressional Democrats said.  While the March 14  New York Times (NYT)  opinion piece by former
executive director  Greg Smith  drew no requests for hearings or
investigations, lawmakers including Senators  Carl Levin  of
 Michigan  and  Jeff Merkley  said the article showed why the U.S.
needs tighter restrictions on Wall Street practices. The two
Democrats authored the Volcker rule’s ban on proprietary trading
and conflicts of interest in the Dodd-Frank Act.  Congress can’t “legislate the culture but I think the
heart of this goes to why we needed the Merkley-Levin
amendment,” Merkley, a member of the Senate Banking Committee,
said in an interview.  Lawmakers on  Capitol Hill  yesterday said the piece, which
has ricocheted through  Wall Street  firms, has had less of an
impact in Washington, where New York-based Goldman Sachs’
business practices and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C.
Blankfein were the targets of congressional hearings in 2010.  ‘A Little Research’  “Doing a little research before you call for hearings is
important to understand the totality of the story,” Senator
 Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat on the Banking Committee,
said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who sits on the
Banking Committee, said Smith’s comments deserve greater
scrutiny. He was skeptical there was much Congress could do.  “The biggest factor of change won’t be frankly because of
a statute or an investigation,”  Reed said in an interview.
“It will be the clients will come in and say we want a better
deal, we want assurances that our best interests are your sole
thing.”  Smith’s column questioned the firm’s culture and said “the
interests of clients continue to be sidelined in the way the
firm operates and thinks about making money.”  Goldman Sachs has been concerned about reaction to the
article from members of the House and Senate banking panels, as
well as Levin, who led a Senate investigation that produced a
639-page report that blamed the firm’s trading practices for
contributing to the financial crisis, according to a person
familiar with the firm’s thinking.  Defending the Firm  The bank’s Washington office has been fielding calls about
the op-ed from congressional staff, administration officials and
other policy makers, the person said. In their conversations,
the in-house lobbyists are relaying a defense of the firm that
was included in a companywide memo from Blankfein and  Gary Cohn ,
the president and chief operating officer.  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  New York ,
declined to comment. Goldman Sachs shares fell 13 cents to
$122.93 at 4:15 p.m. in New York.  The investigation panel’s report came less than a year
after Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to resolve Securities and
Exchange Commission claims that it failed to disclose that hedge
fund Paulson & Co. was betting against, and influenced the
selection of, collateralized debt obligations the company was
packaging and selling.  ‘Ethical Depths’  Levin told reporters yesterday that Smith’s article was
further confirmation of his subcommittee’s findings of “the
ethical depths to which Goldman had fallen.”  No further hearings are warranted by the panel he leads,
Levin said, because Goldman Sachs is “being scrutinized by a
number of entities and institutions already.”  “There still is an ongoing review by New York law
enforcement folks, I don’t think the  Justice Department  has
finished its review,” Levin said.  Goldman Sachs said when Levin’s report was released that it
didn’t mislead anyone about its activities and gave truthful and
accurate testimony to the committee.  Blankfein and Cohn addressed Smith’s criticism in a memo to
employees on March 14, noting that in a company of Goldman
Sachs’s size, “it is not shocking that some people could feel
disgruntled.”  Employee Survey  A recent survey of employees found that 89 percent believe
the firm provides ‘exceptional service’ to clients and that a
similar percentage of the firm’s 12,000 vice presidents, the
rank held by Smith, felt that way, according to the memo.  Employees are allowed to express concerns anonymously,
according to the memo. “We are not aware that the writer of the
opinion piece expressed misgivings through this avenue, however,
if an individual expresses issues, we examine them carefully and
we will be doing so in this case,” Blankfein and Cohn said in
the memo.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said he
told his staff not to circulate Smith’s article. “There but for
the grace of God go us,” Gorman said at an event in New York
hosted by Fortune magazine.  Representative  Barney Frank , the top Democrat on the House
Financial Services Committee, said the column serves as a
rebuttal to bank arguments that restrictions in trading
activities would result in increased costs for market
participants such as pension and mutual funds.  Who Benefits?  “What he does is to reinforce the notion that much of the
benefit from what they do goes to them and not to the broader
society,” Frank, who helped draft the law that bears his name,
said in a telephone interview. “It doesn’t make it criminal,
but it does remove one of the arguments against the new
restrictions.”  U.S. banks, asset managers and mutual funds voiced concerns
in February  comment letters  to regulators over the impact that
rule barring proprietary trading may have on markets due to the
decrease in liquidity it may cause. Similar concerns have been
raised about some of the new rules being drafted to regulate the
 derivatives market .  For other lawmakers, in part because of the hearings held
by Levin, the column had less impact than it had on Wall Street.  “This is not anything that we didn’t already know,”
Representative  Brad Miller , a North Carolina Democrat on the
Financial Services panel, said in an telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  