-- Goldman’s Brower Said to Leave as Wendy Sacks Quits Firm
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-16T11:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/goldman-s-brower-sacks-said-to-leave-after-19-years.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Managing
Directors Cynthia A. “Cindy” Brower and Wendy E. Sacks, 19-
year veterans who split a job in the credit-sales group, are
leaving the firm, people with knowledge of their exits said.  Brower, 46, and Sacks, 40, who met in the New York-based
 bank ’s training program when they joined on the same day in
1993, had been sharing a sales role for the past three years so
they could each work part-time, said the people, who asked to
remain anonymous because the departures haven’t been announced.
The pair handled sales of loans and distressed debt.  Their decision to leave wasn’t connected to this week’s
resignation by  Greg Smith , a London-based employee in equity-
derivative sales who cited the firm’s “toxic and destructive”
environment in a  New York  Times op-ed explaining why he was
quitting after 12 years, the people said. The firm, which said
it disagreed with Smith’s assertions, sent a memo to current and
former employees, saying most of its workers believe it provides
exceptional service to customers.  “While Goldman typically faced little employee turnover,
departures among partners and managing directors have increased
substantially over the past year,” Charles Peabody, an analyst
at Portales Partners LLC in New York who rates the stock
“outperform,” wrote in a March 14 research note. “Top
executives who have been instrumental in building many of GS’s
successful businesses, and made great fortunes in the process,
are stepping away in the face of a changing environment.”  Compensation Drops  The company lost about 50 partners, the highest level of
employee, in the 12 months through January as revenue and
compensation fell at Goldman Sachs and throughout the industry.
The firm also eliminated 2,400 jobs last year.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,  rose 
2.2 percent to $123.06 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading yesterday, recouping most of the loss it suffered the
day before following the publication of Smith’s opinion piece.
The stock is up 36 percent this year, beating the 21 percent
 gain  in the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  Brower and Sacks worked in the fixed-income division
throughout their careers at Goldman Sachs, and current and
former colleagues said they were successful and highly regarded.
Sacks decided to retire a few weeks ago for personal reasons,
according to two of the people. Brower also decided to leave
after the firm offered her different work schedules, three of
the people said.  Columbia Recruiting  Brower spent her first 13 years in high-yield debt sales,
was promoted to managing director at the end of 2003 and was the
sales manager from 2004 to 2006 before taking her most recent
role. She also led recruiting efforts for the fixed-income
division at  Columbia Business School  and was involved in the
firm’s women’s network.  She worked at Dillon Read & Co. and Kidder Peabody & Co.
before joining Goldman Sachs and had a master’s degree in
finance and marketing from Columbia. She didn’t reply to a
message left on her mobile phone.  Sacks, who was promoted to managing director in 2006,
started her Goldman Sachs career in interest-rate sales and
joined bank-loan sales in 2001. She didn’t reply to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Goldman Sachs’s bank-loan division suffered high-level
departures last year, including Buckley T. Ratchford, the
partner who was global head of bank-loan trading and distressed
investing; and Blake W. Mather, a partner who ran bank-loan
sales. The company had approximately $1 billion in unrealized
losses related to relationship lending activities last year,
according to an annual filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 