-- Google’s Breach of Apple’s Safari Said to Be Probed by U.S.
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-03-16T20:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/google-inc-s-breach-of-apple-s-safari-said-to-be-probed-by-u-s-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s breach of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari Internet browser is under investigation by U.S.
regulators to determine whether it caused consumers to be misled
about privacy safeguards, a person familiar with the matter
said.  The Federal Trade Commission is examining whether  Mountain
View , California-based Google effectively deceived consumers by
planting so-called cookies on Safari, bypassing Apple software’s
privacy settings, said the person, who lacked authorization to
speak publicly on the matter and declined to be identified.  The cookies allowed Google to aim targeted advertising at
Safari users. The FTC is charged with protecting consumers
against “unfair and deceptive” practices under the law that
created the agency.  The FTC also is looking at whether Google violated a
consent decree with the commission signed last year, the person
said.  That settlement was reached after Google agreed it used
deceptive tactics and violated its own privacy policies in
introducing the Buzz social-networking service in 2010. The 20-
year settlement bars Google from misrepresenting how it handles
user information and requires the company to follow policies
that protect consumer data in new products.  Ready to Cooperate  “We will of course cooperate with any officials who have
questions,” said  Chris Gaither , a spokesman for Google, which
has acknowledged it ended up placing the advertising cookies on
Safari after opening a connection to give signed-in users access
to a Google function. “But it’s important to remember that we
didn’t anticipate this would happen.”  Google has been removing the files since discovering the
slip, Gaither said in an e-mailed statement. The Wall Street
Journal reported earlier that Google is being investigated by
U.S. and European Union regulators for using Safari users’
information and bypassing the Apple software’s privacy settings.  European regulators are already reviewing Google’s new
privacy policy, which was introduced March 1 to streamline
privacy settings for about 60 different services and products.  France ’s data-protection agency, the National Commission
for Computing and Civil Liberties, or CNIL, is preparing a list
of questions to send to Google next week, a spokeswoman for the
agency said today. She declined to comment on whether the
questionnaire would cover the Safari cookies, and declined to be
cited by name, citing CNIL policy. CNIL also acts on behalf of
other European regulators.  Google has defied two requests by CNIL to suspend changes
to its privacy policy while the agency determines whether those
changes comply with European privacy standards.  European regulators “are very concerned, because they are
persuaded that these new rules are not at all compliant with the
existing European laws,” European Union Justice Commissioner
 Viviane Reding  said March 1, when Google’s privacy changes took
effect.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net :
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  