-- Gorman Says Morgan Stanley’s Stock Will Outperform S&P 500 Index
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-03-16T16:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/gorman-says-morgan-stanley-s-stock-will-outperform-s-p-500-index.html
Morgan Stanley Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  said his firm’s stock will continue to
outperform the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPY)  as bank shares climb
back to tangible book value.  The U.S. financial sector’s valuation doesn’t reflect the
strength of banks’ balance sheets shown by the Fed’s stress
tests and their earnings potential in a normal environment,
Gorman said today at a breakfast in  New York  hosted by Fortune
magazine.  Financial stocks trading below tangible book value, or the
value after excluding items such as goodwill,  “implies somehow
that the banking sector isn’t going to generate ROEs of 10
percent,” Gorman said, referring to return on equity. “That’s
just not the way it’s going to pan out.”  Morgan Stanley has jumped almost 30 percent this year,
after plunging 44 percent in 2011. The  shares  gained 9 cents to
$19.60 at 12 p.m. in New York trading, leaving them at 70
percent of tangible book value.  The  S&P 500  Financials Index has risen 21 percent this
year, the largest gain of any industry sector and above the 12
percent climb of the broader index.  Both  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and the banking industry will continue
to outperform the S&P 500, Gorman said.  The new Basel III capital rules will have the biggest
effect of any regulatory change on the industry, cutting return
on equity, Gorman said. Morgan Stanley has a Tier 1 common
capital ratio of more than 8 percent under the new rules, he
said.  Dodd-Frank ‘Tiny’  “Everybody is talking about Dodd-Frank, derivatives, how
much will it shave off the trading businesses,” Gorman said.
“In the scheme of things, that’s tiny. This is huge.”  Gorman said cuts in compensation haven’t led to large
defections from the firm. Morgan Stanley reduced pay for senior
bankers and traders by 20 percent to 30 percent and capped
immediate cash bonuses at $125,000, according to people briefed
on the plans.  So far this year, Morgan Stanley has lost two managing
directors that it “regretted” losing, including one trader in
 Asia  who left for a hedge fund, Gorman said. The firm has about
1,800 managing directors, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  