-- Groupon to Change U.K. Pricing, Advertising After Investigation
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-03-16T11:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/groupon-to-change-u-k-pricing-advertising-after-investigation.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) ’s U.K. unit breached
consumer-protection rules and must change its pricing, product
claims and advertising practices, according to the U.K.’s
consumer watchdog.  Groupon must ensure its discounts are “honest and
transparent,” that the merchant providing the goods is able to
meet demand and that “health or beauty product claims are
supported by adequate substantiation,” the  Office of Fair
Trading  said in a statement on its  website .  “As a young and innovative business, Groupon acknowledges
that our processes and procedures have not always kept pace with
our rapid growth,” Roy Blanga, the company’s U.K. managing
director, said in an e-mailed statement. “We take their
concerns very seriously and will be willingly implementing the
recommended changes.”  The company, the largest provider of online daily-deal
coupons, pulled a 2011 advertisement that aired during the  Super
Bowl  following public criticism that it made light of repression
in  Tibet . Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  later  apologized 
for the ad.  Blanga said in a telephone interview that the company sells
more than 1 million coupons a month, and the regulator was
concerned only with “a small proportion” of them.  ‘More Clarity’  “The discounts are going to be the same or roughly the
same,” Blanga said. “What the consumers will see is more
clarity.”  Groupon rose 5.69 percent to $17.84 yesterday. The Chicago-
based company had priced its shares at $20 each in its November
initial public offering.  The OFT said it started its investigation in July 2011
following complaints from consumers. In December 2011, Groupon
was separately referred to the OFT by the  Advertising Standards
Authority  following a finding of multiple breaches of U.K.
advertising rules.  “Collective buying and discount schemes can offer real
benefits for both consumers and merchants,” said Cavendish
Elithorn, senior director of the OFT’s goods and consumer group.
“The market is growing rapidly, but it’s important that
consumers benefit from consumer protection law as well as from
the discounted offers.”  The U.K. government is preparing to merge the OFT with
another regulator, the  Competition Commission .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  