-- Gupta’s Lawyer Says ‘Wrong Man’ on Trial in Insider Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-17T01:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/gupta-s-lawyer-says-wrong-man-on-trial-in-galleon-insider-case.html
A lawyer for former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta , accused of passing nonpublic
information to Galleon Group LLC  fund manager   Raj Rajaratnam ,
said today that the U.S. had the “wrong man” on trial.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , said that Rajaratnam had a
different Goldman Sachs tipper, who gave him confidential
information about  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the lawyer said.
That Goldman source was also caught on government wiretaps
passing the inside information, Naftalis said.  Gupta, 63, who denies wrongdoing, is scheduled to go on
trial May 21 for leaking tips to Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs
and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also a director.  “There are wiretaps, wiretaps that they’ve had for years,
that this confidential information is being given out,”
Naftalis argued today.  “The fact is important because we have the issue that you
have the wrong man on trial here,” Naftalis said. “They know
that there is a person at Goldman Sachs who has leaked inside
information on at least two securities, on Apple and Intel, to
Mr. Rajaratnam. It is certainly clear to us this is hot
information. We intend to press on this issue. We think there is
a much more circumstantial case that that person should be
sitting in the box than us.”  ‘Mr. X’  Prosecutors disclosed in a Feb. 3 letter to U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the case, that
Rajaratnam had a second “insider at Goldman Sachs” who leaked
tips to Rajaratnam. Rakoff has referred to this individual as
“Mr. X.”  Prosecutors also said the tips didn’t relate to Goldman
Sachs or Procter & Gamble.  Two Goldman Sachs executives,  David Loeb  and Henry King,
are under investigation by the U.S. for possible insider-trading
charges, according to people with knowledge of the probe who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.
Testimony from Rajaratnam’s trial last year showed that Loeb,
head of Asia Equity Sales in New York with a focus on  Taiwan ,
had dealings with Rajaratnam.  Lawyers didn’t identify the Goldman Sachs insider in court
today.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment on Naftalis’s assertions.  Sharing Memos  The assertions came today after Assistant U.S. Attorney
Reed Brodsky said that Rajaratnam’s lawyers had been sharing
government memos on witnesses who testified against the fund
manager at his trial last year.  Brodsky asserted that while Gupta’s defense team has
claimed they haven’t gotten evidence from prosecutors and sought
the identity of “Mr. X,” defense lawyers already had evidence
provided by Rajaratnam, including a copy of a memorandum of a
Jan. 11, 2011, interview by agents of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  with former Galleon portfolio manager  Adam Smith .
Brodsky said today Gupta’s lawyers claimed at a January hearing
that they didn’t know who the Goldman insider was.  “They started making accusations that Mr. Gupta has no
idea who the Goldman insider was who was providing nonpublic
information,” Brodsky said. “A Jan. 11, 2011, memo of Adam
Smith’s interview contains all that information,” he said.  Rakoff later reviewed the letter from the government
identifying that individual and agreed with prosecutors to keep
it under seal because the alleged tips weren’t related to any of
the charges against Gupta.  ‘Directly or Indirectly’  “They have nothing to do with any issue in this case,
directly or indirectly, and therefore do not need to be
disclosed,” Rakoff said in February. He didn’t rule on the
matter today, saying “I don’t think any court action is
required, one way or another.”  Rakoff also hasn’t yet ruled on whether he’ll permit
Gupta’s lawyers to present the evidence of another Goldman
source to the jury.  Naftalis declined to comment after court, as did
prosecutors.  Gupta, the one-time McKinsey & Co. leader and former
director at Procter & Gamble, was accused in October by
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara of passing inside
information to Rajaratnam, co-founder Galleon Group LLC. The
U.S. says Gupta tipped Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and P&G
earnings.  A revised indictment filed in January expanded prosecutors’
description of the insider-trading scheme, saying it began in
March 2007, not in 2008, as the U.S. alleged when Gupta was
first charged in October.  Rajaratnam, who was convicted by a jury last year of all 14
counts against him, is serving an 11-year prison term.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  