-- Li Backs Tang in Hong Kong Leader Race, Won’t Pull Out Funds
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-03-16T09:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/li-ka-shing-denies-he-ll-withdraw-funds-from-h-k-if-leung-wins.html
Li Ka-shing,  Hong Kong ’s richest
man, said he will “definitely” vote for  Henry Tang  in the
city’s March 25 leadership election, even as the candidate’s
popularity plummeted after a series of personal scandals.  Tang has city government experience and his election would
benefit Hong Kong, Li said in an e-mailed statement today. Tang,
Hong Kong’s former chief secretary, saw his popular support fall
after he acknowledged an extramarital affair and a basement
built without permits on his wife’s property.  Li, whose business interests extend into retail, ports,
mobile phones and property, may be trying to rally support among
Hong Kong’s 1,200-member election committee for Tang. Other
members of the committee have expressed doubt about Tang after
opinion polls showed him trailing fellow candidate Leung Chun-
ying by more than 20 points in the wake of the scandals.  “ Li Ka-shing ’s actions are almost an act of desperation at
this point to try to shore up support for Tang,” said Michael DeGolyer, a Hong Kong Baptist University professor who sits on
the election committee. “Normally if you already have
everything set up, you wouldn’t have to come out and reiterate
your support for someone who everybody already knows you’re a
strong supporter of.”  Poll Numbers  Tang is vying for the chief executive position with former
government adviser Leung and lawmaker Albert Ho. In the latest
poll by the University of Hong Kong published March 15, Tang had
20.6 percent support among respondents, while Leung was favored
by 43.8 percent. Ho was backed by 10.5 percent.  Li, the  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  chairman who sits on the
election committee, said he won’t withdraw his money from Hong
Kong if Leung wins. Li said in his statement he was responding
to media reports, without specifying where the reports were
published.  In 1998, Li said he scrapped a planned HK$10 billion ($1.3
billion) project because of the bad “political environment” in
the city. Two years later, he said he would consider reducing
investment in the city if “the media and politicians” work
together against him.  In a column published today in the  South China Morning
Post , Lau Nai Keung, a member of China’s National People’s
Congress, said local entrepreneurs are being squeezed by Hong
Kong’s tycoons, and residents shouldn’t be concerned about
threats of capital flight.  ‘Flea Market’  “Should they choose to treat this city from which they
made their fabulous fortunes only as a flea market, wanting to
get out in times of difficulty, they are most welcome,” Lau
wrote in the column, which came out before Li’s statement.
“Most of us would applaud their leaving and hope they never
return.”  Other members of the election committee who previously
backed Tang have been less committal since his popularity has
weakened.  Thomas Kwok , co-chairman of  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd. (16) , nominated Tang for the race and said Feb. 28 his decision
at election-time will depend on Tang’s support. Lui Che-woo,
chairman of casino operator  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  who
also nominated Tang, said yesterday both Tang and Leung are good
candidates.  On March 12, honorary Liberal Party chairman  James Tien 
said the race between Tang and Leung was like “a choice between
two rotten apples,” and said his supporters, who also helped
nominate Tang, would probably cast blank ballots.  Li’s Cheung Kong sold the most apartments in Hong Kong last
year, when  home prices  rose 8 percent. Tang, who has pledged to
tackle a widening wealth gap as public anger surges over high
property prices, faces Ho and Leung in a televised debate
tonight.  Li is 14th on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index with a net
worth of $25.6 billion. Nicknamed “superman” by the local
media for his investing prowess, he opened a plastic flower
factory following World War II and began focusing on Hong Kong
real estate in 1967 after riots from  China ’s Cultural Revolution
depressed prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  