-- Liikanen Says ECB’s Crisis Measures Will Need a ‘Timely’ Exit
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-03-16T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/liikanen-says-ecb-s-crisis-measures-will-need-a-timely-exit.html
European Central Bank council
member Erkki Liikanen comments on  monetary policy , non-standard
measures and the region’s debt crisis.  He made the remarks in an interview in Helsinki yesterday.  On ECB’s non-standard measures:  “When we assess the measures the ECB decided in December,
they have had a decisive impact on the markets. The situation in
the financial markets has improved, there’s less tension, and we
have seen that both funding of the banks and corporations
improved.  ‘‘The banks have entered the market with unsecured bonds
and also corporations. These markets were not very active in the
autumn. The measures we took have unlocked financial markets.
All these measures are temporary by character. It’s of course
important that when the time is right, there will be a
controlled and timely exit. When you do temporary measures, you
must think about launching and you must think about an exit.  ‘‘These measures have given some time for governments to
implement their policies and there must be a right balance. They
must consolidate their public finances in the short and medium
term, on the other hand they must create a basis for growth. The
structural reforms also need to be decided properly and
implemented right away. In that area, we are now stronger than
we were.  ‘‘The market will survey how the countries implement their
programs. It’s very important that no country creates negative
surprises.’’  On ECB’s three-year loans:  ‘‘Governments know the ECB’s task is to provide liquidity.
We have been able to produce, from a market viewpoint, a
decisive change in  market sentiment . For the fiscal side, for
the deficits, for the long-term fiscal debt, it’s in the hands
of governments and that belongs to them and only them.  ‘‘The ECB has done its part, the governments must do
theirs.’’  Asked if ECB’s three-year loans give governments room to
slack on reforms, Liikanen said:  ‘‘Absolutely not, that markets are calmer gives them room
to be more efficient to implement reforms. It is very clear that
we must separate our responsibilities. We are responsible for
monetary policy and financial stability. We have provided
liquidity.  ‘‘We have done a lot. In the last Governing Council meeting
we had a very broad discussion. We had a shared assessment of
the situation, which President  Mario Draghi  well presented. It
was very much shared. We all contributed to the discussion. It’s
a collective assessment, but this time it’s really very much
shared.  ‘‘It’s of course very important that governments commit and
implement policies which consolidate their public finances and
create growth. On the other hand we must also decide how and
when we exit in a controlled and timely manner. What does it
mean? Of course our monetary policy is always based on our
strategy where we analyze economic factors and also monetary
aggregates, we will do our assessment on that basis.  ‘‘Of course the Governing Council decides on its policy in
every meeting.’’  On the debt crisis:  ‘‘We are in a crisis, which is long and deep. History tells
us that financial crises create economic troubles for a long
time and recovery is slow and uneven. We have been in this now
for four and a half years and it’s not going to be over soon.  ‘‘Banks have the right to borrow from us against
collateral. They decide how they act. We afterwards can analyze
what has been the impact. If they consider they ought to deposit
at the central bank, they have the right to do so.  ‘‘We have just concluded a resolution to  Greece . We have
just decided on a governance package, which is now for the most
part implemented. We have just been active in monetary policy.
We must just hold the line. Everybody must do their own part.
The governments have a critical role and it serves their own
interests and it serves the interest of the euro area.’’  Asked if governments will go through with austerity
measures, Liikanen said:  ‘‘The alternative is still much worse. It’s clear if your
public finances are on an unsustainable path you can’t get
financing on the markets, you actually lose your margin to
maneuver on policy making. For governments it’s much better that
they consolidate their public finances, then they have more
freedom and possibilities to act.’’  On Target2 imbalances:  Deutsche Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said ‘‘Target2
balances don’t form a standalone risk. I agree with him.  ‘‘We should remember the root cause is economic imbalances
in European economic development and there we need to do more.
The current account imbalances inside  Europe  are too wide.  ‘‘The root cause is in these imbalances and there you need
measures in every country.  ‘‘Target2 balances are only part of the payment system, you
don’t create liquidity by that. Liquidity is created by monetary
policy measures or non-standard measures where we lend money to
our counterparties against collateral.’’  On risks to ECB’s balance sheet:  ‘‘The core measure in monetary policy is lending against
collateral and the management of the collateral is of course the
key for risk management. We have expanded, but we have also
improved our risk management at the same time.  ‘‘It’s a fact that when you take this kind of major
measures, it has an impact on the balance sheet, as has happened
with other central banks too.  ‘‘If you look at the whole collateral pool, it’s much
bigger than the lending we do. In some areas, new collateral has
been adopted, but also rules are decided on the ECB governing
council and the haircuts. The risks are carried by the central
bank concerned. If you look at the whole collateral pool we
have, still it has been a relatively marginal question.  ‘‘Of course when you expand your balance sheet, when you
lend more, your risks are also increasing and the question is
are they managed? Yes they are. How do we manage them? We manage
them through our collateral framework. In the collateral
framework there are two critical elements. One is that there are
haircuts for different asset classes. Secondly, what is also
important is that we always mark to market the collateral every
day, these two elements give us good tools to manage the risks.  ‘‘In general terms the collateral pool is quite wide still
compared to the lending that we do. There have been some new
measures, which were carried out in the new year for credit
claims, their size of the whole cover pool has been quite
limited and the haircuts that have been applied are quite
high.’’  On ECB’s benchmark interest rate:  ‘‘We have never decided about some number. Monetary policy
has been done always on the basis of our strategy, economic
analysis, monetary analysis and we base it on the most recent
information.  ‘‘ We had a meeting of the Governing Council where we
decided on monetary policy and changes of rates was not
discussed so we all share the position which was communicated by
President Draghi. That’s it.  ‘‘On the discussion in general of course, we must always
consider all the issues. But today, on rates, I totally share
the position of the Governing Council.’’  On euro-area growth:  ‘‘We have this kind of temporary slowdown.  ‘‘It is true, the growth outlook has still downside risks
and they are very much related to the sovereign debt crisis in
Europe. To avoid that they will be realized it is very important
that governments implement policies where they consolidate their
public finances on the one hand, and on the other hand also do
structural reforms, which increase competition in product and
labor markets and create the basis for sustainable growth in the
medium to long term.  ‘‘We know that and for this reason commitments of
governments must be firm and they must be held. If there will be
major negative news because the commitments are not held, it can
easily create a lot of nervousness in the markets and reverse
the development.’’  On the EU group on structural banking industry reforms:  ‘‘There are three elements’’ to banking regulation in
Europe. ‘‘One is the Basel reforms. Banks need more and better
capital and the liquidity buffers so they will weather the
storms. That creates stability. That has its own track.  ‘‘The second area is the question of bank resolution.
That’s in the hands of the Commission.  ‘‘The third area which has been discussed globally is
should we do reforms on banking structures to increase stability
and guarantee funding on the markets. In America, the famous
Volcker rule has been discussed, Dodd-Frank that has some
elements there. In the U.K., they have Vickers Commission’s
proposals.  ‘‘We have been tasked to make an assessment whether we need
reforms concerning banking structures in European Union or not.
Now we have started work on that. We are committed and we’ll
give the final report by the end of the summer.’’  ‘‘There are two sides. One is financial stability, which is
important to guarantee and improve it. Of course at the same
time we must remember that banking is very important in offering
funding for the economy and citizens.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  