-- Liikanen Signals Nations Shouldn’t Expect Further ECB Action
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-03-16T09:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/liikanen-signals-governments-shouldn-t-expect-further-ecb-action.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Erkki Liikanen  signaled governments shouldn’t
expect further ECB action to fight the debt turmoil, and said
officials mustn’t wait too long to unwind crisis-fighting tools.  “We’ve done a lot,” Liikanen said in a Bloomberg News
interview in Helsinki yesterday, citing the central bank’s
record-low interest rates and three-year loans. “We must also
decide how and when we exit in a controlled and timely manner,”
he said, declining to elaborate.  Liikanen echoed ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s call to
governments to make the most of a lull in the turmoil to reform
economies and fix public finances. The ECB has borne the brunt
of fighting the debt crisis by slashing borrowing costs to 1
percent, purchasing government bonds of debt-burdened nations
and swelling its balance sheet with measures including a record
1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in three-year loans to banks.  ECB council member Jens Weidmann said on March 13 that
policy makers are already discussing ways to withdraw some of
the emergency cash they injected into the banking system to
fight the crisis. The “timeframe depends on several things,
including how the environment develops,” he said.  Government Measures  “The ECB has done its part, the governments must do
theirs,” Liikanen said. “We have been able to produce, from a
market viewpoint, a decisive change in  market sentiment . For the
fiscal side, for the deficits, for the long-term fiscal debt,
it’s in the hands of governments and that belongs to them -- and
only them.”  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
remarks, trading at $1.3066 at 10:14 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.3 percent.  “It’s right that the ECB steps back and moves to the
sidelines,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN
Amro NV in Amsterdam. “Their actions are buying time and
ultimately they’re only going to be successful if various
players use that time to make the fundamental steps necessary.”  Liikanen, who also heads the Bank of Finland, said the
ECB’s loans, which pushed down bond yields, supported a stock
market rally and helped bolster confidence, have given
governments “room to be more efficient” in implementing
reforms. Investors are watching for progress and it’s
“important that no country creates negative surprises,” he
said.  Greek Bailout  Euro-area finance ministers have authorized the region’s
bailout fund to raise money for  Greece ’s bond exchange, the
first step in releasing funds from a 130 billion-euro rescue
package. The assistance brings to at least 386 billion euros the
sums spent or committed to save Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  and
to insulate Europe from a ruinous financial cascade.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday approved a 28
billion-euro loan for Greece as part of a second bailout that
requires more austerity and an overhaul of the nation’s economy.  Liikanen declined to comment on the likelihood that
Portugal and Ireland may need further rescue aid, as suggested
by his former colleague, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi.  “We have just concluded a resolution to Greece,” he said.
“We have just decided on a governance package, which is now for
the most part implemented. We have just been active in monetary
policy. We must just hold the line.”  ‘Pretty Dire’  Liikanen said the alternative to austerity measures in some
euro-area countries is “still much worse” and getting public
finances in order gives governments “more freedom and the
possibility to act.”  While the economic slowdown is temporary, the sovereign
debt crisis will remain the main drag on growth in the euro
area, Liikanen said. The ECB forecast last week that the 17-
nation euro-area economy will contract 0.1 percent this year and
grow 1.1 percent next year. Euro-region inflation may average
2.4 percent and 1.6 percent this year and next, it said.  “Obviously we’re still in a mild recession in  Europe  and
the economic outlook is pretty dire,” ABN Amro’s Kounis said.
“But they’re not as relaxed about the inflation picture as they
were before.”  The ECB policy maker played down concerns that Target2
imbalances pose a risk to euro-area stability that have been
voiced by  Germany ’s Weidmann in a letter to Draghi. The ECB’s
so-called Target2 system calculates debts between the euro
region’s central banks.  “Target2 balances don’t create any standalone risk,”
Liikanen said. “The real issue is of course that we have too
wide imbalances inside Europe.”  The risks to the ECB balance sheet are managed by applying
haircuts to different asset classes and marking to market the
collateral the ECB takes in exchange for loans, he said.  “Of course when you expand your balance sheet, when you
lend more, your risks are also increasing, and the question is,
are they managed?” Liikanen said. “Yes they are.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  