-- Hill’s Raucous ‘Jump Street’; ‘Delicacy’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-03-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/hill-s-raucous-jump-street-delicacy-detachment-movies.html
Johnny Depp ’s star-making teen cop
show from the 1980s gets just the love it deserves in the big-
screen “21 Jump Street.”  Which is to say, very little.  Irreverent, crude and funnier than you might expect,  “21
Jump Street”  isn’t so much a send-up of ‘80s cop shows as a
send-up of movies that send-up ‘80s cop shows.  Starring Jonah Hill and  Channing Tatum , “21 Jump Street”
easily trumps other film adaptations of lousy TV shows (“Miami
Vice,” “Charlie’s Angels”). Low expectations have their
advantages.  Directed by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller, with Michael
Bacall’s by-turns clever and crass script, “Jump” has Hill and
Tatum as a pair of inept rookie cops posing as high school
students to bust a drug ring.  Through a first-day mix-up, Tatum’s dimwitted, hunky Jenko
is placed in a nerd-filled advanced class, while the rotund
Hill’s Schmidt is touted as a talented jock.  Bacall’s script toys with our expectations in other ways,
too, slamming what passed for cool not so long ago. The
undercover cops drive onto the student parking lot in a
“Starsky and Hutch“-type muscle car, only to have their egos
deflated by the eco-friendly hipsters at the top of the high
school food chain.  “I totally know the cause,” Tatum’s lunkhead says after
his homophobic bravado is derided by the popular kids.
“’Glee.’”  Dave Franco (James’s younger brother, and a star in the
making) is terrific as the school’s politically correct drug
dealer, and Ice Cube steals scenes as the perpetually angry
police captain (“Embrace your stereotypes!” he screams).  Depp’s well-publicized cameo (no spoilers here about when
or how) is a hoot, and almost compensates for the movie’s self-
indulgences -- tedious chase scenes, an unfunny drama club
production and some maudlin, late-act speechifying.  “21 Jump Street,” from  Sony Pictures Entertainment , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘Delicacy’  “Delicacy”  is a French comedy of such surpassing banality
that it’s almost impossible to dislike.  One day Nathalie (Audrey Tautou), a workaholic widow high
up in her company’s hierarchy, finds herself, for no reason she
can ever explain, passionately kissing a Swedish co-worker,
Markus (Francois Damiens) -- the office dork.  Markus is astonished, and the movie’s few original moments
involve his pained resistance. He can’t believe that a
magnificent dynamo like Nathalie could fall for him.  I couldn’t either, and neither can anyone else in the film
except for Nathalie’s wise old grandma. The lovers don’t have
any visible chemistry, and Markus is so abject (he tells
Nathalie he feels like he’s Lichtenstein dating the U.S.) that
he would throw cold water on any passion.  Too Sweet  That wasn’t all I couldn’t believe. The movie starts,
execrably, with the meeting-cute of Nathalie and the love of her
life, Francois (the gorgeous Pio Marmai), followed by their
adorable courtship and marriage. These sugary scenes nearly kill
the movie before it begins, but at least they’re swift, and
then, thank God, Francois dies.  As Markus, Damiens is very good, and he really does look
like a dork -- he’s got some of the worst hair I’ve ever seen on
an actor’s head.  Even without chemistry, he and Tautou are likable, and the
French stereotypes who fill out the rest of the movie -- the
oily married boss who’s hot for Nathalie, the kindly grandmother
who has soup on the stove the minute you knock on her door --are
somehow reassuring in their familiarity.  The whole thing could have and probably should have been
leaden, but the directors, David and Stephane Foenkinos, have a
delicate touch, and I’m ashamed to admit how completely suckered
I was. Go at the risk of your own embarrassment.  “Delicacy,” a Cohen Media Group release, is playing in
 New York . Rating: **1/2 (Seligman)  ‘Detachment’  Sandwiched between an opening quotation from Albert Camus
and an ending that calls on Edgar Allan Poe, director Tony Kaye
lards his pretentious  “Detachment”  with a gruesomely murdered
cat, a beat-up teenage prostitute, a dying, demented old man and
a high school suicide.  With all the subtlety of fingernails on a classroom
chalkboard, “Detachment,” written by former school teacher
Carl Lund, is a broadside against the U.S. education system and
the gloom of modern life in general.  Kaye, the eccentric British director who simultaneously
arrived and flamed out with 1998’s ugly “American History X,”
funnels his dystopia into this tale of a New York City
substitute teacher ( Adrien Brody ) struggling to break through
the apathy and violence of a public high school.  Parents scream, teens threaten, and teachers succumb to
either fury or depression in one nasty encounter after another,
until poor Marcia Gay Harden, as an embattled principal, is
reduced to mewling her morning P.A. announcements while in a
fetal position on the floor. I knew how she felt.  “Detachment,” from Tribeca Film, is playing in New York.
Rating: * (Evans)  
(Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 