-- Imagination Tech Soars to Record on IPad Supply: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r   a n d   B e t h   M e l l o r
-- 2012-03-16T10:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/imagination-tech-soars-to-record-on-ipad-supply-london-mover.html
Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG) 
rose to the highest price in almost 18 years after Goldman Sachs
said the U.K. company’s royalties from designs used in Apple’s
new iPad and other tablets and smartphones will boost earnings.  “IMG remains at the heart of some of the most significant
smartphone and tablet ecosystems,” analysts including Simon Schafer said today in a note to investors. Goldman predicted
that the shares will rise to 1,000 pence in 12 months, up from a
previous target of 850 pence.  IMG, based in Kings Langley near London,  gained  as much as
7.6 percent to 688 pence, the highest price since July 1994, and
was up 7 percent at 10:32 a.m.  Natixis said today that the new iPad’s graphic processor
was “probably shipped by Imagination.” IMG’s stock has gained
13 percent since Cupertino, California-based Apple unveiled the
third version of its iPad tablet computer on March 7. Apple is
touting improved graphics in the device, which has a price tag
of $499 to $829 in the U.S.  IMG “remains agnostic” in the battle between  ARM Holdings
Plc (ARM)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  to supply central processing units, or CPUs,
for phones and tablets, the Goldman analysts said. The company
has a “dominant position” in Apple’s operating system and a
shared market for supplying devices that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android system, they said.  Intel, based in  Santa Clara ,  California , and Apple are
among the shareholders in Imagination Technologies, according to
Bloomberg data. The U.K. maker of semiconductor devices has the
highest growth potential among European technology companies
covered by Goldman, said Schafer, along with analysts Alexander Duval and Jo Blackshaw.  Demand for the company’s products is growing “strongly,”
Chief Executive Officer Hossein Yassaie said March 8. “They are
powering the transition in several markets to smart devices --
in particular phones, tablets, TVs and in cars.”  Imagination Technologies also makes PURE brand digital
radios.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Mellor in London at 
 bmellor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  