-- IMF Staff Sees Potential Need for More European Aid to Greece
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-03-16T23:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/imf-staff-sees-potential-need-for-more-european-aid-to-greece.html
Greece  remains “accident prone”
and may require further debt restructuring or additional
financing from euro countries if it struggles to implement
measures attached to a new 130 billion-euro ($171 billion)
bailout, staff at the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The loan package is based “on ambitious fiscal and
privatization targets and above all on a reinvigoration of
structural reforms,” IMF staff wrote in a report released
yesterday.  “In the event of slower progress in policy implementation,
or failure of the economy to respond rapidly enough to reforms,
completion of reviews may require additional support from
Greece’s European partners on yet more concessional terms than
currently envisaged, and-or another restructuring of bonded
debt,” according to the  report .  The Washington-based IMF, which is already lending to
Portugal and Ireland, has reduced its share in the second Greek
bailout as it sees its exposure to the euro region posing what
the staff called “unprecedented financial risks” to its
finances. It has also pushed European governments to boost their
own bailout fund in an effort to protect Spain and  Italy  from
contagion.  The IMF board this week approved a 28-billion-euro loan for
Greece. About 18.3 billion euros is fresh money, as the four-
year arrangement follows a 2010 program that was canceled and
left 9.7 billion euros undisbursed.  The IMF calculates that the euro region will account for 80
percent of its credits in 2014. Greece is expected to start
repaying its first loan to the fund  next year .  ‘Off Track’  “If the program goes off track, Greece’s capacity to meet
its obligations to the fund would hinge critically on the
willingness of European partners to continue to backstop
Greece’s payments capacity and the Eurosystem’s capacity to
backstop bank liquidity while further efforts are put in place
to stabilize the  Greek economy ,” IMF staff warned.  The IMF estimates Greece’s financing needs to reach 164.5
billion euros through 2014 and to range from 8 billion euros to
21 billion euros for 2015 and the first quarter of 2016,
depending on progress in restoring the country’s market access.  Greece completed the world’s largest sovereign-debt
restructuring and had to agree to deeper spending cuts to obtain
the new funds as it faces a fifth year of recession. The new
program also seeks to overhaul the country’s economy from public
enterprises to the labor market to make it more competitive.  The Greek government must continue to meet the conditions
set by its international creditors to receive aid payments at
three-monthly intervals.  The IMF report said the new program was “subject to
exceptional risks,” including upcoming elections that create
uncertainty over whether the measures will implemented.  “The materialization of these risks would most likely
require additional debt relief by the official sector and, short
of that, lead to a sovereign default,” it wrote. “In the
absence of continued official support and access to”
refinancing by the  European Central Bank , “a disorderly euro
exit would be unavoidable.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  