-- India Plans to Exempt Utilities From Fuel Import Tax
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2012-03-16T10:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/india-plans-to-exempt-utilities-from-fuel-import-tax.html
India  proposes to scrap for two
years the import tax on fuels used to generate power, easing
constraints on electricity production, Finance Minister  Pranab
Mukherjee  said.  Fuels including steam coal, liquefied natural gas and
uranium will be exempt from customs duty until March 31, 2014,
Mukherjee said in parliament today while presenting the annual
budget. He also proposed allowing overseas borrowing to part-
finance rupee debt and an extension of a deadline to claim
deductions and depreciation benefits for power companies.  India uses coal to fire more than half of its power plants
and imports the fuel to meet a shortfall in domestic supplies.
The exemption will help utilities, including billionaire Anil
Ambani’s  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  and Gautam Adani’s  Adani Power
Ltd. (ADANI) , which have put on hold $36 billion of investments in power
projects because of higher fuel prices and restrictions on
passing on costs to customers.  “Domestic producers of thermal power have been under
stress because of high prices of coal,” Mukherjee said.  The tax breaks and financing options coupled with exemption
on import taxes will spur the power sector, Ashok Khurana,
director general of the Association of Power Producers, said in
an e-mailed statement. Leaving  import duties  on power plant
equipment unchanged helps the power sector, he said.  The South Asian nation imported 114.35 million metric tons
of coal in 2011, including 81.09 million tons of steam coal for
power plants last year, according to New Delhi-based Interocean
Group. India bought about 9.8 million tons of LNG from overseas
in the year ended March 2011, according to the oil ministry.  Coal and LNG attract a 5 percent import duty, according to
the Association of Power Producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in  New Delhi  at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  