-- India More Than Doubles Capital-Infusion Target for Banks
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-03-16T08:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/india-more-than-doubles-capital-infusion-target-for-banks.html
India  more than doubled its target
for a capital infusion into state-run banks to 158.9 billion
rupees ($3.2 billion) for the year ending March 2013 as it
sought to bolster risk buffers and boost credit growth.  The “government proposes to invest the money to strengthen
the banks,” Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said today said
in  New Delhi  while presenting the federal budget to parliament.
“Forming a financial holding company to find funds for further
investment in banks is also under consideration.”  Rising bad loans and a  slowing economy  have squeezed
capital buffers at the state-run lenders, which account for
three-fourths of the nation’s banking assets. The cash infusion
may let banks meet tighter regulatory requirements and increase
lending as the government takes steps to boost economic growth.  “A road map on further investment in the banks and a large
amount of investment next year will give investors more
confidence,” Alex Mathews, head of research at  Geojit BNP
Paribas Financial Services Ltd. (GBNP) , said in a telephone interview
on March 14. “Banks with high  capital ratios  will be better
placed to lend more when the economy improves.”  Funds will also be provided to the nation’s regional rural
banks, Mukherjee said in his budget speech. India had 82 such
lenders as of June, according to central bank data.  The  Bankex Index (BANKEX) , which includes 14 banking stocks, rose
1.3 percent after the government announced its investment plans.
 State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest lender, rose 0.8
percent to 2,318.2 rupees in Mumbai.  Twelve state-run banks had a Tier 1 capital ratio of less
than 8 percent, a target set by the government, as of December,
excluding unaudited profits for the preceding nine months,  ICRA
Ltd. (ICRA) , the local affiliate of Moody’s Investors Service, said in
a note on March 1.  India had announced plans during last year’s budget
presentation to invest 60 billion rupees in state-run lenders in
the year to March. A finance ministry official said in November
that the government decided to inject an additional 140 billion
rupees to help boost capital and cover bad loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  