-- India Seeks Three Iranian Suspects in Israel Diplomat Attack
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-03-16T13:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/india-seeks-three-iranian-suspects-in-israel-diplomat-attack-1-.html
India  issued arrest warrants for
three Iranians it has identified as suspects in last month’s
attack on an Israeli diplomat’s car, a strike that  Israel ’s
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  blamed on Iran.  Indian authorities are seeking “red corner notices” for
the three wanted people, India’s foreign ministry spokesman,
Syed Akbaruddin, said in a  statement  that was posted on the
ministry’s website, an apparent reference to the messages
Interpol issues to police forces worldwide.  Delhi police named the Iranians as Houshang Afshar Irani,
Seyed Ali Mahdiansadr and Mohammadreza Abolghasemi. Police last
week arrested an Indian journalist, Syed Mohammed Ahmad Kazmi,
50, who is believed to have worked for Iranian media. Kazmi
facilitated the attack, police said in a statement.  The wife of an Israeli diplomat, her driver and two
passengers in a nearby vehicle were hurt Feb. 13 when a magnetic
device exploded after being attached to the diplomat’s car on a
south Delhi street. India and  Iran  have close ties that have
come under strain as the U.S. and the European Union press for
tighter sanctions on the Islamic regime over its nuclear
program.  Attacks linked to Iran in New Delhi, Tbilisi and Bangkok
over two days in mid February increased tensions as Israeli
leaders, who haven’t ruled out a military strike, say time is
running out for sanctions to deter Iran from building nuclear
weapons. Iran insists that its atomic program is strictly for
civilian energy and medical research.  Oil Trade  India and Iran have struggled to preserve $9.5 billion in
annual crude oil trade after the  Reserve Bank  of India
dismantled a mechanism used to settle payments in euros and
dollars. Iran’s ambassador to India, Mahdi Nabizadeh, in
February rejected charges his country was behind the attack in
the Indian capital.  India hopes for cooperation from Iranian authorities to
bring those involved in the attack to justice, Akbaruddin said.
“Investigations in the case are ongoing and no conclusions can
be drawn at this stage,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  