-- India Raises Gold-Import Tax for Second Time; Prices Drop
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-03-16T17:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/india-raises-gold-import-tax-for-second-time-prices-drop-1-.html
India , the world’s biggest bullion
buyer, increased the tax on gold imports for the second time
this year after record purchases widened the current-account
deficit. Gold fell.  The government will tax gold bars and coins and platinum at
4 percent,  Pranab Mukherjee , finance minister, said in his
budget speech for the year starting April 1. That’s up from 2
percent set in January. There was no change on the silver tax.  India doubled the tax on gold and silver on Jan. 17 by
imposing a levy on imports as a percentage of the price,
compared with the previous system of tax by weight. Global
bullion prices rallied for an 11th year in 2011 as purchases by
India peaked at 969 metric tons. Futures in India gained 32
percent last year, exceeding the 10 percent advance in global
prices, as the currency slumped to a record low.  “The Indian market will wait for lower prices and there is
also the risk that this duty hike will lead to increased
smuggling,”  Edel Tully , an analyst at UBS AG in  London , said by
e-mail today, in response to questions from Bloomberg News.
“Today’s duty increase will dampen Indian demand.”  Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.2 percent to $1,655.54
an ounce at 5:52 p.m. in London.  Non-Standard Gold  The import duty on so-called non-standard gold doubled
to 10 percent and the levy on ore, concentrates and so-called
dore bars doubles to 2 percent, Mukherjee said in his speech.  “One of the primary drivers of the current-account deficit
has been the growth of almost 50 percent in imports of gold and
other precious metals in the first three quarters of this
year,” said Mukherjee. “I have been advised to strengthen the
steps already taken to check this trend.”  The excise tax on refined gold climbs to 3 percent from 1.5
percent and the government will also levy a 1 percent excise
duty on non-branded gold jewelry, the minister said. Jewelry
purchases in excess of 200,000 rupees will attract a 1 percent
tax from July 1, he said.  “The demand will reduce in the short-term,” said N.
Balaji, general manager at MMTC Ltd., the country’s biggest gold
importer. “As people in India like to invest in gold as a safe
investment for longer-term, people will accept this hike after
some time,” he said by phone from  New Delhi .  Imports may drop to $38 billion in the year starting from
April 1 from $58 billion this year, Chakravarthy Rangarajan,
chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said
in a  report  last month. Consumption fell 7 percent to 933.4 tons
in 2011 as the currency plunged, cooling purchases for festivals
and marriages, according to the World Gold Council.  ‘No-Man’s Land’  “The fundamental reasons for buying gold jewelry are
unchanged,” said Ajay Mitra, managing director for  Middle East 
and India at the World Gold Council. “They are rooted in Indian
culture and weddings. Investment demand is driven by the need to
protect against inflation, ease of liquidity and the increasing
use of gold as a monetized asset to secure loans.”  The increase in tax was more than expected by the industry
and imports will not be affected, said Mehul Choksi, chairman of
 Gitanjali Gems Ltd. (GITG)  Imports plunged 44 percent in the fourth
quarter to 157 tons as jewelry demand slumped 44 percent to 103
tons and investment demand declined 38 percent to 70 tons, the
council said on Feb. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  