-- India Deficit Surpassing 5% for Second Year Limits Rate-Cut Room
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-03-16T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/india-proposes-subsidy-cap-as-singh-seeks-lower-deficit-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank  of India’s scope
for a series of interest-rate cuts to bolster a slowing economy
may be hampered by inflation risks from a  budget deficit 
projected to exceed 5 percent for a second year.  Benchmark bonds capped their biggest weekly decline in
seven as Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  unveiled an annual
budget yesterday that will require record borrowings of 5.69
trillion rupees ($113 billion) to finance a gap estimated at 5.1
percent of gross domestic product. The deficit for the year
through March 31 is projected at 5.9 percent, wider than the 4.6
percent target set in 2011.  Borrowing costs at the highest level since 2008 to fight
price rises, policy gridlock and slumping investment contributed
to a slowdown in growth to 6.1 percent last quarter, the weakest
pace since 2009. Public finances have been “deteriorating and
remain a key weakness” in  India ’s credit rating, Fitch Ratings
said after Mukherjee proposed a cap on subsidies and raised
service and excise taxes.  “The RBI said that it was waiting for the budget to
crystallize on the timing and magnitude of rate cuts,” said
Killol Pandya, the Mumbai-based head of fixed-income investment
at the local unit of Daiwa Asset Management Co. “This budget
does not give any comfort. It raises concern of the RBI pushing
back its timelines regarding rate cuts.”  Interest-Rate Decision  The  Reserve Bank of India  left  interest rates  unchanged at
8.5 percent for a third meeting on March 15, joining Asian
nations from  Indonesia  to  South Korea  in holding borrowing costs.
While it reiterated that future actions will be toward lowering
rates, the central bank said lingering inflation risks will
influence the timing and magnitude of such moves.  The monetary authority also said “credible fiscal
consolidation” will be an “important factor” in shaping the
inflation outlook. After the budget, Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said the estimated reduction in the budget deficit is a
“significant correction” and that the commitment to cap
subsidies is important.  One-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose by 17 basis
points since March 14 to a more than four-month high of 8.22
percent, reflecting investors’ concern the central bank may
delay reduction in  interest rates . The rate rose five basis
points yesterday. The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due
November 2021 jumped 14 basis points this week to 8.43 percent,
the most since the period ended Jan. 27.  Widest BRIC Deficit  Asia ’s third-largest economy has the widest fiscal deficit
among the so-called BRIC nations that also include Brazil,
Russia and  China . It has the group’s fastest  inflation , with
India’s benchmark wholesale-price index climbing 6.95 percent in
February from a year earlier.  “It doesn’t appear that the RBI is in a hurry to
immediately start cutting rates,” said Shubhada Rao, chief
economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “They will digest the
budget arithmetic more closely and they would simultaneously
view the cues for global crude prices.”  Brent crude , the benchmark for almost all of India’s
imports, has jumped about 15 percent so far this year. India
imports three-quarters of its oil.  Mukherjee proposed yesterday a cap of less than 2 percent
of GDP in the next fiscal year on a subsidy program that spans
diesel to fertilizers. He raised service and excise taxes to 12
percent from 10 percent.  While the subsidy cap would be positive for India,
implementation risk is “high” ahead of the 2014 general
election,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Crude Oil Surge  “The government might pass through significant amounts of
the tightness in crude prices and if that happens then it will
have an impact on inflation,” Daiwa’s Pandya said. “That puts
a question mark on the RBI’s stance on interest rates.”  The Reserve Bank raised borrowing costs by a record 3.75
percentage points from 2010 to October last year to fight price
rises. It unexpectedly cut the amount of deposits lenders need
to set aside as reserves on Jan. 24 and March 9 to ease a cash
squeeze, lowering the  cash reserve ratio  to 4.75 percent.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government, routed in state
elections this year, faces pressure to support the 69 percent of
India’s 1.2 billion population living on less than $2 per day.  Moody’s Investors Service said March 8 that India needs
“persistent” policy efforts over several years to narrow a
deficit that if left unchecked will hurt the economy. Slowing
growth has hampered tax revenues even as subsidies and a job
guarantee program for rural workers spur spending.  The government predicts GDP may rise 6.9 percent this
fiscal year, compared with 8.4 percent in the previous one.
Mukherjee estimated GDP may rise as much as 7.85 percent in the
year through March 2013 and that inflation will ease in coming
months.  The budget “can probably be best described as a good old-
fashioned tax and spending plan,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde ,
Singapore-based director of Asian economics at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “Sadly, but not unexpectedly, proposals for radical
economic reform were largely notable by their absence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  