-- India’s Proposed Change to Tax Law May Slow Foreign Investments
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-03-17T10:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/india-to-change-tax-law-after-losing-2-2-billion-vodafone-claim.html
India  has proposed changing laws so
it can retrospectively tax capital gains by foreign companies, a
move industry analysts including Nishith M. Desai say could have
a negative impact on investment in the nation.  The government’s had a “knee-jerk reaction” to this
year’s loss of a $2.2 billion tax case against  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , said Desai, managing partner at law firm Nishith Desai &
Associates in Mumbai. The proposed change in law “will
considerably erode India’s standing in the eyes of investors and
treaty partners,” he said in an e-mailed statement today.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , struggling to rein in
the widest  budget deficit  among major emerging economies, wants
the change to ensure the government gets as much as 400 billion
rupees ($8 billion) of tax payments that officials say is under
litigation. The move may slow foreign direct investment into
 Asia ’s third-largest economy, according to KPMG.  India gives foreign investors the guarantee that they will
not be taxed doubly, Mukherjee told Bloomberg UTV today. “We do
not give them the guarantee that they will not have to pay tax
in any country. That way we’ll simply encourage  tax evasion  and
 tax avoidance . That is not possible for any government.”  The Supreme Court in January dismissed the government’s
demand for 112.2 billion rupees of taxes from Vodafone stemming
from its 2007 purchase of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s India mobile-
phone operations. The new wording of India’s Income Tax Act will
apply retrospectively from 1962, according to Mukherjee’s budget
documents presented in parliament yesterday.  Define Intention  Transactions like Vodafone could now be reopened and
“assuming that the law holds, the companies will be issued tax
notices,” said Uday Ved, a partner at the local unit of KPMG.  “The highest court has given the verdict in favor of them,
so naturally that is the highest court of appeal and beyond it
cannot go,” Mukherjee said today. “The Supreme Court suggested
that you clearly define your position, your intention, that we
have done.”  The proposed change will only be applicable to those cases
that have already started or are “in the pipeline,” the
minister said. The government won’t reopen cases that are more
than six years old, he said.  “The budget proposes a number of regressive, retrograde
and extraterritorial provisions that would significantly
increase tax costs and alter the dynamics of cross-border
transactions and M&As,” Desai said.  The government’s  budget  proposal to introduce general anti-
avoidance rules, or GAAR, enabling the taxing of companies it
believes are structuring deals in a manner to escape taxes could
serve as a roadblock to companies’ investments, he said.  ‘A Pandora’s Box’  “The ambiguously worded provisions capture most
conventional structures for M&As and investments into India,”
said Desai. “If implemented, GAAR will open up a Pandora’s box
of uncertainty and litigation, and investors may be forced to
think twice,” he said.  While budget amendments to counter  Vodafone (VODA)  and similar
transactions were anticipated, the retrospective aspect of the
proposed laws is “surprising,” said Pallavi Bakhru, practice
leader for tax and regulatory services at Walker Chandiok & Co.  “We suspect that the constitutional validity of such an
amendment will be questioned,” Bakhru said in an e-mail.  The government on Feb. 17 filed a petition to review the
 Supreme court ’s decision on Vodafone, seeking to overturn the
ruling. The court had directed the government to return a 25
billion-rupee deposit  Vodafone (VODA)  made on the contested tax bill,
plus 4 percent interest.  ‘Have Faith’  “We are examining this proposed decision with our lawyers,
but we do not believe this retrospective change in tax law
should have any impact on the final judgment handed down,”
Vodafone said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We continue
to have faith in the Indian judicial system.”  Vodafone  shares  fell 0.3 percent to 166.35 pence at the
close of trading in  London  yesterday. After the court ruling in
January, Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  said the company
would continue to grow its Indian business.  Newbury, England-based  Vodafone (VODA)  and Hutchison conducted
their $10.7 billion transaction offshore, with Vodafone’s Dutch
subsidiary, Vodafone International Holdings BV, acquiring CGP
Ltd., a Cayman Islands-based holding company controlled by Hong
Kong-based Hutchison.  Cyprus, Mauritius  India’s tax department in September 2007 sought 112.2
billion rupees in  capital gains  tax, saying Vodafone should have
withheld that amount from its payment to Hutchison.  The tax law changes are also likely to hit buyout firms,
said Anil Singhvi, chairman of Ican Investment Advisors Pvt.  “Private equity owns substantial assets here and they
invest through Cyprus and Mauritius,” said Singhvi. “Profits
made by them selling Indian companies will now be subject to
taxes,” he said.  Vodafone is India’s third-largest wireless operator, with
148 million subscribers and a 17 percent share of the country’s
894 million mobile-phone accounts at the end of December,
according to the nation’s telecommunications regulator.  “It is certain that this amendment will be challenged
before the Supreme Court by aggrieved parties,” said  KPMG ’s
Ved. However, such petitions haven’t had much success, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  