-- U.S. Industrial Production Was Little Changed in February
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-16T14:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/industrial-production-in-u-s-was-little-changed-in-february.html
Industrial production  in the U.S.
was little changed in February, restrained by a slowdown in
manufacturing and a decline in natural gas extraction.  The output last month at factories, mines and utilities
compared with a median projection for a 0.4 percent gain in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Production in January was
revised to a 0.4 percent increase, initially reported as no
change, data from the Federal Reserve showed today in
Washington.  Manufacturing (IPMGCHNG) , which makes up about 75 percent of
total output, rose at the slowest pace in three months.  Higher energy costs, smaller inventory rebuilding and
slower demand for U.S. exports may be tempering production. At
the same time, stronger retail sales and corporate investment in
new equipment will probably sustain growth in the industry at
the forefront of the expansion.  “The trend for manufacturing has been good but not
great,” said  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , who projected a
0.1 percent rise in industrial production. “Slowing in certain
parts of the world -- Europe and  China  -- will have an impact,
and the lift from inventories is fading.”  Auto production cooled in February after surging a month
earlier, while the output of  consumer goods  was little changed,
today’s report showed. Manufacturing accounts for about 12
percent of the  U.S. economy .  Estimates of the 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from gains of 0.1 percent to 1 percent.  Stocks were little changed, with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbing less than 0.1 percent to 1,403.27 at 10:07 a.m.
in  New York .  Consumer Prices  Another report today showed the cost of living increased as
gasoline prices picked up. The consumer-price index climbed 0.4
percent in February, the most in 10 months, after a 0.2 percent
gain a month earlier, the Labor Department said in  Washington .
The so-called core measure, which excludes fuel and food, rose
0.1 percent, less than forecast.  Higher fuel prices may have weighed on  consumer sentiment 
this month, other data showed. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment fell to 74.3,
the lowest this year, from 75.3 the prior month.  Industrial output last month was tempered by limited
utility use because February was relatively mild. The average
temperature was 38.2 degrees Fahrenheit (3.4 Celsius) last
month, 3.6 degrees warmer than the 20th century average and the
17th warmest February in 118 years.  Utilities and Mines  Utility production was little changed in February after
slumping 2.2 percent in January. A 1.2 percent drop in mining,
which includes drilling for oil and natural gas, also hindered
total industrial output.  Capacity utilization, which measures the amount of a plant
in use, was little changed at 78.7 percent last month after 78.8
percent in January, today’s Fed report showed.  The output of motor vehicles and parts fell 1.1 percent
after jumping 8.6 percent in January, today’s figures show.
Manufacturing excluding autos and parts climbed 0.4 percent
following a 0.6 percent increase.  Production of business equipment rose 0.6 percent after a
2.1 percent increase.  Auto manufacturing has been contributing to factory growth.
Cars last month sold at the fastest pace in four years, led by
Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from General Motors Co.
Light-vehicle sales accelerated to a 15 million  annual rate , the
strongest since February 2008, according to Ward’s Automotive
Group.  CSX Corp. (CSX)   CSX Corp., the biggest U.S. eastern railroad, is
benefitting as automotive demand climbs, prompting forecasters
to revise estimates for 2012 light-vehicle production to 14.4
million cars. The Jacksonville, Florida-based company said
yesterday its auto volume has advanced about 20 percent this
year through March 9.  “From our perspective, we’re seeing an economy that is
sequentially improving,” Fredrik Eliasson, chief financial
officer at CSX, said at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. conference in New
York. “Our merchandise business is on track. We’re about 3
percent up. Clearly, automotive is helping that significantly.”  Auto production “is critical not just for our automotive
business, but also for our steel business, our chemical business
and our intermodal business,” he said.  Regional manufacturing reports yesterday showed factories
continue to expand in March.  Regional Data  The  Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index increased to 12.5, the highest since April, from 10.2 in
February. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index unexpectedly increased to 20.2, the fastest pace
of expansion since June 2010, from 19.5 last month. Readings
greater than zero in both gauges signal expansion.  While the job market is improving, Fed policy makers said
the  unemployment rate  is too high.  “Labor market conditions have improved further,” Federal
Open Market Committee members said in a March 13 statement.
“The unemployment rate has declined notably in recent months
but remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed
investment have continued to advance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  