-- Hirano Says Locals Will Leave Unless Japan Speeds Up Rebuilding
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-03-16T03:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/hirano-says-locals-will-leave-unless-japan-speeds-up-rebuilding.html
Japanese Reconstruction Minister
Tatsuo Hirano said the government must accelerate its five-year
plan to rebuild areas stricken by last year’s earthquake and
nuclear crisis or face the prospect of abandoned cities.  “I have a sense of crisis that locals may start to leave
if we don’t make significant progress,” Hirano said in an
interview yesterday in Tokyo. “We have to do this in two to
three years. We say the intensive period is the first five years
but it means as soon as possible.”  More than 340,000 people are still living in temporary
homes a year after  Japan ’s record earthquake and tsunami hit the
northeast region and crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant. Political squabbling has hindered reconstruction
efforts and voter discontent over the response has sent the
approval ratings of both major parties below 20 percent.  Less than 7 percent of the 22.5 million tons of debris left
by the water has been cleared, while money allocated for
reconstruction remains unspent due to red-tape. Only 55 percent
of the 14.3 trillion yen ($171 billion) raised through three
stimulus packages for spending this fiscal year has been
allocated as of the end of January, according to the
Reconstruction Agency.  “We have to hurry up but it’s not going the way local
governments want to,” Hirano, 57, said, adding it will take
more than a couple of years to use funds budgeted for
reconstruction. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  on March 11 marked
the anniversary of the disaster by pledging to rebuild “without
delay.”  Reconstruction Demand  Economists including RBS Securities Japan Ltd. and Nomura
Securities Co. expect reconstruction demand will boost the
world’s third-largest economy this quarter. The  Bank of Japan (8301) 
this week said the economy is expected to rebound to a
“moderate recovery path” thanks in part to overseas growth and
reconstruction-related demand.  “Reconstruction demand will increase” this quarter,
Hirano said.  His agency has invited foreign business organizations
including the American Chamber of Commerce to a briefing about
establishing a special economic zone on March 23.  Almost 70 percent of voters don’t support the way the
government has handled the reconstruction effort, according to a
Yomiuri newspaper poll published March 12. Noda’s approval
rating rose five percentage points from last month to 35
percent. The paper surveyed 1,041 people between March 9-11 and
gave no margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  