-- Irish Economy May Take Off ‘Like a Rocket,’ Noonan Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-03-16T12:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/irish-economy-may-take-off-like-a-rocket-noonan-says-1-.html
Ireland’s economy is poised to
“take off like a rocket” if global economic growth picks up,
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said.  The government predicts that  gross domestic product  will
expand about 2 percent next year, or 4 percent including
inflation, Noonan told journalists today in Paris. Nominal
growth could increase to as much as 6 percent if the world
economy expands more quickly than expected, he added.  Ireland’s medium-term outlook is improving mainly because
the government has created an “internal devaluation” of 16
percent since the onset of  Europe ’s financial crisis by pushing
down labor costs, according to Noonan. With the  European Central
Bank  now adding liquidity and turmoil in the European debt
markets fading, growth prospects may improve in coming months,
he added.  “We have become so competitive in this period of austerity
that if the world economy picks up, then Ireland can take off
like a rocket,” he said. “We may have very strong growth rates
in the next couple of years.”  This year may be more difficult. Noonan said earlier this
week that he expects to cut the 2021 growth forecast of 1.3
percent, though the government will still meet its budget
deficit target of 8.6 percent of GDP.  “Deficit reduction is on target,” Noonan said today.
“Ireland has consistently achieved or exceeded all its
targets.”  Asked about the government’s talks with the  International
Monetary Fund , the ECB and the European Commission about
reducing the cost of promissory notes used to bail out Anglo
Irish Bank Plc, Noonan said he’s getting “good support” from
other finance ministers in the euro area. Noonan met with French
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  