-- Italy to Revise Firing Rules, Broaden Benefits, Monti Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-03-16T09:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/italy-to-revise-firing-rules-broaden-benefits-monti-says-1-.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
planned overhaul of the Italian labor market will include a
revision of firing rules and an expansion of jobless benefits,
according to a statement by the premier’s office.  Monti, who will lead the talks with unions and employers
when the final round starts on March 20, said that firing rules
will be revised to distinguish between workers let go without
just cause and those who lose their job for disciplinary or
economic reasons. He released the statement last night after
meeting with the heads of the main political parties.  The easing of firing is one of the most contentious
aspects of the labor market talks that are also seeking to
expand  unemployment benefits  and reduce the number of part-time
contracts available to employers. Under article 18 of the labor
code, employers have to compensate and rehire and worker ruled
to have been fired without just cause by a labor court.  “On article 18 we will have to see just what the proposal
is, what we have heard up to now from the government isn’t
convincing,” Susanna Camusso, head of the CGIL union said today
in Florence, news agency Ansa reported.  Employers say that the rule makes it almost impossible to
fire workers during times of economic downturn, making them
reluctant to hire workers even when times are good.  Limiting Judges  Under the government’s latest proposal article 18 will
remain in effect, though judges will not be able to order
companies to rehire workers when they are fired for economic, 
newspaper Il Sole 24-Ore reported, without saying where it got 
the information.  Labor Minister Elsa Fornero began the talks with unions and
employers in January, and Monti has pledged to impose changes if
a negotiated deal isn’t reached by the end of the month.  The government is also seeking to ensure more workers can
receive jobless benefits, which currently favor employees of
 Italy ’s biggest companies, and to reduce the number of job
contracts already in use to facilitate access of young people to
the labor market, according to the statement.  The plan wants to encourage the use of apprentice
contracts, Sole said. The training contracts provide greater
protection for workers than most other temporary contracts,
while offering reduced benefits and lower pay than permanent
jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ; 