-- Italy Said to Pay Morgan Stanley $3.4 Billion
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-03-16T14:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/italy-said-to-pay-morgan-stanley-3-4-billion-to-exit-derivative.html
When  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said in January
it had cut its “net exposure” to Italy by $3.4 billion, it
didn’t tell investors that the nation paid that entire amount to
the bank to exit a bet on interest rates.  Italy, the second-most  indebted  nation in the European
Union, paid the money to unwind derivative contracts from the
1990s that had backfired, said a person with direct knowledge of
the Treasury’s payment. It was cheaper for Italy to cancel the
transactions rather than to renew, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the terms were private.  The cost, equal to half the amount to be raised by Italy’s
sales tax increase this year, underscores the risk of derivatives
countries use to reduce borrowing costs and guard against swings
in  interest rates  and currencies can sour and generate losses
for taxpayers. Italy, with record debt of $2.5 trillion, has
lost more than $31 billion on its derivatives at current market
values, according to data compiled by the Bloomberg Brief Risk
newsletter from  regulatory filings .  “These losses demonstrate the speculative nature of these
deals and the supremacy of finance over government,” said
Italian senator Elio Lannutti, chairman of the consumer group
Adusbef.  The transaction may prompt regulators to push for greater
transparency and regulation of how governments use derivatives,
said the head of the European Parliament panel that deals with
market rules.  ‘Need to Know’  “This latest revelation shows that we need to know a lot
more,”  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the economic and monetary
affairs committee, said in an interview today. “I’m reluctant
to have quite as many exemptions for central banks and
countries” from transaction-reporting rules, she said.  Morgan Stanley said in a Jan. 19  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that it “executed certain
derivatives restructuring amendments which settled on January 3,
2012” and reduced its Italian exposure by $3.4 billion.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
firm, declined to comment further. Officials at the Italian
treasury in  Rome  declined to comment on the contracts.  Morgan Stanley had a gain of about $600 million in the
fourth quarter related to the unwinding of contracts with  Italy .
That gain was a reversal of charges it took earlier in the year
to reflect the risk that the country wouldn’t pay the full
amount it owed, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in a
Jan. 19 interview.  Options, Swaptions  The $600 million gain accounted for about half the bank’s
fixed-income trading revenue in the fourth-quarter, excluding a
charge related to a settlement with MBIA Inc. and accounting
gains tied to the firm’s own credit spreads.  As Italy’s borrowings rose beyond the 1-trillion-euro mark
in the mid-1990s, the country started to use interest-rate swaps
and swaptions, options to enter into a swap, to cut the cost of
servicing that debt, a person with knowledge of Italy’s
contracts said.  Many bonds sold at the time had maturities of five or 10
years, some paying coupons of as much as 10 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Italy used swaps to spread its
payments over 30 years or more, the person said.  The country also reduced its interest costs by issuing
swaptions, using the income it received from selling the
derivatives to pay debts.  Swap Rates  As swap rates, which typically track German bond yields,
plunged after 2008 and option volatilities increased, Italy
found itself owing its banks money on the derivatives as its
bets unraveled.  The five largest U.S. swap dealers --  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. -- have a combined net derivative
counterparty exposure to Italy of $19.5 billion, filings show.
When added to figures for European banks released in the
European Banking Authority’s round of stress tests last year,
the total rises to as much as $31 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  