-- James Murdoch Board Seats Dwindle Amid BSkyB Scrutiny
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-19T09:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/james-murdoch-won-t-stand-for-re-election-as-sotheby-s-director.html
A year ago, James Murdoch was
promoted to  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s deputy chief operating officer, moving
ever closer to succeeding his father as head of the media
company. Now he’s struggling to keep his career alive.  Auction house Sotheby’s said March 16 that Murdoch will
leave its board, following demands he resign over his role in a
U.K. phone-hacking scandal. It was the third influential
position he gave up in as many months, resigning from the board
of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in January and as executive chairman of
News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit News International last month.  News Corp., based in New York, said the moves will allow
Murdoch, 39, to focus on his main job. Tim Bale, a professor of
politics at the  University of Sussex , said Murdoch’s role in the
scandal may force him to step down as chairman of pay-TV company
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , a position that is crucial
to his position overseeing the international television
operations of News Corp.  “It will be very difficult for him to stick around,” Bale
said in an interview. “His personal brand has been trashed so
comprehensively and continues to be trashed with each new
revelation.”  Murdoch’s future at BSkyB hinges on a report that U.K.
lawmakers are preparing on the phone-hacking scandal following
testimony he gave that has been contradicted by former
subordinates. The committee began its inquiry in July after
Murdoch said lawmakers had been misled about the extent of phone
hacking during a previous probe in 2009. It has questioned him
twice for the new report, once alongside his father Rupert, News
Corp.’s 81-year-old chief executive officer.  Tarnished Reputation  U.K. media regulator Ofcom will take parliament’s report
into consideration when evaluating whether James is “fit and
proper” to hold a broadcast license on behalf of BSkyB.  Murdoch’s prospects for remaining chairman of BSkyB, in
which News Corp. owns 39 percent, are also diminished because
the scandal tarnished his reputation as a manager, saidJeffrey Sonnenfeld, senior associate dean of the  Yale University School
of Management.   “He’s certainly not bringing better management competence
or insight or a reputation where his character is beyond
question,” Sonnenfeld said in an interview. “A lot of things
under his watch at best are a failure of management oversight,
even if he’s not directly complicit in any of the scandal.”  A News Corp. spokeswoman,  Julie Henderson , declined to
comment on the  Sotheby’s (BID)  departure, which takes effect May 8.
 Robert Fraser , a spokesman for London-based BSkyB, in which News
Corp. owns a 39 percent stake, also declined to comment.  ‘More Questions’  BSkyB shares dropped 0.1 percent to 690.5 pence as of 9:13
a.m. in London trading. The stock has declined 16 percent in the
last 12 months.  On March 14, Murdoch told U.K. lawmakers he should have dug
deeper to uncover the phone hacking at the company’s U.K. unit,
which saw News Corp. journalists hack into the phones of
celebrities and a murdered schoolgirl.  “I could have asked more questions, requested more
documents and taken a more challenging and skeptical view of
what I was told,” Murdoch said.  Murdoch told lawmakers in November that News of the World
editor  Colin Myler  failed to tell him in 2008 that phone hacking
at the now-defunct tabloid was common. Myler and the newspaper’s
lawyer Tom Crone have repeatedly insisted that they discussed
evidence with Murdoch.  The phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp. to close the
News of the World in July and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.4
billion) bid for full control of BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-
TV company.  ‘Little Advantage’  James’s decision to leave the boards of Sotheby’s and Glaxo
may already signal a diminishment of his perceived management
value, Edward Wasserman, Knight Professor of Journalism Ethics
at  Washington  and  Lee University , said in an interview.  “It’s tempting to say that in both cases, the boards saw
little advantage to whatever wisdom or adornment James brought
to being on the boards of these companies,” he said.  Murdoch was a Sotheby’s director for two years. Sotheby’s,
based in  New York , said it benefited from Murdoch’s “broad-
based marketing and brand management experience, his guidance
regarding the company’s strategic initiatives in  Asia  and his
insight into digital media.”  Report Delayed  Murdoch is leaving to “focus on his core responsibilities
at News Corp.,” Sotheby’s said. Glaxo Chairman Christopher Gent
said in January that “James has taken this decision to focus on
his current duties as non-executive chairman of BSkyB, and
following his decision to re-locate to the U.S.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  James was appointed CEO of BSkyB in 2003 amid accusations
of nepotism. He was promoted in 2007 to run News Corp.’s
television, newspaper and digital operations in  Europe , Asia and
the  Middle East , while becoming non-executive chairman of BSkyB.  The U.K. lawmakers are behind schedule with their report,
as they debate how critical they can be ofMurdoch, two people
with knowledge of the panel’s discussions said in February.
There is no question of Murdoch escaping criticism completely,
the people said at the time. They said panel members are
unimpressed by his statements that he was ignorant about what
was going on at the News International unit.  Protest Vote  News Corp. shareholders in October lodged a protest vote
against  Rupert Murdoch  and his sons, following an annual meeting
at which investors called for governance changes and an end to
voting practices that cement the family’s control. James
received the highest percentage of votes against his election to
the board, at 35 percent.  In November, one third of BSkyB’s independent shareholders
voted against  James Murdoch ’s re-election as chairman.  Professor Bale says the public criticism of Murdoch’s role
in the scandal is increasingly becoming a problem for BSkyB
itself.  “For the board as a whole and the company as a whole it’s
very difficult when someone is under such pressure,” Bale said.
“It’s a story he can’t control and there’s more to come. What’s
out there already is really bad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  