-- Japan Debt-Financing Concern Clouds BOJ’s Bond Buying: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-03-16T03:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/japan-debt-financing-concern-clouds-boj-s-bond-buying-economy.html
Some  Bank of Japan  board members
are concerned that increased bond purchases by the central bank
may be viewed as financing government deficit spending, minutes
of last month’s meeting show.  They said it was important “to clearly recognize and
explain to the public” that bond purchases are not “for the
purpose of monetization,” the document on the BOJ website
showed today. The planned purchase of about 40 trillion yen
($479 billion) of debt a year is a “large amount,” they said.  Government fiscal burdens, such as  Japan ’s public debt of
twice the nation’s gross domestic product, can increase pressure
on central banks to sacrifice their independence and prop up
state spending. In the absence of fiscal austerity measures,
last month’s expansion of bond buying could be seen as paving
the way for monetization, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said previously
in a report.  The BOJ is likely to “adjust the size of this asset-
purchase programe very gradually and mildly” to avoid investors
pricing in that risk, said  Junko Nishioka , an economist at RBS
Securities Japan Ltd. who has worked for the central bank.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board members expanded
bond purchases by 10 trillion yen at the meeting and set an
inflation goal of 1 percent “for the time being.” Shirakawa
said Feb. 14 that the central bank will “never buy bonds to
help finance” the government, and that to do so would erode
trust in Japan’s debt.  Japan’s 10-year bond yields fell 2 basis points to 1.035
percent at 10:44 a.m. local time after rising to 1.06 percent
yesterday, the highest since Dec. 5.  Singapore, Sri Lanka  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Singapore  reported that exports surged
in February, while  Sri Lanka  may say growth slowed last quarter.
Indian Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  will unveil the
country’s annual budget today.  The European Union statistics office may say the euro
zone’s trade surplus fell to 6 billion euros ($7.9 billion) in
January from 7.5 billion euros in December, a survey of
economists showed.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report may show the
 consumer price index  rose 0.4 percent last month from January,
while a separate report is forecast to show both industrial
production and capacity utilization increased in February.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the Thomson Reuters/
University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment
for March will be higher than February’s reading.  Economic Rebound  In Japan, the yen’s weakening from a post World War II
high in October is aiding the nation’s recovery from last year’s
earthquake and tsunami and an economic contraction in the fourth
quarter. The central bank held off from expanding asset
purchases this month as it monitored improvements, with Ryuzo
Miyao the sole dissenter.  With two new members due to be appointed to the nine-person
board within weeks, political pressure may mount for the central
bank to take bolder action to counter the decade-long deflation
the constrains growth in the world’s third-biggest economy. Some
lawmakers, including within the ruling  Democratic Party  of
Japan, are urging a higher inflation target and more asset
purchases.  In Japan, the risk from monetizing debt would be that
“bond prices would not reflect real fiscal risks” and would be
“artificially” cheap, said  Naomi Hasegawa , senior fixed income
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in
 Tokyo . “If that’s the case, investors are likely to avoid
purchasing such investments.”  She added: “I don’t think the BOJ is monetizing debt
yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  