-- JPmorgan Raises Year-End Dollar Forecasts Versus Euro, Yen
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-16T20:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/jpmorgan-raises-year-end-dollar-forecasts-versus-euro-yen.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its
forecast for the dollar against the euro and the yen this year,
citing U.S. fiscal tightening that will weigh on higher-yielding
currencies as the  Bank of Japan  increases stimulus.  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trade partners, will hold at
current levels during the next quarter before weakening,
currency strategists led by John Normand wrote in a note to
clients today. The firm lowered its end-of-year forecast for the
euro versus the dollar to $1.36 from $1.38.  Expiration of tax cuts enacted during President George W.
Bush’s tenure, an increase to payroll taxes and other spending
cuts will drive the  U.S. economy  into a recession and lead to
further dollar gains as investors seek haven assets, JPMorgan
said.  “Fiscal retrenchment of this magnitude would probably
guarantee a U.S. recession and U.S. dollar strength versus most
currencies through deleveraging,” Normand wrote.  The dollar has risen 1.2 percent against the euro so far
this month. It fell 0.7 percent to $1.3167 at 4:07 p.m. in  New
York . It dropped 0.2 percent to 83.37 yen after rallying 8.4
percent this year. The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell 0.4 percent to 79.881.  Against the Japanese currency, the dollar will strengthen
to as high as 86 by mid-June before ending the year at 83. While
projections for further stimulus from the Bank of  Japan  may
weigh on the yen, the long-term downtrend remains for dollar-yen
depreciation, Normand wrote.  Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  indicated last
week the central bank will keep using monetary policy as a tool
to tackle deflation. The BOJ unexpectedly added 10 trillion yen
($128 billion) to its asset-purchase program on Feb. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  