-- Karzai Wants NATO Pullback as Taliban Rebuffs Talks
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-16T17:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/karzai-wants-nato-pullback-as-taliban-rebuffs-peace-talks.html
The political fallout from the
March 11 shooting of 16 civilians, allegedly by an American
soldier, is threatening the dual pillars of U.S. strategy in
 Afghanistan , U.S. officials and regional experts said.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  told visiting U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  yesterday that U.S.-led coalition forces
should leave rural areas of Afghanistan and withdraw to major
bases, according to a statement from Karzai’s office. Such a
move could hobble the U.S.-led international effort to weaken
the Taliban enough to enable Afghan security forces to take over
the fight, one U.S. defense official said.  In addition, the Taliban yesterday suspended efforts to
start peace talks with the U.S., charging that the American
position is “shaky, erratic, and vague” in a “declaration”
posted on a Taliban website.  President  Barack Obama  called Karzai today to congratulate
him on the birth of his daughter and discuss issues in dispute,
such as U.S. military “night raids,” according to a White
House statement today. Obama agreed to hold further discussions
with Karzai about deployments of U.S. and coalition troops in
rural villages, said White House press secretary  Jay Carney .  Karzai’s ‘Concern’  “The two leaders did discuss President Karzai’s concern”
about U.S. forces in Afghan villages as part of plans already
under way to transfer security responsibility over the next two
years, Carney told reporters traveling with Obama aboard Air
Force One. “The two men were very much on the same page.”  Stephen Biddle, senior fellow for defense policy at the
 Council on Foreign Relations , said the administration has talked
about two routes to an acceptable outcome in Afghanistan: “We
hand off to the Afghans and they wage the war to a finish, or we
negotiate a settlement with the Taliban.”  “The option of handing an ongoing war off to the Afghans
and having them wage it to a finish, I think, is dead in the
water” since that assumes the U.S.-led coalition will “knock
down the viability” of the Taliban, he said yesterday on a call
with reporters.  With the plans for a troop drawdown between now and 2014,
he said, “what we’re really doing is we’re moving the likely
outcome of that negotiation in the Taliban’s favor, rather than
ours.”  Violence Toward Civilians  Karzai’s comments and the Taliban declaration came four
days after a U.S. soldier allegedly killed at least 16 Afghan
civilians, including women and children, in southern Kandahar
province. In his statement, Karzai said violent incidents
against Afghan civilians such as the one in Kandahar, “have
impacted the relations between Afghanistan and America, and
great actions must be taken in the future to prevent other
violence toward civilians.”  Two U.S. officials responsible for Afghan policy yesterday
dismissed Karzai’s statement and the Taliban declaration as
combinations of political posturing and negotiating tactics. A
third U.S. official called the Afghan leader’s remarks
internally inconsistent, saying Afghan forces are ready to take
over from NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force  now
while also talking about a 2013 handover. All three spoke on the
condition of anonymity because they aren’t authorized to speak
on the record.  ‘Ready to Take Over’  “International troops should leave their bases in rural
areas and villages and consolidate in their main bases,” Karzai
said, according to the Pashto-language announcement posted on
the Afghan presidency’s website.  “Afghanistan is currently ready to take over all the
security responsibilities in the country,” Karzai added. “So
we demand a faster security transition for Afghan forces.”  Panetta has seen Karzai’s statement and “believes it
reflects President Karzai’s strong interest in moving as quickly
as possible to a fully independent and sovereign Afghanistan,”
said  George Little , the defense secretary’s spokesman.  Panetta’s meetings with Karzai, Afghan Interior Minister
Bismillah Mohammadi and Defense Minister Abdul Rahim Wardak in
Kabul “very detailed and productive,” Little said.  Marine General John Allen, the NATO commander in
Afghanistan, told  CNN  on March 11 that the campaign there is
“sound” and “solid.”  ‘Night Raids’  Yet, two U.S. officials said the effort is jeopardized by
two potentially more serious developments: Afghan government
insistence that NATO forces stop “night raids” on suspected
insurgents’ hideouts, and the Pakistani parliament’s threats to
halt all U.S. drone flights over border areas which provide
havens and supply routes for the Taliban.  One of those officials said the raids and the CIA’s drone
missions to collect intelligence and kill members of the
Taliban, al-Qaeda and allied groups in their sanctuaries in
 Pakistan ’s tribal areas are essential to the U.S. strategy.  If both were halted, one of the officials said, there would
be little chance of handing Afghan forces a situation they could
manage by the Obama administration’s 2014 target date, much less
the 2013 mentioned yesterday by Karzai.  The larger obstacle to success, a U.S. intelligence
official said yesterday, is a growing perception by Karzai, the
Taliban, the Pakistanis and others that the U.S. and its
European allies will leave Afghanistan sooner rather than later.  Faster Withdrawal  A new Gallup poll released yesterday found that 50 percent
of Americans surveyed say the U.S. should accelerate its
withdrawal from Afghanistan, while 21 percent say American
forces should remain until the mission there is accomplished.
The poll, which questioned by telephone 1,006 people on March
13, had a sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  As a result, the official said, all sides appear to be
jockeying for position in the aftermath of a withdrawal by the
International Security Assistance Force. Karzai is denouncing
international actions in a bid for popular support, Pakistan is
hardening its opposition to drones for similar political
reasons, and the Taliban is waiting to retake control, as seen
in a U.S. National Intelligence Estimate last December.  In the statement posted on one of their websites yesterday,
the Taliban said: “We are not going to abandon the struggle for
our freedom and will not pardon you until the withdrawal of your
last soldier and until you let the Afghans establish an Islamic
government for themselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  