-- Kenya’s Shilling Set for Biggest Drop in More Than Five Weeks
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-03-16T11:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/kenya-s-shilling-heads-for-biggest-drop-in-month-against-dollar.html
Kenya ’s shilling headed for the
biggest decline more than five weeks against the dollar on
increased demand from local  oil companies .  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy weakened 0.7
percent to 83.10 per dollar by 1:35 p.m. in the capital,
Nairobi, set for the steepest drop since Feb. 9.  “There is demand from the energy sector, it is a lot more
than usual and also everybody is coming in at the same time,”
Sameer Lagadia, head of trading at Nairobi-based  Diamond Trust
Bank Kenya Ltd. (DTKL) , said in a phone interview today.  Oil advanced for the first time in three days in New York,
trimming a weekly decline as investors bet that fuel demand will
increase with an economic recovery in the U.S., the world’s
biggest crude consumer.  Tanzania’s currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 1,595
shillings against the U.S. currency.  “The shilling is a little under pressure today with demand
from oil companies, manufacturing and importing traders,” Fred
Siwale, a trader with  CRDB Bank Plc. (CRDB) , said today by phone from
 Dar es Salaam . “We have not seen much inflow today from the
central bank. We have not yet started receiving significant
inflows from the  agriculture sector .”  Uganda’s shilling weakened 0.8 percent to 2,489 per dollar.  “The shilling has weakened because of dollar demand by
offshore players who are exiting Uganda because of declining
yield on government debt,” Rogers Lutaaya, a currency trader at
Bank of Africa Uganda Ltd., said by phone from the capital,
Kampala. “There are also dollar demands by the energy sector
amid reduced inflows.”  Yields on three-month Treasury bills dropped to 19.504
percent on Feb. 22 from 19.890 percent on Feb. 8. The yield was
23.415 percent on Jan. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  