-- Kony Video Pulled in Uganda as Victims Angered by Publicity
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-03-16T14:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/kony-video-pulled-in-uganda-as-victims-shun-bid-to-publicize-him.html
Kony2012 , the video of Ugandan
warlord  Joseph Kony  that’s been viewed more than 100 million
times on the Internet, was halted from being shown to his
victims in the north of the country after a first screening
provoked anger and violence.  African Youth Initiative Network, a Ugandan group that
helps support victims of violence from the two-decade rebellion
by Kony’s Lord’s Resistance Army, organized a public viewing in
the town of Lira on March 13, drawing 35,000 people. In the
video by Invisible Children, a San Diego-based non-profit group,
filmmaker Jason Russell attempts to explain Kony’s atrocities to
his four-year-old son. He calls on supporters to lobby U.S.
lawmakers and buy posters, t-shirts and wrist bands to publicize
Kony’s name so he can be captured by the end of the year.  “The film produced such outrage, anger and hurt that
AYINET has decided that in order not to further harm victims or
provoke any violent response that it is better to halt any
further screenings for now,” Victor Ochen, executive director
of the group, said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. “The film’s overall messages were very upsetting to
many audience members.”  Stones Thrown  Most who came to watch the screening didn’t have access to
the Internet, electricity and TVs, Ochen said. Some viewers
threw stones at the screen to show their dissatisfaction, he
said.  Kony, whose official age isn’t known, has been on the run
since being indicted by the  International Criminal Court  in 2005
on charges including murder, mutilation, rape and the abduction
of 30,000 children for use as soldiers and sex slaves. The LRA
rebels are accused of killing villagers with machetes and
burning people to death in their huts at the instigation of
Kony, who claims he is a prophet.  The 30-minute video by Invisible Children, created by
Russell and two other filmmakers after a visit to  Uganda  in
2003, went viral on the Internet through campaigns on social-
media networks like Facebook and Twitter. Celebrities such as
Justin Bieber, the 18-year-old singer, and media magnate  Oprah Winfrey , tweeted in support of the video to millions of fans,
helping bolster support for the campaign.  Uganda Tourism  Kony and his fighters have moved into the Central African
Republic, South Sudan and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo after
fleeing northern Uganda six years ago. The armies of the four
nations have disagreed about the threat posed by the LRA,
slowing the progress to capture Kony.  The video is harming Uganda’s image by providing
“misinformation” that the nation is at war, Patrick Mugoya,
the permanent secretary in the Tourism Ministry, told reporters
in the capital, Kampala, today. Uganda earned $662 million from
tourism in 2010 and the film is “hurting our industry,” Mugoya
said.  Victims were angry at the Kony2012 campaign’s strategy to
make him famous and putting his face on t-shirts and posters,
said Ochen, who collated comments from several victims in the e-
mail.  “Which kind of movie is this with white people putting on
t-shirts and bracelets of Kony,” said an LRA victim who watched
the video in Lira and declined to be named because of possible
reprisals from the rebel group. “Are they celebrating our
suffering?”  T-Shirt, Bracelets  In the video, Russell asks supporters to buy an “action
pack” for $30 containing a t-shirt, bracelet, stickers, button
and posters bearing the Kony2012 logo. The posters show Kony’s
face with images of  Osama bin Laden  and  Adolf Hitler . The
campaign calls on young people around the world to put up
posters on a global day of action on April 20.  “Our intention was to share the story of Joseph Kony with
new people around the world,” Ben Keesey, chief executive
officer of Invisible Children, said in a video on its website on
March 13. “There is one thing that everyone agrees on, and that
is that Joseph Kony should be stopped. The problem is that it
isn’t that easy. Therefore the effort to stop the LRA has to be
comprehensive and it has to be huge.”  In eastern Congo and South Sudan, where the LRA is still
committing atrocities, many haven’t seen the video because of
slow Internet connections.  “It has come at a very late hour,” Paul Meja, a 30-year-
old businessman, said in an interview in Juba,  South Sudan ’s
capital. “I wish that video came out during the war when Kony
was terrorizing all these countries.”  LRA attacks in Congo have increased since Ugandan troops
left the country three months ago, forcing more than 3,000
people to flee their homes in northeastern Dungu since February,
according to the UN Refugee Agency.  “The young man who is the engine of the film, his words
are still good words and it’s good that these words are
spread,” Father Benoit Kinalegu, the head of the Catholic
Diocesan Commission for Justice and Peace in Dungu, said in a
phone interview. “Our wish is the wish in the video: the arrest
of Joseph Kony.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  