-- North Korea ‘Satellite’ Launch Plan Draws U.S. Rebuke
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-03-16T18:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/n-korea-to-launch-satellite-next-month-marking-founder-s-birth.html
North Korea  plans to launch an
“earth observation satellite” in April to mark the 100th
anniversary of state founder  Kim Il Sung ’s birth, drawing a
rebuke from the U.S. and a warning such action jeopardizes a
food-aid deal.  The U.S. has told North Korea that a launch would be a
“deal breaker,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said today in  Washington .  Next month’s announced liftoff follows North Korea’s
agreement in February to halt nuclear and missile tests in
exchange for U.S. food aid. The totalitarian state defied the
 United Nations  in 2009 by firing a rocket and saying the launch
was a satellite test, drawing condemnation from the U.S., Japan
and South Korea.  The U.S. has been in touch with  South Korea  and other
allies in an effort to pressure the North Korea regime to drop
the plan, she said. North Korea “understood from the
beginning” that such use of missile technology would halt
talks, she said.  The Kwangmyongsong-3 satellite will be mounted on a Unha-3
rocket and sent from a station in North Phyongan province
between April 12 and April 16, a spokesman for the North Korean
Committee for Space Technology said in a statement on the
official Korean Central News Agency. The launch is for
“peaceful purposes” and will “strictly abide by relevant
international regulations,” the unidentified spokesman said.  Missile Tests  “North Korea has always called these peaceful satellites
while the U.S. and South Korea identified the past two as
missile tests,” said Baek Seung Joo, North Korea specialist at
the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses in  Seoul . “If the two
countries designate next month’s launch as another missile test,
this will mean that the promise between the U.S. and North Korea
announced in February is broken.”  North Korea’s announcement is “highly provocative” and a
launch would violate United Nations resolutions prohibiting
North Korea’s use of ballistic missile technology, Nuland said
in a statement. “Such a missile launch would pose a threat to
regional security and would also be inconsistent with North
Korea’s recent undertaking,” Nuland said. The U.S. is
consulting its allies, she said.  South Korea and Japan also said the North’s planned
satellite launch would violate UN resolutions. The move is a
“serious, provocative act,” South Korean Foreign Ministry
spokesman Cho Byung Jae said in a statement.  ‘Hurt Efforts’  Japan  called on North Korea to show restraint and
reconsider the plan.  “We are concerned the launch will hurt efforts to resolve
pending issues through dialogue,” Japan’s Chief Cabinet
Secretary Osamu Fujimura told reporters today in  Tokyo . Japan
has set up a working group to monitor the communist nation’s
actions, he said.  The U.S. embassy in Seoul is looking into the North’s
announcement, spokesman Aaron Tarver said.  Defense-related shares rose today in Seoul after the
announcement. Speco Co., a maker of equipment for naval ships,
rallied 4.9 percent and Victek Co. which produces electronic
warfare equipment, gained 4 percent.  Kim Jong Un became leader of North Korea in December upon
the death of his father,  Kim Jong Il . The younger Kim inherited
an impoverished country of 24 million dependent on aid from
China and the regime has sought to bolster his image ahead of
the April 15 centennial of his grandfather Kim Il Sung’s birth.
Kim Jong Il had proclaimed that 2012 would be the year the
country becomes “a strong and prosperous nation.”  Food-Aid Deal  Under the agreement reached on Feb. 29, the U.S. agreed to
provide an initial 240,000 metric tons of much-needed food aid,
to be provided in 20,000-ton increments every month for a year.
The accord opened the possibility for the resumption of six-
party talks to persuade North Korea to abandon its nuclear
weapons development.  The North backed out of the talks, which include  Russia ,
 China , the U.S., Japan and South Korea, shortly after its
satellite test in April 2009 and has shown no sign that it’s
willing to resume them.  “With today’s announcement, North Korea is trying to tell
its people that the ’strong and prosperous nation’ campaign is
on schedule,” said Kim Yong Hyun, professor of North Korean
studies at  Dongguk University  in Seoul. “Externally the regime
is trying to deliver the message that they will take charge in
talks with the U.S. and try to secure another directive in
future discussions.”  Missile Technology  North Korea said that “a safe flight orbit has been chosen
so that carrier rocket debris to be generated during the flight
would not have any impact on neighboring countries,” KCNA said.  Defense analyst Baek said that while the security threat is
limited, the focus on next month’s satellite will be on whether
North Korea has improved its missile technology. The
Kwangmyongsong-2 rocket launched in 2009 demonstrated a reach as
far as 4,500 kilometers (2,800 miles), and North Korea aims to
increase that to 6,000 to 7,000 kilometers, he said.  South and North Korea technically remain at war since their
1950-53 conflict ended without a peace treaty. The North, which
has twice detonated a nuclear device, has more than 250 long-
range artillery installation along the world’s most fortified
border in reach of Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  