-- Naira Strengthens Against the Dollar, Paring Weekly Decline
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-03-16T16:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/naira-strengthens-against-the-dollar-paring-weekly-decline.html
Nigeria ’s naira gained against the
dollar, paring this week’s decline, as  oil companies  repatriate
earnings to fund operations in the country and fixed-income
investors bought the local currency before next week’s auction.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer rose 0.1
percent to 157.675 per dollar at 4:13 p.m. on the  interbank
market  in Lagos, trimming the week’s decline to 0.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The naira retreated this week, its first decline in three
weeks, as the government issued gasoline import permits for the
second quarter, boosting demand for dollars. Nigeria approved a
tender for 3.57 million metric tons of gasoline imports for the
second quarter on March 12.  “Companies, especially the oil industry, are bringing in
dollars as they commence funding for 2012 operations just as
investments into fixed-income securities have provided support
for the naira,” Sewa Wusu, currency analyst at Lagos-based
Sterling Capital Ltd., said by phone today. “However, the
release of the importers’ list triggered a sudden surge in
dollar demand, causing naira depreciation.”  Nigeria plans to sell 91-day, 182-day and one-year notes on
March 21, according to the Financial Market Dealers Association.
It sold 150.1 billion naira of bills on March 7, the Abuja-based
Central Bank of Nigeria said. The auction was oversubscribed at
328.8 billion naira.  Forty-two fuel retailers including the stated-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.,  Conoil Plc (CONOIL)  and  Oando Plc (OANDO)  were
issued permits, the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency
said. The West African country imports 70 percent of its fuel
due to a lack of refining capacity.  Government Spending  Nigerian lawmakers voted yesterday to raise  government
spending  by about 300 billion naira ($1.9 billion) more than
President Goodluck Jonathan proposed in this year’s budget to
pay for fuel subsidies. The Senate and House of Representatives
agreed to increase expenditure to 4.9 trillion naira, by raising
the benchmark oil price on which the budget is based to $72 a
barrel from $70, according to reports released in Parliament in
Abuja, the capital.  The increase in the benchmark price “is unlikely to be a
game changer for the central bank,” while “ interest rates  are
likely to be on hold, unless we see the emergence of more broad-
based inflationary pressure,”  Razia Khan , the London-based head
of Africa research at Standard Chartered Plc, wrote in a report
today.  The yield on Nigeria’s $500 million of dollar bonds due
2021 fell one basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 5.614
percent. Borrowing costs of domestic bonds due 2015 rose three
basis points to 15.88 percent, according to prices on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association  website .  Ghana’s cedi depreciated to the lowest in about two months
by 0.7 percent to 1.7455 per dollar in Accra, the capital, its
weakest since Jan. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  