-- Nazi-Looted Posters Must Return to Sachs Heir, Court Rules
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-03-16T10:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/nazi-looted-posters-must-return-to-sachs-heir-court-rules.html
A German court ordered Berlin’s
 Deutsches Historisches Museum  to return a collection of 4,259
posters looted by the Gestapo to the son of Hans Sachs, a Jewish
dentist who fled  Nazi Germany .  The Bundesgerichtshof in Karlsruhe, the highest court in
Germany for civil affairs, today overturned a January 2010
ruling by a Berlin appeals court. Sachs, a retired airline pilot
from Sarasota,  Florida , has been fighting a legal battle for his
father’s posters since a German government panel rebuffed his
claim in 2007. The Deutsches Historisches Museum, owned by the
German government and the state of Berlin, estimates their value
at more than 4.5 million euros ($5.9 million.)  “I can’t describe what this means to me on a personal
level,” Sachs said in a statement sent by his U.S. lawyer, Gary Osen. “It feels like vindication for my father, a final
recognition of the life he lost and never got back.”  The Nazis stole about 650,000 artworks, the New York-based
 Jewish Claims Conference  estimates. International restitution
guidelines agreed in 1998, known as the Washington Principles,
have paved the way for a number of high-profile claims for art
in museums by Nazi victims and their heirs.  More Lawsuits  Germany  was one of the countries that endorsed that accord.
The Culture Ministry has said the government is concerned that a
decision in Sachs’s favor may lead to a slew of similar lawsuits
by heirs who have been compensated for lost artworks but have
not had them restituted.  “The Deutsches Historisches Museum must hand over the
Sachs poster collection to the heir,” the court said in a
 statement  published on its website. “The owner of art lost due
to Nazi injustices must be able to demand it back from the
person who possesses it now, in a case where the work was
missing after the war, and therefore couldn’t be returned in
line with Allied restitution laws.”  The museum said in a  statement  that it accepts the court
decision and “will meet with Peter Sachs immediately to agree
on a speedy conclusion.”  One of the main motivations for fighting the case in court
was that “it threw up important fundamental questions about the
priority of compensation law,” the museum said. “Whether and
how far this decision will have consequences that reach far
beyond the individual case can only be determined by thorough
analysis of the written explanation of the decision.”  Goebbels’s Business  Hans Sachs began collecting posters in his school days. He
published a poster magazine called “Das Plakat,” founded a
society, held exhibitions and gave lectures. His collection,
including works by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Ludwig Hohlwein,
Lucian Bernhard and Jules Cheret, totaled 12,500 posters and was
at the time the biggest in the world.  It was seized in 1938, and when Gestapo officers carted it
off, they told Sachs that  Joseph Goebbels  wanted his posters for
a new museum wing dedicated to “business” art.  Sachs was arrested on Nov. 9, 1938, the night of the pogrom
against Jews known as Kristallnacht, and sent to Sachsenhausen
concentration camp. His wife’s efforts got him freed, and
together with Peter, then 14 months old, they fled to the U.S.  He had smuggled out some Toulouse-Lautrec posters, which he
sold to feed his family as they began a new life. He never saw
his collection again. Assuming it hadn’t survived the war, he
accepted compensation of 225,000 deutsche marks (about $50,000
at the time) from the West German government in 1961.  Emotional Loss  After discovering in 1966 that some of his collection was
still intact in East Berlin, Hans Sachs made contact with the
communist authorities to try to get the posters loaned abroad
for exhibitions. He didn’t succeed before his death in 1974.  In a letter to the museum, Sachs said he felt compensated
for his loss by the West German authorities and was happy to
learn that the surviving posters were housed together in the
museum. He added, though, that nothing could take away the sense
of emotional loss which “won’t heal for the rest of my life.”  Peter Sachs, who is 74, said he didn’t find out about the
collection’s survival until 2005 while doing research to trace
copies of his father’s magazine. He has said he is willing to
pay back the compensation in return for the posters.  The Bundesgerichtshof found that Sachs never lost legal
ownership of the posters and his heir therefore has the right to
possession.  “The court’s decision today is obviously gratifying after
seven years of struggling to get to this point, but it still
amazes me that it had to go all the way to the  High Court ,”
Osen, the lawyer, said by e-mail.  The case is BGH V ZR 279/10.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 