-- New York Seeks $300 Million Union Savings on Tappan Zee Bridge
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-03-16T20:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/new-york-seeks-300-million-union-savings-on-tappan-zee-bridge.html
The New York Thruway Authority is
negotiating a deal with unions aimed at saving $300 million on
construction of a new Tappan Zee Bridge by including a no-strike
clause and giving contractors control over work schedules.  Details of the negotiations were released today by the
Thruway Authority in a  request for proposals  sent to four
construction teams competing to win the $5.2 billion project.
The teams, announced last month, include  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , Bechtel
Group Inc.,  Skanska AB (SKAB)  and  Grupo Dragados SA (DRC) .  The request is part of an accelerated construction process
made possible by a so-called design-build law approved by
legislators in December. It puts private companies in charge of
designing and building the Hudson River crossing, rather than
having the state develop the plan and put it out to bid. The law
was backed by Governor  Andrew Cuomo .  The deal would save $300 million by “unifying work rules,
implementing a no-strike clause, providing a flexible work week,
allowing the contractor to control work sequencing and
operations, and other important concessions,” according to a
 statement  on a website set up by the Thruway Authority to track
the project’s progress.  Thruway Authority Executive Director Tom Madison said in a
statement that the agency wants to ensure that “we maximize the
public investment, provide important labor protections and serve
our customers as efficiently as possible.”  Bob Walsh, business manager for the  New York  City
Ironworkers, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call
requesting comment.  Over Capacity  The three-mile-long (4.8-kilometer) Tappan Zee, which
connects Rockland and Westchester counties as part of the New
York State Thruway system, carries 138,000 vehicles a day, 40
percent more than its original design intended.  Final proposals for the project, which would create an
estimated 45,000 jobs, will be submitted in June, and the
winning group will be announced in the following two months,
Cuomo said last month.  The state has applied for a $2 billion loan under the
Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act to help
pay for new bridge and is considering issuing toll-backed bonds
and private financing to cover the rest.  New York’s project is one of 26 seeking a total of $13
billion in Tifia loans, the U.S. Transportation Department said
in a statement e-mailed Feb. 15. The program has about $1.1
billion available, and New York is asking that its $2 billion be
spread out over several years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  