-- EPA Clears Water in Pennsylvania Fracking Town After Complaints
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/no-health-risk-in-water-near-pennsylvania-fracking-epa-says-1-.html
The water in 11 wells near Dimock,
 Pennsylvania , is safe, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
said, disappointing residents and health groups who say the
federal government should intervene in a dispute with  Cabot Oil
& Gas Corp. (COG)   In a statement released late yesterday, the EPA said its
tests begun early this year found sodium, methane, chromium or
bacteria, but at levels “within the safe range.” Two wells
were found to have elevated levels of arsenic, and the agency
will do a second round of tests of those homes.  “If they say it’s safe to drink, I want to see them come
drink the water from my well,” Craig Sautner, a local resident
who is part of a lawsuit against Cabot, said in an interview.
Sautner said his water is cloudy, and when he draws from his
well he can hear gas gurgling in.  Residents in Dimock complained that hydraulic fracturing
operations, or fracking, by Cabot near their homes had put
methane in their water and endangered their health. Fracking is
a process that injects water, sand and chemicals into deep shale
formations to free trapped natural gas.  The residents’ plight gained wider attention late last year
after Cabot cut off water deliveries and activists such as the
actor Mark Ruffalo traveled to the town to make their own
deliveries.  Cabot said its tests of the water in the area last year
turned up no signs of contaminants beyond legal limits.  Meeting Standards  “We are pleased that data released by EPA today on
sampling of water in Dimock confirmed earlier findings that
Dimock drinking water meets all regulatory standards,” the
company said in an e-mail yesterday.  A boom in gas production using hydraulic fracturing helped
increase gas supplies, cutting prices 32 percent last year while
raising environmental concerns about tainted drinking water. The
EPA is studying the effects of fracking on water and weighing a
series of nationwide regulations.  Dimock has been a test case for the agency as it
interjected itself after state officials had settled with Cabot
and allowed water deliveries to cease. The EPA initially pledged
to send water to the town, and then reversed itself. A few days
later it changed course again and said it would give water to a
few households, and those deliveries will continue.  Groups such as the  Sierra Club  said they were disappointed
in the EPA’s announcement yesterday.  “EPA should be increasing the alarm about arsenic showing
up at elevated levels near gas drilling,” Iris Marie Bloom, the
head of Protecting Our Waters, an anti-fracking group in
Philadelphia, said in an e-mail. “I would not want to be
drinking arsenic, and neither would you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  