-- Norway Krone Investors Should Brace for Fall, Olsen Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-03-16T10:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/norway-krone-investors-should-brace-for-fall-olsen-says.html
Norway’s central bank Governor
Oeystein Olsen said investors should be aware that the krone may
weaken and that it’s a riskier investment than the Swiss franc.  “At some point there is a risk for investors that the
krone weakens,” Olsen said in an interview in Oslo today. “For
short-term investors, this is a risk that we have underlined
many times: we are not like the Swiss franc, we are not as
voluminous, so the door is much more narrow than in
 Switzerland .”  Olsen sent the krone down to a 10-month low against the
euro this week when he cut the bank’s benchmark deposit rate to
target the currency. Most economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
predicted no change. The bank has stepped up its efforts to
contain the commodity-backed krone’s ascent after it touched a
nine-year high this month.  The krone pared gains against the euro and was little
changed at 7.5573 as of 11:35 a.m. in Oslo, after having gained
as much as 0.4 percent before Olsen’s comments. The currency
lost 0.1 percent against the dollar to 5.7849, after trading as
much as 0.3 percent higher.  “We still have some room for maneuver in the interest rate
policy in both directions,” Olsen said. “We have no certain
level of the krone that we steer toward.”  Norway’s Wealth  The economy of the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter has
steered clear of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. The government
has no net debt and the biggest budget surplus of any AAA rated
nation, thanks to a $600 billion sovereign-wealth fund.
Unemployment fell to 2.7 percent in February, Europe’s lowest
rate, the government said on March 1. Norway, like Switzerland,
isn’t a member of the European Union.  The country’s mainland economy, which strips out the effect
of oil, gas and shipping, will grow 3.25 percent this year, the
central bank said March 14. That compares with a Feb. 23
European Commission estimate for a 0.3 percent contraction in
the 17-member euro region.  “We realize that Europe in particular has problems and
that monetary policy in  Norway  is affected by the low interest
environment abroad,” Olsen said.  The central bank on March 14 cut its main rate a quarter of
a percentage point to 1.5 percent and signaled it intends to
keep the rate there for a year. Underlying inflation, which
adjusts for taxes and energy, will remain below the bank’s 2.5
percent target through 2015, it said. Inflation by that measure
held at 1.3 percent in February, and has been below target since
August 2009.  Swiss Fallout  The central bank has intensified its efforts to counter the
krone’s appreciation since the  Swiss National Bank  in September
clamped down on  currency speculation  by pegging the franc to the
euro. That sent investors in search of alternative havens from
Europe’s debt crisis.  Low borrowing costs may be fueling a credit-driven housing
bubble. The Financial Supervisory Authority warned this week
that the biggest domestic threat to Norway’s economy stems from
an overheated property market as borrowers assume  interest rates 
will stay low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 