-- Norway Oil Fund Rejected Greek Debt Swap, CEO Slyngstad Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-03-16T12:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/norway-oil-fund-rejected-greek-debt-swap-ceo-slyngstad-says-1-.html
Norway’s sovereign-wealth fund
rejected the Greek debt swap because it disagreed with the
different treatment given to the  European Central Bank ,
according to chief executive officer Yngve Slyngstad.  “It’s very important to create trust in the markets,”
Slyngstad said in an interview in Oslo. “To create trust you
have to stay by the rules and therefore to give preferential
treatment or to give collective-action clauses retroactive use
is challenging. We said ‘no’ on a principle basis.”  Greece reached its target for participation in the
restructuring after using the so-called collective-action
clauses to force the hand of holdouts, with investors accounting
for at least 95.7 percent of the bonds taking part. The ECB was
exempted from taking losses on its holdings, while the  European
Investment Bank  was also said to be spared writedowns, according
to two officials familiar with the matter.  “The whole thing has been done with a great deal of
contempt for the rule of law,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-
income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . “Long-
term investors are not going to get involved with the periphery
for a long time. It’s not surprising.”  Holdings Cut  The Norwegian oil fund’s holdings in  Europe ’s most indebted
countries declined by 39 percent last year amid a worsening of
the sovereign debt crisis, Slyngstad said at a press conference
today in Oslo. The $600 billion  Government Pension Fund Global 
cut its holdings of the securities issued by Europe’s so-called
periphery to 57 billion kroner ($9.88 billion) at the end of
2011, from 94 billion kroner at the start of the year.  European leaders have been struggling to contain a debt
crisis that started in  Greece  in 2009, leading to bailouts of
that country, Portugal and Ireland. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
gave banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.31 trillion) in three-
year loans in December and February to help calm markets after
yields in Italy and  Spain  climbed to euro-era records last year.  Norway’s government bonds handed investors a return of 7.9
percent over the past year as investors sought a haven from the
region’s debt crisis, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  