-- Norway Oil Fund Lost $15 Billion in 2011 as Stocks Declined
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-03-16T09:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/norway-oil-fund-lost-15-billion-as-stocks-fell-on-debt-crisis.html
Norway’s sovereign wealth fund,
 Europe ’s largest stock investor, lost 86 billion kroner ($15
billion) last year as equities slumped on concern the region’s
debt crisis might tip the global economy into recession.  The  $600 billion Government Pension Fund Global  fell 2.5
percent, as measured by a basket of currencies, its third worst
annual loss since 1998, the Oslo-based investor said today. Its
equity holding fell by 8.8 percent and its bonds rose 7 percent.  “The result reflects substantial declines in share prices
in 2011 and increased uncertainty about government debt in the
euro area,” said  Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer of
Norges Bank Investment Management, which manages the fund, in a
statement. “We are prepared for significant fluctuations in the
fund’s value from year to year.  Investors dumped stocks last year after European leaders
failed to contain the region’s crisis, shattering confidence in
the euro. Turmoil stemming from  Greece  spread through the
region, and ended up costing  France  -- the euro area’s second-
biggest economy -- its top  credit rating .  Government Bonds  The fund said today that its government bond holdings
returned 10.5 percent in 2011, while its financial stocks
slumped 19 percent. The fund’s average holding of all European
listed company rose to 2.3 percent in 2011.  The MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of stocks posted its worst annual drop
since 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. collapsed. The
index fell 7.6 percent after plunging 17 percent in the third
quarter alone. The euro recorded its first back-to-back annual
drop against the dollar since 2001, while yields on bonds from
Italy and  Spain  surged.  Government securities  from the U.S.,
 Germany  and the U.K. rallied.  The  European Central Bank  reversed interest rate increases,
cutting its benchmark rate to a low of 1 percent in December as
the debt crisis escalated. An unprecedented 1.02 trillion euros
($1.33 trillion) of three-year loans to banks in December and
February helped ease tensions on financial markets, fueling bond
and equity-market rallies.  Norway ’s oil fund posted its second-worst quarterly result
in the third quarter after losing 21 percent on its European
stocks. The investor said today it bought stocks worth 185
billion kroner from June to November to take advantage of
falling asset prices.  Great Importance  “We bought more than a 150 billion kroner in European
equities from the summer through the end of the year,”
Slyngstad said in the statement. “Because more than half of the
fund is invested in Europe, it is of great importance to us that
authorities are successful in solving the considerable
structural and monetary challenges faced by the euro countries.”  At the end of 2011, the Norwegian fund held 58.7 percent of
its assets in stocks, 41 percent in bonds and 0.3 percent in
real estate. It’s mandated to hold 60 percent in stocks, 35
percent in bonds and 5 percent in real estate, which it first
bought last year. The fund is managed by the central bank and
gets guidelines from the Norwegian government.  The fund’s largest stock holding last year was in  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , while its biggest bond holding was in U.S.
Treasuries, followed by U.K. and French  government bonds .  Its holdings in Italian government debt fell to 32.9
billion kroner from 43.8 billion kroner at the end of the third
quarter while its holding of Spanish debt fell to 18 billion
kroner from 19.5 billion kroner.  Erupting Crisis  The fund lost a record 633 billion kroner in 2008, when the
financial crisis erupted following the collapse of Lehman. It
posted a 26 percent return in 2009 and a 9.6 percent gain the
following year.  Norway’s government deposited 271 billion kroner of oil
revenue into the fund last year. The return missed by 0.1
percentage point the benchmark set by the  Finance Ministry .  The  fund  got its first capital infusion in 1996 and has
been taking on more risk as it expands globally, raising its
stock portfolio from 40 percent in 2007. It first added stocks
in 1998, emerging markets in 2000 and this year real estate to
boost returns and safeguard wealth.  Norway, a nation of 4.9 million people, generates money for
the fund from taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum
fields and dividends from its 67 percent stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
the country’s largest energy company. The Nordic nation is the
world’s second-largest gas exporter and the seventh-biggest oil
exporter. The oil fund invests outside Norway to avoid stoking
domestic inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  