-- Novartis, Vringo, Cerner, Nike, D&G: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-16T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/novartis-vringo-cerner-nike-d-g-intellectual-property.html
United Therapeutics Corp. sued
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit to prevent it from selling a generic
version of Remodulin, a drug for pulmonary arterial
hypertension.  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in federal court in Trenton,
 New Jersey , cites Sandoz’s application to the U.S. Food & Drug
Administration to sell a copy of Remodulin before the expiration
of three United Therapeutics patents, including one that runs
out in 2014.  Sandoz claims the patents are invalid or wouldn’t be
infringed by the copy, according to the UTC complaint. UTC,
based in Silver Spring,  Maryland , asked a judge to rule that
Sandoz infringed its patents and to bar sale of a generic
version until its patents expire.  “Sandoz does not comment on pending litigation,” Julie
Masow, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  The case is  United Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR)  v. Sandoz, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Vringo to Merge With Patent Owner Innovate/Protect  Vringo Inc. (VRNG) , a New York-based provider of video ringtones,
plans to merge with  Innovate/Protect Inc. (0207616D) , which owns patents
acquired from Internet search engine operator Lycos Inc.  Innovate/Protect shareholders will own about 55 percent of
the stock in the combined company, according to a statement.
Vringo shareholders will hold 44.5 percent.  Innovate/Protect brought a patent-infringement suit in
September in federal court in  Virginia  against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
others for allegedly infringing two patents held by a unit. A
hearing to determine the scope of the patents is set for June 4.  At issue in that case are patents 6,314,420 and 6,775,664,
related to search engines and information filter systems.  The case is I/P Engine Inc. v. AOL Inc., 11-cv-00412, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  Cerner Non-Infringement of Visicu Patents Upheld on Appeal  Cerner Corp., a  Kansas City , Missouri-based provider of
health-care services, won affirmation from a federal appeals
court that it didn’t infringe patents held by a competitor.  Cerner sued in federal court in Kansas City in November
2004, seeking a declaration that it didn’t infringe patent
6,804,656. The patent was issued the previous month to Visicu
Inc., now a unit of  Royal Dutch Philips Electronics NV. (PHIA)   The patent covered a system and method for providing
critical-care services from a remote location. Cerner said that
it was subjected to “unfounded allegations” and “threats and
warnings” that it infringed the patent. Cerner also accused
Visicu of engaging in “an aggressive and systematic campaign”
of unfair competition.  In December 2009, a federal jury in Kansas City said the
intellectual-property rights asserted by Visicu were invalid and
not infringed, and rejected Visicu’s argument that it was
entitled to patent royalties. The Washington-based  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which hears appeals of patent
cases, affirmed the ruling March 15.  The dispute was over computer systems that use software to
analyze patient information, computerize drug ordering and track
any change in a patient’s status so doctors can respond even if
they aren’t in the room.  Amsterdam-based Philips,  Europe ’s biggest consumer-
electronics maker, bought Baltimore-based Visicu in 2008 for
about $430 million in cash to add to its  medical division .  The lower court case is  Cerner Corp. (CERN)  v. Visicu Inc., 04-
cv-1033, U.S. District Court, Western District of  Missouri 
(Kansas City). The appeal is Cerner Corp. v. Visicu Inc.,
2011-1209-1210, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ).  Samsung Accused of Infringing Patent Covering Emoticon Insertion  Samsung Electronics Co., a maker of mobile phones that run
on the Android operating system, was sued for patent
infringement by a  New York  company.  Varia Holdings LLC accused Samsung of infringing patent
7,167,731, which covers a technology for inserting emoticons
into communication devices. Emoticons are symbols such as a
smiley face that are used to express the feelings of the writer
of a text. The patent was issued in January 2007.  The patent owner claims that 34 of the Suwon, South Korea-
based company’s mobile devices infringe the patent. The Samsung
devices have an “insert smiley” key that brings up a list of
emoticons the user can choose.  Varia, in the complaint filed March 15, asked the federal
court in  Manhattan  to bar future infringement and award triple
money damages to punish Samsung. It also requests attorney fees
and litigation costs.  Samsung didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Varia Holdings LLC v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
1:12-cv-01899, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Nike Ditches ‘Black And Tan’ Name for New Sneaker Product  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the Beaverton, Oregon-based sportswear company
made famous by its running shoes, backtracked on a name for  one
of its new sneakers , the Los Angeles Times reported.  The company apologized for the use of “black and tan” for
its shoe, saying the name “can be viewed as inappropriate and
insensitive,” according to the Times.  “ Black and Tan ” was a term used for British forces
accused of brutality against the Irish during the political
unrest in the 1920s, the newspaper reported.  Dolce & Gabbana Drops Opposition to Scottish Garage’s Trademark  Dolce & Gabbana, the Italian luxury fashion house, ended a
trademark scuffle with a Scottish auto-repair chain, Scotland’s
Courier newspaper  reported .  D&G Autocare, a garage chain based in Dunfermline,
Scotland, had sought to register its name with the U.K.’s
 Intellectual Property  Office in October, only to be met with a
“notice of threatened opposition” by Milan’s Dolce & Gabbana,
according to the Courier.  Counsel for the garage chain wrote the fashion house asking
for proof of its presence in the auto industry, the newspaper
reported.  Dolce & Gabbana responded that it would drop the objection
if the garage chain always used “autocare” with its D & G
logo, and didn’t try to register the name outside the U.K.,
according to the Courier.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Optus Row Pushing Court Into Policy Arena Makes Judge Reticent  Singtel Optus Ltd. (CWO) ’s dispute with Australian sports leagues
over the streaming of broadcasts to computers and phones has a
judge concerned the courts may be pushed into making policy
decisions better left for the government.  “You’re asking us to make a policy decision,” Justice
Arthur Emmett, a member of a three-judge panel hearing the
sports leagues’ appeal of a ruling that cleared Optus to show
over-the-air broadcasts on computers and mobile devices, said
yesterday. “Should we not be reticent to do that?”  The  Australian Football League , the most popular spectator
sport in the country, and the  National Rugby League  seek to
overturn the lower court ruling to protect broadcasting rights
valued at more than $1 billion. The decision, if upheld, would
also let mobile phone operators stream over-the-air broadcasts
of this year’s Olympic Games to customers, with only a slight
delay, and without having to pay for broadcast rights.  The panel reserved its ruling in the case at the hearing in
Sydney, with Emmett saying that the judges “hope to have a
decision reasonably expeditiously.”  The main point of dispute is who creates the electronic
files that are streamed to the customer for viewing.  The AFL, NRL and Telstra Corp.,  Australia ’s biggest phone
company, say Optus’s service infringes their copyrights because
it makes the recordings, stores them on its servers, and passes
them on to customers.  The AFL signed a five-year, A$1.25 billion ($1.3 billion)
agreement last year with  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) ’s Seven Network,
Foxtel, Australia’s biggest pay television operator, and Telstra
for exclusive broadcast rights to its games. The NRL is in talks
with broadcasters on a new deal that would run from 2013 to
2017.  Optus is covered by an exemption in the copyright law that
allows people to make recordings of copyrighted material for
their own personal use, the company said.  “The customer operates Optus’s equipment,” Richard
Cobden, Optus’s lawyer, told the panel yesterday. “The last
human intervention is the maker.”  The case is National Rugby League Investments Ltd. v.
SingTel Optus Ltd. NSD201/2012 Federal Court of Australia, Full
Court (Sydney).  For copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  