-- Obama Enlists Hanks, Top Hollywood Talent for Campaign Video
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/obama-campaign-debuts-film-for-supporters-as-election-gears-up.html
President  Barack Obama ’s campaign
rolled out a $345,000 film production for supporters as the
president pivots more directly toward his 2012 re-election bid.  The campaign pulled in Hollywood support to provide Oscar-
caliber talent for the 17-minute film, with direction by Davis Guggenheim and narration by  Tom Hanks .  Using interviews with former administration officials,
Obama advisers and Democratic Party leaders, the film that
debuted last night is a retrospective on Obama’s first three
years in office that seeks to portray him as a decisive leader.  With appearances by Vice President  Joe Biden , former
President  Bill Clinton , Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, Obama’s
first chief of staff, and Senate candidate Elizabeth Warren of
 Massachusetts , about a quarter of the running time is spent on
the deteriorating state of the economy at the time Obama took
office.  Interviews, news footage and still photos are linked by
Hanks’s dramatic narration.  “Not since the days of  Franklin Roosevelt  had so much
fallen on the shoulders of one president,” Hanks says as the
film transitions into the administration’s responses.  The campaign said it’s holding 300 screenings at homes and
at openings of offices and will be followed by a broadcast on
the web with chief political strategist  David Axelrod . The film
was released ahead of time to the media.  Hollywood ‘Fiction’  Republican strategist Ron Bonjean called the project
“fiction” that’s “brought to you by Hollywood.”  “Hollywood is trying to fictionalize the truth about
what’s happened the last few years with President Obama,”
Bonjean said in an interview. “But it’s missing the millions of
Americans who aren’t feeling any better about the economy or job
creation or gasoline prices.”  Obama’s advisers are moving to generate enthusiasm among
supporters heading into what they say will probably be a close
election in November.  Biden set out yesterday on what his office billed as the
first official event of the campaign at a union hall in Toledo,
 Ohio . The vice president criticized Obama’s Republican rivals by
name and said in the coming weeks he will lay the “clear, stark
differences between us and our opponents.”  Obama, speaking at about the same time on energy policy in
Largo, Maryland, refrained from naming anyone when he criticized
“professional politicians, a lot of the folks who are running
for a certain office” for being “stuck in the past” with
their proposals.  Obama’s re-election campaign spent $162,834 on the film
last month, and $182,158 in 2011, according to Federal Election
Commission filings.  Guggenheim, who directed “Waiting for Superman,” a
documentary about the U.S. education system, won an Oscar in
2006 for “An Inconvenient Truth,” which chronicled former Vice
President  Al Gore ’s drive to raise awareness about climate
change. He also directed a  biographical  film about Obama for the
Democratic National Convention in 2008.  Hanks, who was among the guests at the White House for this
week’s state dinner honoring U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
has been an Obama supporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net 
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  