-- Oprah Helps Obama to Raise $5 Million in Chicago, Atlanta
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-03-17T02:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/obama-aims-to-raise-5-million-with-stops-in-chicago-atlanta.html
President  Barack Obama , turning
full attention to his re-election campaign, aimed to raise more
than $5 million today with fundraisers in his adopted hometown
of  Chicago  and then Atlanta, where  Oprah Winfrey  joined with
other wealthy donors.  Obama arrived in Chicago as two of the Republicans who want
to challenge him in November,  Mitt Romney  and  Rick Santorum ,
also had Illinois campaign events before the state’s March 20
presidential primary.  Obama then went on to Atlanta, where his stops included
dinner for about 40 people, including Winfrey, at the home of
actor and film producer Tyler Perry. There, Obama said of his
presidency: “This is not a three-year project. This is an
eight-year project,” prompting applause.  The president’s day-long fundraising drive followed
yesterday’s release of a 17-minute documentary-style film
intended to generate enthusiasm among supporters and Vice
President  Joe Biden ’s first official campaign event in which he
went on the offensive against the Republican candidates.  The first of Obama’s five stops was at the Palmer House
Hilton Hotel in Chicago, where about 600 people paid $2,500 a
piece to watch the campaign film and listen to the president.  Without naming his would-be opponents, Obama said the state
has “guests this week,” referring to the campaigning leading
up to the primary.  Land of Lincoln  “Welcome to the Land of Lincoln,” Obama said. Taking an
indirect dig at his rivals, he said that he hoped “maybe some
Lincoln will rub off on them while they are here,” and told the
audience to prepare for “an avalanche of attack ads.”  The state’s  Republican Party  chairman, Pat Brady,
criticized Obama for concentrating on his campaign.  “After three years of failed policies, broken promises and
a seemingly endless supply of empty rhetoric, it is abundantly
clear that President Obama has given up on governing and is only
concerned about campaigning to save his own job,” Brady said in
an e-mailed statement.  After the speech, the president held a closed discussion
with about 60 supporters who donated at least $10,000 each.  In Atlanta, Obama began his fundraising at a private
residence where 75 people paid $10,000 each to attend. He then
greeted 1,000 supporters at Perry’s studios, an event that
included a musical performance by Cee Lo Green. Most of the
tickets started at $500 with a smaller number sold at $250,
according to the campaign.  Perry’s House  At the first Atlanta stop, Obama jabbed at the Republicans.
“Their basic vision is, ‘You know what? I’ve got mine,’” he
said. “And that’s why the other side really doesn’t talk about
issues.”  Obama capped the day at Perry’s house. Tickets to that cost
$35,800. Perry gave $30,400 on May 30, 2009, to the  Democratic
National Committee  and $4,600 Sept. 12, 2007, to Obama’s first
presidential campaign, according to the nonpartisan Center for
Responsive Politics, which tracks contributions.  The money raised today goes to the Obama Victory Fund, a
joint account for the president’s campaign organization and the
Democratic National Committee. Obama raised $140 million for his
re-election campaign through the end of January, Federal
Election Commission reports show.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, was the first of
the Republicans to make a public appearance today, stopping by a
pancake restaurant near the Chicago area’s O’Hare International
Airport before his departure to  Puerto Rico  for campaigning
there ahead of party caucuses this weekend.  Santorum, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania , had
events today in the Chicago suburb of Arlington Heights,
 Illinois , and is scheduled to make campaign appearances across
the state this weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  