-- Ohio Lawmakers Won’t Change Gas Severance Tax, Kasich Says
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-03-16T23:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/ohio-lawmakers-won-t-change-gas-severance-tax-kasich-says-1-.html
Republican  Ohio (STOOH1)  Governor  John Kasich  is vowing to fight lawmakers from his own party to
increase the tax on oil and natural-gas drillers.  Kasich, a 59-year-old former congressman and Fox News
commentator, today told reporters on a conference call that the
Republican-controlled  Ohio  House of Representatives won’t
consider the plan he unveiled March 14. That won’t deter him
from trying to get it enacted in an effort to raise money for an
income-tax cut for individuals and small businesses, he said.  “Special interests have a different point of view than I
have on this,” Kasich said, declining to identify them. “This
appears to be the first inning of what’s going to be a long
ballgame.”  States including Ohio,  Pennsylvania  and  North Dakota  are
weighing how to regulate and tax the products of hydraulic
fracturing. The drilling technique known as fracking involves
injecting water, sand and chemicals underground at high pressure
to bring fossil fuels to the surface.  Companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK)  and  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  have begun drilling in Ohio’s Utica
Shale, a geological formation that may hold as much as 5.5
billion barrels of oil and 15.7 trillion cubic feet of gas. Ohio
drillers also are tapping into the Marcellus Shale, which
stretches across Pennsylvania to  New York .  Fast Reaction  Kasich scheduled the conference call less than an hour
after Representative Ron Amstutz, the chairman of the House
Finance Committee, issued a press release saying he will put the
governor’s proposal on hold for more study.  “There are key questions that cannot be sufficiently
answered and resolved within the available legislative time
frame,” Amstutz said in the release.  Asked in a telephone interview how long the proposal would
be put off, Amstutz said “indefinitely.”  Drillers would pay a severance tax as high as 4 percent
that would generate as much as $1 billion by 2016, according to
Kasich’s office.  It’s a choice between letting out-of-state companies and
their shareholders reap most of the gas boom’s benefits or
allowing all Ohioans to share in them, Kasich has said.  Amstutz said he’s concerned about the total tax burden on
drillers when other levies are considered. Kasich called that
argument “silly,” saying, “Add them all together, we’re still
on the low end” compared with other states.  In the Cradle  Ohio’s drilling boom is just starting, and Kasich’s tax
could discourage investment, said Jerry James, president of the
Ohio Oil and Gas Association and Marietta-based Artex Oil Co.  “When something’s in its infancy, and you’re going to put
an onerous tax on it, that’s going to have a definite effect,”
James said in a telephone interview.  Kasich noted that Chesapeake announced a partnership March
13 to build a $900 million processing plant in eastern  Ohio (STOOH1) .
Denver-based  MarkWest Energy Partners LP (MWE)   announced  Jan. 31 that
the company and a joint-venture partner plan three natural-gas
processing plants in eastern Ohio.  “We’re going to be pleasantly aggressive,” Kasich said.
“I’m disappointed, but it’s not over by a long shot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  