-- Oil Rebounds From One-Week Low on Outlook for U.S. Demand
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-16T20:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/oil-rebounds-from-one-week-low-on-outlook-for-u-s-demand.html
Oil rose and gasoline climbed to a
10-month high on speculation that fuel demand will increase with
the economic rebound in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude-
consuming country.  Futures in New York advanced 1.9 percent after U.S.
industrial output increased for a 10th month as January’s
production was revised to a gain. Consumer prices excluding food
and energy climbed a smaller-than-forecast 0.1 percent last
month, giving the Federal Reserve less reason to boost borrowing
costs anytime soon to curb inflation.  “As the  U.S. economy  grows, demand will increase, sending
prices higher and tightening the market,” said Paul Crovo, a
Philadelphia-based oil analyst at PNC Capital Advisors. “The
bias for the market remains to the upside.”  Crude for April delivery rose $1.95 to $107.06 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since
March 9. It was the biggest gain since Feb. 21. Prices, which
are up 8.3 percent this year, fell 0.3 percent this week.  Gasoline for April delivery extended its 2012 gain to 25
percent, surging 6.84 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $3.3569 a
gallon. The settlement was the highest since May 10.  Brent oil for May settlement increased $3.21, or 2.6
percent, to end the session at $125.81 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Industrial Output  Industrial output  at factories, mines and utilities in the
U.S. rose 0.02 percent in February, below the 0.4 percent
increase that was the median estimate of 80 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before a report today. January’s output was
revised to an increase of 0.4 percent from little changed.  U.S. applications for  unemployment insurance  payments fell
by 14,000 to 351,000 last week, Labor Department data showed
yesterday. The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s general
economic index increased to 20.2 this month, the highest since
June 2010.  The so-called  core measure  of consumer prices climbed 0.1
percent in February, less than the 0.2 percent projected by 79
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News, the Labor Department
reported in  Washington . The consumer-price index climbed 0.4
percent, matching the median forecast in the survey.  “The consumer prices were a relief,” said  Phil Flynn , an
analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago . “There were fears that the core
rate would be higher, forcing the Fed to raise rates earlier
than planned to stop inflation.”  Consumer Confidence  Oil also gained as the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment fell to 74.3
from a one-year high of 75.3 and the euro rose as much as 0.8
percent against the dollar after the inflation report. A
stronger euro and weaker dollar boost oil’s investment appeal.  “The  consumer confidence  number was a bit lower than
expected but it was still positive, and the industrial output
number wasn’t bad either,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It looks
like the primary reason for the move higher today is the
weakness of the dollar.”  Oil fell yesterday on reports that the U.S. and the U.K.
agreed to cooperate on releases from strategic reserves to
reduce gasoline prices. U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron and
 Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said no agreement
was reached.  The U.S. has withdrawn oil from its Strategic Petroleum
Reserve 18 times since 1985, most recently in July and August
last year in an International Energy Agency effort to offset a
supply disruption in  Libya .  Gasoline Prices  “An SPR release is certainly on the minds of people in the
administration, especially given the election,” said  Tom Bentz ,
a director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York.
“High gasoline prices are becoming a concern and could act as a
drag on the economy.”  The national average retail price of unleaded regular
gasoline in the U.S. climbed to a nine-month high of $3.831 a
gallon yesterday, according to a daily survey by AAA, the
country’s largest motoring organization.  Gasoline consumption rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier
to 8.72 million barrels a day in February, a monthly report from
the  American Petroleum Institute  showed today. It was the first
year-on-year demand gain since February 2011, the industry-
funded API said.  Sanctions against  Iran , which have helped lift  oil prices 
this year, were strengthened yesterday. The Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, known as Swift,
said it will stop providing services to Iranian banks subject to
EU sanctions. The Persian Gulf country is being targeted to
discourage its nuclear program.  Swift Deal  “Once the dollar started weakening, commodities began to
rise,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.3 billion.
“The Swift deal is a big deal because it takes Iran off the
grid. This is going to do serious damage to their ability to
sell oil.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 504,756
contracts as of 4:01 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 842,057
contracts yesterday, 35 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  