-- Oil May Drop Next Week on Iran Talks, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-16T00:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/oil-may-drop-next-week-on-iran-talks-survey-shows.html
Oil may decrease next week on
speculation that strategic crude reserves may be released if
prices climb and that talks may ease tension between  Iran  and
the West, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Seventeen of 32 analysts, or 53 percent, forecast oil will
fall through March 23. Eleven respondents, or 34 percent,
predicted prices will rise and four estimated there will be
little change. Last week, 50 percent of surveyed analysts
expected a decline.  President  Barack Obama  discussed tapping emergency
stockpiles with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  on March 14,
 Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said yesterday. The
leaders reached no agreement, according to Carney. Oil fell as
much as 1.6 percent yesterday after Reuters reported that two
people it didn’t name said the countries had decided to
cooperate on a supply release.  “The potential of a strategic reserve release is going to
remain in traders’ minds for a while, putting a lid on prices,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-
based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “We’re in a diplomatic
mode at the moment. It looks like the Iran tensions will be
reduced in the near term.”  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy
chief, said March 6 that world powers are ready to resume talks
with Iran over its disputed atomic work.  China , France,  Germany ,
Russia, the U.K. and the U.S. said last week that they wanted
sustained talks with the Persian Gulf nation.  The U.S. and its allies say Iran is seeking the capability
to make an atomic bomb. Iran says its program is for civilian
energy and medical research.  Crude oil for April delivery has declined $1.93, or 1.8
percent, to $105.47 a barrel so far this week on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures are up 6.7 percent this year.  The oil survey has correctly predicted the direction of
futures 49 percent of the time since its start in April 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  