-- Oil Rebounds From One-Week Low on Outlook for U.S. Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-16T12:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/oil-rebounds-from-one-week-low-on-outlook-for-u-s-demand-growth.html
Oil rose in  New York , trimming this
week’s decline as investors bet that fuel demand will increase
with an economic recovery in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude
consumer.  West Texas Intermediate futures advanced as much as 0.6
percent after data from the Labor Department showed the cost of
living in the U.S. rose the most in 10 months in February. Data
due later today may show U.S. consumer confidence reached a one-
year high and industrial production increased. Oil also gained
after the U.S. and U.K. said they haven’t reached an agreement
to release emergency stockpiles to counter rising prices
following Western sanctions against Iran. WTI has lost 1.6
percent this week.  “The U.S. recovery is coming along better than expected,”
said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London.
“But as far as U.S. demand is concerned, we are yet to see
improvements ahead of the summer driving season.”  Crude for April delivery rose as much as 66 cents to
$105.77 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $105.67 at 12:42 p.m. London
time. The contract yesterday dropped 32 cents to $105.11, the
lowest since March 6. Prices are 6.6 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained 85 cents to $123.45 a barrel. The
European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of $17.26 to New
York futures for the same month. The April Brent contract fell
1.1 percent yesterday to expire at $123.55.  Strategic Reserves  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday in New
York there is no agreement with U.S. President  Barack Obama  on
using strategic reserves to reduce prices. White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  reiterated that no agreement was reached.  The U.S. has withdrawn oil from its Strategic Petroleum
Reserve 18 times since 1985, most recently in July and August
last year in an International Energy Agency effort to offset a
supply disruption in  Libya . Stockpiles were also drawn in 2008
after hurricanes struck the  Gulf Coast .  “The U.S. and the U.K. are trying to talk the market down
and avoid gasoline prices going toward $4” a gallon,  Johannes Benigni , managing director of consultant JBC Energy GmbH, said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview in  Singapore .  The  International Energy Agency  hasn’t received any
requests from its 28 members for a release of emergency oil
stockpiles, the agency’s chief economist, Fatih Birol, said
today in an interview in Istanbul.  The national average retail price of unleaded regular
gasoline in the U.S. climbed to $3.821 a gallon yesterday,
according to a daily survey by AAA, the country’s largest
motoring organization.  Fibonacci Support  Oil in New York has technical support at $103.39 a barrel,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows. On the weekly chart, that’s
the 61.8 percent Fibonacci retracement of the drop to $32.40 in
December 2008 from a record high of $147.27 in July that year.
Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  Industrial output at factories, mines and utilities in the
U.S. gained 0.4 percent in February after being little changed,
according to the median estimate of 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before a report today. The  consumer price index 
climbed 0.4 percent, the most since April, a separate Bloomberg
survey showed.  U.S. applications for  unemployment insurance  payments fell
by 14,000 to 351,000 last week, Labor Department data showed
yesterday. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index increased to 20.2 this month, the highest since
June 2010.  ‘Economic Warfare’  Sanctions against  Iran , which have helped lift  oil prices 
this year, were strengthened yesterday. The leading worldwide
financial messaging service for international money transfers
said it will stop providing services to Iranian banks subject to
EU sanctions. Iran’s central bank is included in the list. The
Persian Gulf country is being targeted to discourage its nuclear
program, which the U.S. and EU allege is producing weapons.  “This is really hardcore sanctions of an efficacy and
magnitude we’ve never seen before,” Jason Schenker, president
of Prestige Economics LLC, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday. “It’s economic warfare taking the place of
actual military engagement, and it’s very strong.”  A drop in bullish oil bets may signal the price rally
driven by concern over Iran has peaked. The number of options
held by traders to buy  Brent crude  was 1.63 times higher than
those to sell it on March 14, down from a seven-month high of
1.86 on March 9, according to ICE Futures Europe data. Options
on New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade show traders
are paying less for insurance against large swings in futures.  Mirae Forecast  Brent crude will probably decline to $110 a barrel in the
coming month as warmer weather in the northern hemisphere
reduces demand and the likelihood of monetary easing in the U.S.
recedes,  Gordon Kwan , head of energy research at Mirae Asset
Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said in a report e-mailed today.  Mirae’s long-term forecast for Brent at $100 a barrel is
“realistic and probably conservative,” according to Kwan, the
most accurate forecaster of New York crude out of 26 analysts
ranked by Bloomberg in the eight quarters ended June 2011.  Oil in New York will probably decrease next week on
speculation that strategic reserves may be released and that
talks may ease tension between Iran and the West, a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  Seventeen of 32 analysts and traders, or 53 percent,
forecast crude will fall through March 23. Eleven respondents,
or 34 percent, predicted futures will rise and four estimated
there will be little change. Last week, 50 percent of those
surveyed expected a decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  