-- Honda Hybrid Gas Mileage Settlement Wins Final Approval
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2012-03-17T00:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/honda-hybrid-gas-mileage-settlement-wins-tentative-approval-1-.html
     March 16 (Bloomberg) -– Honda Motor Co.’s class-action
settlement with hybrid owners over allegations the automaker
overstated gas mileage won approval from a  California  state
judge in San Diego over objections that it was unfair.  Superior Court Judge Timothy Taylor said the settlement is
fair and discounted claims by lawyers for Honda Civic hybrid
owners that plaintiffs’ lawyers colluded with the Tokyo-based
company, according to a written ruling issued today.  “Class counsel has a significant track record of
successful representation of plaintiffs in class actions over
many years,” Taylor wrote. “This isn’t their first rodeo. They
have pursued these claims for five years, plus.”  The settlement involves Civic hybrid models produced from
2003 to 2009, which the owners claimed don’t get as much as 50
miles per gallon fuel economy as advertised by Tokyo-based
Honda.  Without admitting liability, Honda agreed to pay $100 to
$200 in cash to individual owners and give them a $1,000 credit
toward the purchase of a new Honda, among other benefits,
depending on the circumstances of each case. The accord resolves
complaints filed by lawyers representing about 200,000 Civic
hybrid owners across the U.S. against between American Honda
Motor Co. The cases were consolidated in  San Diego .  $170 Million  Taylor estimated the value of the settlement at $170
million, according to a tentative ruling he issued earlier. The
judge also said that the attorneys in the case valued the
settlement from a low figure of $87.5 million to a high of
$461.3 million in their court filings.  During a hearing today, several attorneys representing
Honda owners voiced concerns about the fairness and thoroughness
of the settlement. Attorney Thomas Loeser of  Seattle  told the
judge that owners who have encountered battery problems in the
hybrids aren’t being fairly compensated and their safety is at
issue.  “If this is approved people are going to get hurt and
people are going to die,” he said.  The judge told Loeser he disagreed.  ‘Cannot Agree’  “I cannot agree that people are going to get hurt or
die,” Taylor said. “There is not one single shred of evidence
of that occurring.”  Chris Martin , a U.S. spokesman for Honda, said in a
statement today that the company’s is pleased with the court’s
approval of the settlement “as a fair resolution for our
customers that demonstrates our desire to preserve our good
relationship with Civic Hybrid owners who chose to participate
in this class action.”  Martin said Honda owners who file settlement claims are
still entitled to pursue arbitration against the company with no
limit on damages.  Honda, in its court filings, denied claims by some
attorneys that the proposed settlement is unfair and that it
provides excessive attorney fees.  The judge today approved attorney fees of $8.1 million.  California and four other states declined last month to
file objections to the proposed settlement.  Martin said today that since January, Honda has won five
out of six cases in which hybrid owners dissatisfied with
mileage pursued damages in small claims court, where plaintiffs
and defendants represent themselves.  One woman who opted out of the class-action settlement,
Heather Peters, said Feb. 1 that she won $9,867 from Honda in
small claims court in  Los Angeles . Honda said it is appealing
that judgment.  The class action case is Lockabey v. American Honda Motor
Co., 37-2010-00087755, California Superior Court (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  