-- Hong Kong’s Leung Maintains Poll Lead in Chief Executive Contest
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-03-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/hong-kong-s-leung-maintains-poll-lead-in-chief-executive-contest.html
Hong Kong chief executive candidate
Leung Chun-ying maintained his lead in polls after pledging to
narrow a wealth gap, as rival  Henry Tang  accused him of a lack
of experience in public finances in a debate.  Leung, 57, said he will be willing to upset the status quo
to bring about change, as he sparred late yesterday with Tang
and lawmaker Albert Ho before the March 25 election.  Public discontent in Hong Kong is growing after eight years
of  property price  gains and an influx of money from China
widened a wealth gap that’s already  Asia ’s widest. Thousands
took to the streets this month demanding greater democracy and
protesting collusion between business and politics.  “Leung’s emphasis that he’s always working for the people
is a smart move to align himself with the public,” James Sung,
a political scientist at the  City University  of  Hong Kong , said
by telephone. “Tang missed several chances in the debate to
highlight his achievements.”  The debate saw Tang, the former chief secretary beset by
personal scandals, fail in his attempt to regain public support.
Of 957 people polled by the  Chinese University of Hong Kong 
after the debate, about 42.6 percent supported Leung, with Tang
trailing at 18.3 percent. That’s similar to polls published this
week.  “If I’m elected, I won’t be afraid to challenge the status
quo so as to address the uneven distribution of wealth,” Leung
said yesterday. “Hong Kong needs to change to face the tide.”  Front Runners  Hong Kong picks its chief executive through an election
committee comprising of lawmakers, businessmen and delegates
from professional groups. Public opinion is starting to weigh on
the contest after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said March 14 that
the city “can elect a chief executive who is supported by the
majority of the people.”  Tang and Leung are the front-runners, having secured 390
and 305 nominations respectively from the committee. Tang, the
son of a textile magnate, is backed by  Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s
richest man.  The two-hour debate was ill-tempered, with Tang and Leung
repeatedly interrupting each other. Tang, 59, sought to regain
support by emphasizing his nine years of experience in
government as financial secretary and chief secretary. He said
Leung, a former government adviser, lacks knowledge of public
finances and doesn’t understand how the Hong Kong dollar’s peg
to the U.S. currency works.  “The most important thing is to have the ability, the
experience,” said Tang.  Tang’s Scandals  Tang’s popularity dropped after he admitted knowing about a
basement built without planning permission at a property owned
by his wife. In October, he confirmed having an affair and said
his wife had forgiven him.  Li Ka-shing, the chairman of  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) ,
said in a statement yesterday he will “definitely” vote for
Tang even as his popularity plummeted. Other committee members
who previously backed Tang have been less committal.  Thomas
Kwok , co-chairman of  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , who nominated
Tang, said Feb. 28 that his decision at election-time will
depend on Tang’s public support.  Leung, an adviser to both current Chief Executive  Donald
Tsang  and predecessor Tung Chee-hwa, has promised to speed the
construction of public housing and provide more subsidies to
first-time home buyers. He promised yesterday to push to give
residents 15 years of free education.  Home prices  in the former British colony have tripled in
the past decade, while the median monthly  household income  has
remained almost unchanged at HK$20,000 ($2,580) since the city
returned to  China  in 1997.  “Hong Kong is a land of good fortune, but today we have
the elderly getting into scuffles over pieces of cardboard,”
Leung said in his closing remarks. “Many young people today
can’t even see their future. Many voices in society are
demanding change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  