-- Longtime New York Lawmaker Ackerman Won’t Seek Re-Election
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-03-16T20:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/longtime-congressman-ackerman-of-n-y-won-t-seek-re-election-2-.html
U.S. Representative Gary Ackerman,
a  New York (STPINY)  Democrat who helped craft financial legislation
protecting consumers during a congressional career that spanned
almost 30 years, said he won’t seek re-election in November.  Ackerman, a member of the House Financial Services and
Foreign Affairs committees, said late yesterday he decided
against running for a 16th term representing parts of Queens and
 Long Island  suburbs. His term ends in January 2013.  “During my years in Congress, it has been my pleasure to
address the needs of thousands of individual constituents and to
influence domestic and global policy,” Ackerman said in a
 statement  posted on his House website.  Ackerman becomes the 41st sitting member of the House to
retire, announce they plans to seek another public office in
2012 or lose in a primary election. Of those, 23 are Democrats,
18 are Republicans.  President  Barack Obama  said in a statement today that
Ackerman has been “a leader in the fight to pass Wall Street
reform and helped strengthen the bonds between the  United States 
and our allies, particularly  Israel .” Obama said the
congressman’s “unique enthusiasm will be greatly missed.”  Ackerman’s District  Ackerman, 69, announced his retirement after his
congressional  district , which takes 80 percent of its population
from Queens and 20 percent from northern Nassau County on Long
Island, was substantially revised under a  plan  by a federal
judge that probably will become law. Ackerman’s Nassau County
hometown was drawn into a district where Democrat Steve Israel
represents more people, though Ackerman could have sought re-
election in a Queens district.  The retirement announcement by Ackerman “surprised a lot
of people because he had given no indication he wasn’t going to
run again,” said Jessica Taylor, a senior analyst at the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in  Washington .  State Assemblyman Rory Lancman said in a telephone
interview that he will seek the Democratic nomination. After
meeting with Ackerman yesterday, Lancman had announced he would
support the congressman’s re-election bid and not run against
him in a Democratic primary in the newly redrawn district.  Ackerman gave no hint he was considering retirement when
they met, Lancman said. The state lawmaker said he offered
Ackerman his support and put out a statement to that effect.  Lancman Comments  “Four hours later he wasn’t running for Congress,”
Lancman said. Ackerman’s reversal didn’t bother him because “he
didn’t owe me anything more” during their conversation,”
Lancman said.  “I was deferring to Gary; now that Gary is not there to
defer to, I am back running for Congress,” he said.  The redrawn district is still “a safe Democratic” area,
Taylor said. “This is a seat that is going to stay solidly
Democratic; it is going to be decided in the primary,” she
said.  Other possible candidates for the nomination include two
 New York  City Council members,  Mark Weprin  and  Elizabeth
Crowley , Taylor said.  Ackerman was praised in a statement by New York City Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg .  “The borough of Queens -- and the people of Israel,  Africa 
and so many other areas of the world -- have rarely had a
stronger ally in Congress, and our entire nation will miss
Gary’s encyclopedic knowledge of foreign policy and so many
other issues,” Bloomberg said in a statement. The mayor is
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  Public School Teacher  Ackerman, a graduate of Queens College in Flushing, New
York, began his career as a public school teacher. He was first
elected to Congress in 1983 after the death of Representative
Benjamin Rosenthal, according to his official House  biography .  In 2009, Ackerman helped write legislation barring credit
card companies from charging customers a fee to pay online or
over the phone. He was instrumental in requiring banks and
financial companies to tell consumers when negative information
is posted in their credit reports.  Ackerman successfully sought to exclude provisions of the
2010 financial overhaul that he said could have led to job
losses in New York’s financial industry. He also sought to
reinstate the uptick rule curbing short selling, and revisions
of mark-to-market accounting rules that require companies to set
a value for securities reflecting market prices.  Ackerman has had a houseboat named the  Unsinkable II  as his
Washington residence. His previous houseboat, the Unsinkable,
sank in the Potomac River in the mid-1980s.  Starting with his days as a member of the New York State
Senate, Ackerman wore a white carnation on his lapel each day
that he attended legislative sessions in Albany or Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  