-- Top Money Funds Doubled French Bank Holdings Last Month
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h   a n d   A l b e r t o   F u e r t e s
-- 2012-03-16T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/top-money-funds-doubled-french-bank-holdings-last-month.html
The 10 biggest prime U.S. money
market mutual funds more than doubled their holdings in French
banks in February, as lending from the  European Central Bank 
bolstered investor confidence.  French bank holdings rose to $18.2 billion from $8.8
billion in the month, according to data compiled and published
in today’s Bloomberg Risk newsletter. Funds run by New York-
based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Boston’s  Fidelity Investments 
accounted for one-third of the total increase.  “It appears the risk trade is back on, but funds are still
staying very cautious,”  Peter Crane , president of research firm
Crane Data LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts , said in a
telephone interview.  The top U.S. money market funds have boosted lending to
French banks for two straight months after withdrawing from them
for most of 2011 because of concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis might lead to defaults. The European Central Bank offered
three-year loans to the banks in December and February, easing
funding worries surrounding French banks since August.  The funds’ holdings in all European banks declined by $2
billion to $196 billion, according to the data compiled by
Bloomberg. Banks in countries seen by investors as safe havens,
including Switzerland and  Sweden  as well as  Canada , saw funding
decrease.  Prime money funds are eligible to purchase debt and other
securities issued by corporations and banks, as opposed to funds
that invest exclusively in U.S. government-backed debt.  For the third month in a row, Vanguard Prime Money Market
Funds was alone among the 10 funds maintaining its zero
allocation to European banks. The fund had been 27 percent
invested in European banks in 2010.  JPMorgan, Fidelity  The $120 billion JPMorgan Prime Money Market Fund increased
the European bank holdings to 42.2 percent of total assets from
41.9 percent the month before. The level stood at 54 percent in
2010.  Kristen Chambers, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Fidelity increased European bank holdings in its Money
Market Portfolio and Prime Money Market Portfolio funds to 38
percent and 36 percent, respectively. Its Cash Reserves Fund
decreased European holdings to 26 percent from 34 percent.  Vincent Loporchio , a Fidelity spokesman, said the firm’s
money funds are well-diversified and invest only in high-quality
debt instruments with minimal credit risk.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  was the biggest beneficiary among the French
banks in February, with holdings increasing to $7.3 billion from
$2.7 billion. The Paris-based bank reduced its dollar assets by
$113 billion to $257 billion in the second half of last year.  U.S., Japan  U.S. money funds aren’t a crucial funding source, according
to another Paris-based bank, which saw $3.4 billion invested in
February.  “We do not rely on money-market funds in the U.S. any
more, and I think that’s very good,” said  Frederic Oudea , chief
executive officer of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, on a Feb. 16 earnings
call.  Outside of Europe, U.S. and Japanese banks attracted the
largest amount of new investment in the month. U.S. bank paper
increased to $54.3 billion from $46 billion at the end of
January. Japanese banks saw a $10 billion increase to $60.6
billion.  The survey included Fidelity Cash Reserves, JPMorgan Prime
Money Market Fund, Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund, Fidelity
Institutional Prime Money Market Portfolio, Fidelity
Institutional Money Market Portfolio, BlackRock TempFund,
Federated Prime Obligations Fund, Schwab Cash Reserves, Western
Asset Institutional Liquid Reserves and Dreyfus Cash Management
Fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alberto Fuertes in London at 
 afuertes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  