-- Morgan Keegan Loses Dismissal Bid in $8 Billion Fairfax Suit
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-16T21:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/morgan-keegan-loses-dismissal-bid-in-8-billion-fairfax-suit-1-.html
Morgan Keegan, the brokerage being
sold to  Raymond James Financial Corp. (RJF) , lost its bid to be
dismissed from an $8 billion lawsuit brought by Canadian insurer
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd.  Fairfax, in its 2006 lawsuit, accused investors of
conspiring with analysts and researchers to spread false rumors
and drive down Fairfax’s stock price in a so-called bear raid.  New Jersey Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury in
Morristown ruled today that there was more to the case than
whether Morgan Keegan’s analyst reports were free speech
protected by the U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment.  “There’s more to this case than the statements made in a
couple of reports,” the judge said. “It seems to me an
innocent truthful statement could be part of the conspiracy,”
he said.  The suit once included as defendants the hedge funds SAC
Capital Advisors LP, Third Point LLC and Kynikos Associates LP.
The remaining defendants, including New York hedge fund Exis
Capital Management Inc., have argued the case doesn’t have
enough connection to  New Jersey  to allow Fairfax’s anti-
racketeering counts, which allow for tripling the $8 billion in
claims. Toronto-based Fairfax brought other claims in the suit.  September Trial  Hansbury said he will schedule a trial for September. Bruce
Collins, a lawyer for Morgan Keegan, told the judge he will file
another motion before then to get his client dismissed. Collins
declined to comment on the ruling after the hearing.  Fairfax, which owns stakes in Canadian and U.S. insurers,
said in its complaint that the hedge funds coordinated with
stock analysts so the funds could profit through short sales,
selling borrowing shares in anticipation of making money by
replacing them with cheaper shares after the price dropped.  The company’s $8 billion damage claim is based on
allegations that the  hedge funds ’ actions depressed Fairfax’s
 credit ratings , diminished its ability to make acquisitions and
reduced the amount it could raise in debt and equity offerings,
according to court papers.  On Jan. 17, Memphis, Tennessee-based Morgan Keegan asked
Hansbury to dismiss it from the suit because the negative
Fairfax reports by its analyst,  John Gwynn , were protected
speech. Collins argued Gwynn’s reports were protected opinions
and that Gwynn wasn’t saying Fairfax engaged in fraud.  ‘My Estimates’  “All he’s saying is, ‘I’ve got my estimates, you’ve got
yours,’” Collins told Hansbury during the hearing.  Fairfax also said the hedge funds coaxed Gwynn into giving
them his negative Fairfax reports before they were published.
Morgan Keegan fired Gwynn in 2008 for disclosing research on
Fairfax to selected clients before publication, the brokerage
said at the time. He has since died.  Fairfax said Gwynn misrepresented the company’s  finances  in
his reports, including its reserves for claims.  “Morgan Keegan was part of this conspiracy,” James Stricker, a lawyer for Fairfax, told Hansbury. “They fired John
Gwynn for illegal tipping.”  Christopher Brett Lawless, a former analyst at Fitch Group
Inc. who was sued by Fairfax, also lost a bid to be dismissed on
First Amendment grounds.  “There’s no evidence of an actionable false statement by
Lawless,” Anthony Enright, one of his lawyers, told the judge.
“Lawless didn’t have one dime to gain or lose from the
performance of Fairfax. He’s not a hedge fund.”  Enright didn’t immediately respond to a phone call seeking
comment on the ruling.  The case is  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 