-- Osborne Said to Pledge Long-Term Tax Relief for U.K. Oil Fields
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-17T00:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/osborne-said-to-pledge-long-term-tax-relief-for-u-k-oil-fields.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will guarantee tax relief for the decommissioning of
North Sea oil and gas rigs as he seeks to spur investment in
Britain’s energy sector, a person familiar with the plan said.  Osborne will say in his March 21 budget that the government
will sign contracts with companies such as  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Premier
Oil Plc (PMO)  guaranteeing tax relief for the lifetime of a project,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
proposals aren’t yet public. The contracts will prevent future
governments from changing the rate of tax relief, which is
typically 50 percent and can reach 75 percent.  The government is seeking to unlock as much as 17 billion
pounds ($27 billion) of investment in  North Sea  energy that is
being held back because of uncertainty over decommissioning
costs, which amount to 30 billion pounds for the rigs currently
operating, the person said. The Treasury angered oil producers
last year by levying higher taxes to pay for a cut in fuel duty
for drivers.  The plan follows months of talks between the industry and
Treasury minister Chloe Smith, the person said. In July, the
Treasury said it would increase a tax allowance to encourage
investment in North Sea oil production as it sought to soften
the impact of last year’s tax increases.  The Ring Fence Expenditure Supplement for the North Sea
will rise to 10 percent from 6 percent, the Treasury said in a
statement yesterday. The move aims to increase investment in
marginal fields that qualify for the current allowance.  Separately, Osborne will also announce plans to extend
local pay agreements to civil servants in government departments
including the Department for Work and Pensions, the  Home Office 
and the Department for Transport, the person said. Osborne said
last year the wages of local government workers should be
negotiated locally rather than be subjected to national pay
bands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  