-- Apple Seeks to Force Motorola Mobility to Disclose Information
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/motorola-mobility-failed-to-disclose-android-data-apple-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sought another court
order to get  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  to turn over
information about its pending acquisition by Google Inc. and
development of the Android software operating system.  U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner in  Chicago  issued the
March 5 order in a patent lawsuit filed in 2010 by Cupertino,
California-based Apple against Motorola Mobility, which has
countersued. In a court filing yesterday, lawyers for Apple
asked the judge to require Motorola to produce the documents and
identify its witnesses no later than March 23.  “In spite of the court’s order and Apple’s numerous
follow-up letters, Motorola has still not produced the requested
documents or designated any witnesses,” Apple said in the
filing. “Instead, Motorola waited until today -- nearly two
weeks from the court’s order -- to provide only vague
indications that it would comply.”  Apple, maker of the iPhone, has been waging a global fight
with the former Motorola Inc. unit that sells phones using
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Posner, a federal appeals court judge who is presiding over
the trial court-level case, has scheduled back-to-back trials
before separate juries starting June 11. The first will address
six Apple patents, and the second will cover three Motorola
patents.  Motorola Mobility was spun off from Motorola Inc., now
 Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)   Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for the Libertyville,
Illinois-based company, didn’t have an immediate comment
yesterday. A representative at Google didn’t immediately return
an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Motorola Inc., 11-cv-08540, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  