-- House Panel Plans Meeting to Subpoena MF Global Executive
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-16T22:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/house-panel-plans-meeting-to-subpoena-mf-global-executive-1-.html
A U.S. House investigations panel
will consider a subpoena of the  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) 
executive identified by former chief executive officer Jon S. Corzine as someone with knowledge of a funds transfer from the
firm’s customer accounts before it filed for bankruptcy.  The House Financial Services oversight and investigations
subcommittee will meet March 21 to decide whether to compel
Edith O’Brien, a treasurer at MF Global’s brokerage arm, to
testify at a March 28 hearing on the firm’s collapse.  “In light of the documents that the Subcommittee has
reviewed and the interviews it has taken, as well as Mr.
Corzine’s testimony regarding Ms. O’Brien’s role at MF Global,
the Subcommittee believes that Ms. O’Brien’s appearance and
testimony at the March 28, 2012 hearing is necessary to ensure
the completeness and accuracy of the Subcommittee’s
investigative record,” Financial Services Committee staff wrote
in a memo to lawmakers obtained by Bloomberg News.  Lawmakers and investigators from the  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission ,  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and other
agencies have been analyzing events that occurred before the
firm’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, including a shortfall in
customer funds. Some of the New York-based firm’s senior
executives, including Corzine, testified last year in front of
three congressional committees.  MF Global and its brokerage, MF Global Inc., sought Chapter
11 bankruptcy after a $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of some of
 Europe ’s most indebted nations prompted regulator concerns and a
credit rating downgrade. Corzine, a Democrat who also served as
 New Jersey ’s governor and as a U.S. Senator for that state, quit
MF Global Nov. 4.  $1.6 Billion Gap  The trustee overseeing the liquidation of MF Global Inc.
has estimated a $1.6 billion gap between customer claims and
assets available to the trustee.  The subcommittee invited O’Brien to testify in a March 12
letter, according to the memo. In a return letter to the panel,
O’Brien “respectfully” declined the subcommittees invitation,
the memo says.  O’Brien and Christine Serwinski, chief financial officer
for  North America  at MF Global, told an auditor from  CME Group
Inc. (CME)  on Oct. 31 that customer money was transferred in the
previous week, according to a CME Group timeline of events.  “About $700 million was moved to the broker-dealer side of
the business to meet liquidity issues in a series of
transactions on Thursday, Friday and possibly Wednesday,”
Serwinski and O’Brien told the auditor hours before the firm
filed for the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy following record
quarterly losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  