-- Pennsylvania’s Harrisburg Debt Grows as Ambac Joins List
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/pennsylvania-s-harrisburg-debt-grows-as-ambac-joins-list.html
Harrisburg (9661MF) , Pennsylvania’s
insolvent capital, will tack a missed $5.27 million general-
obligation bond payment onto its long-term debt, receiver David Unkovic said yesterday after a public forum in a local bookshop.  “It will mean more obligations that the city owes -- in
essence, Ambac will become a creditor,” Unkovic said in an
interview after the meeting, which drew about 300 people. Ambac
Assurance, a unit of New York-based Ambac Financial Group Inc.,
insures the city’s general-obligation debt.  The payment was skipped yesterday to let Harrisburg pay
workers and maintain “vital services” such as public safety,
Unkovic said. As the state’s first municipal receiver, he has
power over the city’s finances and can act without the consent
of elected officials. He called the move unfortunate and said
the next payment on the bonds is due Sept. 15. He said he’s
unaware of any adverse reaction to the default among investors.  “It’s of concern when a government defaults on debt,”
Unkovic said. “In the long run, when the city has recovered,
the city is going to need to go back out to the market again.”  His fiscal recovery plan, which a state court approved
March 9, calls for selling or leasing assets to deal with more
than $300 million in debt tied to an incinerator that pushed the
city into insolvency. Unkovic said he anticipates that between
proceeds of those transactions and concessions from creditors,
the city will be able to retire the debt.  Default Today  The missed payments were due on $51.5 million of bonds
issued in 1997, according to Unkovic. The default decision was
made public March 9 as some city officials objected to his plan
to sell assets and avoid a trip to  bankruptcy court . The
receiver’s recovery proposal also calls for raising taxes and
fees, and winning concessions from municipal unions.  Mayor  Linda Thompson , who has opposed unsuccessful attempts
by City Council members to put the Harrisburg in bankruptcy,
said she hopes to use the planned sales or leases to stave off
massive tax increases that otherwise may occur to cover the
debt. Thompson and Unkovic declined to say how much they expect
to earn from the plan.  “I would rather have assets to leverage with equity in
them than place the burden on your backs,” Thompson said at the
meeting, sponsored by Harrisburg Hope, an activist group, at the
city’s Midtown Scholar bookstore. “As long as we’ve got assets,
I won’t raise taxes.”  Abundant Interest  Lawyers working with Unkovic said they got 10 inquiries
from would-be bidders to take over the power plant and
operations of the city’s sewer and water systems. Another 14,
including a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  venture, expressed interest in
bidding for the city’s parking facilities, which generated $13.8
million in 2010 revenue.  The level of interest in the city’s assets bodes well for
the value that the sale or lease process may unlock, Bob
Philbin, Thompson’s spokesman, has said. Unkovic will review the
potential bidders to narrow down their number before starting
negotiations, he has said. He expects to close any transactions
by June, subject to court approval.  By defaulting, Harrisburg can keep paying municipal workers
about $1 million every two weeks, through the third quarter at
least, Unkovic has said. The city’s debt service, including the
March payments, would have been almost $12 million this year,
excluding incinerator-related securities.  Harrisburg’s more than $300 million in incinerator-related
debt amounts to about five times its general-fund budget. The
community of 49,500 residents backed financing an overhaul of
the power plant, which hasn’t produced enough revenue to cover
the cost. A  Covanta Holding Corp. (CVA)  unit runs the facility.  Bonds Fall  One of the general-obligation bonds in default, a zero
coupon maturing in September 2021, traded at 42.5 cents on
the dollar March 14,  down from 49.3 cents on March 5, 
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds were
listed in a notice posted on the Electronic Municipal Market
Access system, a database for filings by debt issuers.  The recent prices for the bond are still higher than a
trade at 37.9 cents on the dollar in October, the month the
council tried to put Harrisburg in bankruptcy. That move was
rejected by a federal judge, who said it wasn’t authorized under
 Pennsylvania  law. The council has sought to appeal.  State law bars the city from seeking Chapter 9 protection
from creditors until July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  