-- Pet-Adoption Offer for Post-Rapture Blessed Shown as Hoax
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-03-16T20:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/pet-adoption-offer-for-post-rapture-blessed-shown-as-hoax.html
(Correction: Replaces story published by Bloomberg News and
Bloomberg Businessweek in February 2010.)  A man who said he had a business
that would care for pets when their owners abandoned them in the
Rapture or Second Coming at the end of the world has admitted
that the service never existed.  Bart Centre, a retired retail executive in  New Hampshire ,
described the service, called Eternal Earth-Bound Pets, USA, in
a story published by Bloomberg News on Feb. 9, 2010. Other media
also published reports on the service.  Centre said this week he was preparing to reveal the truth
in a planned, as yet unpublished blog post.  “The entire thing was a hoax,” Centre said in a telephone
interview today. “What we call on the Internet a poe, a spoof,
a parody, a complete fiction. It was all a fiction from the very
start. I never had any intent to accept contracts for our
service or payment for our service and I never did.”  Referring to his website, where the service was offered for
$110 at one time, Centre said, “‘I was so concerned that people
would actually pay me for the service that I eventually disabled
the payment button.”  Centre said this week he came up with the service in part
as a way to promote his book, “The Atheist Camel Chronicles.”
In a chapter from the book on “End Times” and the encroaching
Rapture, Centre writes:  “With the economic downturn we’re in, I’m trying to figure
out how to cash in on this hysteria to supplement my income ...
Given the intellectual capacity of believers this could be a
gold mine!”  In the planned blog post containing his admission of the
hoax and that Centre provided to Bloomberg News, he writes that
Eternal Earth-Bound Pets “has never issued a service
certificate. Not one. It has accepted no contract applications
or payments -- not a single dollar -- in the almost three years
of its existence.”  In the same blog post, Centre writes that he is admitting
to the hoax now because “the State of New Hampshire’s Insurance
Department has asked me to discuss my ‘insurance’ offering”
through Eternal Earth-Bound Pets and “ provide them with all
the names of NH clients who have signed on and paid for my pet
rescue post rapture service.”  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 