-- Peyton Manning to Work Out for Broncos, Titans, NFL Network Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-16T18:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/peyton-manning-to-work-out-for-broncos-titans-nfl-network-says.html
Peyton Manning  will work out for
the Denver Broncos and Tennessee Titans as the chase for the
 National Football League ’s most-coveted free agent narrows, NFL
Network reported.  A group of Broncos executives, including coach John Fox and
Vice President of Football Operations John Elway, flew to
Durham,  North Carolina , today to watch Manning throw, the
network  reported  citing an unidentified person close to the
team. The four-time NFL Most Valuable Player also will work out
for the Titans at an undecided future date, according to the NFL
Network.  The Broncos, Titans and Arizona Cardinals are the three
teams still in the running for the 35-year-old Manning, who was
cut by the  Indianapolis Colts  on March 7 after missing the 2011
season following neck-fusion surgery. Manning said at the time
that he still had work left in his attempt to return to Pro Bowl
form.  “If I’m the  Denver Broncos  and I’m going to put a
significant financial investment into Peyton Manning, what I
want to see is pretty much what I usually see at the college
workouts for the top-level college players,” Mike Mayock, a
former player and now an NFL Network analyst, said on its
website. “If I get Peyton Manning, and it’s a healthy Peyton
Manning, I’m thinking  Super Bowl .”  Manning’s 54,828 yards passing, 4,682 completions and 399
touchdowns are third on the NFL career list, trailing leader
Brett Favre and Dan Marino in each category. He led the Colts to
a Super Bowl title in February 2007 and was named league MVP a
record four times, in 2003, 2004, 2008 and 2009.  Cardinals’ Choice  Cardinals quarterback  Kevin Kolb  is due a $7 million bonus
should he remain on the roster after 4 p.m. Eastern time today,
forcing his team into a decision that may signal its intentions
or expectations regarding Manning. Kolb, 27, signed a six-year,
$65 million contract with  Arizona  last year after being dealt
from the Philadelphia Eagles.  The  Miami Dolphins , once considered in the running for
Manning, no longer see him as an option and have turned their
attention to former Green Bay Packers backup Matt Flynn, the
Miami Herald  reported today  citing an unidentified person close
to the team. According to NFL.com, Manning phoned the Dolphins
yesterday to tell them he wasn’t considering Miami.  Joe Philbin, hired as the Dolphins’ coach in January, spent
the last four seasons as Flynn’s offensive coordinator. A career
backup, Flynn has made two NFL starts, including the Packers’
final-week victory over the Detroit Lions last year, when he was
31-for-44 for 480 yards with six touchdown passes and one
interception.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  