-- Philip Seymour Hoffman Leads Great ‘Salesman’ Revival
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-03-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/philip-seymour-hoffman-leads-great-salesman-revival.html
It’s uncommonly rare to watch a
revival and suddenly attune yourself to the sound of weeping
around you, the shaking of your hand as you take notes and, most
important, to recognize that what you’re feeling must be very
much like what audiences must have felt at the opening of a
great new drama.  But that’s what I felt at the critics’ preview of Mike Nichols’s magnificent revival of  Arthur Miller ’s 1949 epilogue
for the American Dream, “Death of a Salesman.”  Bucking the revisionist trend, Nichols uses Jo Mielziner’s
original, skeletal set and Alex North’s hauntingly beautiful,
quietly sinuous underscoring to set the tone for this most
respectful production.  We are in the Loman home, a sad, almost shabby Brooklyn
house surrounded by a growing concrete forest of high-rises,
moodily lit by Brian MacDevitt. Late at night, travelling shoe
salesman Willy Loman shuffles in from the yard, the weight of
his sample case bending him.  Our first impression is of exhaustion and defeat as he
mumbles to his doting wife, Linda, “It’s all right, I came
back,” his lips pulled downward and eyes glazed by
sleeplessness and drink.  Quicksilver Changes  Philip Seymour Hoffman not only gets Willy’s broken
carriage right, but also his quicksilver changes between despair
over his own obsolescence and the fading illusion of a brighter
future. Linda recognizes most of Willy’s flaws; Linda Emond
conveys the tight-wrapped devotion that has helped her survive
every broken promise, every savage betrayal.  Willy’s contradictions are most apparent in the tumultuous
relationship with his aimless, 34-year-old son Biff, a high
school football legend whose own aspirations were choked off by
an incident with his father, the witnessing of which
“Salesman” builds to as it shifts between the 1948 present and
the past.  Played with ferocity by  Andrew Garfield , Biff cannot escape
Willy’s shadow, nor his fate. And in his own way, younger son
Happy, amiable and eager to please, is headed down the same
road, especially in the genial performance of Finn Wittrock.  Great Casting  Miller created a world around Willy that sets in high
relief the Loman family tragedy. They include his ambitious,
globe-trotting brother Ben (John Glover, pitch perfect) and the
successful neighbor (Bill Camp) whose own son (Fran Kranz) grows
up to become a big-time lawyer. Nichols has cast each role
exactingly; there’s not a wrong note in the group. And I have to
acknowledge the brilliant costumes by the great Ann Roth,
fitting each character like skin.  Since “Salesman” opened on Broadway in 1949 at the
Morosco Theatre (itself now only a memory), men have responded
to Willy as if seeing their own fathers crushed by a system that
places material gain above all else as the measure of a man.  But Miller described writing the play as “a risky
expedition into myself.” It’s Willy’s shortcomings that make us
weep and, when safely alone, judge ourselves. Willy is battered,
defeated and humiliated. But he’s also not an honorable man. He
takes shortcuts off the paths to his flawed dream, and his sons
inherit that drive to curry respect without actually earning it.  His tragedy is not just generic in the social sense, but
surgically personal. Nichols has devoted as much attention to
that aspect of “Death of a Salesman” as he has to every other
detail of this superb production.  Through June 2 at the Barrymore Theatre, 243 W. 47th St.
Information: +1- 212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .  Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 