-- Queensland’s Bligh Vows to Implement Findings of Flood Inquiry
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-16T05:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/queensland-s-bligh-vows-to-implement-findings-of-flood-inquiry.html
Queensland  Premier  Anna Bligh  vowed
to implement the recommendations of a report into what worsened
flooding in the Australian state if she’s re-elected in a vote
next week.  The Queensland Floods Commission of Inquiry found today
that mismanagement of the Wivenhoe Dam near Brisbane during the
inundations exacerbated the crisis last year, Bligh said. The
findings come eight days before the March 24 Queensland
election.  “The inquiry has happened at a bad time for Bligh,” said
John Wanna, a professor of public administration at the
Canberra-based  Australian National University . “Her government
itself isn’t culpable for the floods but Queenslanders may see
it as a sign of mismanagement.”  Bligh said three engineers at the dam have been referred
today to the state’s Crime and Misconduct Commission, one of the
report’s recommendations. Authorities will investigate whether
they breached written policies, she said.  “A new Labor government, if I’m re-elected, will implement
this report in its entirety, lock, stock and barrel,” Bligh
told reporters in  Brisbane  today.  The flooding killed at least 35 people affected 70 towns
and cities and saw three-quarters of the state declared a
disaster zone.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  forecast in May that last year’s
flooding throughout  Australia ’s eastern states and a cyclone
that hit Queensland would cost the nation’s economy A$9 billion
($9.5 billion) in lost output and reduce real gross domestic
product growth by a half percentage point in fiscal 2010-2011.  Seqwater, southeast Queensland’s government bulk water
supply provider, may face legal action due to the report, Bligh
said. The inquiry didn’t establish liability for damage against
Seqwater, she said.  Maurice Blackburn Lawyers is investigating a potential
class action suit against the operators of the dam on behalf of
flooded residents, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  