-- Quest Deal at Lowest Premium Poised to Lure Higher Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-03-16T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/quest-deal-at-lowest-premium-poised-to-lure-higher-bid-real-m-a.html
A buyout of  Quest (QSFT)  Software Inc. at
the industry’s lowest premium is leaving the door open for
higher bids by companies from  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  to  Dell Inc. (DELL)   Quest, the provider of  business software  for managing and
protecting data, has traded above a $23-a-share offer every day
since the company agreed last week to sell itself to Insight
Venture Partners, which also owns stakes in Twitter Inc. and
Zumba Fitness LLC. The New York-based investment firm offered a
13 percent premium, less than half the average for billion-
dollar acquisitions of applications software companies in North
America, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Quest is worth 22 percent more than Insight’s proposal,
based on the software provider’s sales and  cash flow , and could
attract IBM, Dell or private equity firms, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said. By acquiring Quest, which has 60 days to shop for a better
deal, a potential buyer would get a company that has boosted
 revenue  in 13 of the past 14 years and throws off almost twice
the free cash, relative to its stock price, as the industry
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The general feeling from the market is that the price is
too low and that they can do better,” Chris Konstantinos, who
helps oversee $3 billion as director of international  portfolio
management  at Riverfront Investment Group LLC in Richmond,
Virgina, said in a telephone interview. Quest’s stock price
“indicates to me that there’s probably some interest from other
buyers out there,” he said.  ‘Go-Shop’ Period  Konstantinos said Quest could be worth as much as $28 a
share in a takeover and interest IBM or Dell because of its
products, cash flow and customer base.  Today, Quest advanced 2.1 percent to a 10-month high of
$24.50 a share. The gain was the biggest among software makers
in the Standard & Poor’s MidCap 400 Index.  Ed Barbini , a spokesman for IBM in Armonk, New York, and
 David Frink , a spokesman for  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell, both
declined to comment on whether their companies were considering
an acquisition of Quest.  James Lucas, a spokesman for  Aliso Viejo , California-based
Quest, declined to comment on whether it had been approached by
other potential bidders and referred to the company’s March 9
statement when asked about the terms of the deal.  In the statement, Quest said a special committee of the
company’s board members will “actively solicit, receive,
evaluate and potentially enter into negotiations with parties
that offer alternative proposals.”  Going Private  Quest will pay Insight $4.2 million if it finds another
buyer during the “go-shop” period.  Founded in 1987, Quest sells software that lets companies
back up and recover data, manage their databases and control who
can access the information stored on their computers.  Under the terms of the $2 billion cash deal with Insight,
Quest will operate as a private company with its current
 managers , led by Chief Executive Officer Vinny Smith, retaining
their positions. Smith, who owns 34 percent of Quest, agreed to
forgo payment and transfer his  stake  into the new entity.  “As a private company, we will have increased
flexibility,” he said in the statement announcing the deal.  Insight’s offer, which was about 13 percent higher than
Quest’s  average share price  of $20.44 in the 20 days before the
announcement, was less than any other takeover in the software
applications industry in  North America  valued at more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Including net debt, the buyout also values Quest at 12.85
times  earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, about half the median multiple for comparable
acquisitions, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Low Valuation  “The valuation is low both from an absolute and relative
valuation perspective,” Aaron Schwartz, a New York-based
analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in a telephone interview.  Quest, which  fell  27 percent in the 12 months ended March
8, jumped by the most in more than a decade on the day the
agreement was announced and  surged  past the offer price. The
company ended at $24 a share yesterday, 4.3 percent higher than
Insight’s bid, a sign merger arbitragers are betting a higher
offer will emerge.  Even after the shares rallied, Quest is still trading at
2.4 times sales in the past 12 months, about half the industry
median, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After deducting capital expenses, the company also
generated cash from its operations in the past year equal to
about 7.9 percent of its stock price. That’s 87 percent higher
than the median free cash flow yield for comparable applications
software companies, the data show.  Take A Look  “The initial price will encourage alternative strategic
and financial buyers to at least take a close look” at Quest’s
assets, John DiFucci, a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan,
wrote in a report dated March 12.  Quest’s systems management services, which design and make
products that support software and hardware platforms made by
vendors such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , could entice
IBM because it would fit well with its existing service
management brand, he said.  Dell, the third-largest maker of personal computers, has
made a push into software through acquisitions and may be
attracted to Quest’s data protection and back-up products, said
Brian Freed, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in Denver.  The company, which last month hired former CA Inc. CEO John Swainson to oversee its new software group, announced this week
its purchase of SonicWall Inc., gaining technology that detects
and protects networks from intrusions and malware attacks.  Inviting Bidders  “Dell certainly has aspirations in the security space,”
Freed said in a telephone interview. Quest would be a “very
good strategic fit,” he said.  He cited Oracle, the world’s second-largest software maker,
as another potential acquirer.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman
for  Redwood City , California-based Oracle, declined to comment
on whether it was considering buying Quest.  Insight’s agreement with Quest has a relatively low break-
up free, which could draw out bidders and may have been designed
to encourage competing offers, according to Alec Levine, an
equity derivatives strategist at Newedge group SA in  New York .  The termination fee equals 0.2 percent of the announced
total value of the deal, the lowest among all technology deals
in North America over $500 million in the last five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You can almost make a case that they’re inviting another
bidder to appear,” Levine said in a telephone interview.  Difficult Fit  Still, Quest’s management may prefer the Insight deal,
which lets them retain  control , said Diane Garnick, chief
executive officer of Clear Alternatives LLC. Its string of a
dozen deals since 2008 has left it with businesses that may not
appeal to just one buyer, according to Rob Owens, an analyst
with Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon .  “Quest has a fairly wide array of products and it may be
difficult to find the perfect fit,” he said.  Some potential buyers may also be wary of acquiring a
 software company  that has slower sales growth than its
competitors, Owens said. Since 2007, Quest’s revenue has risen
by an average 9.1 percent a year, about half the average for
comparable software makers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  By at least one measure, Quest is already worth more than
Insight’s $23-a-share offer. JPMorgan’s DiFucci estimates that
the current value of Quest’s future  cash flows  from its
maintenance revenue -- or the fees customers pay to keep their
products current, get enhancements, bug fixes and obtain support
-- is about $28 a share.  His projection assumes no growth in maintenance revenue.  The terms of the deal “create a situation where you could
have strategic buyers come in,” Jefferies’ Schwartz said. “The
company has to consider the best interest of the shareholders as
well and ultimately that comes down to price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 