-- Traders Bet Fed Rate to Rise Year Before Late-2014 Pledge
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-16T12:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/traders-bet-fed-rate-to-rise-year-before-late-2014-pledge.html
Money-market derivative traders
expect the U.S. central bank will lift its target rate for
overnight loans a year earlier than Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke ’s pledge of late 2014.  Treasury yields surged and money-market rates rose after
Federal Open Market Committee members raised their assessment of
the  U.S. economy  on March 13. The policy statement drove money-
market derivative traders to bring forward the time when they
predict the Fed will first lift its target of zero to 0.25
percent and damped speculation the Fed will buy more debt in a
third round of quantitative easing, or QE3.  Forward markets for overnight index swaps, whose rate shows
what traders expect the federal funds  effective rate  to average
over the life of the contract, signal a quarter-percentage
advance in approximately the September and October 2013 period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of March 15. Last
month, such an increase in the effective rate wasn’t predicted
until early 2014. This year the effective rate has averaged 0.15
percentage point below the top end of the target range that the
Fed reiterated three days ago.  “In a week, the market has moved from focusing on how and
when the Fed might do QE3 to when the Fed might start the
tightening cycle,” said  Brian Smedley , a strategist in New York
at Bank of America Corp., in a telephone interview. “Not only
has the market priced out QE3, but rates are pricing in Fed
hikes a full year ahead of when the FOMC anticipates raising
rates. In our view, it’s very hard to conceive of a scenario
where the Bernanke Fed is raising rates in 2013.”  Economic Rebound  Data signaling the economic rebound is gaining steam
emboldened traders to sell Treasuries and lift money-market
rates amid positive sentiment from the central bank.  Retail sales jumped 1.1 percent in February, according to a
U.S. Commerce Department report March 13. The Labor Department
reported yesterday that initial  jobless claims  in the U.S.
decreased in the week ended March 10 to 351,000, matching the
lowest level in four years.  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes touched 2.35 percent
today, the highest level in more than four months, while those
on 30-year bonds rose to as high as 3.49 percent. The two-year
note yield was 0.36 percent, up from 0.32 percent at the end of
last week.  Move ‘Overdone’  “In the past few weeks, the market had been thinking the
forward-rate structure it had priced in was too flat and had
rates generally too low,” said Jim Lee, head of short-term
markets and futures and options strategy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities Inc. “There are still people thinking that this move
is just beginning. However, it appears to me that it may be
overdone,” said Lee, speaking in a phone interview.  The overnight index swap market is now pricing in
cumulative Fed rate increases of 1.71 percentage points through
the last quarter of 2015, up from a total of 1.27 percentage
points a month ago, according to Lee’s calculations.  Overnight index swap rates, or OIS, are over-the-counter
derivatives in which one party agrees to pay a fixed rate in
exchange for the average of a floating central-bank rate over
the life of the swap. For U.S. dollar OIS, the floating rate is
the daily effective federal funds rate, which was 0.14 percent
on yesterday.  Fed’s Lacker  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker 
said today the U.S. central bank would likely need to raise
 interest rates  next year.  “My current assessment is that an increase in interest
rates is likely to be necessary some time in 2013,” Lacker said
in a statement on the Richmond Fed’s website. He explained why
he cast the sole dissenting vote on the FOMC’s March 13
statement that economic conditions are likely to warrant
“exceptionally low” levels of the federal funds rate at least
through late-2014.  “The economy is expanding at a moderate pace, and
inflation is close to the committee’s 2 percent objective,”
Lacker said. “As the expansion continues, the federal funds
rate will need to rise in order to prevent the emergence of
inflationary pressures.”  Forward OIS Rates  The forward OIS rates as well as implied yields on federal
funds and Eurodollar futures contracts, which are used to gauge
where traders speculate on the path of the Fed’s target rate,
all rose this week. Both futures contracts trade on the CME
Group exchange in  Chicago  in terms of price for an implied
yield. Eurodollars are based on prediction for the three-month
dollar London interbank offered rate, while fed funds contracts
are bets on the Fed effective rate.  Fed funds futures, which were first offered on the Chicago
Board of Trade in October 1988, indicate that traders bet the
effective rate will average 0.44 percent during the month of
November 2013. That’s up from an  implied rate  of 0.29 percent at
the start of this month. The effective rate averaged 0.11
percent over the past month.  “This week has really been about people getting shaken out
of their complacency and having to exit some trades that were
based on nothing happening with Fed rates,” said Alexander Manzara, a Chicago-based futures broker at TJM Institutional
Services, in a phone interview. “It’s not that the market has
come to an idea that the Fed may move to raise rates sometime
quickly. It’s about disappointment with the idea that QE3 is not
imminent and that the U.S. data has been a little bit better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  