-- South Africa Yields Hit Two-Month Highs on Marcus; Rand Gains
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-16T15:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/rand-gains-for-second-day-trims-week-s-drop-on-global-economy.html
South African bonds fell, sending
three-year yields to the highest since January, as central bank
Governor  Gill Marcus ’s inflation comments spurred speculation
policy makers may raise interest rates on hold for 16 months.  The yield on 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 climbed as much as
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.88 percent, the
highest since Jan. 9. The notes yielded 6.84 percent as of 4:30
p.m. in Johannesburg, one basis point higher than yesterday’s
close. The rand gained for a second day, advancing 0.6 percent
to 7.5702 per dollar and trimming its five-day decline to less
than 0.1 percent for a second consecutive weekly drop.  Marcus said inflation may be becoming “more generalized,”
and the South African  Reserve Bank  will monitor prices “very
carefully,” in a speech in Johannesburg late yesterday posted
on the bank’s website. Inflation accelerated to a two-year high
of 6.3 percent in January, staying outside the target band for a
third consecutive month.  The central banker’s comments “support our view of a rate
hike in the last quarter, or maybe even September,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “That’s
why bond yields are a bit higher, and why we’re seeing some
movement in the forward-rate market.”  Forward-rate agreements starting in December climbed 3.5
basis points to 5.98 percent today. The contracts have climbed
38 basis points this year as traders added to bets  interest
rates  will rise.  Rates on Hold  The central bank has kept its key rate at 5.5 percent since
November 2010, the lowest in more than 30 years, to blunt the
effect of a European recession on the domestic economy. The
Monetary Policy Committee will make its next rate decision on
March 29.  The  yield difference  between inflation-linked bonds due
2022 and fixed-rate debt of similar maturity rose eight basis
points to 5.93 percentage points today, the highest since Dec.
16. The so-called break-even rate, an indicator of investors’
expectation of inflation, has climbed 19 basis points this year.  “The outlook has shifted back in favor of a tightening in
monetary policy,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-
based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments today. “The
market may quickly shift to price in a more hawkish interest
rate outlook.”  The National Treasury sold 800 million rand of inflation-
linked bonds due 2017, 2022 and 2028 in a central bank auction
today, with investors bidding for 2.5 times the amount on offer.  South Africa ’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 bonds due 2024 yielded
4.291 percent, down three basis points from yesterday. The extra
yield investors demand to hold the debt rather than  U.S.
Treasuries  declined seven basis points to 197 basis points.  Rand Weakens  The rand gained after U.S. consumer prices rose, adding to
signs of growth in the world’s biggest economy. U.S. jobless
claims matched the lowest level in four years and manufacturing
in the New York region expanded at the fastest pace since June
2010, reports showed yesterday  “The sentiment that’s been driving global equity markets
and risk appetite higher over the last few days found further
support from positive data releases out of the U.S.,” Theuns de Wet and Josina Solomons, Johannesburg-based analysts at Rand
Merchant Bank, wrote in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  