-- Treasuries Post Biggest Weekly Drop in Eight Months Amid Growth
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-03-16T21:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/treasury-30-year-debt-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-31-months.html
Treasury (YCGT0025)  10-year notes capped the
biggest weekly drop in eight months as a report showing the cost
of living rose in February added to concern inflation may
accelerate as the  U.S. economy  strengthens.  Derivative traders increased bets the  Federal Reserve  will
lift its target rate for overnight loans a year earlier than Fed
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s pledge of late 2014 after
policy makers raised their assessment of the economy on March
13. The  difference  in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities climbed to 2.41 percentage
points, the most since August, as investors sought a hedge
against rising consumer prices.  “The data is strong enough not to warrant further
assistance” from the Fed, said  Sean Murphy , a trader in New
York at Societe General SA, one of the 21 primary dealers that
trade with the central bank. “I don’t think the backdrop is
particularly supportive for Treasuries.”  The 10-year yield rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 2.3 percent, at 5 p.m.  New York  time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note due February
2022 dropped 4/32, or $1.25 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 97
12/32. The yield rose 27 basis points this week, the most since
a 32 basis point increase in the period ended July 1.  Treasuries pared losses in late trading as the 14-day
 relative strength  index for 10-year note yields indicated rates
wouldn’t rise much further. The index was at 72.8. A reading of
more than 70 suggests to some traders that rates may be about to
reverse direction.  Fed Speculation  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker 
said yesterday that the central bank will probably need to raise
interest rates next year to contain inflation.  While Fed policy makers refrained at their March 13 meeting
from new actions to lower borrowing costs and said the U.S.
labor market is gathering strength, they also reiterated a
pledge to keep the benchmark  interest rate  at almost zero
through at least late 2014.  Forward markets for overnight index swaps, whose rate shows
what traders expect the federal funds  effective rate  to average
over the life of the contract, signal a quarter-percentage
advance in approximately the September and October 2013 period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of March 15. Last
month, such an increase in the effective rate wasn’t predicted
until early 2014. This year the effective rate has averaged 0.15
percentage point below the top end of the target range that the
Fed reiterated three days ago.  ‘Forward-Rate Structure’  “In the past few weeks, the market had been thinking the
forward-rate structure it had priced in was too flat and had
rates generally too low,” said Jim Lee, head of short-term
markets and futures and options strategy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities Inc. “There are still people thinking that this move
is just beginning. However, it appears to me that it may be
overdone.”  After the Fed’s March 13 statement, a measure of traders’
inflation  expectations  that the central bank uses to help
determine monetary policy climbed to 2.56 percent on March 13
from its 2012-low of 2.37 percent March 5. The five-year, five-
year forward break-even rate, which projects what the pace of
price increases may be starting in 2017, hasn’t risen above 2.62
percent this year and is below the 2.76 percent average since
2002.  The consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent in February,
matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, after increasing 0.2 percent the prior month, the Labor
Department reported today. The so-called core measure, which
excludes more volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.1
percent, less than the 0.2 percent projected.  Inflation Expectations  Inflation “has been subdued in recent months although
prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased lately,” the
Fed said in its March 13 statement. The increase in oil will
“push up inflation temporarily, but the committee anticipates
that subsequently inflation will run at or below the rate that
it judges most consistent with its dual mandate.”  Even so, the  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and
similar maturity TIPS, a gauge of expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, climbed one basis point to 2.4
percentage points after reaching 2.41 percentage points, the
most since Aug. 2.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing from December 2008 to
June 2011 in a bid to boost the economy. The Fed sold $8.63
billion of Treasuries due in February 2014 to May 2014 today as
part of its program to replace holdings of shorter-term
securities with longer-term bonds.  Testing Support  Volatility in the Treasury market fell from a two-month
high. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE Index (MOVE) , which measures
price swings based on options, declined to 83.4 basis points
yesterday after reaching 89.7 basis points on March 14, the
highest since Jan. 3.  The  30-year bond  is poised to test so-called support at
3.49 percent, which is a 38.2 percent retracement of the 2011
rally and chart peak, according to a note written today by
Credit Suisse Group AG strategists  David Sneddon  in  London  and
Chris Hine in New York, citing Fibonacci technical analysis.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that securities
tend to rise or fall by specific percentages after reaching a
new high or low. A breach of one level often implies an
extension of the move to the next. Support refers to an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  Best Forecaster  Should the sell-off break through that cluster of potential
buy orders, the next level where demand may be aggregated is at
3.59 percent, with 3.74 percent representing a 50 percent
retracement, while resistance to a potential advance is pegged
at 3.24 percent, Credit Suisse said.  Credit Suisse raised its year-end forecast on the 10-year
note to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent, said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist with the firm in New York.  FTN Financial Chief Economist Christopher Low, the most
accurate forecaster of Treasury note yields last year, said
slowing U.S. economic growth will push 10-year yields down to
2.1 percent by year end.  “We actually expected interest rates would rise in the
first and second quarter of this year,” said Low, who was the
only one among 70 analysts in a Bloomberg survey who predicted
the yield would fall to 2 percent by the end of last year.
“People tend to start hiring more in the spring time,  oil
prices  are high and there would be some inflation fears. We
figured the employment data would probably stay strong up until
May. After that, I don’t think it can be sustained.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  