-- Regling Says Crisis Strategy Working as EFSF Plans Debt Sales
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-03-16T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/regling-says-crisis-strategy-working-as-efsf-plans-debt-sales.html
The euro area’s efforts to contain
the sovereign-debt crisis are working and will lead the region’s
rescue fund to tap markets three times next week, said Klaus Regling, chief executive officer of the 440 billion-euro ($576
billion) European Financial Stability Facility.  Euro-area finance ministers will decide this month on how
to handle the combined capacity of the EFSF and its successor
rescue fund, the 500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism,
Regling said in comments to news agencies in Brussels released
today. The ministers meet on March 30 in Copenhagen.  The EFSF has committed 192 billion euros for rescue
programs in Ireland,  Portugal  and  Greece , leaving 248 billion in
uncommitted resources. Future lending to those countries will be
carried out by either the EFSF or the ESM, Regling said.  “The euro-area strategy to resolve the crisis is
working,” Regling said. “Markets have recognized the progress
made by both  member states  and the euro area as a whole. Yields
have fallen significantly since November last year for euro-area
sovereign bonds and also for the EFSF bonds.”  The Luxembourg-based EFSF plans to sell 2 billion euros in
six-month bills on March 20. If market conditions are right, the
fund also plans to sell 1 billion euros to 1.5 billion euros in
20-year to 30-year bonds on March 19, followed by 3 billion
euros or more in benchmark five-year bonds on March 22.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt woes have eased significantly
because of the rescue programs for struggling nations and the
 European Central Bank ’s Long Term Refinancing Operation. The ECB
has made 1.02 trillion euros of three-year loans available to
banks since December.  ‘Success Story’  Greece will need to “rigorously implement all measures
agreed” in its new 130 billion-euro bailout package, which
includes 109 billion euros in EFSF funding as well as an
International Monetary Fund contribution, Regling said. Portugal
is meeting its targets and its program is “on track,” and
Ireland is a “success story,” he said.  Taking all three programs into account, the EFSF projects
it will tap markets for 54.2 billion euros in 2012, 37.9 billion
euros in 2013 and 33.8 billion euros in 2014. The 2012 figures
include money disbursed in the first two months of the year.  The EFSF is moving to a new system for recouping its
funding costs that will charge all countries the same rate, said
Chief Financial Officer Christophe Frankel. Funds raised will be
pooled and no longer attributed to a particular country, and all
countries will pay the same rates.  The EFSF will have a short-term rate and a long-term rate
in the new pricing structure, Frankel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 