-- Republican-Led House Has Lowest Environmental Ratings in Decades
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/republican-led-house-has-lowest-environmental-ratings-in-decades.html
The Republican-majority House of
Representatives voted to delay or repeal at least 40
environmental protection measures last year, leading one group
to call it “the most anti-environment” Congress in history.  The  League of Conservation Voters , the  biggest 
environmental political donor, placed a record 35 House
environmental votes on its congressional  scorecard  released last
month, saying that 28 were detrimental to environmental
protection.  “To be honest, we had to whittle it down to 35,” Sara
Chieffo, legislative director of the group, said in an
interview. “We could easily have listed twice as many.”  The Washington-based group also took the  unprecedented
action  of issuing a special report on an omnibus spending bill,
opposing 21 amendments on issues including reduced funding for
renewable energy and preventing regulation of coal mining.  The House undertook “the most aggressive challenge of
environmental regulations in the history of the  U.S. Congress ,”
 Michael Brune , executive director of the  Sierra Club , said at a
Bloomberg Government breakfast with reporters and editors on
March 13. If a Republican candidate wins the presidential
election in November, “we would anticipate having to play a lot
more defense.”  Democratic leaders of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee  tallied  up votes in the House since Republicans took
majority control in 2010 and say there have been 191 targeting
Environmental Protection Agency rules or federal spending on
renewable energy.  Targeting Rules  Those votes include at least 40 on bills or amendments to
stop EPA rules or other regulations proposed by the
administration of President  Barack Obama , and more votes on
Democratic amendments to back the EPA or Clean Air Act rules.  Republicans say they are reacting to a string of new
regulations affecting a variety of industries, including coal-
fired power plants and farms.  “We have seen an unfortunate departure from common sense
environmental regulation in recent years,” Michigan Republican
Fred Upton said at a Feb. 28 hearing on the Environmental
Protection Agency’s budget. “Each dollar EPA spends can end up
costing us many more dollars as a consequence of the agency’s
ill-advised actions.”  In 2011, the EPA proposed some of the most expensive rules
in its history, including a $9.6 billion measure to clean up
mercury from coal plants and a $1.5 billion rule affecting
boilers used in paper mills and refineries.  Industry ‘Concerns’  “There are many not just in the House but in the Senate
who are understandably concerned by the overwhelming number of
environmental regulations proposed by this administration,”
 Luke Popovich , a spokesman for the National Mining Association
in Washington, said in an interview. “We believe those concerns
are fully justified.”  The number of votes pushing back on environmental
regulation is the most since President  Richard Nixon   signed  the
order to create the EPA in 1970, said Bob Deans, the associate
director for communications at the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , an environmental advocacy group in Washington.  “We have never had one party send itself on a mission to
dismantle this safety net of the fundamental environmental
protections,” Deans, who is writing a book, “Reckless: The
Political Assault on the American Environment,” about
Republican efforts to target the EPA, said in an interview.  Repeal List  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
listed repeal of seven EPA measures on his August  agenda  of 10
legislative items that would boost job growth. The House ended
up passing five of the measures, including one blocking the EPA
from moving forward on a regulation on farm dust -- a rule the
agency hasn’t proposed.  On Sept. 23 the House voted to kill two air-pollution
standards and defer at least 12 others. None of the measures has
advanced in the Senate, and the Obama administration opposed
each of them. Several amendments, such as one delaying energy-
efficiency standards for  light bulbs , became law.  The differences between the political parties on
environmental regulation show up in public-opinion polls: Half
of those surveyed say U.S. environmental laws should be
strengthened, while 28 percent of Republicans say they agree,
according to a  poll  by the Pew Research Center conducted from
Feb. 8-12. The survey of 1,501 adults has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Partisan Divide  The partisan divide among voters on the issue has been
widening. In a 1995 survey by NBC and the Wall Street Journal,
68 percent of Republicans and 88 percent of Democrats supported
strengthening or maintaining environmental regulations.
Republican support for such rules dropped 10 percentage points
to 58 percent while support among Democrats increased 4
percentage points to 92 percent in the Pew poll in February.  Since 1990 environmental groups have  spent  $27 million
supporting Democrats in political races compared with $2.4
million for Republicans, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a non-partisan group that tracks political donations.
In the 2010 election cycle more than 90 percent of their funding
went to the Democrats, according to the Washington-based group.  That’s not likely to change in the 2012 election campaign.  “The contrast that will be put before voters this fall is
pretty dramatic,” Brune said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  