-- Republicans Seeking Hispanic Votes Risk Immigration Backlash
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-16T22:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/republicans-seeking-hispanic-votes-risk-backlash-on-immigration.html
Mitt Romney  likes Arizona’s law
mandating that employers verify workers’ immigration status so
much that he’d push to make it national.  Rick Santorum  has
suggested he’d be willing to split up families if some members
are in the U.S. illegally. Both want tougher border security.  While those messages may win votes in the Republican
presidential primaries, they’re likely to face a chillier
reception during the general election in battleground states
such as  Nevada (STONV1)  and  Colorado (ST0CO1) , where the Hispanic population has
surged. Even some Republicans warn the party will pay a price
for antagonizing the nation’s fastest-growing minority group.  “Republicans have done a mystifying job of either ignoring
or offending Hispanic voters,” said  Mark McKinnon , a strategist
who worked for former President  George W. Bush . “And the
consequences for the general election are likely to be
significant and perhaps determinative to the outcome.”  Hispanics are the nation’s largest ethnic minority, making
up 16 percent of the population, a number the Census Bureau
projects will grow to 30 percent by 2050.  Barack Obama  won 67 percent of their vote in the 2008
presidential race, compared with 31 percent for Republican  John McCain , exit polls showed. Former Republican National Committee
Chairman  Ed Gillespie  said Republicans have to win closer to 40
percent in 2012 or risk being “consigned to minority status.”  Bigger Share  “By 2020, I would like to see us where the Hispanic vote
is a swing vote in the country in the same way the Catholic vote
is,” Gillespie said in an interview in his Alexandria,
 Virginia , office. He is trying to recruit at least 100 Hispanic
candidates to run for state legislatures across the U.S. as part
of a strategy “to get an increasing share of an increasing
share of the vote for Republicans.”  That increasing share of the electorate is evident in some
of the most competitive states.  In Colorado, the Hispanic population has grown about 40
percent since 2000 and now makes up more than one-fifth of the
residents, census data show. Latino Decisions, a research group,
estimates they make up 11 percent of registered Colorado voters.  In  Nevada , Hispanics comprise more than a quarter of the
population, and in Virginia 8 percent. The Hispanic population
in  North Carolina  grew 111 percent in the last decade; Hispanics
now make up 8 percent of the population and what Latino
Decisions  estimates  are 3 percent of registered voters.  ‘Balancing Act’  Obama won all four states in 2008, so it could be costly
for Republicans to alienate any part of the electorate there.  “It’s going to be a difficult balancing act for the
Republican nominee to be both hard-line on immigration control
but then to reach out to Hispanic families,” said Kenneth Bickers, chairman of the political science department at the
University of  Colorado  at Boulder.  The Republican candidates’ difficulty with Hispanic voters
was underscored by the reaction to comments Santorum made to a
San Juan newspaper during a campaign swing in  Puerto Rico  before
the March 18 primary. He said Puerto Ricans would “have to
speak English” as a “condition for entering the union.”
Puerto Ricans will vote in a November referendum on statehood.  “If the people of Puerto Rico want to commit to becoming a
member of, a state within the  United States , then they have to
fully commit to being a state, which is to be fully integrated
into society,” Santorum said in the interview.  On March 15, a day after the interview and after one of his
supporters there, Oreste Ramos, told El Vocero he would no
longer back Santorum, the candidate said Puerto Ricans should be
able to speak both English and Spanish to become a state.  Hispanic Outreach  In January, the  Republican National Committee  hired a
director of Hispanic outreach, said spokeswoman Alexandra
Franceschi. Still, she said, the committee has no one on the
ground yet in competitive states to recruit Hispanic voters, who
made up 9 percent of the 2008 electorate, exit polls show.  By contrast, Obama’s re-election campaign has been
recruiting Spanish-speaking volunteers and using Spanish-
language voter-registration forms and phone banks since last
summer in battleground states. The campaign also has a Spanish-
language website, and seven of the president’s 35 national
campaign co-chairmen are Hispanic.  Crackdown Pledge  The Republicans, seeking to attract white voters --
including working-class people without college degrees -- have
roiled many Hispanics with a drumbeat of pledges to crack down
on illegal immigration.  During presidential debates, Romney and Santorum, a former
Pennsylvania senator, have said they support  Arizona ’s law
requiring employers to use a database to verify that workers are
legal. In January, former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s
campaign ran a radio ad in  Florida  accusing Romney of being
“anti-immigrant.” Gingrich was attacked by Romney for his
proposal to offer a path to citizenship for some law-abiding,
English-speaking illegal immigrants who have been in the U.S.
for 25 years.  Seventy-two percent of Hispanics said the  Republican Party 
either doesn’t care much about them or is “hostile,” according
to a Latino Decisions  poll  in January for Univision and ABC
News.  Back to 67%  “If the Republican nominee in the general election
continues to say that the only way to resolve the issue of
immigration is for undocumenteds to go back to their home
country, then I think Obama can get back to the 67 percent he
got in 2008,” said Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the
Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, a Washington
group that encourages Hispanics to back Republicans.  Alberto Martinez, a Romney campaign spokesman, said
Hispanics will support the former Massachusetts governor because
he has the best plan to improve the economy.  “Hispanics are not one-issue voters,” he said in a
statement. “Pandering to them on the issue of immigration, as
President Obama is doing and as some Republicans have done in
the past, is a mistake.”  J. Hogan Gidley, Santorum’s senior political adviser, said
in an e-mailed statement that Santorum’s “personal story
resonates with all voters, including the Hispanic community,
because Rick is the grandson of an immigrant who came to this
country -- like so many others -- in search of a better life, in
search for freedom.”  “Rick believes legal  immigration  should be the goal, and
we need to clearly articulate that message,” he said.  ‘Biggest Disappointment’  Obama also has angered Hispanic voters.  In 2008, he promised to make an immigration overhaul,
including a path to citizenship for undocumented workers, a
priority; he never introduced legislation. And he called the
failure of the Dream Act, which would provide permanent
residency to most college graduates and military veterans who
arrived in the U.S. as children illegally, “maybe my biggest
disappointment.”  Activists are upset with Obama for deporting more illegal
immigrants than his predecessor, Bush, did -- 396,906 in fiscal
year 2011, compared with 291,060 in 2007. The administration
says more criminals are being sent home.  J. Walter Tejada, the vice chairman of Virginia’s Arlington
County Board, who volunteers for Obama’s campaign, called the
president’s deportation policy “a sore, sore, big, big issue”
among Hispanics.  At a March 6 press conference, Obama said he hasn’t been
able to get an immigration bill through Congress “because what
used to be a bipartisan agreement that we should fix this ended
up becoming a partisan issue.”  Contraception Rule  His February announcement requiring health insurers to
cover contraception coverage for women employed at religious-
affiliated institutions could rally some Catholic Hispanics to
the Republican Party, said Aguilar.  “It’s going to be very difficult for Latinos to make a
choice,” said Aguilar. “Here are Republicans who haven’t
engaged us, and we see Arizona and we see Romney saying these
terrible things, and here’s a president who’s just playing
politics.”  Gabriela Domenzain, an Obama campaign spokeswoman, said
Hispanics should vote for the president because he made it
possible for millions of uninsured Hispanics to get coverage
through his health-care law and he fought to pass the Dream Act.
Republicans would cut education funding, veto the Dream Act
“and are proudly standing by the most extreme anti-immigrant
voices,” she said.  Former Republican National Committee Chairman  Michael Steele  said his party has to focus on working-class white voters
as its “natural constituents.”  At the same time, Republicans are “wasting” an
opportunity to reach out to Hispanics, he said.  “If we don’t pay closer attention and get in front of this
train we will definitely be run over by it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  