-- Rising Gas Prices Temper Middle-Income Gains Amid Campaign
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-03-16T19:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/rising-u-s-gas-prices-temper-middle-income-gains-amid-campaign.html
Rising gasoline prices threaten to
temper a hard-won sense of economic momentum for middle-income
families in the U.S. as the election campaign heats up.  Middle-income families have seen their purchasing power
drop during most of the economic recovery even as stocks soared.
Inflation-adjusted median income only began to climb after
bottoming out last August, according to Sentier Research, an
economic consulting firm based in Annapolis, Maryland.  The surge in gasoline prices now squeezes middle-income
families again as President  Barack Obama  approaches the
election. Gasoline prices are up almost 17 percent, or 54 cents,
this year through March 14, according to the American Automobile
Association.  “Barring a sharp uptick in the  unemployment rate  in the
next couple months, Obama’s biggest economic problem now is gas
prices,” said Dan Schnur, a campaign adviser to Republican
presidential candidate  John McCain ’s first bid for the White
House in 2000. “Voters see gas prices up on signs every block
when they drive home from work.”  While gasoline accounted for just 3.8 percent of  consumer
spending  in January, fuel prices have a disproportionate impact
on both the psychology and actual finances of middle- and lower-
income families.  Middle-Income Households  In 2010, when prices at the pump averaged $2.84 during the
year, gas purchases consumed 4.8 percent of the budget for
middle-income households and 6 percent for lower-middle-income
households, according to the most recent data from the Bureau of
Labor Statistics’  Consumer Expenditure Survey . Among the bottom
fifth, gasoline costs were more than 10 percent of income.  Gasoline accounted for about 80 percent of the 0.4 percent
February increase in the U.S. consumer-price index, the Labor
Department reported today. It was the biggest jump in the cost
of living in 10 months.  Confronted with criticism from Republican opponents who
have seized on the run-up in gasoline prices to target White
House efforts to develop alternative energy sources, Obama
countered yesterday that his detractors are “stuck in the
past.”  “They dismiss wind power; they dismiss solar power; they
make jokes about biofuels,” Obama told students at Prince
George’s Community College in Largo,  Maryland , outside
Washington. “They were against raising fuel standards. I guess
they like gas-guzzlers.”  ‘Professional Politicians’  He compared unnamed “professional politicians” to Flat-
Earthers who once denied the earth is round and to former
President Rutherford B. Hayes, in office 1877 to 1881, whom
Obama quoted as having said about the telephone: “It’s a great
invention, but who would ever want to use one?”  Obama plans to continue promoting his energy policies next
week with a visit to Cushing,  Oklahoma , an oil delivery hub,
where construction is scheduled to begin in June on a pipeline
built by TransCanada Corp., according to an administration
official. That segment was originally part of the company’s
Keystone XL proposal to bring crude from  Canada .  The two-day trip also includes stops at a photovoltaic
plant in  Nevada  and an oil and gas field in  New Mexico .  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a Republican
presidential candidate who has promised to bring the price of
gasoline down to $2.50 per gallon by opening more federal land
to oil drilling, dubbed Obama “President Algae” for the
incumbent’s support of biofuels.  Retail Prices  The national average retail price of unleaded regular
gasoline climbed to $3.821 a gallon on March 14, according to a
 daily survey  by the American Automobile Association. That’s 7.5
percent higher than a year ago, according to AAA’s survey.  Recent polls show public unhappiness with the president
over energy costs. Americans by 65 percent to 26 percent
disapprove of how Obama is handling the price of gas, according
to an ABC News/ Washington  Post  poll  conducted March 7-10. The
survey of 1,003 adults had a 4 percent margin of error.  Thirty-six percent of Americans say the increase in
gasoline prices has been a “serious hardship” and 48 percent
of those earning less than $50,000 per year say so, the same
poll found.  Not Blaming Obama  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 8-11 found that
Americans don’t primarily blame Obama for rising gasoline
prices. Sixty-six percent place more responsibility on  oil
companies  and Middle East nations taking advantage of tensions
with Iran. Only 23 percent say the White House is more at fault.  Middle- and lower-income families often don’t have much
savings to cushion the impact of a spike in gas prices, said
Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington.  “They’ve got a lot of fixed costs,” Sawhill said. “They
can’t cut back on mortgage payments or rent. So that means they
have to cut back a lot more on items where they have more
discretion like clothing, travel, going out to eat, buying gifts
for family members.”  The gas-price shock comes on top of slow earnings gains for
middle-income families from the economic recovery that
officially began in June 2009.  Consumer Dismay  Evelyn Salmern, 43, said today she no longer fills the tank
of her General Motors Co. Yukon sports utility vehicle. She paid
$3.96 a gallon for regular unleaded at a Citgo service station
in midtown Atlanta.  “That car takes a lot of gas,” said Salmern, who said she
earns $250 a week baby-sitting part-time. She said she’s had to
cut back on purchases of toys for her 10-year-old son.
“Sometimes he asked me for video games or toys and I can’t
afford them. It is too much money for gas right now.”  Median  household income , which is the middle of the middle
class, was $50,020 in January, 5.2 percent lower than at the
start of the recovery after adjustment for inflation, according
to Sentier Research.  After drifting down since the recession began in 2007, real
median income had risen four of the five months from last August
through January, up a total of 2 percent during the period,
according to Sentier.  The run-up in gasoline prices isn’t reflected in the
January income figures, said Gordon Green, an economist with
Sentier.  “There’s no question that the increase in gas prices is
affecting real spending power,” Green said.  Even so, the increase in energy costs probably isn’t enough
to derail the economic recovery.  The  U.S. economy  will strengthen through 2012 as employment
gains more than offset rising fuel costs, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Growing Economy  Even accounting for higher gasoline prices suggested by
 futures markets , Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, a forecasting firm
in  St. Louis , projects growth at 2.1 percent in the first
quarter and 2.6 percent in the second quarter, said Ben Herzon,
a senior economist. The firm recently subtracted 0.3 percentage
points from its growth estimate in the second quarter based on
updated projections for fuel costs, he said.  If the economic recovery continues, the political advantage
for Republicans may be mostly “short-term”, said Andrew
Baumann, a vice president of the Democratic polling firm
Greenberg Quinlan Rosner.  The spike in  oil prices  mostly has been driven by market
concerns about tensions with  Iraq  and the seasonal patterns in
gasoline prices will turn to the advantage of the president well
before November, he said.  “Unless there is a war with  Iran ,” Baumann said, “gas
prices are likely to decline between now and the election, as
they always do after the summer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  