-- Afghan Shooting Suspect Bales Arrives at U.S. Prison
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-17T04:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/robert-bales-said-to-be-suspect-in-afghan-civilian-shootings-1-.html
U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Robert
Bales, the suspect in the killings of at least 16 Afghan
civilians, arrived yesterday at the U.S. military’s prison in
 Kansas , the Army said.  The Pentagon for the first time named the 38-year-old
sniper, without indicating he has yet to be charged in the case.
After being held in Afghanistan and then  Kuwait , Bales was flown
to Fort Leavenworth in Kansas, where he will be placed in
special housing in his own cell, according to an e-mailed Army
statement.  Women and children were among the victims of the March 11
shootings in two villages in southern Afghanistan. The attacks
threaten to erode U.S.-Afghan relations, drain remaining U.S.
and European popular and political support for the war and add
pressure to speed troop withdrawals.  Bales was on his first tour in  Afghanistan  after three in
 Iraq . He serves in the Army’s 2-3 Infantry, 3rd Stryker Brigade
Combat Team of the 2nd Infantry Division, based at Joint Base
Lewis-McChord in Washington state.  Bales served a total of 37 months during his three tours in
Iraq and has been awarded three Army Good Conduct medals, six
Army Commendation medals and two Meritorious Unit Commendations,
according to the Army’s statement. He completed a two-year
associate degree, qualified as a sniper in 2008, and also
completed a Warrior Leaders Course that year, the Army said.  He arrived in Afghanistan on Dec. 3  after his last Iraq
tour ended in June 4, 2010. His time at home was about average
for troops who have deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. Increasing
such “dwell time” has been an Army goal since the  Iraq war 
began.  Generally ‘Mild-Mannered’  The soldier’s Seattle lawyer, John Henry Browne, described
his client at a news conference on March 15 without naming him.
He portrayed a soldier who was “in general mild-mannered” with
“a very strong marriage” and two children. Browne, who
couldn’t be reached for comment yesterday, was quoted by the
 Associated Press  as confirming that Bales is his client.  After sustaining a concussive head injury and losing part
of a foot during his tours in Iraq, the soldier and his family
were disappointed when he was sent to Afghanistan in December,
Browne said.  “It would be fair to say that he and the family were not
happy that he was going back,” Browne told reporters yesterday
at his office in  Seattle . “The brigade was told that they would
not be redeployed.”  A soldier in the same unit in southern Afghanistan had been
“gravely injured” a day before the shootings, an incident that
affected everyone in the unit, Browne said.  The stress of a fourth combat deployment, a troubled
marriage and alcohol use may have triggered the killing spree,
according to a U.S. official briefed on the case who spoke on
condition of anonymity during the investigation.  Browne denied that alcohol use or domestic discord played a
role.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  