-- Troika U.S. Chief Sees IPO Revival From July: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-03-16T02:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/troika-u-s-chief-sees-ipo-revival-from-july-russia-overnight.html
Share offerings by Russian
companies will pick up in the second half as oil above $100 and
the Moscow bourse’s introduction of a central depositary lures
foreign investors, the head of Troika Dialog’s U.S. unit said.  Oil company  RusPetro Plc’s (RPO)  London initial public offering
in January is the sole IPO by a Russia-based company in 2012,
compared with five last year and as many as 13 in 2007, the most
since at least 1999, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Futures
expiring in June on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS Index
 slipped  0.4 percent to 170,260 in U.S. trading yesterday.  Crude’s 8.2 percent gain last year helped Russia, the
world’s largest energy exporter, achieve a  budget surplus  equal
to 0.8 percent of gross domestic product, and inflation slowed
to a post-Soviet record in February. Moscow’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF) , the
 cheapest  of 21  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg, will jump
25 percent in the next few months, said Chris Osborne, chief
executive officer of Troika Dialog USA. The debut of a central
depositary in July will have a “major impact” by widening the
pool of foreigners able to invest in Russia, he said.  “When the market is ready for deals again, there are some
very interesting companies that will be listing,” Osborne said
in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York
yesterday. “Consumer will be represented, petrochemicals,
transportation, agriculture, and more real estate. If things
keep going the way they are now, I don’t see why the second half
of 2012 shouldn’t be fairly active.”  ‘Conservative Money’  Vladimir Putin ’s return to  Russia ’s presidency has freed
investors to focus on positives such as rising oil, low
inflation and the surplus, he said. The central depositary -- an
independent body that makes sure money is paid or debited and
securities ownership is transferred after a trade occurs -- will
boost the number of foreign investors able to buy and sell
Russian assets to include pension funds, trusts and other
“conservative money,” Osborne said.  The Micex-RTS exchange, created out of the merger of two
indexes in December, will introduce the central securities
depositary mid-year, Vice President Sergei Sinkevich said on
March 6.  The  Bloomberg Russia-U.S. 14 Index (RUS14BN)  was little changed at
111.56, after slipping 0.6 percent on March 14. Coal miner  OAO
Mechel (MTL)  rose 2.8 percent to $10.71 in U.S. trading, after the
stock rallied 4.3 percent to 315.10 rubles on the Micex, the
equivalent of $10.73. It was the biggest advance since Jan. 26.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 0.8 percent to $32.93 in New York
yesterday. The ETF has gained 24 percent this year. The  RTS
Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings in the index
futures, fell 2.8 percent to 32.67.  Postponed IPOs  Moscow-based RusPetro raised $250 million in its Jan. 18
IPO. Six Russia-based companies had IPOs in 2011 and two in
2010, while there were no new listings in 2009 and 2008 amid the
global financial crisis, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mechel (MTLR)  and the gold unit of OAO Severstal, the second-
largest steelmaker, are among Russian companies that delayed
IPOs in 2011 as the European debt crisis and the threat of a
global slowdown deterred investment in emerging-market assets.
The Micex fell 17 percent last year, after two previous years of
gains.  Russia’s Economy Ministry has proposed that state-run
companies pay out 25 percent of profit under International
Financial Reporting Standards as dividends, the Vedomosti
newspaper reported on March 11, citing proposed legislation.  “This is a way to pay for social spending,” Osborne said
yesterday. “I don’t think any company will suffer. State oil
companies like Rosneft and Lukoil, Gazprom, Sberbank make
sufficient cash to pay out dividends.”  Higher Pensions  During his presidential campaign, Putin pledged to fund
programs aimed at affordable housing, as well as higher pensions
and salaries for state employees. The former KGB officer took
over as president from  Boris Yeltsin  in 1999, giving up the job
for the prime minister’s post in 2008 because of a
constitutional limit on serving more than two consecutive terms.  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) , Russia’s largest lender, fell 1.6 percent,
the most since March 6, to $13.66 yesterday in  New York ,
shrinking the discount to shares traded on in Moscow to 0.4
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Moscow-based Sberbank plans to start marketing about $5.7
billion of shares on April 16 as part of the government’s plan
to sell stakes in state-controlled companies, people with
knowledge of the process who declined to be identified said
yesterday.  The lender fell 2.6 percent to 100.63 rubles, or the
equivalent of $3.43, on the Micex yesterday.  ‘Widens the Circle’  “Privatization widens the circle of private investors,
this is good for the company in the long-run,” Alexander Vassiouk, an analyst at Prosperity Capital Management in Moscow,
said by phone. “The quality of the corporate governance will go
up, the effectiveness and modernization of organizational and
technical processes may lead to significant profits.”  Crude oil for April delivery dropped 0.3 percent to $105.11
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  yesterday. Brent oil for April settlement fell 1.1
percent to $123.55 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, slipped 2.7
percent to $119.99.  Polyus Gold International Ltd. declined 4.9 percent to
$3.09 in New York, the biggest drop since Sept. 28, making it
the worst performer on the  Bloomberg Russia-U.S. 14 (RUSN14BN)  gauge.  Polyus Share Sale  Polyus, Russia’s largest miner of gold, plans to sell 7.5
percent of its stock within 45 days of publishing its annual
report in April, Vedomosti reported yesterday. That’s sooner
than previously planned, according to the report that cited two
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  Gold futures for April delivery rose 1 percent to settle at
$1,659.50 an ounce on the Comex in New York yesterday, the most
since Feb. 21.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  of 24 raw materials fell
0.3 percent to 700.85 yesterday, retreating for the second day.
Nickel and tin declined on the  London  Metal Exchange.  Sberbank agreed to acquire Troika, Russia’s oldest
investment bank, last year. Moscow-based Troika plans to
increase its 100  investment banking  employees by 25 percent to
40 percent this year,  Todd Berman , co-head of investment
banking, said in November.  VTB Capital Plc, the investment banking arm of Russia’s
second-largest bank VTB Group, will “formally” open its New
York office in the middle of April, Atanas Bostandjiev, VTB
Capital’s chief executive officer for the U.K. and International
Business, said by e-mail yesterday. Moscow-based VTB Capital has
operations in London,  Hong Kong ,  Singapore , Dubai, Sofia, Paris
and Vienna, according to its website.  VTB’s new New York operations will “take some market share
away from us and from other Russian brokers, but with the
Sberbank acquisition we are going to take issuance share from
them,” Troika’s U.S. CEO Osborne said. “They were the only
 state bank  with an investment bank involved in the debt and
issuance market. Now we’re there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  