-- Romania Approves Schedule for Liberalizing Its Power Prices
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-03-16T11:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/romania-approves-schedule-to-liberalize-electricity-prices-1-.html
Romania approved today a draft law
on the schedule for liberalizing power prices for industrial
consumers and households, as pledged to the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  Regulated electricity prices for companies will be phased
out by the end of 2013, starting on Sept. 1 this year; those for
households will be withdrawn by the end of 2017, starting in
July next year, Dan Plaveti, who heads ANRE, the energy
regulator, said today.  Romania reached agreement with its international lenders to
delay the price liberalization from the initial 2015 deadline,
because of a tepid economic recovery after the worst recession
on record. Tax increases and public-sector wage cuts, aimed at
lowering the  budget deficit  to 1.9 percent of gross domestic
product this year, from 4.35 percent in 2011, eroded people’s
purchasing power.  “We decided to set clear deadlines to fully eliminate
regulated electricity prices,” Plaveti said at a conference in
Bucharest today. “We will decide later on future deregulation
of natural gas prices.”  The draft law also aims to secure ANRE’s independence and
sets criteria for naming the heads of the institution, who will
be appointed by the president on the prime minister’s advice and
after parliamentary hearings, Plaveti said.  Parliament must vote on the bill for it to take effect.  The country’s state-owned power-grid operator,
 Transelectrica SA (TEL) , and the natural- gas grid operator,  Transgaz
SA (TGN) , are to be removed from the control of the  Economy Ministry .
They will be transferred to another ministry, which will be
decided on later, Economy Minister Lucian Bode said during the
Bucharest conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  