-- Royal Opera Recycles, Tina’s Luck, Culture Mess: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-03-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/royal-opera-recycles-tina-s-luck-culture-mess-london-stage.html
When the  Royal Opera House  agreed
to coproduce Rossini’s “La Donna del Lago” management hoped
for something dazzling. Then Lluis Pasqual’s staging opened in
Paris. It was dismal, and it was heading their way.  The singers, including Juan Diego Florez and Joyce DiDonato, were already booked for London. What to do?  At a March 14 press conference announcing the 2012-13
season, Kasper Holten, the Royal Opera’s new director,
revealed the answer. They’ve ditched the Parisian production,
which Bloomberg News’s Jorg von Uthmann -- like so many other
critics -- found “1amentable,” and will concoct a new one
under director John Fulljames.  The sudden extra cost? They’re going to recycle bits of
old sets, Holten said.  He stressed that only structural and engineering elements
would be re-used, and not decorative trappings. It will look
new, he promised.  Tough times call for such ingenious solutions. Maybe some
of  Covent Garden ’s own stinkers, like their recent ghastly
“Rusalka,” could be euthanized and recycled in the future.  Lusty Nuns  There are five further new productions next season. Diana
Damrau will star in Meyerbeer’s “Robert le Diable,” a five-
act 1831 barnstormer, which is famous for its ballet of
lustful dead nuns.  Laurent Pelly, who made a quirky and funny “Fille du
Regiment” at Covent Garden, directs. Tenor Bryan Hymel,
cheered loudly at “Rusalka” for his great singing in a lousy
show, is Robert, a man who discovers that his father is the
devil himself.  Richard Jones  will direct Britten’s “Gloriana,” about
Elizabeth I; Holten will mount Tchaikovsky’s “Eugene
Onegin”; and tenor Placido Domingo goes down the octave again
as the baritone hero in a new staging of Verdi’s “Nabucco.”  Jonas Kaufmann,  Bryn Terfel , Rolando Villazon and Angela Gheorghiu all pop up for revivals, some of them conducted by
music director Tony Pappano, and Renee Fleming will sing
concert performances of Strauss’s “Capriccio.”  Chief Executive Tony Hall said the company is still in
good financial shape, and will probably finish the financial
year in the black.  Lover’s Pie  There’s a U.K. premiere coming up too. George Benjamin’s
opera “Written on Skin,” about a 13th-century husband who
makes his adulterous wife eat her lover’s heart in a pie, will
be seen in March 2013. Katie Mitchell directs, with Barbara
Hannigan and Bejun Mehta starring.  It’s all good news for a company whose latest world
premiere looks like it soon may end up on the recycling heap.  Judith Weir’s underwhelming “Miss Fortune” opened this
week. Based on a Sicilian folk tale, it tells the story of
Tina (Emma Bell), a young woman who loses her family wealth in
a financial crash, and goes to find work in a sweatshop and a
kebab van. Each time she tries a new job, Fate (countertenor
Andrew Watts) sends his minions to hound her.  When Tina calls on Fate to leave her alone, he offers her
a winning lottery ticket. Her only way of defying him is to
throw the ticket away.  Recipes in Song  The story offers abundant opportunities for operatic
outpourings. Why then does Weir ignore them? The duet between
Tina and Fate -- surely a gift to a composer -- goes for
nothing. Imagine two friendly neighbors comparing recipes for
blanc mange in song. That’s how exciting it gets.  Tina’s climactic decision about the ticket is made
dramatically dull by the fact that she already has met a
tycoon who offers her love and wealth. The lucky girl doesn’t
need the ticket. So why should we care if she chucks it away?  The music trundles along in an accessible-modern style,
without creating many emotional thrills or spills.  It looks terrific in Chen Shi-Zheng’s production. Huge
abstract shapes and clever lighting provide a sense of menace.
A realistic kebab van descends from the flies and explodes.  The singers sound fine too. It just doesn’t add up to
much. Rating: **.  Europe’s Cultures  The  National Theatre  has a misfire on its hands at the
moment too. “Can We Talk About This?” is a verbatim piece
based on multiple interviews about the failure of
multiculturalism in  Europe .  There are accounts of the murder of Dutch filmmaker Theo van Gogh, and of the death threats made against the editor who
published satirical cartoons of the prophet Mohammed.
“Honor” murders and forced marriages are discussed. Western
liberal fears of being branded racist are highlighted.  It’s all familiar stuff. We know multiculturalism has led
to separatism and scary double-think among liberals. It feels
like preaching to the converted to have it rehashed in the
lazy form of verbatim theater. The question should be: What
can we do about it? How can fundamentalists who spatter death
threats be persuaded to tolerate  women’s rights , Koranic
exegesis and Elton John’s hairdo?  Did I say lazy? Dramatically speaking, that’s true.
Physically, it’s a different matter. The speeches are
delivered by actor-dancers who writhe, run, twitch, climb up
walls and stand on their heads. They move beautifully, even if
they’re exhausting to watch.  What it all adds to the debate isn’t clear. Rating: *1/2.  “Miss Fortune” is in repertory at the Royal Opera
House. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.
“Can We Talk About This?” is at the National Theatre,
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 