-- Rupee Gains Most in a Week as Higher Tariff May Slow Gold Import
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-03-16T08:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/rupee-gains-most-in-a-week-as-higher-tariff-may-slow-gold-import.html
India ’s rupee rose the most in a
week on speculation gold imports will slow after the government
increased tariffs on the metal, helping rein in the nation’s
current-account deficit.  The currency pared a weekly loss as Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , presenting the annual budget in parliament, doubled
the customs duty on gold bars and coins to 4 percent and the
excise duty on refined gold to 3 percent. The rupee also gained
after the government eased taxes on overseas borrowings by local
companies, a move that may spur capital inflows.  “The measures on gold were positive for the rupee as the
concern is about financing the deficit,” said Vikas Babu, a
trader in Mumbai at state-run  Andhra Bank. (ANDB)  “We are still seeing
demand for dollars ahead of the fiscal year-end, so the rupee’s
gains will be capped.”  The rupee appreciated 0.3 percent to 50.2450 per dollar as
of 2:04 p.m. in Mumbai, the biggest gain since March 9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The currency is still 0.8 percent lower in the week after
the  Reserve Bank  of India said yesterday that “upside risks”
to inflation have increased because of an increase in global  oil
prices . Brent oil, the benchmark that India uses, has risen 10
percent to $123.35 a barrel this year.  Gold accounted for 12.2 percent of India’s imports between
April and September, compared with 9.9 percent a year earlier,
according to Standard Chartered Plc. The shortfall in India’s
current account, the broadest measure of trade, will be 3.6
percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months ending March
31 and lower in the next fiscal year, Mukherjee said today.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 9.75 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Three-month onshore forward contracts traded at 51.28 a
dollar, compared with 51.48 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 51.28 from 51.53. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  