-- Russia Sends U.K. Ex-Bank of Moscow CEO Extradition Request
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-16T18:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/russia-sends-u-k-ex-bank-of-moscow-ceo-extradition-request-1-.html
The Russian Prosecutor General’s
Office sent the U.K. a request for the extradition of  Bank of
Moscow ’s former Chief Executive Officer Andrei Borodin.  Prosecutors, who issued an international arrest warrant for
Borodin in November, say the banker and Dmitry Akulinin, a
former vice president at the lender, are wanted in connection
with the embezzlement of Moscow City Hall funds, the office said
in a statement e-mailed today. Borodin is innocent and the case
against him is politically-motivated, his defense team said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Russian regulators agreed to provide a record 395 billion-
ruble ($13.5 billion) bailout for Bank of Moscow last July after
state-run VTB Group bought the city government’s 46.5 percent
stake in the lender and uncovered bad debts. Borodin denies any
wrongdoing and said the bank’s takeover was “political.”  Ousted Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov was questioned in November
as a witness in the case involving  City Hall ’s purchase of a
stake in Bank of Moscow in 2009 for about 15 billion rubles. The
bank then fraudulently lent almost 13 billion rubles to property
company ZAO Premier Estate, funds which ended up in a bank
account controlled by Luzhkov’s wife,  Yelena Baturina , according
to investigators.  ‘All Possible Steps’  Russia  hasn’t provided any proof of wrongdoing or financial
losses caused by Borodin and the loan to Premier Estate is being
repaid on schedule, his lawyer, Mikhail Dolomanov said in July.  “Mr. Borodin will take all possible steps to defend
himself legally,” his defense team said. “Fortunately, the
judicial system in the U.K. is totally different to what is
called a ‘court’ in Russia.”  Russia has accused the U.K. of blocking extradition of
Russian citizens wanted for trial. Russia has unsuccessfully
sought the extradition of Chechen separatist leader Akhmed Zakayev, one-time billionaire  Boris Berezovsky  and other
businessmen accused of fraud, some of whom have received
political asylum.  Russia’s ambassador to the U.K., Alexander Yakovenko, in
September urged Britain to extradite 43 Russian citizens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  