-- Russian Inflation Rate Bottomed Out at 3.7%, Ulyukayev Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-03-16T14:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/russian-inflation-rate-bottomed-out-at-3-7-ulyukayev-says-1-.html
Russian  inflation  probably won’t
fall below February’s record low as the central bank tries to
check price growth at 6 percent this year, said  Alexei Ulyukayev , a Bank Rossii first deputy chairman.  Consumer-price growth may remain near last month’s 3.7
percent in the “near future” and accelerate from that level in
the second half amid utility-tariff increases and risks of a
growing money supply, Ulyukayev said in an interview with
Interfax published today. The comments were confirmed by the
central bank’s press service.  Bank Rossii has refrained from selling foreign currency in
February and March, leading to a “moderate monetary emission”
of the Russian currency, while the government’s loosening fiscal
stance also results in more rubles, Ulyukayev said.  “We’re seeing additional monetary pressure, but it’s not
extreme or even something unusual,” he said. “Still, it’s
something we need to watch, it’s a risk. These two conditions
will, possibly, be a source of upward pressure on the  consumer
price index .”  The world’s largest energy exporter is trying to curb
inflation near the lowest level since the  Soviet Union  collapsed
two decades ago even as Prime Minister and President-elect
 Vladimir Putin  seeks growth rates to match  Brazil ,  India  and
 China . The  budget deficit  reached 3 percent of gross domestic
product through February, according to preliminary Finance
Ministry data.  Monetary and fiscal policy under the new government will
need to rely on growth based on investment using domestic
savings rather than foreign capital, Ulyukayev said.  ‘Tighter Fiscal Policy’  “The growth model, in my opinion, should be based more on
domestic savings and converting that into investment rather than
on attracting foreign investment,” Ulyukayev said. “That will
require both continuing to follow a monetary policy of inflation
targeting, controlling inflation, and also tighter fiscal
policy.”  The ruble gained against the dollar for a fourth day,
strengthening 0.3 percent at 29.2720 at 6:03 p.m. in Moscow. The
 Micex Index (VTBMICX)  of 30 stocks fell, declining 1 percent to 1,610.85.  The currency may strengthen further against the central
bank’s basket of dollars and euros as foreign investors return
to  Russia  once Putin, who won a six-year term in the Kremlin in
the March 4 presidential election, forms a new government,
Ulyukayev said.  New Government  “The situation in Russia from an investment standpoint
will gradually improve,” Ulyukayev said. “In May and June I
think it will be better than in April” as the new government is
formed after Putin’s inauguration in May.  The Micex Index has risen 15 percent so far this year as
the national currency strengthened and demand for ruble-
denominated state debt pushed yields to record lows. Even so,
net private capital outflows continued into this year and may
have totaled $22.5 billion through February, Ulyukayev said
yesterday.  Net capital flight surged to $84.2 billion last year, the
second highest total since the central bank began keeping
records in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  