-- Sanofi Buys Pluromed to Expand Business Gained With Genzyme
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-03-16T14:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/sanofi-to-buy-pluromed-medical-device-company-no-terms-given.html
Sanofi (SAN) , France’s biggest drugmaker,
agreed to buy Pluromed Inc., a maker of injectable plugs to
control bleeding during surgeries, to expand a business gained
through last year’s acquisition of  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ)   Sanofi will be selling Pluromed’s LeGoo gel, which is used
to treat temporary endovascular occlusion of blood vessels
during surgical procedures, the French drugmaker said in an e-
mailed  statement  today. Terms of the transaction weren’t
announced. The purchase of the Woburn, Massachusetts-based
company is subject to customary closing conditions, Sanofi said.  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  spent $20.1
billion last year to acquire Genzyme, the largest maker of
medicines for rare genetic diseases. After the purchase, he
folded Genzyme’s bio-surgery business into Sanofi. The French
drugmaker is ready to develop the businesses it acquired through
Genzyme, including potentially expanding in new rare diseases,
Viehbacher told reporters in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , on March
7, without elaborating.  Pluromed’s “lead product is entering the market and will
thus bring immediate additional revenues and growth to the
company in a preserved specialty area,” Eric Le Berrigaud, an
analyst at Bryan, Garnier & Co. in Paris, wrote in a note to
clients today. About 20,000 U.S. patients annually require
temporary occlusion of blood vessels, according to the analyst.  LeGoo Approval  LeGoo is approved by the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
and is authorized for sale in the European Union, Paris-based
Sanofi said.  The gel is a “breakthrough technology” that provides
“fast, temporary control of blood flow while avoiding vessel
trauma associated with standard of care,” Alison Lawton, who
heads Sanofi’s bio-surgery business, said in the statement.  Pluromed’s devices control bleeding during medical
procedures such as cardiac surgery and cancer therapies,
according to its  website . The company was founded in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  