-- Santorum Relies on Prayers, Donated Buses to Get Vote Out
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-16T01:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/santorum-relies-on-prayers-donated-buses-to-get-vote-out.html
Moments before  Rick Santorum 
learned he’d won the  Alabama  and Mississippi primaries, an
unnamed supporter emerged from the crowd at his victory rally
and called on the audience to take a knee and pray for success.  Each Christian in the room had a job to do, he said in the
Lafayette, Louisiana, hotel ballroom on March 13, and that is to
fight until their last breath, in their own city or state, to
help Santorum’s bid for the Republican presidential nomination.  With minimal campaign organization and less funds than his
rivals, Santorum has boosted his campaign with the votes of a
network of evangelical Christians, anti-abortion rights
activists and home-schooling parents who are resisting
frontrunner  Mitt Romney . In a March 8-11 national Bloomberg
Poll, likely voters who described themselves as “born again”
or evangelical Christian backed Santorum by 42 percent compared
with 28 percent for Romney.  “Romney’s inability to close out the race has given
Santorum a golden opportunity to unite social conservatives
behind him, and they are getting in line,” said Keith Appell, a
Republican public relations executive who works with social
conservative groups.  Facebook and Pulpits  Parents who home school their children are spreading the
message on Facebook. Southern Baptist pastors are promoting
Santorum’s candidacy to their members. Anti-abortion rights
advocates are boarding the “Rick Bus” for multi-state voter
mobilization tours.  Two days before Tennessee’s primary, Santorum attended
services on March 4 at the Bellevue Baptist Church, a 7,000-
member organization in the Memphis suburbs. “We so desperately
need for God to raise up godly people who will run for office,”
said Pastor Steve Gaines, as he placed his hand on Santorum’s
shoulder to give him a blessing. “So let’s pray for Rick.”  Santorum won the state’s primary.  Such efforts are helping the former Pennsylvania senator
compensate for a campaign operation that trails Romney in every
measure of strength: money, staff, and organization.  Romney raised $63 million for his campaign through January,
compared with $7 million by Santorum. Santorum had spent
$148,806 on salaries and benefits through January; Romney’s
personnel costs have exceeded $4.5 million. Santorum recently
opened a national campaign headquarters in Virginia; Romney’s
offices near Boston Harbor have been open nearly a year.  Ten Victories  Despite those disadvantages, Santorum has won 10 state
contests in the Republican race and held Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor, to a three-percentage-point victory in
 Michigan  and one-point win in  Ohio .  He’s tapping into well organized yet loosely affiliated
groups of activists whose leaders consider Santorum one of them.
“Santorum has piggybacked on the top of other existing
grassroots networks,” said Cleta Mitchell, his campaign
counsel. “They’re basically activating their networks on his
behalf.”  Through March 12, evangelicals comprised nearly 51 percent
of all Republican primary voters, according to exit poll data
analyzed by the Faith and Freedom Coalition, a social
conservative advocacy group. Santorum won 33 percent of those
voters, compared with 30 percent for Romney, 30 percent for
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and 8 percent for U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas .  Mississippi, Alabama  In the  Mississippi  and Alabama primaries, almost eight in
10 voters said they were born again Christians or evangelicals,
according to exit polling. Among them, Santorum beat Romney, a
Mormon, by eight points in Alabama and six points in
Mississippi.  The support has helped Santorum offset a Romney’s dominance
on television.  Romney and a political action committee supporting him ran
64 percent of the commercials that aired in Mississippi and
Alabama in the month before the primaries, compared to just 15
percent aired by Santorum’s backers, according to data from New
York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  “The conservative movement now is taking over and they’re
doing what needs to be done,” said Richard Viguerie, a
Republican direct mail strategist who backs Santorum.  Ballot Difficulties  The efforts may not be sufficient for Santorum to overcome
Romney. He failed to get on the ballot for  Virginia ’s March 6
primary because he couldn’t collect enough signatures, and in
 Illinois  he will only be eligible to win 44 of 54 delegates
awarded in the state’s March 21 vote because of faulty
paperwork. He lags behind Romney -- who’s had victories in 18
contests -- in overall delegates won by slightly less than 2-1,
according to the Associated Press tally,  Still, backers attribute Santorum’s staying power so far to
support that isn’t reliant on money or the usual campaign
infrastructure.  “People with large mailing lists, large donor lists, e-
mail lists, radio shows are putting them to work for Santorum,”
said Viguerie. “Some of the conservative leaders are making
phone calls to pastors, and pastors are spreading the word.”  The process gained momentum after Santorum emerged as the
consensus choice of 150 Christian leaders who met at a Texas
ranch Jan. 14 in an effort to consolidate opposition to Romney,
who once supported abortion rights -- a position that is a
disqualifier to some voters motivated by religion.  ‘Fertilizing’ Grassroots  “They left that ranch and they went home and started
fertilizing their grassroots. And son of gun, things started to
grow,” said  Richard Land , president of the Nashville,
Tennessee-based Southern Baptist Convention’s Ethics and
Religious Liberty Commission, who attended the meeting.  Much of the support is based on Santorum’s opposition to
abortion rights, gay marriage, and support for religious
organizations. The Susan B. Anthony List, an anti-abortion
rights group, has run a bus tour promoting his candidacy through
Ohio,  Tennessee ,  Georgia , Alabama and Mississippi. The bus tour
plans stops in  Missouri , which holds caucuses March 17, and
Illinois, which holds its primary March 20.  Santorum makes campaign appearances at Christian schools
and churches, where he accepts prayers and applause from
congregates and pastors. “True happiness comes from doing God’s
will,” Santorum told an audience at a Southern Baptist church
in Hixton, Tennessee, on Feb. 25. “It comes not from doing what
you want to do, but doing what you ought to do.”  Home Schooling  Religious voters also identify with Santorum’s personal
lifestyle. Large families of home-schooled children are fixtures
at campaign events for Santorum, who with his wife has home-
schooled his seven children. “The home-schooling community is
an influential and expansive network that really flies beneath
the media radar,” Appell said.  Santorum also has campaigned across the country with the
Duggars, the evangelical Christian family of 21 that stars in
the TLC reality show “19 Kids & Counting.” They often follow
Santorum to events, bringing along musical instruments so they
can perform Christian songs for the crowd.  Mitchell, the campaign’s lawyer, said she often receives e-
mail messages from volunteers with lines of Biblical scripture
at the bottom.  “They feel like they’re really part of a crusade,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ; Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington
at  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  