-- Sarkozy’s Yield Drop at Risk With Hollande Victory
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-03-16T09:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/sarkozy-s-yield-drop-at-risk-with-hollande-victory.html
French Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  is proving more successful than President  Nicolas Sarkozy  at wooing voters ahead of next month’s election. Bond
investors are less impressed.  Hollande, who has led Sarkozy in polls conducted during the
past year, has promised to reverse the incumbent’s plan to raise
the  sales tax  and reduce the cost of labor for employers. He
also wants to renegotiate the fiscal pact agreed by Germany,
France and other European countries in December.  “A Hollande victory would probably be a negative for
French debt,” said Peter Allwright, who helps oversee about $4
billion as head of absolute rates and currency at asset manager
RWC Partners in London. “I can’t see it being a good thing.”  The premium  France  pays to borrow over Germany has dropped
by 50 percent since it reached a two-decade high in November.
The spread narrowed as yields on 10-year French bonds slid to
2.949 percent from 3.722 percent on Nov. 24. The decline
occurred even after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped France of its AAA
rating in January.  Efforts on the European sovereign debt crisis by Sarkozy
and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , whose close ties led to the
coining of the term “Merkozy,” may falter if Hollande wins,
and spreads may “widen across the board,” said Myles Bradshaw,
a  fund manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The strength of the relationship between the two leading
governments in the euro zone, France and  Germany , and their
ability to work together” may be thrown into question by a
Hollande victory, Bradshaw said on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” show in London on March 14.  Merkel Ties  “People are not sure what kind of balance Hollande and
Merkel will find,” said Christian Borjesson, an analyst at
 Nordea Markets  in  Stockholm . “If Hollande wins, it could create
some market volatility. From a market perspective, it will be
much more negative if Hollande wins.”  France paid costs of 2.4 percent in weighted average terms
in the first two months of this year as it raised 39.6 billion
euros ($53 billion), or 22 percent of the 178 billion euros it
needs for 2012, said  Philippe Mills , chief executive officer of
Agence France Tresor, the nation’s debt agency said in an
interview last month. That compares with 2.8 percent in 2011 and
a record low 2.5 percent in 2010.  France was cut by one level to AA+ by S&P on Jan. 13. As
with the U.S., which lost its AAA rating in August, investors in
French bonds shrugged off the downgrade.  Debt Auction  French borrowing costs fell yesterday when the Treasury
sold about 10 billion euros of debt. The yield on the benchmark
five-year bonds was 1.78 percent at the auction, down from 1.93
percent on Feb. 16.  The decline has largely been driven by the  European Central
Bank ’s Long Term Refinancing Operation, which has made 1.02
trillion euros of three-year loans available to banks across the
region since December.  Sarkozy had pressed the ECB for much of last year to take a
bigger role in the crisis-fighting effort, an idea opposed by
Germany. After months of wrangling, Sarkozy and Merkel agreed on
Nov. 24 to stop debating the central bank’s fire-fighting role.  Two weeks later, the ECB said it would offer unlimited cash
to banks at 1 percent for three years and ease its collateral
rules. On Dec. 9, Sarkozy advocated that banks use some of those
funds to buy sovereign bonds, prompting some investors to call
such transactions the “Sarko trade.”  Opinion Polls  Market attention may “begin to switch to the French
election,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at
WestLB AG in  London . “Although Hollande has been leading in
opinion polls, the market may be thinking that the recent
tentative signs of recovery in France mean that a Sarkozy
victory cannot yet be ruled out.”  The first round of the French election will be held on
April 22, with the two winners squaring off in the decisive
second round on May 6.  Although France avoided a recession in the fourth quarter,
Sarkozy has been dogged by a slowdown in  Europe ’s second-largest
economy that set in as concern about the sovereign debt crisis
mounted. With the economy stalling, French jobless claims rose
in 2011 to a 12-year high.  In French politics, Hollande has been the main beneficiary.
The Socialist candidate would win 54 percent of the vote if the
second leg of the two-round election were held now, compared
with 46 percent for Sarkozy, according to a CSA poll for BFMTV,
RMC radio and 20 Minutes that was published yesterday.  Political Posturing  The economic outlook and unemployment are the two biggest
voter concerns, according to an Ipsos-Logica poll published
March 1. The survey showed that 60 percent of voters believe
Hollande is best capable of reducing unemployment, compared with
37 percent for Sarkozy.  Hollande says he’ll meet Sarkozy’s goal of reducing the
deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by next year from
5.3 percent last year. He says he wants to create a government
bank to finance small businesses and to target support for
specific industries rather than an across-the-board cut in
employers’ contribution to state-managed family allowances.  Sarkozy is proposing a 13-billion euro cut in payroll
charges, to be funded with a higher value added tax, to boost
French competitiveness after the country’s trade gap widened to
a record 69.6 billion euros last year.  “There’s uncertainty about what Hollande’s proposals are
for reforming France to make sure France can remain
competitive,” Pimco’s Bradshaw said. “It clouds the picture
about what France is really doing in terms of its structural
reforms to enable it to grow the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  