-- Sarkozy Says France Needs to Defend Borders, Protect Secularism
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-16T12:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/sarkozy-says-france-needs-to-defend-borders-protect-secularism.html
France needs to better control its
borders and defend its secular culture, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a speech, hitting themes that are popular with
voters of the anti-immigrant National Front.  Sarkozy’s 30-minute speech in the town of Meaux, east of
Paris, today was dominated by social issues, never touching on
the economy or foreign policy, and stressed the value of work
and personal responsibility.  “We don’t want immigration that is driven by the desire to
come here for our welfare benefits,” he said, defending a
project to create biometric  identity cards  for access to health
care. “The French are shocked by the high pay of irresponsible
people in finance, but they are equally shocked by people who
defraud our welfare system.”  France holds its first round of presidential elections
April 22, with Sarkozy trailing in polls behind his Socialist
Challenger,  Francois Hollande , but holding off the National
Front’s Marine Le Pen. The top two will run off May 6.  Sarkozy reiterated his call for  Europe ’s Schengen system
of open borders to have more political control, and “not be
run by technocrats and courts.” He also reopened a dispute
about whether schools should offer Halal meat, or meat
slaughtered according to Islamic principles. “Our municipal
swimming pools don’t have separate hours for men and women, and
our school children all eat the same meals,” he said.  A proposal by Hollande that undocumented families with
children no longer be held in detention centers to await
deportation was “irresponsible,” Sarkozy said. “All gangs of
human traffickers will know that to avoid deportation in  France ,
you just have to bring in children,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  