-- Saudi Arabia Books Most Oil Tankers to Supply U.S. in Years
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-03-16T19:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/saudi-arabia-booking-most-crude-tankers-to-supply-u-s-in-years.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
oil exporter, is booking the most tankers in years to supply the
U.S., a sign the kingdom is fulfilling a pledge to compensate
for a decline in Iranian sales, according to Dahlman Rose & Co.  Vela, the shipping unit of state-owned  Saudi Aramco , booked
nine so-called very large crude carriers in the past week to go
to the U.S.,  Omar Nokta , a New York-based analyst, said in a
report today. A further two vessels, each capable of carrying
about 2 million barrels, were chartered earlier in March and all
11 are scheduled to load in the last week of this month or first
week of April, Nokta said. Vela booked an average of one VLCC to
the U.S. every other month last year, he said.  Iran , the second-biggest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, exported almost 2 million barrels
a day last month, compared with 2.6 million in November, the
 International Energy Agency  said in a report March 14. The
country is facing tougher sanctions from the European Union and
U.S., who say its nuclear program is aimed at making atomic
weapons. Iran says it is for civilian purposes.  “It appears that Saudi Arabia is following up on its
pledge to supply the global markets with increased  crude oil 
ahead of the planned European embargo of Iranian supplies,”
Nokta wrote in today’s report.  The U.S., the world’s biggest oil consumer, imported an
average of 1.5 million barrels a day from Saudi Arabia this
year, according to preliminary weekly data from the Energy
Department. Cargo volumes are on track for the highest quarterly
average since September 2008, the data show.  Vessel Costs  The jump in tanker bookings is helping drive vessel costs
higher, with daily  rates  on the benchmark Saudi-Arabia-to-Japan
route advancing 2.5 percent to $33,205 today, Baltic Exchange
data show. Rates almost tripled since March 5, according to the
London-based bourse, which publishes costs along more than 50
maritime routes.  “Rates can clearly go higher in the short-term as tight
vessel supply tends to create a bit of panic among charterers,”
said Petter Narvestad, an analyst at Fondsfinans AS in Oslo.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , also known as Sinopec,
booked 10 VLCCs to load cargoes in the Persian Gulf yesterday,
adding to four others taken earlier in the week, Nokta said.  The contact phone number posted on Vela’s website wasn’t
working today. A person answering the switchboard at Saudi
Aramco’s headquarters in Dahran, Saudi Arabia, said no one would
be available to comment until tomorrow. Today is a public
holiday in Saudi Arabia.  Iran Exports  Iran’s oil exports will probably drop by 50 percent when EU
sanctions take full effect in July,  David Fyfe , head of the
IEA’s market and industry division, said in an interview March
14. Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi, in an interview in
 Kuwait  the same day, rejected that estimate and said the country
was exporting in line with the quotas set by OPEC.  Motiva Enterprises LLC, a joint venture between  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Saudi Arabian Oil Co. that operates three
refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast, has supply agreements with
the two producers that terminate in 2018, according to a company
filing. New supply agreements for the venture’s  Port Arthur 
refinery, which will double its capacity this year to 600,000
barrels a day, will commence when the upgrade is operational and
last 20 years.  “Considering we buy zero Iranian crude, I would suspect
some of the increase goes to the expansion,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Several units of the expansion project have been completed
and turned over to operations, Emily Oberton, a spokeswoman for
Shell, said in a March 12 e-mail. “Work on the remaining units
is continuing as scheduled and full operations will begin in
2012.” She declined to say the status of individual units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  