-- HSBC Growing Organically in Turkey, Acquisition Possible
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-03-16T16:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/hsbc-seeks-acquisition-to-become-top-five-bank-in-turkey.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest
bank, is pushing ahead with growing organically in Turkey and is
interested in an acquisition should the right opportunity arise,
said Martin Spurling, chief executive of HSBC Bank AS.  HSBC is the 11th biggest bank in Turkey “and we want to be
seven, eight or nine,” Spurling said in an interview in
Istanbul yesterday. “We want to expand in an organic way and to
buy something it has to be meaningful.”  HSBC is competing with  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , part-owned by  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , and  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the unit of Spain’s  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , as the economy grows more than
four times the European average. HSBC had withdrawn a bid for
 Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , the Turkish lender put up for sale by  Dexia SA (DEXB) , a
person with knowledge of the matter said on Jan. 9.  “There are no plans for this in the immediate future,”
Spurling said. “Culture has to fit as well.”  The cost of buying a bank in the country has fallen since
last year, when BBVA bought its stake in Garanti, Spurling said.
However, price to book ratios averaging 1 to 1.2 are “still
very strong,” he said.  “Foreign corporates are willing to pay a premium, but it
is too high compared to Europe and the U.S., so it’s a tough
job,” Spurling said.  Dexia has been seeking about 1.5 times Denizbank’s book
value, people with knowledge of the process said last month.  HSBC will open about 100 branches over the next few years
in  Turkey , as part of a plan to raise its market share to five
percent from two percent, Spurling said. The bank will focus on
investment and retail banking, he said. It currently has 333
branches in 63 Turkish cities.  “We’re going to leverage our very strong conservative
balance sheet, leverage our excellent credit risk to grow,”
Spurling said. “In the retail space you have to have volume.
Service and sustainability are important as well.”  Part of the bank’s strategy is expanding consumer lending
and it started a loan product called Kredinet three weeks ago,
where the cost of the loan to the consumer is laid out “clearly
and simply,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  