-- Scene Last Night: Terfel on Cocktails, Grenier Plays Host
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-16T15:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/scene-last-night-terfel-on-cocktails-grenier-plays-host.html
St. John Frizell, proprietor of the
bar Fort Defiance in Red Hook, Brooklyn, speared a black plastic
dagger through a grapefruit peel last night as he recited from
“Macbeth”:  “... Or art thou but a dagger of the mind, a false
creation, proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?”  The  Metropolitan Opera ’s third cocktail contest was under
way. This one was held before the curtain of Verdi’s
“Macbeth,” with Thomas Hampson in the title role, and called
for cocktails inspired by Shakespeare’s tragedy. Among the
judges was a thirsty baritone,  Bryn Terfel , who starting in
April will take the role of Wotan, king of the gods, in three
complete cycles of Wagner’s Ring.  Contestant Frizell, in a Hickey Freeman suit and Pucci
pocket square, prepared his Dagger: a light, citrusy drink using
Scottish gin, Italian wine and American bitters.  Fresh thyme was also spied on the bar counter of the Met’s
Grand Tier.  “That’s my ‘double, double, toil and trouble,’” Frizell
said, invoking the incantation of the play’s three witches.  The verdict: “It’s deceptive, like a dagger,” said
Abigail Gullo, a bartender at Fort Defiance. “It tastes light
and refreshing, but I suspect it has a lot of alcohol. It could
sneak up on you.”  Frizell lost out to Meaghan Dorman from Raines Law Room, a
bar in Chelsea. Her prize: opera tickets.  $94,000 Bottle of Whiskey  The prize on Liberty Island last night was a 55-year-old
bottle of whiskey.  Mahesh Patel, an Atlanta-based real-estate developer,
claimed it for $94,000 in a live auction organized by
Glenfiddich to mark its 125th anniversary.  The liquid in the bottle was made in honor of Janet Sheed
Roberts, the granddaughter of Glenfiddich’s founding distiller,
William Grant.  “It has a very strong pear taste,” said Brian Kinsman,
master blender of  William Grant & Sons , which produces brands
Glenfiddich, Hendrick’s and others.  For most of the party the bottle sat in a corner of a tent,
neglected in favor of men in kilts serving drams of whiskey,
lobster and chicken pot pies, and a view of the Statue of
Liberty’s back.  At auction, Patel vied with one other bidder in $500
increments, on and on. Let’s just say auctioneer Rachel Orkin-
Ramey of Christie’s showed extreme patience. (Whiskey, by the
way, is not her specialty: She said she is an Asian art expert
excited about a sale next week of ancient bronze mirrors.)  Patel’s victory was cheered by actor-producer  Adrian
Grenier  and producer Peter Glatzer, co-founders of  SHFT 
Initiatives; its programs promoting healthy, sustainable living
benefited from the auction.  Patel said he likes whiskey because “it has so many
flavors and aromas.” His passion has become a business: He is
the chief executive of the  Universal Whisky Experience , a
company that plans tasting events, most recently in  Las Vegas .  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 