-- Sears Increases Short-Term Borrowings From Lampert Fund by 12%
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-03-16T23:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/sears-increases-short-term-borrowings-from-lampert-fund-by-12-.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , increased
short-term borrowings from Chairman  Edward Lampert ’s hedge fund
by 12 percent last year, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Sears had an average of $230 million of commercial paper
outstanding to Lampert’s ESL Investments Inc. in fiscal 2011,
compared with $204.7 million the previous year, according to a
similar filing on April 11.  The retailer, which owns Kmart as well as Sears, is
spinning off about 1,250 smaller-format stores, and selling 14
North American sites, moves that the company said it expects to
bring in as much as about $942 million. On a Feb. 23 conference
call, Robert A. Schriesheim, chief financial officer of  Hoffman
Estates , Illinois-based Sears, said the company has ample
liquidity including a $3.28 billion revolving  credit line  with
no active financial covenants. Sears had $754 million of cash on
its books on Jan. 28, he said, down from $1.36 billion at the
end of the previous fiscal year, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  As of Jan. 28, ESL held about 74 percent of Sears’s $337
million in commercial paper, according to the company’s annual
report.  “Sears posts rates at which it is willing to borrow via
commercial paper and various parties including ESL may lend,”
spokeswoman Kimberly Freely said today in an e-mail. “The funds
are used for general corporate purposes.”  ‘Same Terms’  ESL lends at “substantially the same terms,” according to
the filing today.  Sears is  ranked  B3, six steps below investment grade, by
Moody’s Investors Service and CCC+, one level lower, by  Standard
& Poor’s . The outlook at both firms is negative.  “It’s a little unusual that a company with ratings as low
as they have would be able to access the commercial paper
market, but it’s only because they have this relationship with
ESL” that Sears is able to do so, said James Goldstein, an
analyst at CreditSights Inc., a New York debt-research firm.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as paying
rent and salaries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net 
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  