-- Sears To Close 62 Stores by July to Reduce Costs
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-03-16T20:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/sears-to-close-62-stores-in-first-half-of-this-year-to-cu.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the
department-store chain controlled by hedge fund executive  Edward Lampert , plans to close 62 retail stores in the first half of
this year to reduce expenses.  The closings include 43 Sears Hometown stores, 10 Sears
Hardware stores and 9 The Great Indoors stores, the  Hoffman
Estates , Illinois-based company said in a  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 14. The company,
which also owns the Kmart chain, had 4,010 stores as of Jan. 28.  Lampert, who is Sears’s chairman and controls about 60
percent of its shares, is spinning off units to generate cash
and closing stores after the company posted its largest
quarterly  loss  in at least nine years. Sears said last month it
planned to raise as much as $770 million by selling 11 store
sites and separating some smaller-format businesses.  Chris Brathwaite, a Sears spokesman, declined to provide a
list of the 62 stores to be closed or specify when the stores
will shut down. Brathwaite said in an e-mail that he didn’t know
how many jobs may be affected because most of the closing stores
are independently owned and operated.  Sears fell 1.1 percent to $82.55 at the close in New York.
The  shares  have more than doubled this year after plunging 56
percent in 2011.  Sears also disclosed in the filing that Lampert’s ESL
Investments Inc. agreed with an undisclosed financial
institution to buy a stake in contracts that pay suppliers for
their accounts receivable with Sears should the company seek
protection from creditors.  Planned Closings  The retailer last year announced a plan to close 120 Kmart
and Sears full-line stores that would generate as much as $170
million in  cash  from sales of inventory and leasing or sales of
the locations.  The company had $747 million in cash and near-cash items at
the end of the fourth quarter, about 45 percent less than a year
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  