-- Senator Hatch Optimistic About Re-Election After Caucuses
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-03-16T21:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/senator-hatch-optimistic-about-re-election-after-caucuses.html
Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of
 Utah , who has a tough intra-party challenge in his bid for a
seventh term, is confident he is well positioned for re-election
after state party caucuses, a campaign spokeswoman said today.  Initial reports after yesterday’s caucuses show that a
strong number of delegates elected to attend a state party
convention next month are supporters of Hatch, said Evelyn Call,
a spokeswoman for his campaign.  “We’re feeling very optimistic about the results we’re
seeing,” Call said.  The top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, Hatch
is facing a challenge from Republicans including state Senator
Dan Liljenquist, who has some backing from Tea Party activists.
Hatch also must contend with a barrage of ads targeted against
him by FreedomWorks, a group founded by former House Majority
Leader Richard Armey that supports the  Tea Party .  A super-PAC operated by FreedomWorks, which can raise
unlimited amounts for elections, has spent more than $616,000
against Hatch, according to the nonpartisan Center for
Responsive Politics.  Hatch is trying to avoid the fate of former three-term Utah
Senator Robert Bennett, who was toppled at his state party
convention in 2010 after he didn’t gather enough votes to make
it onto the ballot in a two-man primary race.  Mike Lee , a Tea
Party-backed former clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice  Samuel Alito , prevailed in that race and is serving his first term in
the Senate.  June Primary  Hatch would avoid a primary and become his party’s nominee
if he can garner 60 percent of the vote at next month’s party
convention. Otherwise, the two top vote-getters will go on the
ballot in a June 26 primary.  Hatch is drawing opposition because of his past willingness
to work with Democrats on such legislative proposals as bailing
out the nation’s banks, coming up with a pathway to citizenship
for some illegal immigrants and federal funding for stem-cell
research. In 1997, he worked with Democratic Senator  Ted Kennedy 
of  Massachusetts  to create a children’s health program.  Thomas Wright, chairman of the Utah Republican Party, said
last night’s party caucuses saw record turnout, with between
125,000 and 200,000 people showing up to help elect 4,000 party
convention delegates. Those who came seemed less representative
of the Tea Party and more broadly representative of the party
compared with 2010, he said.  “It’s a different climate than it was in 2010,” Wright
said. Then, he said, “there was a lot of anger” because
President  Barack Obama  signed his overhaul of health care into
law just days before the party caucuses.  Holly Richardson, Liljenquist’s campaign manager, said
Hatch is in a stronger position now than Bennett was after the
2010 caucuses.  “But I think we’re pretty comfortable with where we are
right now, and we have five weeks to make our case,” Richardson
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  