-- Singapore February Exports Surge 30.5% on Pharmaceuticals
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 2012-03-16T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/singapore-february-exports-surge-30-5-on-pharmaceuticals.html
Singapore ’s exports rebounded in
February as shipments of pharmaceuticals and electronics surged
after a holiday in January reduced overseas sales.  Non-oil domestic  exports  increased 30.5 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 2.4 percent drop in January, the trade
promotion agency said in a statement today. The median of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 16.2 percent
gain.  The numbers are distorted by the Lunar New Year holidays,
which were in January this year and in the month of February in
2011, when factories from  China  to  Vietnam  typically shut and
reduce production. A slowdown in China and  Europe ’s debt crisis
are reducing demand for the region’s goods, forcing policy
makers to evaluate whether to add stimulus to spur growth.  “After a seasonal decline due to the Lunar New Year in
January, it is reasonable to assume a technical pickup in
February,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
in Singapore, said before the report. “But frankly, the
underlying story on the export front hasn’t changed much, that
the sluggish global demand has not improved significantly over
the past month.”  Singapore’s  electronics shipments  by companies such as
contract manufacturer Venture Corp. rose 23.3 percent in
February from a year earlier, after declining 10.9 percent the
previous month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, increased 34 percent. Petrochemicals exports
decreased 5 percent, while pharmaceutical shipments grew 44.5
percent after climbing 20.2 percent in January.  Singapore’s non-oil  exports  increased a seasonally adjusted
6.2 percent last month from January, when they climbed a revised
0.5 percent, today’s report showed. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News had predicted a 5 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarina Yoo in Seoul at 
 kyoo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  