-- South Africa Probes Boom in Unsecured Lending by Banks
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-03-16T09:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/south-africa-probes-boom-in-unsecured-lending-by-biggest-banks.html
South Africa ’s banking regulator is
investigating unsecured lending by the biggest lenders amid
concern inflation and bad debt may surge in a country where
consumers don’t save and almost one in four is jobless.  The analysis will examine the pace and causes of the
growth, the banks that are doing the lending, and whether the
borrowing is being used for consumption or capital spending,
Rene van Wyk, who was appointed as South Africa’s Pretoria-based
 Registrar of Banks  in October, said in an interview yesterday.  “The report will be issued in the second half -- next year
may be too late,” said Van Wyk, who previously headed the risk
department for the investment-banking unit of  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) 
Unsecured lending remains a relatively small portion of big
banks’ balance sheets, he said.  The total value of unsecured loans by the third quarter of
2011 rose 53 percent to 101.1 billion rand ($13.2 billion) from
the previous year, according to South Africa’s  National Credit
Regulator . That represents 8 percent of all lending in South
Africa, up from 5.7 percent in 2010, the agency said. At the
same time,  unemployment  is 24 percent, the highest of 61 nations
tracked by Bloomberg, and the central bank reported savings as a
percentage of  household income  was zero in the third quarter.  Inflation Rising  The growth in unsecured lending may fuel spending and
inflation, causing  interest rates  to rise more than expected,
Annabel Bishop, a Johannesburg-based economist at  Investec Ltd. (INL) ,
said in a March 6 report that estimated South Africa’s benchmark
repurchase rate may rise 250 basis points to 8 percent by 2014.
With growth in asset-backed finance stalled, retail banks are
trying to maintain their loan book sizes by writing business
that may prove costly to market latecomers, she said.  South African Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said
yesterday inflation may be becoming “more generalized” with
demand in the economy picking up, indicating policy makers may
be preparing to raise interest rates this year.  South Africa’s four largest  banks , which command almost 85
percent of the market, including  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , have all reported growth in
unsecured lending and say this will be a focal point this year.
Smaller lenders  Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd. (CPI)  and  African Bank
Investments Ltd. (ABL)  used to dominate the unsecured credit market,
focused on low-income earners. Searching for profit, the biggest
banks are now competing for the business along with retailers,
micro-lenders and insurers.  ‘Responsible Lending’  “The key remains responsible lending practices with a
strong emphasis on affordability and whether the customer can
handle the loan instalment,” said Michael Jordaan, head of
 First National Bank , the consumer banking unit of  FirstRand
Ltd. (FSR) , where total retail unsecured lending grew by more than 30
percent in 2011. “As we have noted rising inflation, we have
successfully tightened our credit criteria over the last year.”  While South Africa’s benchmark  repurchase rate  is 5.5
percent, the fees for unsecured credit make it profitable for
lenders and expensive for borrowers. For a six-month so-called
Global One loan of 3,000 rand, Capitec charges an interest rate
of 40 percent, which means a monthly instalment of 680 rand and
a total repayment of 4,082 rand, according to the lender’s
stated  rates . For someone earning 10,000 rand a month and asking
First National for 3,000 rand over six months, the monthly
repayment would be about 709 rand, according to the bank’s
online  loan calculator .  Basel III  To stop unsecured lending from becoming a bubble that could
threaten the banks and the economy, “the best for us as the
South African  Reserve Bank  is what we’re doing: asking banks to
report to us on this and our analysis done on the information
provided,” Van Wyk, 55, said. Under Basel III, a global set of
banking rules being implemented over the next six years, the
registrar can apply what is known as a counter-cyclical buffer,
which means lenders would have to hold additional capital when
his agency determines credit growth is excessive, Van Wyk said.  While the number of secured credit accounts dropped 1
percent in the 12 months to September 2011, according to the
National Credit Regulator, unsecured accounts rose 31 percent to
7,074. Almost three-quarters of unsecured credit consists of
loans of more than 15,000 rand and more than 60 percent of those
loans go to people earning less than 10,000 rand a month, the
agency said.  ‘Very Good Sign’  South Africa needs a “risks benchmark so that certain
indicators go red if they’re passed,” Ettienne le Roux, Rand
Merchant Bank’s chief economist, said in an interview.  “The policy makers are well aware and focused on unsecured
lending so that’s already a very good sign,” he said, referring
to Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan ’s February  budget review ,
which said trends must be monitored to ensure consumers’ growing
reliance on unsecured debt doesn’t create a systemic risk.  Anecdotal evidence suggests borrowers are using unsecured
credit to finance consumption as evidenced by both “heady”
vehicle and retail sales growth, said Investec’s Bishop. Some
also appear to be using unsecured credit to repay other debts, a
trend that isn’t sustainable unless wage increases climb
significantly above  inflation , she said.  “We do ask customers what the purpose of the loan is, but
answers are often generic and can sometimes be somewhat
misleading,” said First National’s Jordaan, adding that loans
are typically used for housing, school fees and living expenses.
“Credit is a key market need and if a bank wants to play a
meaningful role for their customers, it’s important to provide
this service if you want to retain them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  