-- Corn, Soybeans Rally to Six-Month Highs as China Demand Outlook
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-03-16T19:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/soybeans-advance-on-speculation-chinese-demand-will-increase.html
Corn and soybeans extended rallies
to the highest prices since September on speculation that  China 
may boost purchases from the U.S., the biggest producer of both
crops.  Jilin Corn Center Wholesale Market reported yesterday that
government purchases of domestic grain have plunged this year to
1.2 million metric tons from 11 million a year earlier, a sign
of tighter supplies in China that will lead to a jump in
imports. On the  Dalian Commodity Exchange , corn futures jumped
to a record today. Soybean imports may rise more than 20 percent
in the first half of 2012, Grain.gov.cn said March 12.  “The rising markets are a reflection of traders expecting
increased Chinese purchases from the U.S.,”  Jerry Gidel , the
chief feed analyst at Chicago-based Rice Dairy LLC, said in a
telephone interview. “Rising meat demand is driving Chinese
consumption of feed.”  Corn futures for May delivery rose 0.6 percent to close at
$6.73 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. in  Chicago , after touching $6.7375,
the highest price since Sept. 22. The grain rallied 4.3 percent
this week, the largest gain since the end of January.  Soybean futures for May delivery advanced 0.4 percent to
$13.74 a bushel in Chicago, after touching $13.775, the highest
since Sept. 15. The oilseed rose 2.7 percent for the week, the
fifth straight and the longest weekly rally since November 2010.  Corn and soybeans may rally next week as unusually warm,
dry weather and drought conditions in parts of the northwestern
Midwest may threaten this year’s crops and encourage farmers to
withhold supplies left from last year’s harvest,  Tim Hannagan , a
grain analyst for PFT Best Inc. in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview.  The average  premium  for corn at export terminals near  New
Orleans  has climbed 30 percent in the past year, government data
show. U.S. inventories before this year’s harvest are expected
to drop to the lowest since 1996, the Department of Agriculture
said March 9. Soybean  premiums  are 4.2 percent higher than a
year earlier.  “The export-pipeline supply of corn and soybeans will
shrink the next few weeks because farmers will fear the weather
will prevent building stocks to more comfortable levels,”
Hannagan said. “March is a month when investors pour money into
the grain markets before the start of the growing season.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  