-- Spain Debt Reaches Record as Rajoy Becomes Crisis Focus: Economy
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-03-16T13:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/spain-debt-reaches-record-as-rajoy-becomes-crisis-focus-economy.html
Spain ’s public-debt burden surged
to the most in at least two decades, underlining concerns about
its ability to reorder state finances as contagion from the debt
crisis focuses on the euro area’s fourth-biggest economy.  The nation’s overall debt last year amounted to 68.5
percent of gross domestic product, exceeding the government’s
forecast of 67.3 percent, data on the Bank of Spain’s website
showed today. That compares with 66 percent in the third quarter
and 61.2 percent at the end of 2010.  “Spain seems to be the main risk in the near future for
 Europe ,” Stephane Deo, chief European economist at UBS AG,
wrote in a note today. “There are enormous challenges ahead,
including the debt-recession spiral in Portugal and Spain.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  spooked investors on March 2
when he defied European colleagues by loosening his deficit
target for 2012 amid the second recession in as many years. Even
as the  European Central Bank ’s loans to banks prop up demand for
Spanish bonds, the nation’s borrowing costs have risen 30 basis
points since Rajoy’s comments.  The increase in Spanish debt was driven by the nation’s 17
semi-autonomous regional governments, whose borrowings swelled
17 percent from a year earlier as they overshot their budget-
deficit goals.  Debt Forecast  The European Commission forecasts that Spain’s debt will
have almost doubled to 78 percent of GDP by next year from where
it was when Europe’s sovereign debt crisis began, as the
country’s deficit-reduction efforts are hobbled by a relapse
into recession. The  International Monetary Fund  expects the
economy to contract 1.7 percent this year.  Euro-area finance chiefs agreed this week that Spain’s
deficit goal for 2012 was unachievable after the shortfall came
in at 8.5 percent of GDP last year, compared with a 6 percent
target. For 2012, European finance ministers agreed to ease the
goal to 5.3 percent from an initial 4.4 percent.  “So far the government has disappointed,” UBS’s Deo said.
“An ambitious reduction of the deficit is needed.”  Elsewhere today, minutes of last month’s Bank of  Japan 
meeting showed that board members are concerned that increased
bond purchases by the central bank may be viewed as financing
government deficit spending. They said it was important “to
clearly recognize and explain to the public” that the purchases
are not “for the purpose of monetization,” according to the
document released on the BOJ website.  Singapore Exports  Also in  Asia , data in  Singapore  showed exports rebounded in
February as shipments of pharmaceuticals and electronics surged.
Non-oil domestic exports increased 30.5 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 2.4 percent drop in January, the trade
promotion agency said in a statement. The median of 16 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 16.2 percent gain.  In Europe, data from the European Union’s statistics office
showed that exports rose for a third month in January, adding to
signs the region’s economy is regaining strength after shrinking
in the fourth quarter. Exports from the euro-area advanced a
seasonally adjusted 1.3 percent from December, when they
increased 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  