-- Stalemate Hits $10 Billion Czech Nuclear Plan on Funding
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-03-16T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/stalemate-hits-10-billion-czech-nuclear-plan-on-funding-energy.html
The Czech Republic’s $10 billion
plan to build two atomic reactors near the German border that
could supply electricity to the Bavarian industrial heartland is
unraveling over financial and pricing disputes.  CEZ AS (CEZ) ,  Europe ’s only utility with an  atomic project  out to
bid, is beset by falling power prices and predictions that its
financial muscle is too weak to safeguard investors. The Prague-
based power company’s two most senior executives clashed last
month on how to fund the reactors.  “The project simply won’t be financially profitable,” said
Ivan Kotev, an analyst with Prague-based advisory firm  Candole
Partners  who co-wrote an economic feasibility study of the plan
in January. “It’s unrealistic,” Kotev said in an interview.  The developments are a blow to nuclear contractors  Areva SA (AREVA) 
of France,  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse unit and a Russian-Czech
consortium. Each is preparing bids by a July deadline that will
offer to build their latest model of reactor which, in each
case, has yet to run at an operating nuclear station.  CEZ and the state insist they will proceed with the
project. That’s a break from  Germany , Switzerland and  Italy ,
which closed nuclear plants or canceled projects last year after
the Fukushima disaster in  Japan . CEZ wants to build the power
generators at its existing two-reactor Temelin plant.  Germany’s plan to shut down all of its 17 nuclear reactors
by 2022 will create need for more reliable electricity sources
in Europe, according to Matthias Heck, a Frankfurt-based energy
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. Temelin stands less than 40
miles (64 kilometers) from the border with Bavaria, the German
state that’s home to carmaker BMW AG and engineer Siemens AG.  Unreliable Clean Power  “In the longer term, there will be a need for new plants
producing baseload power,” Heck said in a telephone interview,
referring to electricity delivered around-the-clock. “Renewables
are growing fast, but they are unreliable. Nuclear is a backbone
of power generation.”  The Temelin project may not be able to pay itself off given
low prices of power and carbon dioxide allowances, which aren’t
expensive enough to encourage utilities to switch to emission-
free technology, Macquarie’s Heck said.  Czech  power prices  for next-year have declined 5 percent
in the past year to about 50.75 euros a megawatt-hour.  German power prices for next year, a regional benchmark,
have declined 10.1 percent in the past year to about 52.50 a
megawatt-hour. Carbon emission permits have dropped 54 percent
in the same period to just more than 8 euros a ton.  Shares in CEZ have dropped about 2.4 percent in the past 12
months, compared with a 2 percent gain in the  Dow Jones Emerging
Markets Titans Utilities 30 index .  7 Billion-Euro Financing  To pay for Temelin, CEZ would have to borrow more than 7
billion euros ($9.1 billion), which would raise its debt-to-
equity ratio above the average among its European peers,
according to the Candole research.  Both CEZ and the Czech government -- which controls 70
percent of the company’s shares -- say they are determined to
see the project through. Yet they are sending confusing signals
about how they plan to pay for it.  CEZ Chief Financial Officer Martin Novak said in an
interview last month that the company may consider bringing in
another investor to share the risk. He was rebuffed by Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Benes, who told Bloomberg on Feb. 28
that “there is no other plan” than to finance Temelin entirely
out of CEZ’s pocket.  Industry and Trade Minister Martin Kuba said in a Feb. 12
TV debate that CEZ should finance the expansion on its own even
if it means paying out a smaller dividend.  Outside Investor?  “Bringing in an outside investor is an option that CEZ
would be wise to explore,” said Bram Buring, an analyst at
Prague-based brokerage Wood & Co. “It’s not uncommon that
investments of this scope are shared. CEZ would be foolish to
close any options.”  CEZ’s  dividend  policy has been to pay out between 50 and 60
percent of net profit. The company pays about $1 billion a year
to the state budget, about 2 percent of the  Czech Republic ’s
yearly revenue. Slashing the dividend would put a dent in the
state’s coffers.  The enormous price tag, probably combined with high
insurance premiums and interest rates, will make it necessary
for CEZ to seek state help at the expense of consumers and small
shareholders, Kotev said.  CEZ is exploring ways to make the state share the risk by
giving guarantees on loans and setting purchase price of
electricity produced in nuclear plants, according to Novak.  “CEZ’s main shareholder is the state, and the state is not
always a rational investor,” Kotev said. “This is not a good
deal for minority shareholders.”  Westinghouse, Rosatom  The company, with a $23 billion market value, the seventh-
largest European Union power utility by that measure, plans to
pick a contractor to build the reactors next year.  Areva is competing against Westinghouse Electric Corp. and
a Russian-Czech consortium led by Rosatom Corp.’s unit
Atomstroyexport for the contract.  CEZ’s technical requirements are “very tough,” said
Thomas Epron, Areva’s manager for the Temelin project.  Areva is offering its 1,650-megawatt EPR reactor, currently
under construction in Finland and  France . Both projects are
years behind schedule and over budget by billions of euros
Westinghouse is pitching its AP1000 design and Rosatom is
offering to build the VVER 1200 design.  The Russian company is also facing delays at its Rostov
project. All three companies must submit their bids by July.  Even with the bidding process well under way, it’s not
certain that CEZ will end up choosing any of the three
suppliers, said Vaclav Bartuska, the Czech government’s special
envoy for nuclear energy.  The Czechs  want to see the reactors up
and running before they make a decision, and that’s not the case
with any of the designs so far, he said.  “There is a possibility that CEZ won’t accept any of the
bids,” he said in an interview in Prague. “To be honest, at
this point not one of the three bidders has convinced us he can
build on cost and on time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  