-- Suzlon Energy, Barred From Repower Cash, May Sell Assets
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-16T02:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/suzlon-energy-barred-from-repower-cash-may-sell-assets.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s largest
wind-turbine maker, may sell assets to pay bondholders after
being shut out from tapping a 750 million-euro ($982 million)
loan raised by its German unit  Repower Systems SE. (RPW)   Suzlon can’t use the Repower loan announced March 1 from
banks led by BayernLB Holdings AG, Commerzbank AG and Deutsche
Bank AG, Repower spokeswoman Caroline Zimmermann said. “This is
not possible in the contract,” she said in an e-mail.  Lacking access to Repower’s loan, India’s largest wind-
turbine maker will find it difficult to refinance $569 million
in foreign currency convertible notes that mature starting in
June and may be forced to sell assets, said Atul Gharde, a Hong
Kong-based credit analyst at SJS Markets Ltd.  Suzlon may be willing to sell Repower to  France ’s  Alstom SA (ALO) 
for 1.5 billion euros, the Financial Times Deutschland reported
without saying where it got the information. Under pressure from
creditors, Suzlon Chief Executive Tulsi Tanti met several
potential bidders including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
Alstom, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing
unidentified people.  Alstom Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron denied the
reports, saying he won’t harm shareholders with “adventurous
deals” that would require selling shares to raise money in
“unfavorable economic conditions.” Suzlon in an e-mail called
the reports “totally speculative.”  Suzlon, which on Feb. 17 reported that  losses  had widened
to 2.86 billion rupees ($57 million) in the third quarter from
2.54 billion rupees a year earlier, had its biggest one-day jump
in more than a year on March 1 when Repower announced the loan
as investors assumed that the funds would help cover repayments.  ‘Bad’ for Investors  “This is bad for us investors,” said Raj Kothari, a
London-based convertible bond trader at Sun Global Investments
Ltd., which owns Suzlon bonds. “The only way out may be to sell
Repower cheaply.”  Prices on Suzlon’s 5 percent convertible debt due 2016 in
April fell 3.1 percent yesterday, reversing four days of gains,
according to pricing data from Barclays Plc. The yield rose by
5.4 percentage points.  SJS Market’s Gharde said Suzlon would probably try other
options first, such as raising money by pledging a stake in
Repower. Suzlon used a similar strategy to raise loans in  India 
by offering its shares as collateral to banks.  Sell SE Forge?  A more likely asset sale would be Suzlon’s SE Forge Ltd.
unit, which makes metals castings used in the wind industry,
Gharde said.  Repower provides Suzlon with access to technology and
growth in the offshore wind market, especially in  Europe , the
second-largest market for turbines after  China . The parent
business only makes onshore turbines.  It took Suzlon four years to buy Repower, beginning in 2007
when it acquired a 7.7 percent stake. Last October it bought out
minority shareholders’ remaining 4.8 percent stake. Ownership
would bring financial and technological benefits as well as
manufacturing efficiencies, Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and CLSA Asia Pacific said at the time in
reports to clients.  Repower had  206 million euros  of cash and equivalents at
the end of September before it was taken over by Suzlon,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  