-- Syrian Safety Zones Needed for Refugees, Turkey Says
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-03-16T14:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/syrian-safety-zones-needed-for-refugees-turkey-says.html
Turkey may propose options for
stemming the violence in neighboring  Syria , including the
establishment of safety zones on Syrian territory for people
fleeing President Bashar al-Assad’s yearlong crackdown.  The imposition of protected areas for refugees, as well as
a buffer zone in Syria, are among “a lot of alternatives” the
Turkish government is evaluating in advance of the April 2
meeting of nations in the Friends of Syria group, Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told reporters today in comments televised
from Ankara. He didn’t say how the zones would be imposed.
Turkey may also withdraw its ambassador to Syria following the
suspension of consular services, he said.  Attacks on protesters by Assad’s forces have displaced tens
of thousands of people, with the UN saying that more than 32,000
have fled the country. Turkish officials say about 1,000 have
entered Turkey in the past day. “Well over” 8,000 people have
died in the violence in Syria since it began in March 2011, UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday.  Arrangements for the Friends of Syria meeting in Turkey
come as the U.S. and  Russia  negotiate for a third attempt to
halt the crisis through the  United Nations .  “We are planning a much broader summit with targeted
solutions,” Erdogan said about the second convention of the
group of more than 70 nations.  Their first meeting, in  Tunisia  last month, was shunned by
Russia and  China , veto-wielding members of the UN Security
Council that blocked previous UN efforts to halt Assad’s
attacks. Erdogan said next month’s meeting, in Istanbul, will
“shape much different outcomes for the future.”  Dozens Die  Syrian forces killed at least 46 people in attacks
yesterday, with a majority of the civilians dying in northern
province of Idlib, on the border with Turkey, the Local
Coordination Committees, an activist group with members in
Syria,  said  on its website. Assad has turned his attacks on
Idlib after reclaiming rebel-held neighborhoods in the central
province of Homs following a monthlong siege.  Syria’s Foreign Ministry told the UN in a letter that
“terrorist” groups were responsible for atrocities across the
country, including an attack that killed 45 civilians in Homs on
March 12, according to the state-run Syrian Arab  News Agency .
The groups are trying to blame their massacres on the
government, Syria told the UN, adding that most of their members
have been apprehended and admitted committing crimes, SANA
reported.  Certain Arab countries promoting armed intervention against
Assad are provoking terrorists in Syria and leading to domestic
violence, SANA reported today, citing the letter. The government
would press on with efforts it started last March to “improve
citizens’ living standards as well as their basic freedoms and
rights,” Syria told the UN, according to the news agency.  Military Desertions  Meanwhile, desertions by members of Syria’s armed forces
have swollen to about 60,000 as growing numbers of troops refuse
to join the crackdown on protests by the government, according
to a Turkish Foreign Ministry official.  About 20,000 Syrian military personnel have left in less
than a month, said the official, who cited Turkish intelligence
reports and spoke on condition of anonymity in accordance with
government rules. The desertions are in addition to the 40,000
who left before Feb. 20, the official said.  The Turkish Foreign Ministry spokesman, Selcuk Unal, said
yesterday that a seventh Syrian general has defected and is now
in  Turkey .  Free Syrian Army  Syria’s armed forces have 295,000 active personnel,
according to the International Institute for Strategic Studies’
2012 Military Balance. Some of the soldiers are joining the
opposition Free Syrian Army, whose commanders reside in Turkish
refugee camps, Unal said.  “Elite units have demonstrated loyalty to the Assad regime
and ruthlessness in suppressing demonstrators,” according to
this month’s report from the London-based IISS. Even so, “a
growing number of defections, mostly from junior officers and
soldiers, have been recorded, raising questions about the army’s
cohesiveness.”  It’s “not clear that the regime has sufficient loyal
forces to guarantee survival against a sustained campaign of
protest or an active armed insurgency,” according to the
report.  U.S. Central Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus
this week met Hakan Fidan, head of Turkish intelligence, and
Erdogan in Ankara. The Turkish government subsequently said they
discussed the situation in Syria.  Syria’s allies Russia and China should support UN action to
halt the “scorched-earth methods” of Assad’s government,
according to a Human Rights Watch report.  “City after city, town after town, Syria’s security forces
are using their scorched-earth methods while the  Security
Council ’s hands remain tied by Russia and China,” Sarah Leah Whitson, the group’s  Middle East  director, said in the
statement. “One year on, the Security Council should finally
stand together and send a clear message to Assad that these
attacks should end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  