-- U.K. ‘Wasted’ 4 Years on Failed $1.6 Billion Carbon-Capture Plan
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/u-k-wasted-4-years-on-failed-1-6-billion-carbon-capture-plan.html
The U.K. must learn from a failed 1
billion-pound ($1.6 billion) carbon-capture funding program that
“wasted” four years, as it prepares to open a second financing
competition, the head of a panel of lawmakers said.  “Government cannot afford to miss this crucial
environmental commitment,” said  Margaret Hodge , chairwoman of
the Committee of Public Accounts, after the National Audit
Office published a review of the program terminated last year.
“It must learn the lessons from this failure to avoid
squandering any more time and money.”  The U.K. in 2007 invited companies to compete for funds to
build a demonstration carbon-capture and storage, or CCS, plant
and selected four candidates. By last year,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  was the
only utility left in the contest after developers including  BP
Plc (BP/)  and  EON AG (EOAN)  shelved projects. The final bid was scrapped in
October as Iberdrola was unable to build its proposed Scottish
plant within the budget or agree to the contract terms.  The government is preparing a new funding program, with a
view to starting commercial operations in the 2020s, Energy
Minister  Charles Hendry  said Feb. 27. Britain is promoting CCS,
which gathers carbon dioxide from power stations for underground
burial, as it seeks to meet energy demand without adding to
pollution. The U.K. says CCS could trap about 90 percent of
emissions from a fossil-fuel plant, helping the country meet a
target to cut emissions 80 percent by 2050 from 1990 levels.  ‘High-Risk’ Program  The failed funding round was “a high-risk and challenging
undertaking launched with insufficient planning and recognition
of the commercial risks,” according to the audit office, which
scrutinizes state spending on behalf of the parliament. The
government spent 64 million pounds in four years on the program
as developers pulled out, the office said in an e-mailed report.  The second competition, to open in the coming weeks, will
use the 1 billion pounds from the shelved program.  The first contest, which required utilities to fit CCS
equipment to coal-fed plants and capture gases after combustion,
was too restrictive, according to the report. It also didn’t
offer developers enough clarity on the commercial risks or the
financing, including how long-term operating costs would be met,
the office said. The 1 billion pounds wasn’t formerly allocated
until 2010, about three years after the competition started.  The 64 million pounds spent by the government included 40
million pounds of engineering and design studies awarded to EON
and Iberdrola’s ScottishPower unit for their CCS bids, the
report shows. The experience gained through the two studies may
help curb future CCS costs, the office said.  The full process of capturing, transporting and storing CO2
hasn’t yet been successfully deployed on a commercial scale at
power plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  