-- U.K. Stocks Climb; HSBC, Standard Chartered Advance
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-03-16T16:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-tullow-oil-rbs-advance.html
U.K. stocks  rose, snapping two days
of declines, as banking shares pulled the benchmark  FTSE 100 (UKX) 
Index higher.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  led gains,
advancing at least 1 percent each.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  gained 3.9
percent after saying it found oil at a well in Africa.  Soco
International Plc (SIA)  fell 1.5 percent after Oriel Securities Ltd.
cut its rating on the stock.  The FTSE 100 Index added 0.4 percent to 5,965.58 at the
close in London. The measure has gained 7.1 percent this year.
The broader FTSE All-Share Index advanced 0.4 percent, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 1.1 percent today.  “The fundamentals are strong enough,” Patrick Moonen,
senior strategist at ING Investment Management, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “Both the systemic risk and
recessionary risk have declined. There’s room for this  risk
premium  to decline further and for valuations to move up.”  U.K. stocks  gained  1.3 percent this week after reports
showed the U.S. economic recovery is strengthening and euro-area
finance ministers approved a second bailout for Greece.  Still, stocks pared gains earlier as confidence among U.S.
consumers unexpectedly dropped in March, according to a report
today. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment fell to 74.3, the lowest this year,
from 75.3 the prior month. The gauge was projected to rise to
76, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Industrial production was little changed in February from a
month earlier, figures from the  Federal Reserve  in  Washington 
showed today.  Banks Gain  A  gauge  of banking stocks rose 1.7 percent. HSBC gained 1
percent to 580.4 pence. Nomura Holdings Inc. recommended trading
HSBC over Banco Santander SA as it doesn’t have the sovereign
and economic risks of the Spanish lender.  Standard Chartered , the only company with depository
receipts in  India , added 2.3 percent to 1,662.5 pence. The
Indian government said today it may allow the local shares to be
swapped for stocks listed overseas.  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc advanced 6.3 percent to 28.14
pence after Investec Bank Plc raised its rating on the stock to
buy from hold.  Lloyds Banking Group climbed 2.9 percent to 37.5 pence.
Britain’s largest mortgage lender today said it denied former
Chief Executive Officer Eric Daniels and three other ex-
directors about 2.3 million pounds ($3.6 million) of bonuses due
to be paid out following the integration of HBOS Plc.  Tullow Oil, Soco  Tullow Oil gained 3.9 percent to 1,528 pence after saying
the Enyenra-4A appraisal well in the Deepwater Tano license off
Ghana encountered oil in “very good-quality” sandstone
reservoirs.  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG) , a U.K. chip designer in
which Apple Inc. holds a minority stake, jumped 9.6 percent to
701 pence after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the company’s
royalties from designs used in the new iPad and other tablets
will boost earnings.  Soco International Plc, a U.K. explorer in Africa and
Southeast Asia, lost 1.5 percent to 331.1 pence after Oriel
Securities cut its rating to hold from add, the equivalent of
buy.  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH)  dropped 3.2 percent to 345 pence
after Argentine Foreign Minister Hector Timerman said energy
companies operating on the “Argentine platform” that includes
the Falkland islands are doing so illegally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  