-- Religious Exemption for Birth Control Coverage Detailed by U.S.
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-03-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/u-s-lays-out-religious-exemption-for-birth-control-coverage.html
U.S. regulators proposed  rules 
laying out how workers at self-insured religious-affiliated
institutions can receive health coverage for contraception if
their employer has a religious objection to paying for it.  The regulations released yesterday include a suggestion
that companies handling administrative tasks for the religious
institution’s insurance policy offer, and pay for, birth control
coverage separately.  The 2010 health-care law requires health plans to provide
preventive medical services at no cost to patients. U.S. health
officials announced in August that those services would include
contraception such as birth control pills, implants and
sterilization procedures. While churches are exempt from these
rules, their affiliated schools and hospitals weren’t.  After complaints and lawsuits against the requirement,
President  Barack Obama  said last month the institutions wouldn’t
have to pay for the services. Instead, insurance companies would
offer contraceptive care to insured employees of those religious
institutions without charge.  Still unresolved was the issue of religious-affiliated
institutions that self-insure. The regulations issued yesterday
detail ways these organizations can meet the requirements of the
health law.  “The president’s policy respects religious liberty and
makes free preventive services available to women,” Health and
Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said in a statement.
The “announcement is the next step toward fulfilling that
commitment.”  The public has 90 days to comment on the proposal before
the rules become final, the department said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  