-- U.S. February Consumer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-03-16T12:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/u-s-february-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Feb. consumer prices from the Labor Department.  Consumer Price Index - February 2012  The  Consumer Price Index  for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) increased
0.4 percent in February on a seasonally adjusted basis, the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today. Over the last 12 months,
the all items index increased 2.9 percent before seasonal adjustment.  The gasoline index rose sharply in February, accounting for over 80
percent of the change in the all items index. The gasoline increase
led to a 3.2 percent rise in the energy index despite a decline in
the index for natural gas. The food index was unchanged in February,
with the food at home index unchanged for the second month in a row
as major grocery store food indexes were mixed.  The index for all items less food and energy rose 0.1 percent in
February after increasing 0.2 percent in January. Indexes for
shelter, new vehicles, medical care, and household furnishings and
operations all advanced, while indexes for apparel, recreation, used
cars and trucks, and tobacco all declined.  The all items index has risen 2.9 percent over the last 12 months,
the same figure as last month. The index for all items less food and
energy was up 2.2 percent, a slight decline from last month's 2.3
percent figure, while the 12-month change in the food index fell to
3.9 percent in February, its lowest level since last June. In
contrast, the 12-month change in the energy index was 7.0 percent in
February compared to 6.1 percent in January.  Consumer Price Index Data for February 2012  Food  The food index, which rose 0.2 percent in January, was unchanged in
February. The food at home index was unchanged for the second month
in a row. Within the food at home group, the indexes for fruits and
vegetables continued to decline, falling 0.5 percent. The index for
fresh fruits rose 1.3 percent, but the fresh vegetables index fell
3.5 percent, its fifth consecutive decline. The index for dairy and
related products also fell 0.5 percent, while the index for meats,
poultry, fish, and eggs decreased 0.2 percent. The index for
nonalcoholic beverages, which declined in January, was unchanged in
February. The only major grocery store food group indexes to rise
were cereals and bakery products (up 0.2 percent) and other food at
home (up 0.4 percent). The food at home index has risen 4.5 percent
over the last 12 months; the fruits and vegetables index has declined
2.0 percent over that period but the other five major grocery store
food group indexes all increased. The index for food away from home
rose 0.1 percent in February after a 0.4 percent increase in January
and has risen 3.1 percent over the last 12 months.  Energy  The energy index rose 3.2 percent in February after a 0.2 percent
increase in January. The gasoline index rose 6.0 percent, its largest
increase since December 2010. (Before seasonal adjustment, gasoline
prices increased 4.9 percent in February.) The gasoline increase more
than offset a decline in the index for household energy, which fell
0.6 percent. The index for natural gas continued its string of
declines, falling 3.4 percent. The electricity index was unchanged
and the index for  fuel oil  increased 2.8 percent.  Over the last 12
months, the gasoline index has risen 12.6 percent, the fuel oil index
has increased 8.9 percent and the electricity index has advanced 1.9
percent. In contrast, the index for natural gas has declined 9.8
percent.  All items less food and energy  The index for all items less food and energy increased 0.1 percent in
February. The shelter index increased 0.2 percent for the fifth month
in a row. The rent index increased 0.2 percent and the index for
owners' equivalent rent rose 0.1 percent, while the index for lodging
away from home advanced 1.9 percent. The index for new vehicles rose
for the first time since June, increasing 0.6 percent. The medical
care index increased 0.2 percent with the prescription drugs index
rising 0.6 percent. The index for household furnishings and
operations rose 0.3 percent in February, its largest increase since
August. In contrast to these indexes, the apparel index declined in
February, falling 0.9 percent after a 0.9 percent increase in
January. The index for used cars and trucks declined for the sixth
month in a row, falling 0.2 percent, and the tobacco index declined
0.4 percent. The indexes for recreation, personal care, and airline
fares all posted slight declines in February.  The index for all items less food and energy has risen 2.2 percent
over the last 12 months. Indexes rising faster include apparel (4.2
percent), medical care (3.4 percent), new vehicles (3.0 percent) and
used cars and trucks (2.9 percent). Among those indexes rising more
slowly were shelter (2.0 percent), household furnishings and
operations (1.3 percent), and recreation (1.0 percent).  Not seasonally adjusted CPI measures  The Consumer  Price Index  for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) increased
2.9 percent over the last 12 months to an index level of 227.663
(1982-84=100). For the month, the index increased 0.4 percent prior
to seasonal adjustment.  The Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers
(CPI-W) increased 3.1 percent over the last 12 months to an index
level of 224.317  (1982-84=100). For the month, the index increased
0.5 percent prior to seasonal adjustment.  The Chained Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (C-CPI-U)
increased 2.6 percent over the last 12 months. For the month, the
index increased 0.4 percent on a not seasonally adjusted basis.
Please note that the indexes for the post-2010 period are subject to
revision.  The Consumer Price Index for March 2012 is scheduled to be released
on Friday, April 13, 2012, at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  C-CPI-U Index Revisions  As scheduled, effective with this release of data for January 2012,
the Chained Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (C-CPI-U)
has undergone its annual revision. Because the current expenditure
data required for the calculation of the C-CPI-U are available only
with a time lag, the index is issued first in preliminary form, using
the latest available expenditure data at the time of publication, and
is subject to two subsequent revisions. Therefore, C-CPI-U indexes
for the 12 months of 2010 are issued in final form - employing
monthly expenditure weights from 2010. Values for the 12 months of
2011 are revised and issued as interim, using expenditure weights from
the 2009-2010 period. Calculation of the initial value of the January
2012 C-CPI-U index, and all subsequent months in 2012, will also be
based upon 2009-2010 expenditure weights.  Redesigning the Consumer Price Index (CPI) Press Release Tables  The format of the tables contained in the CPI News Release will
change beginning with the CPI News Release for March, 2012, which
will be issued on Friday, April 13, 2012.  News Release tables are
currently available as part of the News Release pdf and html files,
and independently in html format.  The new tables will also be
available in XLS format.  In addition, the BLS will begin issuing
monthly companion XLS files, which will contain additional index
level and CPI-W information.  These tables were made available for public comment during October
2011.  In response to the public comments, the BLS will issue XLS
files each month, as companions to the News Release.  There will be
CPI-U and CPI-W files, and in addition to the data contained in the
News Release tables, the Excel files will contain index values.
Samples of the new CPI press release tables and companion XLS files
are available now at  http://www.bls.gov/cpi/mock-ups.htm .  In August 2009, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) restructured the
text of the CPI press release to focus on the price movements of
three broad expenditure categories, namely Food, Energy, and All
items less food and energy. Table A within the CPI press release text
was also updated in August 2009 to reflect this new structure.
Before August 2009, the text of the CPI press release had focused on
eight CPI `major groups' (Food and beverages; Housing; Apparel;
Transportation; Medical care; Recreation; Education and
communication; and Other goods and services).  While the text of the CPI press release was restructured in 2009,
seven additional CPI press release tables continued to be published
using the eight major groups. BLS has redesigned these press release
tables, to reflect the focus on Food, Energy, and All items less food
and energy. Within these three broad categories, CPI item series will
be further divided into commodities and services. The CPI News
Release will contain these updated tables beginning with the March
2012 News Release, to be issued on Friday, April 13, 2012.  Beyond the redesign in the structure of the CPI press release tables,
several other improvements to these tables have been made.  The new Table 1 gives a summary of the index series which typically
contribute to changes in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers (CPI-U).  The new Table 2 will show the full publication stub using the new
structure for the CPI-U, including 11 new items series that were
created to augment the redesign in the publication structure.  Table 3 will show aggregate item series (e.g., Transportation) that
do not fall under the Food, Energy, and All items less food and
energy structure.  Table 4 will show the All items indexes at the local, regional, and
city-size class levels.  Table 5 will show the Chained Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers (C-CPI-U), and presents a history of annual percentage
changes in the C-CPI-U compared to the CPI-U.  Table 6 will focus on 1-month seasonally adjusted changes in the CPI-
U, while table 7 will focus on 12-month not seasonally adjusted
changes. Tables 6 and 7 will present three additional pieces of data
to help users better interpret index changes. First, these tables
will show the `effect' each item has on the price change for All
items. For example, if the effect of food is 0.4, and the index for
All items increased 1.2 percent, it can be said that increases in
food prices accounted for 0.4 / 1.2, or 33.3 percent, of the increase
in overall prices for that period. Said another way, had food prices
been unchanged, the All items index only would have increased 0.8
percent (or 1.2 percent for All items, minus the 0.4 effect for
Food).  Effects can be negative as well. For example, if the effect
of food was a negative 0.1, and the All items index rose 0.5 percent,
the All items index actually would have been 0.1 percent higher (or
0.6 percent) had food prices been unchanged.  Second, standard errors for percent changes will be shown on tables 6
and 7.  Confidence intervals for statistics can be created using
standard errors; e.g., roughly 95 percent confidence intervals can be
constructed using two standard errors. For example, if an item
increased 3.7 percent, and its standard error was 0.6 percent, the 95
percent confidence interval for that price change can be said to be
3.7 percent plus or minus two standard errors, or 3.7 percent plus or
minus 1.2 percent.  Finally, each item series in tables 6 and 7 will show the last time
that item had a price change as large (or as small) as the percent
change published that period. For example, if bananas rose 3.7
percent, and that was its largest increase since November 2007, that
would be noted in the new tables.  In addition, most of the existing tables show the `relative
importance', or weight, of each item category as of the previous
December. The relative importance columns in the new tables will be
improved in that they will be updated monthly to reflect the change
in relative prices over time.  Finally, there will no longer be any press release tables that focus
on the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical
Workers (CPI-W). That said, the CPI-W All items index level and
percent changes will still be noted in the text of the press release,
and a companion XLS file with CPI-W information will be available.  Brief Explanation of the CPI  The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a measure of the average change in
prices over time of goods and services purchased by households.  The
Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes CPIs for two population groups:
(1) the CPI for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W),
which covers households of wage earners and clerical workers that
comprise approximately 29 percent of the total population and (2) the
CPI for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) and the Chained CPI for All Urban
Consumers (C-CPI-U), which cover approximately 88 percent of the
total population and include in addition to wage earners and clerical
worker households, groups such as professional, managerial, and
technical workers, the self-employed, short-term workers, the
unemployed, and retirees and others not in the labor force.  The CPIs are based on prices of food, clothing, shelter, and fuels,
transportation fares, charges for doctors' and dentists' services,
drugs, and other goods and services that people buy for day-to-day
living.  Prices are collected each month in 87 urban areas across the
country from about 4,000 housing units and approximately 26,000
retail establishments-department stores, supermarkets, hospitals,
filling stations, and other types of stores and service
establishments.  All taxes directly associated with the purchase and
use of items are included in the index.  Prices of fuels and a few
other items are obtained every month in all 87 locations.  Prices of
most other commodities and services are collected every month in the
three largest geographic areas and every other month in other areas.
Prices of most goods and services are obtained by personal visits or
telephone calls of the Bureau's trained representatives.  In calculating the index, price changes for the various items in each
location are averaged together with weights, which represent their
importance in the spending of the appropriate population group.
Local data are then combined to obtain a U.S. city average.  For the
CPI-U and CPI-W separate indexes are also published by size of city,
by region of the country, for cross-classifications of regions and
population-size classes, and for 27 local areas.  Area indexes do not
measure differences in the level of prices among cities; they only
measure the average change in prices for each area since the base
period.  For the C-CPI-U data are issued only at the national level.
It is important to note that the CPI-U and CPI-W are considered final
when released, but the C-CPI-U is issued in preliminary form and
subject to two annual revisions.  The index measures price change from a designed reference date.  For
the CPI-U and the CPI-W the reference base is 1982-84 equals 100.
The reference base for the C-CPI-U is December 1999 equals 100.  An
increase of 16.5 percent from the reference base, for example, is
shown as 116.500.  This change can also be expressed in dollars as
follows:  the price of a base period market basket of goods and
services in the CPI has risen from $10 in 1982-84 to $11.65.  For further details visit the CPI home page on the Internet at
 http://www.bls.gov/cpi/  or contact our CPI Information and Analysis
Section on (202) 691-7000.  Note on Sampling Error in the Consumer Price Index  The CPI is a statistical estimate that is subject to sampling error
because it is based upon a sample of retail prices and not the
complete universe of all prices.  BLS calculates and publishes
estimates of the 1-month, 2-month, 6-month and 12-month percent
change standard errors annually, for the CPI-U.  These standard error
estimates can be used to construct confidence intervals for
hypothesis testing.  For example, the estimated standard error of the
1 month percent change is 0.03 percent for the U.S. All Items
Consumer Price Index.  This means that if we repeatedly sample from
the universe of all retail prices using the same methodology, and
estimate a percentage change for each sample, then 95% of these
estimates would be within 0.06 percent of the 1 month percentage
change based on all retail prices.  For example, for a 1-month change
of 0.2 percent in the All Items CPI for All Urban Consumers, we are
95 percent confident that the actual percent change based on all
retail prices would fall between 0.14 and 0.26 percent.  For the
latest data, including information on how to use the estimates of
standard error, see "Variance Estimates for Price Changes in the
Consumer Price Index, January-December 2011".  These data are
available on the CPI home page ( http://www.bls.gov/cpi ), or by using
the following link  http://www.bls.gov/cpi/cpivar2011.pdf   Calculating Index Changes  Movements of the indexes from one month to another are usually
expressed as percent changes rather than changes in index points,
because index point changes are affected by the level of the index in
relation to its base period while percent changes are not.  The
example below illustrates the computation of index point and percent
changes.  Percent changes for 3-month and 6-month periods are expressed as
annual rates and are computed according to the standard formula for
compound growth rates.  These data indicate what the percent change
would be if the current rate were maintained for a 12-month period.  Index Point Change  CPI
 202.416
Less previous index  201.8
Equals index point change  0.616  Percent Change  Index point difference  0.616
Divided by the previous index  201.8
Equals  0.003
Results multiplied by one hundred
0.003x100
Equals percent change  0.3  Regions Defined  The states in the four regions shown in Tables 3 and 6 are listed
below.  The Northeast-- Connecticut , Maine,  Massachusetts , New Hampshire,  New
York ,  New Jersey ,  Pennsylvania , Rhode Island, and Vermont.
The Midwest-- Illinois , Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,  Michigan , Minnesota,
Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota,  Ohio ,  South Dakota , and Wisconsin.
The South--Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware,  Florida , Georgia, Kentucky,
Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi,  North Carolina , Oklahoma, South
Carolina, Tennessee,  Texas ,  Virginia , West Virginia, and the  District
of Columbia .
The West--Alaska, Arizona,  California , Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho,
Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.  A Note on Seasonally Adjusted and Unadjusted Data  Because price data are used for different purposes by different
groups, the Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes seasonally adjusted
as well as unadjusted changes each month.  For analyzing general price trends in the economy, seasonally
adjusted changes are usually preferred since they eliminate the
effect of changes that normally occur at the same time and in about
the same magnitude every year--such as price movements resulting from
changing climatic conditions, production cycles, model changeovers,
holidays, and sales.  The unadjusted data are of primary interest to consumers concerned
about the prices they actually pay.  Unadjusted data also are used
extensively for escalation purposes.  Many collective bargaining
contract agreements and pension plans, for example, tie compensation
changes to the Consumer Price Index before adjustment for seasonal
variation.  Seasonal factors used in computing the seasonally adjusted indexes
are derived by the X-12-ARIMA Seasonal Adjustment Method.  Seasonally
adjusted indexes and seasonal factors are computed annually.  Each
year, the last 5 years of seasonally adjusted data are revised.  Data
from January 2007 through December 2011 were replaced in January
2012.  Exceptions to the usual revision schedule were: the updated
seasonal data at the end of 1977 replaced data from 1967 through
1977; and, in January 2002, dependently seasonally adjusted series
were revised for January 1987-December 2001 as a result of a change
in the aggregation weights for dependently adjusted series. For
further information, please see "Aggregation of Dependently Adjusted
Seasonally Adjusted Series," in the October 2001 issue of the CPI
Detailed Report.  Effective with the publication of data from January 2006 through
December 2010 in January 2011, the Video and audio series and the
 Information technology , hardware and services series were changed
from independently adjusted to dependently adjusted.  This resulted
in an increase in the number of seasonal components used in deriving
seasonal movement of the All items and 54 other lower level
aggregations, from 73 for the publication of January 1998 through
December 2005 data to 82 for the publication of seasonally adjusted
data for January 2006 and later.  Each year the seasonal status of
every series is reevaluated based upon certain statistical criteria.
If any of the 82 components change their seasonal adjustment status
from seasonally adjusted to not seasonally adjusted, not seasonally
adjusted data will be used in the aggregation of the dependent series
for the last 5 years, but the seasonally adjusted indexes before that
period will not be changed.  Note: 38 of the 82 components are not
seasonally adjusted for 2012.  Seasonally adjusted data, including the all items index levels, are
subject to revision for up to five years after their original
release.  For this reason, BLS advises against the use of these data
in escalation agreements.  Effective with the calculation of the seasonal factors for 1990, the
Bureau of Labor Statistics has used an enhanced seasonal adjustment
procedure called Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment for some
CPI series.  Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment allows for
better estimates of seasonally adjusted data.  Extreme values and/or
sharp movements which might distort the seasonal pattern are
estimated and removed from the data prior to calculation of seasonal
factors.  Beginning with the calculation of seasonal factors for
1996, X-12-ARIMA software was used for Intervention Analysis Seasonal
Adjustment.  For the seasonal factors introduced in January 2012, BLS adjusted 31
series using Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment, including
selected food and beverage items, motor fuels, electricity and
vehicles.  For example, this procedure was used for the Motor fuel
series to offset the effects of events such as damage to oil
refineries from Hurricane Katrina.  For a complete list of Intervention Analysis Seasonal Adjustment
series and explanations, please refer to the article "Intervention
Analysis Seasonal Adjustment", located on our website at
 http://www.bls.gov/cpi/cpisapage.htm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ainhoa Goyeneche in  Washington    agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  