-- UBS, BNP Paribas Roles Probed in French Madoff Investigation
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-16T17:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/ubs-bnp-paribas-roles-targeted-in-french-madoff-investigation.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  are the
focus of a Paris criminal investigation of claims French
investors were duped into putting their money in funds linked to
 Bernard Madoff  via the banks.  A Paris appeals court issued rulings in January and
February instructing Investigating Judge Renaud Van Ruymbeke to
expand his probe and concentrate on the banks, which acted as
intermediaries between the investors and the Madoff funds,
lawyers for investors said today.  “The appeals court very strongly advised the investigating
judge to look into BNP and UBS to verify whether these didn’t,
by participation or negligence, take part in the crime or the
harm suffered,” said  Jean Reinhart , representing a Frenchwoman
who lost money in LuxAlpha Sicav-American Selection fund.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history and is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina . Van Ruymbeke is investigating how French investors
came to lose money in the New Yorker’s fraud.  UBS denied having had any knowledge of Madoff’s fraud and
“will take all appropriate steps to demonstrate that these
allegations are false and without foundation,” the Zurich-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  A spokesman for BNP Paribas didn’t immediately return calls
for comment.  Shareholder List  The court also told Van Ruymbeke to get the official list
of LuxAlpha investors from Luxembourg’s financial regulator,
where the fund was registered, said Veronique Lartigue, a lawyer
for other investors.  Lartigue said she thinks the list will show the banks
themselves are the listed shareholders, rather than the
individuals for whom they were acting. If so, “the private
investors, individuals, bank clients wouldn’t be the losers,
they would have to be repaid their losses because in fact it’s
the banks who were” invested with Madoff, she said.  Van Ruymbeke refused to follow up on these angles, leading
the prosecution and victims to ask the court to order him. “It
didn’t interest him,” Lartigue said.  About 20 investors have claimed to be victims as part of
the French investigation, Reinhart said. Local losses attributed
to Madoff’s fraud may have been as much as 500 million euros
($659 million),  France ’s financial markets regulator estimated.  The February court decision was reported earlier today by
 Agence France-Presse .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  