-- India Plans to Scrap Duties on Solar Parts to Boost Industry
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-16T12:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/mukherjee-proposes-duty-exemption-for-solar-thermal-plants.html
India  proposed to scrap duties on
imports of solar-thermal equipment as it seeks to reduce project
costs for  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  and other developers adding
plants.  “Solar-thermal projects need encouragement,” Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said today in his annual budget
speech, proposing to spare such ventures from the so-called
special countervailing duty.  The exemption would lower costs for the seven companies
building a third of India’s planned solar capacity using solar-
thermal technology, which concentrates sunlight to boil water,
used to power steam turbines. Reliance Power is importing
turbines from Areva SA, while the others have ordered units from
suppliers including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens AG. (SIE)   “These projects still haven’t imported most of their heavy
items so this comes in time,” said Anil Kumar Lakhina, managing
director of the Forum for Advancement of Solar Thermal, an
industry group.  The special countervailing duty on imports is equal to the
excise duty imposed on similar local products, Kumar Lakhina
said. It’s a tax of about 8 percent to 9 percent on most
equipment used to build solar-thermal plants, such as reflective
mirrors and turbines, according to his estimates.  Solar-Thermal Expansion  The developers building India’s solar-thermal capacity,
targeted at 470 megawatts by early 2013, are Reliance Power,
 Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , Godawari Power & Ispat Ltd., Aurum
Renewable Energy Pvt., KVK Energy & Infrastructure Pvt., Megha
Engineering & Infrastructures Ltd, and Abhijeet Group’s
Corporate Ispat Alloys Ltd.  Mukherjee, in one of India’s most-watched policy
announcements of the year, failed to deliver any other major
incentive for the clean-energy industry.  The budget proposed to reduce excise duties on energy-
saving light-emitting diode, or LED, lamps to 6 percent. It also
indicated tax exemptions for  lithium-ion batteries  used in
electric and hybrid vehicles, and for a coating chemical used in
compact fluorescent lamps.  Companies had expected the budget to include renewable
energy in a list of industries eligible for priority bank
lending and for support to reduce  interest rates , said Ramesh Kymal, head of the local unit of Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA,
 Spain ’s biggest wind-turbine maker and a supplier in India.  Those omissions will make it harder to raise funding for
wind farms in India, the third-largest market for new wind
projects, according to Kymal. “We’re going to be in the queue
for getting money,” he said. “Project financing is going to be
a problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  