-- UPS Said to Seek Accord on TNT Deal as Soon as Next Week
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 2012-03-16T20:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/ups-said-to-seek-accord-on-tnt-deal-as-soon-as-next-week.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is
seeking to reach an agreement to buy  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  as soon as
next week after making progress in discussions on jobs and
pensions, according to two people with knowledge of the talks.  Negotiations are now primarily focused on price, said one
of the people, who declined to be identified because details are
private. TNT may struggle to get much beyond a Feb. 11 offer of
9 euros ($11.86) a share because the stock is at 9.35 euros and
the company posted a full-year operating loss, the person said.
Talks could still break down, and a deal may not be completed.  UPS said earlier today that talks had been “constructive”
since Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT rejected that $6.4
billion bid. Buying TNT,  Europe ’s second-largest package-
delivery company, would put Atlanta-based UPS on equal footing
in the region with  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, the market leader.  “I’m pretty confident they’ll reach an agreement,” said
 David Campbell , an analyst at Thompson Davis & Co. in Richmond,
Virginia. “UPS has spent a lot of time with TNT and looking at
their business and they wouldn’t have done that if they weren’t
serious about getting a deal done.”  TNT’s board was unhappy with terms attached to the February
offer that may have required divestitures to win regulatory
approval, possibly leading to job cuts, a person familiar with
the matter said last month.  Antitrust Questions  The two companies will need to respond to possible
antitrust concerns in Europe, one of the people with knowledge
of the talks said today. An agreement has been reached on plans
for TNT’s European headquarters, that person said.  Norman Black , a spokesman for UPS, and TNT’s Ernst Moeksis
declined to comment on the negotiations.  TNT  gained  1.3 percent to 9.35 euros in Amsterdam, while
 UPS slid  0.7 percent to $78.41 at the close in  New York . The
U.S. company said in a statement before trading began that talks
with TNT had been extended, with a goal of sending a bid to
Dutch regulators within 12 weeks of the Feb. 17 announcement
that bargaining had begun. That timeline would end on May 11.  TNT was spun off in May from the Dutch postal operator,
which is now named  PostNL (PNL)  and retains a 29.9 percent stake,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. TNT, whose name derives
from the postwar Australian company Thomas Nationwide Transport,
sold its Indian domestic road business in December and has been
hurt by costs from revamping unprofitable Brazilian operations.  Studying Europe  A bid from UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery
company, or chief competitor  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  had been anticipated
for years as the U.S. companies studied European expansion. That
talk gained momentum after the spinoff of the express business.  UPS controlled 7.7 percent of the European express-parcels
market in 2010, compared with TNT’s 9.6 percent, according to
Transport Intelligence. Combined, they would be about as large
as DHL, which had a 17.6 percent share.  Overlapping operations, particularly in Europe, could
produce synergies for UPS worth in excess of 400 million euros,
according to Andre Mulder, an Amsterdam-based Kepler Capital
Markets analyst who recommends buying TNT shares.  “This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” Mulder said
on Feb. 19. “Of the four major players globally, TNT is the
smallest one, so it’s the last opportunity.”  UPS has completed the acquisition of Brussels-based Kiala
to bolster delivery operations in  Belgium ,  France , the
Netherlands,  Spain  and Luxembourg, after several smaller
purchases in recent years, according to Campbell, the Thompson
Davis analyst. He recommends buying UPS and FedEx.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  