-- UPS Extends ‘Constructive’ Takeover Discussions With TNT
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-03-16T14:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/ups-extends-constructive-takeover-discussions-with-tnt.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  extended
takeover talks with  TNT Express NV (TNTE) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
package delivery company, after four weeks of negotiations that
followed the initial offer of $6.4 billion (4.89 billion euros.)  “Constructive discussions” continue, with a goal of
sending a bid for TNT to regulators in the Netherlands within 12
weeks of the Feb. 17 announcement that bargaining was under way,
Atlanta-based UPS said today in a statement. That timeline would
end on May 11.  A successful combination would catapult UPS to equal
footing in Europe with  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL unit, the market
leader. UPS and TNT are getting closer on a price, people
familiar with the matter said last week. Hoofddorp, Netherlands-
based TNT rejected a Feb. 11 offer of 9 euros a share.  “They’re not letting themselves be rushed or be put under
pressure by shareholders,” said Dieter Furniere, an analyst at
KBC Securities in Brussels with a hold rating on TNT. “That
maybe indicates it’s mainly relating to social and employment
issues.”  TNT’s board was unhappy with terms attached to the first
bid that may have required divestitures to win regulatory
approval, possibly leading to job cuts, a person familiar with
the matter said last month.  Today’s Trading  The shares  gained  0.9 percent to 9.31 euros at 3:43 p.m. in
Amsterdam.  UPS slid  0.3 percent to $78.72 in  New York .  TNT was spun off in May from the Dutch postal operator,
which is now named  PostNL (PNL)  and retains a 29.9 percent stake,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. TNT, whose name derives
from the postwar Australian company Thomas Nationwide Transport,
sold its Indian domestic road business in December and has been
hurt by costs from revamping unprofitable Brazilian operations.  A bid from UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery
company, or chief competitor  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  had been anticipated
for years as the U.S. companies studied European expansion. That
talk gained momentum after the spinoff of the express business.  UPS controlled 7.7 percent of the European express-parcels
market in 2010, compared with TNT’s 9.6 percent, according to
Transport Intelligence. Combined, they would be about as large
as DHL, which had a 17.6 percent share.  Overlapping operations, particularly in Europe, could
produce synergies for UPS worth in excess of 400 million euros,
according to Andre Mulder, an Amsterdam-based Kepler Capital
Markets analyst who recommends buying TNT shares.  “This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,” Mulder said
on Feb. 19. “Of the four major players globally, TNT is the
smallest one, so it’s the last opportunity.”  UPS has completed the acquisition of Brussels-based Kiala
to bolster delivery operations in  Belgium ,  France , the
Netherlands,  Spain  and Luxembourg, after several smaller
purchases in recent years, said  David Campbell , a Thompson Davis
& Co. analyst in Richmond,  Virginia , who recommends buying UPS
and FedEx.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  