-- TV Cameras Rejected in U.S. Supreme Court Health-Care Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-03-16T19:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/tv-cameras-rejected-in-u-s-supreme-court-health-care-case-2-.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  rejected
media and lawmaker requests for television coverage of this
month’s arguments on President Barack Obama’s health-care law,
and agreed to release same-day audio recordings.  The court, in a statement citing the “extraordinary public
interest” in the case, said it will post the audio on its
website each afternoon of the three-day argument. The court
generally only releases audio on a weekly basis.  Justices will hear six hours of arguments March 26-28 --
the most in 44 years -- and probably rule in late June. The
central question in a challenge by 26 states and a business
trade group is whether Congress exceeded its authority by
requiring Americans to either get insurance or pay a penalty.  The justices have never allowed video coverage of their
arguments. Over the years, the justices have provided a number
of explanations: that they would lose their anonymity, that
cameras would change the dynamic in the courtroom, and that news
organizations would use only snippets of the arguments.  In the health-care case, the court received requests for
live video or audio coverage from a dozen lawmakers and more
than 30 media organizations, including C-SPAN and Bloomberg
News.  C-SPAN said in an e-mailed statement that it will run the
audio on TV, radio and the Internet as soon as the recordings
are released. The news organization said it was “disappointed”
the court didn’t go further.  Public Interest  “We continue to believe allowing video coverage of Supreme
Court oral arguments is in the public’s best interest,” C-SPAN
said in the statement.  The court’s three-paragraph statement didn’t mention video
cameras. The court’s spokeswoman,  Kathy Arberg , said the court
won’t allow television coverage.  The same-day audio release marks a change in the court’s
most recent policy, adopted in 2010, to release audio for all
its cases at the end of the week. Before that, starting with the
Bush v. Gore presidential-election clash in 2000, the court
released audio from select cases on the same day as the
argument.  Senator  Patrick Leahy  of  Vermont , the Democratic chairman
of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said the court had taken a
“step forward” with the expedited audio release in the health-
care case.  “I continue to support live audio streaming and permitting
cameras in our nation’s courtrooms, including in the  Supreme
Court , so that Americans can witness these public proceedings as
they happen,” Leahy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  