-- Veolia Rises on Manager Shakeup, Spur to Debt Plan: Paris Mover
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-03-16T16:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/veolia-rises-on-manager-shakeup-spur-to-debt-plan-paris-mover.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  rose to a
seven-month high after Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot
reasserted control over the world’s biggest water company with a
management shakeup, while reaffirming plans to reduce debt.  Veolia  advanced  as much as 7.5 percent to 13.055 euros, the
highest since Aug. 4. Denis Gasquet, who had been managing the
company’s restructuring, Olivier Orsini and Jean-Pierre Fremont
will leave Frerot’s executive committee and Sylvain Boucher will
join Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Francois Riolacci on the
team, the CEO said today in a statement.  “There was doubt about the ability of Veolia management to
carry out the cost-cutting and debt plan,” Yohann Terry, an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in Paris. “Yesterday’s
changes at the board of directors were a first step and this is
an additional one in going through with the program.”  Frerot is seeking to revive Veolia through asset sales and
borrowing cuts amid reports predecessor  Henri Proglio , still a
Veolia director, tried to garner support to replace him. The
CEO’s revamp would undo a legacy of expansion under Proglio that
took Veolia to 77 countries from  Argentina  to  South Korea .
Gasquet was in charge of the waste division until last year.  Veolia rose 4.7 percent to 12.705 euros by 5:11 p.m. in
Paris. It’s up 38 percent since Frerot said March 1 that the
restructuring unveiled in December was on time. The company lost
half its market value between a July 2011 profit warning and the
end of February. It plans to sell 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion)
of assets this year and next, cut debt to 12 billion euros by
the end of 2013 and lower costs by 420 million euros by 2015.  Speeding Up  Management changes are “to speed up the implementation of
the group’s strategic plan approved by the board of directors,”
Veolia said. Yesterday, the utility announced plans to replace
board members at a May 16 annual shareholders’ meeting.  A board meeting Feb. 29 approved by a “large majority”
the restructuring plan and Frerot’s leadership, the CEO said on
March 1, confirming the proposals didn’t have the backing of all
of the directors on the board at the time.  Proglio, who is chief executive officer of state-controlled
Electricite de France SA, stepped down as chairman of Veolia in
December 2010, more than a year after taking the helm at the
nuclear utility. At the time he was criticized by politicians
and Daniel Lebegue, who heads the French Institute of Directors,
over conflicts of interest that might arise from his dual roles.  Proglio, 62, spent most of his career at the water utility
and has long said he remains “attached” to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  