-- Vietnam Says Cnooc’s South China Sea Bids Violate Territory
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-16T07:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/vietnam-says-cnooc-s-south-china-sea-bids-violate-territory-1-.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s moves to develop oil-
and gas-rich northern areas of the South  China  Sea violates
 Vietnam ’s sovereignty, the Vietnamese Foreign Ministry said.  China’s biggest offshore oil explorer opened bids to
foreign companies last year for  19 blocks  near the disputed
Paracel Islands, according to its website. Vietnam singled out
Block 65/24, which it said sits one nautical mile from one of
the Paracels, in denouncing a range of Chinese actions that
violate its territory.  Foreign Ministry spokesman Luong Thanh Nghi asked China to
“cease all activities that violate Vietnam’s sovereignty,”
according to a  statement  posted on the ministry’s website
yesterday. China dismissed the allegations and called on Vietnam
to respect its territorial integrity, Foreign Ministry spokesman
Liu Weimin said at a briefing in Beijing today.  China’s neighbors have rejected its map of the  South China
Sea  as a basis for joint oil and gas development, leading to
clashes in one of the world’s busiest sea corridors.  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , Talisman Energy Inc. and Forum Energy Plc are among
companies that have signed deals to explore disputed parts of
the sea.  ‘May Get Aggressive’  “Vietnam and China may get aggressive about these claims
as they have been in the past,” said Tony Regan, a consultant
with Singapore-based Tri-Zen International Ltd. who was
previously an executive with Royal Dutch Shell Plc in the
liquefied-natural-gas business. “I don’t think many significant
players would want to take that risk unless it’s very clear that
the two governments were talking and there’s a reasonable
expectation of the dispute being resolved.”  Block 65/24 is the southernmost offshore area put out for
bid by China last year in an offering that includes sections
south of  Hong Kong . Water levels in the block, covering an area
about twice as big as the U.S. state of  Delaware , are as deep as
2 kilometers (1.2 miles), according to CNOOC’s website.  “It is uncertain whether acreage like Block 65/24 and
Block 55/03 are located beyond the Vietnam territorial claim
line,” IHS  Global Insight  said in a  report  last year. “If so
contractors risk becoming embroiled in political tension between
the two countries, which are both emerging as attractive
upstream investment locations.”  China ousted Vietnam from the 30 islets and reefs that
comprise the Paracels in a 1974 battle in which 71 soldiers were
killed. The countries also dispute the Spratly Islands further
to the south, an area near where fellow claimant the  Philippines 
has opened tenders on offshore exploration blocks.  Oil reserves in the South China Sea may total as much as
213 billion barrels, according to Chinese studies cited in 2008
by the U.S. Energy Information Agency.  Vietnam also protested China’s live-fire drill this month
near the Paracels and plans to expand tourism in the area,
according to the ministry’s statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  