-- Wealthy Families Skip Waiting Rooms With Concierge Medical Plans
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-03-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/wealthy-families-skip-waiting-rooms-with-concierge-medical-plans.html
Doctors on-call day or night.
Medical care while traveling outside the U.S. Emergency-room
grade equipment, modeled on gear used in the White House,
installed in the client’s home.  Well-heeled executives and their families increasingly are
paying tens of thousands of dollars a year for high-end medical
services that aren’t covered by insurance.  “Wealthy people want to have a little exclusivity and want
better service than they can get at their normal health-care
facility, and they’re willing to pay for it,” said Rick Flynn,
principal and head of the Family Office Group with Rothstein
Kass, a Roseland, New Jersey-based accounting and consulting
firm.  Such white-glove attention, known as concierge care,
doesn’t come cheap. It may cost as much as $30,000 a year out-
of-pocket for unfettered access to physicians who limit the
number of patients they take on. An emergency room in one’s home
designed to handle a family’s ailments can cost as much as
$1 million.  About 55 percent of single-family offices, which generally
manage the finances of one wealthy family, used a concierge
health-care provider in 2011, compared with about 36 percent in
2009, according to a study released in December by Rothstein
Kass. The top reasons were managing severe medical conditions
and gaining access to quality physicians and medical
institutions, the study found.  ‘Conveyor-Belt Medicine’  “People are really looking for an alternative to what’s
become conveyor-belt medicine today,” said Mark Murrison,
president of marketing and innovation for  Boca Raton , Florida-
based MDVIP, a network of concierge doctors and a subsidiary of
Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest
consumer-products company.  PinnacleCare Private Health Advisory organizes medical
records, has emergency physicians available around-the-clock and
connects patients to a network of top doctors throughout the
world, for fees ranging from $2,500 to $30,000 a year, said
Miles Varn, an emergency physician and chief medical officer for
the Baltimore-based firm.  WorldClinic specializes in care for families and executives
while they’re traveling, including performing emergency triage
by phone and prearranging for any necessary care at
destinations, said Daniel Carlin, a physician and founder of the
 New London , New Hampshire-based firm.  Doctors on Retainer  Patients of MDVIP pay from $1,500 to $1,800 a year in
membership fees for access to a primary-care doctor whose
practice is generally limited to about 600 patients. The fees,
which also cover certain preventative-care services, generally
aren’t covered by traditional health insurance, while charges
for care, such as costs for sick visits and tests, often are,
Murrison said. The firm started in 2001, and about 92 percent of
its 180,000 members renew each year.  Some family offices also work with doctors who cater to the
ultra-affluent by charging retainers and who aren’t part of any
broader network, said Mindy Rosenthal, executive director of the
Institute for Private Investors, a New York-based association of
wealthy families. Traditional health insurance for a family in
an employer-sponsored plan was about $15,073 in 2011, with
employers paying $10,944 and workers paying $4,129 on average,
according to a survey by the  Menlo Park , California-based Henry
J.  Kaiser Family Foundation  and the Chicago-based Health
Research & Educational Trust.  X-Rays on Planes  Guardian 24/7 installs its so-called ReadyRooms in homes,
yachts and planes, and can equip them with X-ray machines, CT
scanners, ultrasounds and blood-analysis technology, said Sean
O’Mara, who cofounded the firm in 2009 with two former White
House physicians, Robert Darling and William Lang. The equipment
alone may cost as much as $1 million, he said.  “In a hospital gown, we are all created equal,” reads
the firm’s  website  marketing material.  The company staffs a 24-hour operations center in Leesburg,
 Virginia , about 40 miles from downtown Washington, from which
doctors may treat patients through secure high-resolution
teleconferencing. The firm has about 55 individuals as clients
of its support services, for which it charges from $6,000 to
$12,000 a month, and has installed about 15 ReadyRooms, he said.  “We borrowed the idea of the technology, high-end
telemedicine connectivity, out of the White House situation
room,” O’Mara said.  Physician Shortage  Part of the rush toward high-end, private services may stem
from a growing gap in the availability of health-care providers.
There was a shortage of about 13,700 physicians in the U.S. in
2010, which may rise to about 91,500 in 2020 and 130,600 by
2025, according to estimates by the Washington-based  Association
of American Medical Colleges .  An increase in doctors moving to a concierge or retainer
business model could reduce access further, said Julia Paradise,
an associate director in  Washington  at the Kaiser Family
Foundation’s Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured.  “It’s just math,” Paradise said. “If the physicians who
are practicing take fewer patients, it reduces access in the
wider population and it generally limits access to people with
very substantial resources.”  The health-care reform law passed in 2010 could exacerbate
a system that’s already “overtaxed,” said MDVIP’s Murrison.
The law may increase the number of Americans with health
insurance by about  32 million , according to estimates by the
 Congressional Budget Office  and the Joint Committee on Taxation.  Digital Records  Private Health Management, a high-end provider based in  Los
Angeles , assists with identifying doctors in the U.S. for
primary and specialty care as well as abroad for travel-related
emergencies. The firm also compiles reports to answer patients’
questions about treatment and diagnosis options, said Leslie Michelson, chairman and chief executive officer.  The company digitizes patients’ medical records, which they
receive on portable USB memory drives that fit in their wallets.  “There’s an enormous difference between the very best the
health-care system has to offer and the very worst,” Michelson
said. “We help our patients get the very best.”  The four-year-old company has between 1,000 and 5,000
patients, and is gaining clients among executives of fund-
management and private-equity firms, Michelson said. He declined
to specify the number of clients or provide a range for costs.  Nicholas Schorsch, 51, chief executive officer of American
Realty Capital, began working with Private Health after his
father-in-law was diagnosed with prostate cancer.  A ‘Wonderful Gift’  “He was going down very, very rapidly, and they were able
to reverse it to a point of stabilizing him” for several years
said Schorsch, whose New York-based firm manages about $7
billion primarily in real estate investment trusts. “It was a
wonderful gift to the family.”  Primary-care doctors with MD2 International LLC, limit
their practices to 50 families, with each office made up of two
doctors. Fees vary by city, with a typical family paying from
$25,000 to $30,000 a year, none of which is generally covered by
insurance, said Peter Hoedemaker, chief executive officer of the
Bellevue, Washington-based company, which is pronounced MD-
squared.  “There are different levels of hotels, and different
levels of cars,” Hoedemaker said.  The firm is currently serving about 500 families in five
U.S. cities, with plans to open offices in  Dallas  and  New York 
this year, he said.  Trading Cellphone Numbers  John Dillon , 50, started using MDVIP when his doctor, Alan
Sheff, decided to join the network. Dillon said he likes the
ease of getting an appointment as well as the fact that he and
his doctor have each other’s cellphone numbers.  “It’s kind of like the financial advice business,” said
Dillon, a senior vice president in Bethesda,  Maryland , with
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney, which is a brokerage joint venture
of Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  “I can only have so many
clients, or else at some point you don’t know what their needs
are anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 