-- Wells Fargo, RBS Said to Sell Commercial-Mortgage Backed Bonds
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-03-16T20:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/wells-fargo-rbs-said-to-sell-commercial-mortgage-backed-bonds.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc sold $790.88 million of bonds tied to commercial
mortgages, according to a person familiar with the offering.  The banks sold the safest portion maturing in 10 years to
yield 105 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the terms
haven’t been publicly announced. The securities had been
marketed to pay a spread between 105 basis points and 110 basis
points over the benchmark.  Demand for securities tied to everything from strip malls
to suburban office parks is surging as investors wager that with
unemployment falling to its lowest level since February 2009,
commercial-property owners will be able to cover their mortgage
payments. Bank forecasts for commercial-mortgage bond sales in
2012 range from Wells Fargo’s prediction of $25 billion to UBS
AG’s and Credit Suisse Group AG’s estimates of as much as $45
billion.  Wall Street banks arranged about $28 billion of commercial-
mortgage backed securities last year, compared with $11.5
billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rising
sales are a boon for property owners with loans coming due.
Borrowers have $51 billion of mortgages packaged into securities
maturing this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data.  The offering from Wells Fargo and Royal Bank of  Scotland  is
tied to loans on 152 properties from the Norwalk Town Square in
Norwalk,  California , to the Kirkwood Mobile Home Park in
Binghamton,  New York , according to sales documents.  Relative yields on top-ranked commercial-mortgage bonds
have plunged to 182 basis points more than Treasuries, the
lowest since May, according to the Barclays Capital CMBS AAA
Super Duper Index. That’s down from a 20-month high of 323 basis
points on Oct. 4 at the height of the European debt crisis. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  