-- Wilbur Ross’s Irish Bank Winnings Tested by EU Vote, Loan Crisis
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-16/wilbur-ross-s-irish-bank-winnings-tested-by-eu-vote-loan-crisis.html
U.S. billionaire  Wilbur Ross  reaped
a 105 million-euro ($138 million) gain in five months after
buying a stake in Bank of Ireland Plc, the nation’s largest
lender, amid one of the costliest banking crises in history.  Ross, 74, may struggle to keep that profit as Ireland’s
 banks  confront soaring losses on home loans and four years of
government spending cuts sap economic growth.  “2012 will be a challenge,” Ross said in an e-mail
interview. “The Irish economy will continue to feel the effects
of fiscal austerity.”  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  threw a curveball at the banks
last month by laying out his plans to hold a referendum on
 Europe ’s fiscal compact. Although opinion polls indicate the
agreement will be approved, the campaign may hinder the banks’
efforts to increase deposits and regain access to market funding
as Ireland’s future in Europe comes into question.  The vote brings “unwelcome focus on the banks,” said
 Eamonn Hughes , an analyst with  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin.
It “adds an element of additional risk for the sovereign and
the banks, given recent soundings had indicated there may be no
need for a referendum.”  Hughes, who put a sell recommendation on Bank of Ireland
before Kenny’s announcement, said investors haven’t done enough
number crunching on potential mortgage losses. Shares of the
Dublin-based lender, up 35 percent since Ross invested, have
“run too far, too quickly,” he said.  Bank of Ireland’s market value, at 4.1 billion euros, is
still down 78 percent from its peak of 18.3 billion euros in
February 2007, before the country’s real-estate bubble burst.  ‘Doesn’t Mean Much’  “It’s nice that the stock is up, but the price doesn’t
mean much until we want to sell it,” Ross said. “We are not
doing so, and expect to own it for years.”  Bank of Ireland, one of six lenders guaranteed by taxpayers
in 2008, is alone in escaping state control after the government
sold a 35 percent stake last year to a group of five  investors ,
including Ross, for 1.1 billion euros. The company is the
largest consumer lender in the country, and has about 11,000
employees in Ireland, almost a third of all bank employees in
the republic, according to the Irish Bank Official Association.  In all, the government has injected about 62 billion euros
into the financial system. That amounts to about 40 percent of
gross domestic product, making the Irish banking collapse among
the most expensive in history, according to  Alan Ahearne , former
adviser to former Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan .  ‘Capital Strength’  About 70 billion euros of loans owed to seven lenders in
Ireland, including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , are
unlikely to be paid back in full, the European Commission said
in a report published on March 1. This equates to 21 percent of
their combined loan books as of the third quarter, it said.  Since the latest round of stress tests and capital
injections in July, the banking system has stabilized. Bank of
Ireland’s deposits increased by 6 billion euros, or 9 percent,
in 2011. Deposits at Ireland’s four guaranteed banks rose in
January for a fifth straight month, the  finance ministry   said  on
Feb. 29.  Their reliance on European and national central bank funds
fell 22 percent last year to 109.5 billion euros, according to
the finance ministry. Ordered by Irish regulators to shrink,
banks sold or ran down 32 billion euros of loans last year,
reaching almost half of a three-year target.  Bank of Ireland’s underlying loss, which excludes one-time
losses from loan sales, narrowed to 1.5 billion euros last year
from 3.5 billion euros the previous year. On that basis, the
bank won’t return to a profit until 2014, when loan losses
decline, according to Karl Goggin, an analyst at Dublin-based
NCB Stockbrokers. Bank of Ireland executives haven’t given any
earnings guidance themselves.  ‘Continued Progress’  “We view positively Bank of Ireland’s continued progress
on deleveraging its balance sheet, its much-improved liquidity
position and its continued capital strength,” said Jason Long,
senior international investment analyst at Chicago-based Harris
Associates LP, which has a 5.8 percent stake in Bank of Ireland.
Still, “asset quality, margin pressures and the economic
environment remain the key challenges,” he said.  The economy, which has shrunk by 15 percent since 2007, is
struggling to grow as the government raises taxes and cuts
spending. Gross domestic product will expand about 0.5 percent
this year, the International Monetary Fund forecasts.  Unemployment is showing little sign of falling, property-
price declines are accelerating and mortgage arrears continue to
rise. Almost 14 percent of private residential mortgages were
either more than 90 days in arrears or restructured at the end
of December, according to the Irish central bank.  Richie Boucher  Bank of Ireland Chief Executive Officer Richie Boucher told
reporters on Feb. 20 that bad loans in coming years will be
“above our base case, but we don’t see ourselves in a stress
scenario” as home loans sour. A company spokesman said Boucher
was unavailable for an interview.  The bank last year forecast it would lose 6 billion euros
on impaired loans in the three years through 2013, rising to 7.9
billion euros in its stress case. The figures included 3.5
billion euros already set aside to cover bad loans.  The government is considering insolvency laws that may
allow some mortgage debt to be written off. While Moody’s
Investors Service said last month the proposed laws may leave as
much as 25 percent of mortgage debt open to write-off, Justice
Minister Alan Shatter dismissed that analysis, saying the
ratings company is missing “a whole range of things.”  Analysts say it’s too early to estimate the potential costs
of the proposals.  Debt Relief  Under the plans, borrowers may be able to obtain debt
relief, including a possible write-off, of as much as 3 million
euros should at least 75 percent of creditors agree. The
government proposed cutting the term of bankruptcy to three
years from 12 years. Boucher said “there are some pluses and
minuses” to the proposals.  “We are conscious that the state itself is trying to be
careful of unintended consequences,” he said on a conference
call with analysts on Feb. 20.  Irish authorities are considering moving some bad  mortgage
loans  and loans that track the  European Central Bank ’s key rate
out of Bank of Ireland competitors  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and
Irish Life & Permanent Plc, which was once the biggest mortgage
lender, according to four people with knowledge of the
discussions.  The loans may be transferred to a company specifically set
up to warehouse the loans, or moved to nationalized lender Irish
Bank Resolution Corp., formerly Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which
itself is being wound down by the end of the decade.  Allied Irish  Officials at the finance ministry, central bank,  Allied
Irish  and Irish Life all declined to comment on the matter.  Carving out and hiving off parts of Allied Irish’s and
Permanent TSB’s loans “would facilitate an immediate
acceleration of the banks’ deleveraging plans and help them
return to profitability more quickly,” said  Stephen Lyons , an
analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Davy.  Easing competition for deposits would help interest margins
in the industry, benefiting Bank of Ireland, he said. The bank
said on Feb. 20 that it’s getting harder to hit its target of
widening its net interest margin to more than 200 basis points
by the end of 2014. The margin, the difference between its
funding costs and lending rate, fell to 1.33 percentage points
last year from 1.46 percentage points in 2010.  Deposit Ratios  “The big benefit for the system is that you have a sudden
drop in AIB’s and Permanent TSB’s loan-to-deposit ratios, easing
competition for deposits, which would help margins in the
sector,” Lyons said. “Although Bank of Ireland may not
participate in the transfer of loans, it too would also be a big
beneficiary through easing of deposit competition.”  Bank of Ireland has a 35 percent share of the country’s
checking account market and a 34 percent share of the credit-
card market, the bank said in June, citing third-party surveys.  Some analysts, such as Dublin-based Glas Securities,
suggest that concessions by European authorities, in particular
allowing the government to spread the cost of the bailout of the
former Anglo Irish over a longer period of time, will help to
win support for the European fiscal compact.  The deal requires nations to virtually eliminate structural
deficits, and provides for tighter control of tax and spending
by governments. Two  polls  published on March 4 show the “yes”
campaign in the referendum has a 20-percentage-point lead.  “Ireland is the poster boy for adherence to bailout
commitments and clearly will be the first of the bailed-out
countries to return to normalcy,” said Ross. “Much credit also
goes to the Irish people for understanding the need for fiscal
reform and accepting the individual sacrifices necessitated by
the banking crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  