-- Abe Seen Facing Stock Rout in Case of Japan Tax Rise Delay
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a ,   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a   a n d   I s a a c   A q u i n o
-- 2013-09-04T08:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/abe-seen-facing-stock-rout-in-case-of-suspending-japan-tax-rise.html
Japanese shares could plunge 10
percent or more if Prime Minister Shinzo Abe fails to carry
through on a plan to raise a  sales tax  in April.  Postponing an increase would have a large and negative
impact on  Japan ’s financial markets, said 22 of 32 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. JPMorgan Chase & Co. Senior Economist
Masamichi Adachi said a delay could push stocks down 10 percent,
wiping out $418 billion in market capitalization, while UBS AG
Economist Daiju Aoki predicted a sell-off as steep as 12 percent
in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The survey results bolster the case for Abe to boost the
tax to shore up the indebted nation’s finances and maintain
faith in Japanese bonds, even at the risk of hitting households
saddled with stagnant wages and the fastest consumer-price
increases since 2008. The consensus contrasts with the view of
Standard & Poor’s Chief Global Economist Paul Sheard, who warned
in June that Japan could make a policy error through a premature
fiscal tightening.  “Abe doesn’t have much choice as delaying the sales-tax
plan would be too risky,” said JPMorgan’s Adachi, who is a
former Bank of Japan official. “Abe would lose all of the trust
that has buoyed Japanese markets so far.”  While economists over recent months have highlighted the
likely blow to consumption and the risk of the economy sinking
into one quarter of contraction due to a higher sales tax, the
government may be able to use stimulus to cushion the impact.  Yield Surge  The  Nikkei 225  has rallied 55 percent while the yen has
fallen 18 percent against the dollar since mid-November, when
investors started to price in an election win in December for
then-opposition leader Abe and his calls for policies to stop
deflation and revive the world’s third-largest economy.  A law enacted last year gives Abe the power either to let
the levy rise to 8 percent in April and 10 percent in 2015 from
5 percent today, or to hold off if he concludes Japan’s economy
isn’t strong enough to withstand the increases.  Abe’s decision is seen as a test of his commitment to
reining in Japan’s debt, now more than double gross domestic
product. If he puts the sales-tax increase on ice, the shock to
the markets could cause the 10-year government bond yield to
surge and the yen to rise above 95 yen per dollar, said UBS’s
Aoki. The yen fell 0.1 percent to 99.63 per dollar at 17:19 p.m.  Big Negative  Aoki was one of 10 analysts in the Bloomberg survey who
forecast a “significantly large” negative impact, while 12
others predicted “large” adverse effects on markets. Seven
said there wouldn’t be much of an impact from a delay.  “The impact would be bigger if inaction stokes concern
Abenomics is losing momentum and Abe and the BOJ are not getting
their act together,” said Masaaki Yamaguchi, an equity market
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage.
“That would mean putting off fiscal rehabilitation and yields
may rise in a bad way, another big negative for stocks.”  Postponing the sales tax increase would cause “enormous
damage” to the Abenomics agenda, said Mitsumaru Kumagai, chief
economist at Daiwa Institute of Research in  Tokyo .  “It would make it difficult for the BOJ to buy more
 government bonds  amid doubts about fiscal consolidation, which
would be negative for the economy and efforts to generate
inflation,” said Kumagai.  Absolute Chaos  If Abe decides to put off implementation, a Diet session
set for this autumn would focus on the sales tax, disrupting
debate on planned growth strategies and inviting “absolute
chaos” in the markets that could send the Nikkei 225 tumbling
16 percent, said Kumagai.  Japan should increase the sales tax in line with the Diet’s
decision last year, S&P’s Sheard said in June. “The question is
the timing. Is one year into the attempt by the  Bank of Japan  to
end deflation the right time to do that?” Sheard said.  In the past 15 years Japan sometimes put its foot on the
“monetary accelerator” at the same time as hitting the
“fiscal brakes,” said Sheard.  Koichi Hamada and Etsuro Honda, Abe advisers behind his
reflationary policies, have said the economy isn’t strong enough
yet to weather the burden of a higher tax.  Reflating Economy  Not all economists agree that a delay in a sales-tax
increase would hit financial markets.  Takuji Okubo, chief economist at Japan Macro Advisors in
Tokyo, said postponing the consumption-levy increase would have
the opposite effect on stocks than some analysts suggest. He
said it could lift the Nikkei 225 by about 1500 points, as it
would symbolize Abe’s commitment to reflating the economy. The
Nikkei 225 gained 0.5 percent to 14,053.87.  Naoki Murakami, chief economist at Monex Inc. in Tokyo and
a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist, said a delay would
significantly raise the odds of ending deflation and boosting
growth, aiding stocks and weakening the yen.  A decision in 1997 to boost the sales tax to 5 percent from
3 percent, combined with the Asian financial crisis, helped push
Japan into recession, costing then-Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto his job. Other Abe predecessors including  Naoto Kan 
and Yoshihiko Noda lost elections after putting a sales-tax
increase on the table.  Kuroda’s Take  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has said raising the sales tax
and ending deflation are achievable at the same time, citing the
BOJ’s economic projection for 1.3 percent growth in the fiscal
year starting in April. He said last month that monetary policy
is closely related to Japan’s fiscal health.  Gross domestic product data for the second quarter, which
may help inform Abe’s decision on the sales tax, will be revised
upward following higher-than-forecast capital spending figures
this week, said JPMorgan and Nomura Securities Co. A stronger
growth reading than the preliminary 2.6 percent annualized
expansion would support the case for a sales-tax increase, they
said.  Abe will make a decision in the first half of October,
Amari told reporters yesterday. About 70 percent of 60
economists, business leaders and representatives of households
invited to the government panels favored raising the levy, Amari
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Aquino in Tokyo at 
 iaquino1@bloomberg.net ;  
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  