-- Africa’s Biggest Gold Mining Union Begins Strike
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-09-03T18:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/africa-s-biggest-gold-mining-union-begins-strike.html
The National Union of Mineworkers,
representing almost two-thirds of gold miners in South Africa,
began a strike over a wage dispute.  NUM members have begun their protest, Charmane Russell, a
spokeswoman for the Chamber of Mines, said today by phone. The
chamber represents seven gold companies in wage talks. Most
workers walked out at  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s South Deep mine, said
Sven Lunsche, a company spokesman.  The companies had made a final offer to raise the pay of
about 140,000 workers by 6 percent to 6.5 percent, Harmony Gold
Mining Co. Chief Executive Officer Graham Briggs said Aug. 29.
The NUM wants as much as a 60 percent increase in starting
salaries.  Strikes may cost the industry about 349 million rand ($34
million) a day in revenue, with the total cost of the action
including lost wages and taxes reaching 597 million rand a day,
the chamber says. Workers in the automotive, construction and
aviation industries have already gone on strike to demand pay
gains in excess of the  inflation rate  of 6.3 percent in July.  Entry-level underground miners earn 5,000 rand a month
before housing allowances and bonuses, according to the chamber.  The NUM is seeking a jump to 8,000 rand, the Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union, the second-biggest labor
group representing gold miners, is demanding an increase to
12,500 rand a month, and Solidarity wants an 8.3 percent gain.  UASA, a group that represents almost 7 percent of gold
miners, is the only union that said it’s ready to take the
employers’ offer.  `Last Resort'  Solidarity, representing more than 2 percent of employees,
won’t do the work of any striking NUM members or participate in
essential services, during the biggest union’s action, General
Secretary Gideon du Plessis said in an Aug. 30 interview.  The AMCU, whose members make up about 17 percent of workers
in the gold industry, is in talks with them over what action to
take, President Joseph Mathunjwa said in a phone interview. “A
strike, to AMCU, is the last resort,” Mathunjwa said.  The FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining Index is down 43 percent in
2013.  Unions declared a dispute with coal producers on Aug. 12
and their negotiations have moved into arbitration.  Among South African mining industries, coal is the least at
risk of strikes, with a 50 percent chance of action, compared
with 60 percent in the platinum business, Mark Rosenberg, an
Africa analyst at Eurasia Group, said in an Aug. 28 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  