-- Alitalia Hires Adviser as It Seeks EU300 Million to Fund Revamp
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-09-03T10:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/alitalia-hires-adviser-as-it-seeks-eu300-million-to-fund-revamp.html
Alitalia  SpA has hired Gruppo Banca
Leonardo to help raise hundreds of millions of euros before the
end of this year as the biggest Italian airline embarks on a new
strategy aimed at ending operating losses in 2014.  Milan-based Leonardo is due to report back on preliminary
talks with banks at an Alitalia board meeting scheduled for
later this month, the airline in a statement late yesterday.  Alitalia’s industrial plan through 2016, published July 7,
outlined a need to boost financial resources by 300 million
euros ($395 million) this year. The Rome-based company also aims
to garner 55 million euros in convertible loans from investors,
after seeking to raise 150 million euros earlier this year.  Established after Italian regional operator Air One SpA
absorbed assets of the old Alitalia after that airline went
bankrupt in 2008, the company’s loss widened to 280 million
euros last year amid a squeeze from low-cost carriers and high-speed train operators. The new strategy places more emphasis on
inter-continental routes, with development of the long-haul
fleet, together with alliances with domestic rail rivals.  Alitalia’s biggest single shareholder is  Air France-KLM
Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s largest airline, which bought 25 percent of the
stock for 323 million euros in January 2009 after being selected
as partner ahead of German competitor  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   Lock Up  Remaining shares are held by financial and industrial
groups including Roberto Colaninno’s Immsi, which led the
creation of the new Alitalia and includes Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,
the country’s biggest bank, and toll-road company Atlantia SpA.  After the Colaninno-backed airline began operations in
2009, Italian shareholders were subject to a four-year lock up
limiting the sale of stock to their local co-investors.  That restriction expired in January, while a further clause
that replaced it -- requiring the Alitalia board to approve
third-party sales -- will lapse next month, potentially opening
the way to further investment from an outside airline.  Air France-KLM Chief Financial Officer Philippe Calavia
said in July that the carrier would wait until the year’s end to
assess progress at Alitalia before deciding whether to change
its shareholding. An Air France spokesman wasn’t immediately
available for comment on the company’s intentions today.  Alitalia managers have met with  Etihad Airways  to discuss a
commercial accord that could also see the Gulf carrier taking a
holding,  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported last month, without saying
where it go the information. A meeting of the Italian company’s
board yesterday might have discussed Etihad’s interest in a 30
percent stake, the newspaper said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  