-- Amazon Upgrades Kindle E-Reader, Adds New Services
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-09-03T20:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/amazon-upgrades-kindle-e-reader-adds-new-services.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  updated its Kindle
Paperwhite, adding a sharper screen, faster processor and new
features for the handheld e-reader used to deliver digital
content.  The online retailer also introduced a new service giving
customers the option to buy discounted Kindle editions of
printed books already purchased from Amazon, the Seattle-based
company said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is investing in its line
of e-readers even as researchers predict declining sales of the
devices in coming years. E-reader shipments are projected to
fall to 7.1 million units in 2016, a decline of more than two-thirds from a peak volume in 2011,  according  to  IHS Inc. (IHS)   “If you logged onto your CompuServe account during the
Clinton administration and bought a book like ‘Men Are from
Mars, Women Are from Venus’ from Amazon, Kindle MatchBook now
makes it possible for that purchase -- 18 years later -- to be
added to your Kindle library at a very low cost,” Russ
Grandinetti, vice president of Kindle content, said in the
statement.  Prices for the digital editions of already purchased books
will range from free to $2.99, less than the $9.99 price of many
e-books sold via Amazon’s online store, the company said. More
than 10,000 books will be available when the program, called
Kindle MatchBook, starts in October.  For the e-reader, Amazon said the new Kindle model is 25
percent faster, letting users to open books and turn pages more
quickly. It features a high-contrast screen that’s
indistinguishable from physical books, the company said.  The Kindle Paperwhite, which goes on sales later this
month, sells for $119 to $189, and was first introduced in
September of last year. The device has an 8-week battery life
and a front-lit screen, which lets readers scan books in the
dark. Amazon is also integrating Goodreads, the reading social
network it purchased earlier this year, into Kindle e-reading
software.  Amazon advanced 2.8 percent to $288.80 at the close in  New
York , leaving the shares up 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  