-- Hamburg Wins With Russia in WTO as Exports Echo China
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-09-03T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/hamburg-wins-with-russia-in-wto-as-exports-echo-china-freight.html
Hamburg is emerging as the biggest
European beneficiary of  Russia ’s entry into the World Trade
Organization, which is spurring feeder services from Germany’s
largest port and cementing its status as a container transfer
hub between Asia and the Baltic Sea.  Hapag-Lloyd AG, Cosco Container Lines and Unifeeder AS are
among shipping lines that have increased feeder services from
Hamburg since the start of the year. That contributed to an 8
percent rise in the movement of standard 20-foot containers, or
TEUs, between the German port and Russia in the first six
months, according to Port of Hamburg Marketing.  As WTO membership drives down import tariffs and expands
port capacities in and around St. Petersburg, Russia is widening
its lead over  Singapore  as Hamburg’s second-biggest partner
after  China . Just as looser trade barriers helped China’s
container trade with Hamburg quadruple after its entry to the
WTO in 2001, so too will the flow of goods between the German
port and Russia increase, said Gabriele Koetschau, who heads the
St. Petersburg office of the Hamburg Chamber of Commerce.  “I don’t expect the same growth in trade for Russia, but a
50 percent increase by 2020 is possible,” said Koetschau.  Russia became the 156th country to join the WTO on Aug. 22
last year,  after 18 years  of negotiations delayed by such
obstacles as obtaining approval from WTO member  Georgia . That
former Soviet republic fought a brief war with Russia in 2008
and has contested customs procedures in disputed territories
that Russia recognized as independent states.  Tariff Reductions  Membership means the world’s biggest country by area must
cut import tariffs to an average 6 percent from 9.5 percent
today by 2015, according to the Hamburg Business Development
Corporation.  St. Petersburg, Russia’s biggest sea port, and Hamburg have
been partner cities since 1957, bolstering ties even after the
onset of the Cold War. About 20 percent of Russia’s seaward
trade is dispatched from there, according to the Russian
ministry of transport.  Trade between Hamburg and Russia can be traced back to the
13th century, when beer was the biggest export along the first
trade route from the Hanseatic port to Novgorod across the
Baltic Sea. In 1719, the first Russian diplomatic mission opened
in Hamburg.  At about the same time, Hamburg sugar producers settled in
Archangelsk, a port about 1,120 kilometers (696 miles) northeast
of St. Petersburg on the White Sea that is closed by ice for
part of the year. From there, they supplied sugar to the whole
of North Russia and all the way to Moscow.  Auto Exports  Today, goods exported to Russia from Hamburg are mainly
meat, cars, canned food, milk products and metals, according to
the Hamburg Chamber of Commerce. Goods imported from Russia
include hard coal, crude oil, paper, copper and chemical
products.  Vessels moved 343,000 standard 20-foot containers, or TEUs,
between Hamburg and Russia in the first six months of 2013, 8
percent more than in the same period last year, according to
data provided by Port of Hamburg Marketing.  “The region of St. Petersburg is increasingly becoming a
gateway for goods from all over the world for the big Russian
market,” said Fritz Horst Melsheimer, president of Hamburg’s
Chamber of Commerce. “We are definitely expecting the momentum
in trade between Hamburg and Russia to continue.”  Northern European container trade with Russia is mostly
transshipment -- the transfer of containers from deep-sea
container ships from Asia to smaller feeder ships destined for
Russia’s Baltic Sea ports. Intra-European traffic accounts only
for about 15 percent of the total, according to the  Institute of
Shipping Economics  and Logistics in Bremen,  Germany .  Feeder Traffic  More than 150 feeder ships leave Hamburg every week to sail
down the River Elbe before moving northwards through the Kiel
Canal to the Baltic Sea.  “The most important driver of growth in trade is the
quality of the feeder services between Hamburg and St.
Petersburg in particular,” said Axel Mattern, a board member at
Port of Hamburg Marketing, an association representing about 270
companies active in the port.  In the first half of 2013, seven new feeder services to
Baltic Sea harbors were started, according to the port.  That includes the FIX  service to St. Petersburg  started by
Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd in April, which also calls in Finland
and  Sweden  and complements the existing  Russia Express,  or Rex,
of Europe’s fourth largest container-shipping line.  Train Transfer  The Hapag-Lloyd vessels transport containers with car parts
from  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , manufactured in  Mexico , to the fast-growing
Russian port of Ust-Luga, said Christoph Adomat, a spokesman at
the German carmaker, which is based in Wolfsburg. About 100
containers a week then make the journey by train from Ust-Luga
to an assembly plant of VW partner GAZ Group, a unit of Russian
billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s Basic Element, in Nizhny Novgorod.  “Russia’s entry to the WTO will lead to a further opening
up of that market, while competition will intensify,” Adomat
said in an e-mail. “Since agreeing on our cooperation with GAZ
in June 2011, we have been producing various models at the site,
step-by-step, which will inevitably lead to growing volumes.”  Container volumes throughput at Ust-Luga, which is about
150 kilometers west of St Petersburg and started operations
three years ago, grew to 21,835 TEU in the first half, nearly
ten times as much as the 2,342 TEU in the same period 2012,
according to data from the  St. Petersburg Port Administration .  Dominating Traffic  Still, the share of Ust-Luga and other Russian Baltic Sea
ports such as Kaliningrad is small compared to that of St.
Petersburg, which handles 92 percent of container traffic from
Hamburg, according to Port of Hamburg Marketing.  National Container Co., which operates the biggest terminal
in St. Petersburg with 1.35 million TEU of annual capacity, saw
a 27 percent increase in container trade with Hamburg in the
first half compared to the same period in 2012. Turnover totaled
163,680 containers, the company said in an e-mail.  “Volumes in Hamburg look relatively good compared to other
ports in North Europe and Russia plays an important part in that
development,” said Burkhard Lemper, director at the  Institute
of Shipping Economics  and Logistics.  Total container throughput in Hamburg rose 2 percent in the
first half, while it fell 9 percent in Bremerhaven, Germany’s
second biggest port, according to Port of Hamburg Marketing.
Antwerp in  Belgium , Europe’s third biggest container port, lost
nearly 2 percent, while Rotterdam, Europe’s top port, had less
than 1 percent growth.  Hamburg’s Business Development Corporation meanwhile said
it helped an above-average number of Russian companies to open
branches in Hamburg since Russia joined the WTO.  About 25 companies, including commodity traders and
technology startups, have settled in Germany’s second biggest
city since August 2012, increasing the total number of Russian
companies to 150, according to the body.  “The Russian companies often have their base in Hamburg for
the whole German market. For them Hamburg is the gateway to the
market with the most purchasing power in European Union,” said
Melsheimer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  