-- Amgen Cytokinetics Heart Drug Fails in Atomic Patient Trial
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-09-03T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/amgen-cytokinetics-heart-drug-fails-in-atomic-patient-trial.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Cytokinetics Inc. (CYTK) ’s
experimental drug omecamtiv mecarbil failed to help people with
acute heart failure breathe better in a 613-patient, company-sponsored study.  Patients who took the treatment didn’t experience any
improvement in dyspnea, or shortness of breath, compared to
those who got a placebo, researchers said today at the  European
Society of Cardiology ’s conference in Amsterdam. The study
compared three different dosage levels with a placebo.
Researchers said the group that got the highest dose showed a
trend toward improvement.  Called Atomic-AHF, the study is the first of two trials
that  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen has said it will use
to decide whether to move the drug into the final and most
expensive stage of patient testing. Amgen bought the rights to
South San Francisco-based Cytokinetics leading product candidate
in 2009.  “I would be discouraged by the results of this” from
thinking the drug has an important effect for patients, said
Christopher Granger, director of the Cardiac Care Unit at
Durham, North Carolina-based  Duke University , who wasn’t
involved with the study. There’s no obvious reason to think the
second trial will succeed if this one didn’t, Granger said.  Oral Version  Amgen will wait for data from the second trial, Cosmic-HF,
which tests an oral version of the drug in patients with chronic
heart failure, before deciding whether to keep working on the
project, Sean Harper, executive vice president of research and
development, said in a statement. Today’s study, where patients
hospitalized with acute heart failure were treated for 48 hours,
tested an intravenous version.  Amgen is pursuing a second trial because the two studies
look at different patient groups and different treatment
regimens with different goals, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. “Amgen considers these two trials to answer unique
and complementary questions,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  