-- Man. United’s Herrera Bid Scuppered by Hoaxers: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-03T09:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/man-united-s-herrera-bid-scuppered-by-hoaxers-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Herrera Hoaxers  Manchester United’s 30.5 million-pound ($47.4 million) bid
to sign Athletic Bilbao midfielder Ander Herrera collapsed amid
Spanish media reports that hoaxers had turned up claiming to
represent the Premier League champion, the  Daily Mail said .  Three people saying they were United officials arrived at
the Spanish league’s Madrid offices yesterday to pay Herrera’s
buy-out clause before the deal broke down, the newspaper added.  United manager David Moyes said negotiations failed because
the Red Devils weren’t prepared to meet Bilbao’s valuation of
Herrera, according to the Mail.  Khedira Considered  With the Herrera deal in doubt, Real Madrid’s Sami Khedira
emerged as a possible back-up option for United on the last day
of the trade period, the  Independent reported .  United inquired about Khedira without returning with a firm
offer for the German midfielder, the newspaper added.  Chelsea Blocks Ba  Chelsea blocked Arsenal’s bid to take striker Demba Ba on a
season-long loan yesterday as a backup to Oliver Giroud because
Blues manager Jose Mourinho sees the Gunners as serious rivals
for the Premier League title, the  Daily Mirror said .  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger persuaded Real  Madrid ’s Mesut Ozil to become the club’s record-signing even though Paris
Saint-Germain offered the German midfielder a more lucrative
contract, the  same newspaper reported .  Payback Promise  Arsenal made Ozil its highest-paid player with a five-year
deal worth about 140,000 pounds a week, the  Daily Mail reported .  “I will pay back the club and the fans in each game,” the
newspaper cited Ozil as saying. “Now I want to help the club to
finally win a title.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  