-- Apple Announces Sept. 10 Event to Unveil New IPhones
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-09-03T20:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/apple-announces-sept-10-event-new-iphones-set-to-debut.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sent out invitations to a
Sept. 10 event, where the world’s largest technology company
will unveil new models of the iPhone.  The event will be held at Apple’s headquarters in
Cupertino,  California , at 10 a.m., the company said today in an
e-mailed invitation designed with colorful bubbles. Apple will
announce new iPhones at the event, a person familiar with the
plans has said.  “This should brighten everyone’s day,” the company said
in the invitation.  The iPhone, introduced in 2007, is Apple’s top-selling
product, accounting for half of revenue last year. As it faces
increasing competition from rivals such as  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , the company is debuting an upgrade to the iPhone 5 as well
as a less-expensive model, meant to help attract customers in
developing regions.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  also will release an
overhaul to Apple’s iOS mobile operating system, which powers
the company’s iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices. Apple
previewed the software’s redesign in June, including changes to
the e-mail, calendar and photo applications, as well as new
fonts, icons and a brighter color scheme.  Nokia-Microsoft  Underscoring the shifts in the technology industry since
the first iPhone popularized touch-screen handheld computing,
 Finland ’s  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  -- once the mobile-phone industry leader --
yesterday said it’s selling its phone and services business to
Microsoft Corp. after years of falling  sales . Microsoft, the
maker of Windows software for personal computers and mobile
devices, also has struggled to gain a toehold in the phone
business that’s now dominated by Apple, Samsung and Google Inc.  Next week’s event is Apple’s first major product
announcement since October 2012, when it released the iPad mini
tablet. Later this year, the company is projected to introduce
another update to its iPad line, giving it a fresh batch of
products heading into the holiday shopping season.  The last time Apple hosted an event at its Cupertino base
was in  2011 , for the debut of the iPhone 4S, on the day before
Apple co-founder Steve Jobs  died .  Apple shares rose 0.3 percent to $488.58 at the close in
New York. The stock has  fallen  8.2 percent this year. The
company, valued at about $444 billion, is the world’s largest by
market capitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net  