-- Arsenal Buys Ozil for Record Sum; Man. United Gets Fellaini
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-09-03T09:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/arsenal-buys-ozil-for-record-sum-man-united-gets-fellaini-1-.html
Arsenal signed Real Madrid playmaker
Mesut Ozil for a club-record sum on the final day of European
soccer’s trade period as  Manchester United  added Marouane Fellaini from Everton for 27.5 million pounds ($42.7 million).  Ozil, 24, will join the Gunners on a long-term contract,
Arsenal said last night. The English Premier League club didn’t
disclose the terms of what it called a club record transfer fee,
which the British Broadcasting Corp. reported was 42.4 million
pounds.  “He is a great player, with proven quality at both club
and international level,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said in
a statement on the club’s website. “We have watched and admired
him for some time as he has all the attributes I look for in an
Arsenal player.”  Ozil, an attacking midfielder, made 159 appearances in
three years for Real and won the league and Spanish cup. He’s
scored 17 goals in 47 appearances for the German national team.
Arsenal also acquired goalkeeper Emiliano Viviano on loan from
Italian club Palermo for the rest of the season.  Deloitte LLP estimated gross spending by Premier League
teams in the pre-season transfer window was a record 630 million
pounds, 130 million more than the previous high set in 2008 and
29 percent more than last year’s 490 million pounds. Clubs had a
net spend of 400 million pounds, Deloitte said.  Ozil’s sale came a day after Real paid what the  BBC  said
was a world record 100 million euros ($132 million) for
Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Gareth Bale.  Six-Year Contract  The Welsh winger was introduced by the nine-time European
soccer champion to its fans yesterday after signing a six-year
contract.  Real said it will pay 78 million pounds in a single
installment, 2 million pounds less than the record 80 million
pounds the Spanish club paid to Manchester United for  Cristiano Ronaldo  four years ago. Bale will be paid 300,000 pounds a week,
the BBC added, without saying where it got the information.  As well as selling Ozil, the Spanish team let Kaka, the
2007 world player of the year, go back to Italian Serie A club
AC Milan. The 31-year-old, who joined Real in 2009, agreed on a
two-year contract with Milan shortly before 3 a.m. yesterday.  Manchester United completed the signing of Fellaini, 25,
before the transfer window shut to make the midfielder  David Moyes ’s first major acquisition since replacing the retired  Alex Ferguson  as manager at the Premier League champion.  Everton responded to the loss of Fellaini by boosting its
midfield with the 13 million-pound signing of Wigan Athletic’s
James McCarthy, 22, and taking  Manchester City ’s  Gareth Barry  on
a season-long loan. Everton also sold striker Victor Anichebe to
West Bromwich Albion for as much as 6 million pounds and
completed a season-long loan for Chelsea striker Romelu Lukaku.  Liverpool Signings  Liverpool, which currently leads the Premier League
standings after winning its first three matches 1-0, also took a
Chelsea forward on loan, bringing in Victor Moses for the
remainder of the season.  The Reds said they also signed Tiago Ilori and Mamadou Sakho from Sporting Lisbon and Paris Saint-Germain,
respectively, paying a combined fee of about 25 million pounds
for the two central defenders, according to the BBC.  “I’m very pleased,” Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers 
told his team’s website. “The window this summer has been very
productive for us. Sakho was probably a surprise for many people
because he was highly rated at PSG and a French international
player.”  Italian striker Fabio Borini left Liverpool to join
Sunderland on loan with ex-Reds defender Andrea Dossena also
moving to the Stadium of Light from Napoli on a one-year deal.  West Brom said it broke its transfer record to sign
Sunderland forward Stephane Sessegnon on a three-year contract.  Stoke City  signed midfielder Stephen Ireland on a season-long loan from  Aston Villa , which brought in Czech striker Libor
Kozak from Lazio. Kozak, 24, was the top scorer in the Europa
League last season with 10 goals.  Stoke also bought Marko Arnautovic from  Germany ’s Werder
Bremen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  