-- Harvard of Haute Cuisine Borrows to Feed Trainee Chefs
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/harvard-of-haute-cuisine-borrows-to-feed-trainee-chefs.html
The Culinary Institute of America,
which Life Magazine called “the Harvard of Haute Cuisine,”
wants investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market to help
expand a student center, kitchens and a dining hall in upstate
 New York .  CIA, based in Hyde Park, was founded in  Connecticut  in 1946
to train returning World War II veterans and offers bachelor’s
degrees as well as courses for food enthusiasts, according to
the school’s website. It plans to borrow $31 million through the
Dormitory Authority of the State of New York tomorrow even as
debt with similar ratings trails top-ranked securities by the
most since 2008.  The deal is one of the $2.4 billion of long-term issues
localities plan this week, down from $4.2 billion in the
previous one, as the Labor Day holiday limits trading.
Governments are borrowing with benchmark muni yields at about
the highest level since April 2011 after individuals pulled $23
billion from local-debt mutual funds during the past 14 weeks,
Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Among the school’s graduates are author and television host
Anthony Bourdain;  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  founder Steve Ells; and  Grant Achatz , the James Beard Outstanding Chef award
winner. The institute has seen enrollment rise by 3 percent
since 2009 and about 2,900 students will take classes this
academic year, according to deal documents.  ‘Expanded Resources’  “Due to growth, we need to expand our dining-hall space,”
Charlie O’Mara, senior vice president of finance and
administration, said by telephone. “We are attempting to
provide expanded resources for student recreation.”  Proceeds will go toward a $26.1 million project to build a
33,000 square-foot (3,000 square-meter) addition, with three
kitchens and a self-serve cafeteria that holds 450 people,
O’Mara said. It replaces a 60-seat facility and is designed to
serve students, he said. The borrowing also will help finish a
$20.4 million hotel and conference center, he said.  The institute, which Life compared to  Harvard University  in
1979, has $101.4 million of long-term debt, according to bond
documents. This week’s sale will be the last for at least two
years, O’Mara said. The deal, which has a final maturity of
2043, will price tomorrow, he said.  Moody’s Investors Service ranked the debt Baa2, two steps
above junk. It cited the school’s “prudent fiscal management”
and its “healthy growth” in tuition. Still, it’s vulnerable to
drops in enrollment because of reliance on such student charges,
which account for 74 percent of total revenue in fiscal 2013,
the company said.  BBB rated securities, the same rank as Baa2, have lost 9.3
percent this year through Aug. 29, compared with a 3.81 percent
decline for top-rated bonds, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Other deals on tap this week include  Texas A&M University 
and the sewer system serving  Portland ,  Oregon .  For Related News and Information:
SUNY Overhauls Dormitories With $527 Million of Debt: Muni Deals
NSN MRMM7Q1A74E9
Anthony Bourdain Checks Out Congo, Libya, Food Porn: Interview
NSN MMYFWF1A1I4H  Top muni stories: TOPM
U.S. municipal issuers: MIFA  -- Editors: William Glasgall, Mark Tannenbaum  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net 
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  