-- Auschwitz Guards Should Be Prosecuted, German Unit Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-09-03T15:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/auschwitz-wardens-should-be-prosecuted-german-unit-says.html
Germany’s central Nazi crime
investigation  unit  asked local prosecutors around the country to
investigate 30 former guards at the Auschwitz concentration
camp.  The unit started looking into 49 suspects after  John Demjanjuk  was sentenced to five years in prison in 2011 for
aiding the Nazis in the murder of at least 28,000 Jews at the
Sobibor death camp during World War II. The Auschwitz guards can
be prosecuted under the same standards, the unit said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Nazis killed an estimated 6 million Jews in death camps
throughout  Europe  during the war.  Auschwitz , in parts of  Poland 
annexed by Germany, was the largest of the camps and became a
symbol of the tragedy of the holocaust.  The Demjanjuk verdict triggered a new wave of
investigations after the judges veered from previous cases that
required proof of individual acts. In Demjanjuk’s case, the
Munich court said it was enough to show he worked at the camp
where everyone was involved in the mass killings.  Germany ’s top criminal court in 1969 said guards at
Auschwitz, where people were also held as slave laborers,
couldn’t be tried under the same rules as authorities at camps
whose sole task was killing prisoners.  “As a rule, a guard in Auschwitz has to be judged the same
way as guard in one of the so-called pure extermination camps,”
the agency said.  Nine Died  The investigative unit, based in Ludwigsburg, Germany,
couldn’t locate two of the 49 suspects. One case is being
handled by Stuttgart prosecutors. Nine have died, according to
the statement.  Seven of the suspects live outside Germany in countries
including  Austria , Poland, the U.S. and  Israel , according to the
unit, which didn’t disclose any names or details about the
people. Germany’s top criminal court will rule on which local
German prosecutors have jurisdiction to probe them.  The unit is now looking at former guards of other camps and
it seeking to conclude a review of files of the Majdanek camp
within six months, according to the statement. Investigators are
also looking at files in Russia, Belarus and  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 