-- Australia’s Retail Sales Increase Less Than Economists Forecast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-09-03T01:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/australia-s-retail-sales-increase-less-than-economists-forecast.html
Australian retail sales rose less
than expected in July as consumers reduced spending at
department stores in an economy grappling with a weaker outlook.  Sales climbed 0.1 percent to A$21.8 billion ($19.6 billion)
from a month earlier, when they were little changed, the Bureau
of Statistics said in Sydney today. The result compares with the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists for
a 0.4 percent gain.  Traders are pricing in almost no chance  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board will cut  interest
rates  today after lowering borrowing costs by 2.25 percentage
points between November 2011 and August to boost a flagging
economy. Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  faces an election this week
after a campaign centered around managing Australia through the
downturn of a mining-investment boom.  “Consumers are spending, but they remain selective on
where this spending is occurring,” Michael Blythe, chief
economist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the
nation’s largest lender, said before the report. “While
consumer unemployment fears remain high, soft growth in the
retail sector is likely to continue.”  Spending on household goods rose 1.8 percent, and consumers
spent 1.4 percent more on clothing, footwear and accessories,
today’s report showed. They spent 7.9 percent less at department
stores, it showed.  Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. (CCL) , Australia’s largest listed drinks
company, said last month first-half profit declined and full-year earnings would miss estimates.  “Consumer sentiment had declined since earlier in the year
to be close to average levels,” the RBA said in minutes of its
August meeting, when it cut rates by a quarter point to 2.5
percent “Overall, the softer run of recent indicators of
consumption was consistent with the somewhat subdued conditions
in the labor market.”  Australian employers unexpectedly cut payrolls in July by
10,200 and  unemployment  held at an almost four-year high of 5.7
percent, government data showed Aug. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  