-- Murray Reaches U.S. Open Final Eight as Williams Romps 6-0, 6-0
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-09-04T04:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/azarenka-overcomes-double-faults-to-beat-ivanovic-at-u-s-open.html
Defending champion  Andy Murray 
rallied from a set down to complete the men’s quarterfinal
lineup at the  U.S. Open , where top seeds Novak Djokovic and
 Serena Williams  lost a combined three games in dominant wins.  Murray, the No. 3 seed from Scotland, lost the first set in
a tiebreak to  Denis Istomin  before recovering for a 6-7 (5-7),
6-1, 6-4, 6-4 victory last night at the National Tennis Center 
in New York. Istomin, of Uzbekistan, was the last unseeded player 
left in the men’s draw at the season’s final Grand Slam tournament.  “I just started trying to dictate the points a little more,
especially when I had the wind with me,” Murray, 26, said
during a televised on-court interview in breezy Arthur Ashe
Stadium. “I had a few chances to win the first set, so I just
had to make some minor adjustments.”  Djokovic lost eight points on his serve as he rolled into
the final eight with a 6-3, 6-0, 6-0 victory against Spain’s
Marcel Granollers yesterday. Williams, the only American player
left in the tournament, followed with a 6-0, 6-0 rout of No. 18
Carla Suarez Navarro on the Spaniard’s 25th birthday.  It was the second time a player has won 6-0, 6-0 in the U.S.
Open quarterfinals since 1968, the other being 18-time Grand
Slam champion  Martina Navratilova ’s win over Manuela Maleeva in
1989. Asked afterward if she feels compassion when dominating an
opponent, Williams said she’s only focused on winning.  “You don’t really think about it,” Williams, 31, said at
a news conference. “You just think about winning the points and
winning the games.”  Williams, who has lost only 13 games through her first five
matches, next meets fifth-seeded  Li Na  of China for a spot in
the women’s final. Williams is 8-1 all-time against Li, who was
a 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2 winner over 24th-seeded Ekaterina Makarova
of Russia yesterday.  Having Fun  “I’m having a blast this week,” said Williams, a 17-time
Grand Slam winner who is 65-4 with eight tournament titles this
year. “I have just really been enjoying my matches. I have to
stay in that moment of fun, but intensity.”  Djokovic set up a match against No. 21  Mikhail Youzhny  of
Russia, who outlasted former U.S. Open champion  Lleyton Hewitt 
in a five-set win that took almost four hours.  “It probably takes its toll, the fact they have played
five-setters and are coming in tired,” Djokovic, 26, said after
beating Granollers, who was coming off a five-set win over Tim
Smyczek. “But I really don’t try to pay attention to my
opponents during the matches. I have this very determined vision
of what I need to do on the court.”  Murray-Wawrinka  Murray’s next opponent is ninth-seeded Stanislas Wawrinka
of Switzerland, who moved into the final eight by rallying from
a set down to beat No. 5 Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic in
four sets. Wawrinka advanced a day after countryman and five-time champion  Roger Federer  was knocked out in the fourth round,
his earliest U.S. Open exit since 2003.  “This year he’s improved quite a bit and he’s more
experienced now,” Murray said of the 28-year-old Wawrinka, who
has yet to advance past the quarterfinals in a Grand Slam.
“It’ll be a very tough match.”  Rafael Nadal , the men’s No. 2 seed, highlights today’s
quarterfinal lineup as he faces No. 19 Tommy Robredo, a fellow
Spaniard who ousted Federer in straight sets.  Nadal has won all six previous meetings against Robredo, is
riding a 19-match hard-court win streak, and has yet to lose a
game on his serve through the first four rounds at the U.S. Open.
Robredo is 0-6 in Grand Slam quarterfinals.  Gasquet-Ferrer  Fourth-seeded  David Ferrer , also of Spain, faces No. 8
 Richard Gasquet  of France in today’s other men’s quarterfinal.
Ferrer, a semifinalist at the U.S. Open in 2012, has an 8-1
career record against Gasquet, including a straight-set, fourth-round win in New York a year ago.  The final two spots in the women’s semifinals will be
filled today. Tenth-seeded Roberta Vinci meets Flavia Pennetta
in an all-Italian quarterfinal in today’s first match in Arthur
Ashe Stadium, while second-seeded  Victoria Azarenka  of  Belarus 
faces Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia tonight.  Azarenka played yesterday’s first match, overcoming nine
double faults and windy conditions to defeat former world No. 1
Ana Ivanovic 4-6, 6-3, 6-4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Flushing Meadows,  New York  at  matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in Flushing Meadows, New York at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  