-- B. Braun Seeks Cartel Approval for 25% Stake in Rhoen-Klinikum
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-09-03T11:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/b-braun-seeks-cartel-approval-for-25-stake-in-rhoen-klinikum.html
B. Braun Holding GmbH sought
regulatory approval to increase its stake in  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK) 
to 25 percent to gain more control over the German hospital
operator, which was the target of a takeover battle last year.  The German cartel office, which announced B. Braun’s Aug.
30 application on its  website  today, has a month either to make
a decision or open a three-month in-depth probe of the case. B.
Braun, a hospital supplier, said it’s committed to securing its
minority shareholding in Rhoen-Klinikum. Spokeswoman Bernadette
Tillmanns-Estorf declined to comment further.  The move adds to more than a year of drama over the future
of Rhoen-Klinikum. B. Braun sued in July to challenge a
shareholder vote to lower the bar for shareholder approval of
mergers and other major decisions. B. Braun’s decision to seek a
bigger stake shows it doesn’t believe its suit will be
successful, Rhoen-Klinikum Chairman Eugen Muench said today.  “In our view only that can explain why B. Braun wants to
boost its stake as a precautionary measure,” Muench said in an
e-mailed statement.  A bigger stake would let B. Braun, which already owns about
5 percent of Rhoen-Klinikum, block some corporate decisions.  Rhoen-Klinikum shares rose as much as 3.2 percent, the most
since Aug. 1. The shares were up 3 percent at 18.21 euros at
1:36 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  June Vote  Rhoen-Klinikum’s shareholders in June abolished a
requirement that major decisions receive the backing of
investors holding at least 90 percent of the voting rights.
Votes from B. Braun opposing the change weren’t accepted because
the medical-supply company’s representative wasn’t “duly
legitimated,” Muench said at the time.  The approval requirement played a role in derailing a
takeover last year of Rhoen-Klinikum by  Fresenius SE (FRE) , another
hospital operator. Rival hospital operator Asklepios Kliniken
GmbH bought a stake to block the deal, which would have eclipsed
Asklepios to create the biggest German hospital network.  Asklepios, based in Hamburg, and Fresenius, which is
headquartered in the Frankfurt suburb of Bad Homburg, each own
at least 5 percent of Rhoen-Klinikum, based in Bad Neustadt an
der Saale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Muench and
his family own the biggest stake at 12.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  