-- Baidu’s IQiyi to Sell TCL Smart TVs to Compete With Alibaba
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-03T20:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/baidu-s-iqiyi-to-sell-tcl-smart-tvs-to-compete-with-alibaba.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the owner of China’s
most-popular Internet search engine, will start selling smart
TVs with  TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings Ltd. (1070)  to compete with
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. in the growing online video business.  Baidu and TCL’s 48-inch TV will go on sale online today at
4,567 yuan ($746), the companies said in a joint statement ahead
of a news conference in Beijing yesterday. A second model priced
at 2,999 yuan will go on sale in November. The devices will be
sold through 360Buy Jingdong Inc.’s e-commerce platform offering
content from Baidu unit IQiyi.com, they said.  The search-engine operator is expanding its online video
business to boost its share of a market that consultant
IResearch estimates may generate 16.2 billion  yuan  in revenue
next year. The Beijing-based company is competing for users with
Alibaba, China’s largest e-commerce company, which said in July
it had designed a smart TV operating system and set-top box.  “IQiyi can provide the content, TCL has the manufacture
know-how, Jingdong can provide e-commerce services on the TV,”
Eric Qiu, an analyst at Guosen Securities Co. in  Hong Kong , said
by phone. “It’s another access point for Baidu to win more
users as companies like Alibaba are also developing their own
smart TVs.”  Nasdaq-listed Baidu bought Internet video business PPStream
Inc. in June for $370 million and has been combining it with
IQiyi.com, which it acquired last year, to create  China ’s
largest online video platform.  Navigate Shift  Robin Li, chairman and chief executive officer of Baidu,
said in April that the company preferred to expand through
acquisitions as it tries to navigate a shift from desktops to
mobile. More than 464 million people in China accessed the
Internet from mobile devices by the end of June, according to
the China Internet Network Information Center website. That’s
more than the population of any other country except  India .  The company last month agreed to buy a 59 percent stake in
e-commerce website operator Nuomi Holdings Inc. for about $160
million. In July, Baidu said it would spend about $1.85 billion
to buy 91 Wireless Websoft Ltd., its largest announced
 acquisition .  Baidu rose 0.5 percent to close at $136.17 in U.S. trading
yesterday. The stock has climbed 36 percent this year, compared
with a 20 percent increase in the  Nasdaq Composite Index. (CCMP)   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  