-- Bank Leverage Is the Defining Debate of Our Time
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-09-03T17:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/bank-leverage-is-the-defining-debate-of-our-time.html
Every age has great debates on its
defining questions. Sometimes these disputes are on a grand
scale: capitalism versus communism. Sometimes they concern
details that puzzle later generations: Summarize the main points
of contention in the  Thirty Years’ War , without consulting
Google.  The defining conflict of our time is over what might seem
to be a relatively arcane and technical detail: leverage,
meaning the extent to which financial institutions should be
allowed to borrow relative to their total balance sheets. The
question won’t be decided on the battlefield, in the courts or
by the public. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System will make the call.  There are plenty of other important debates taking place
around the world, but these questions are largely settled, and
many of the issues are more rhetorical than real. Sure,  China 
runs a mixed economy, but it combines plenty of state meddling
with a vibrant private sector.  France  imposes higher taxes on
rich people, but have you seen how well those elite live? And
the top 1 percent is doing well everywhere, from Russian
oligarchs to Silicon Valley moguls. Convergence in economic
models is the order of the day.  Except when it comes to the question of how much bank
leverage is too much. On this issue, there are two equally
determined -- and irreconcilable -- camps. The stakes are high;
excessive leverage could bring down the world economy again. And
the next financial collapse could be even worse than what we
experienced in the fall of 2008 and the prolonged  recession  that
followed.  Taking Risks  What separates the two sides is a well-defined bone of
contention: the extent to which banking regulators should rely
on a simple leverage ratio -- that is, the size of banking
assets relative to loss-absorbing equity capital, with due (or
perhaps any) consideration of so-called risk-weighted assets.  In one corner, we have the world’s banking elite, whose
latest champion is Peter Sands, the chief executive officer of
Standard Chartered Plc. “I guarantee that a regulatory
framework that uses the leverage ratio as a primary measure will
make banks and the banking system more prone to crisis,” he
wrote recently in  the Financial Times .  Because Sands calls the shots at a bank that is big enough
to cause a global panic were it to get into trouble, we should
take him seriously on this point. Perhaps we should even regard
his words as signaling a willingness to take the kind of risks
that threaten to bring down the financial system -- and would
force the U.K. government, and perhaps others, to step in with
rescue packages.  It isn’t by chance that some version of Sands’ words can be
heard from almost every executive at a “too big to fail”
global bank: They want to be able to take more risks precisely
because they can draw on implicit or explicit government
guarantees. When these companies increase their loss-absorbing
equity to reduce their leverage, as Deutsche Bank AG and
Barclays Plc are now being pressured to do, executives scream
about how this will hurt the real (read: nonfinancial) economy.
Never mind the evidence that banks with “higher and better-quality” capital were better able to keep lending during the
2007-2009 crisis (see “ Balance Sheet Strength and Bank Lending
During the Global Financial Crisis ,” a recent International
Monetary Fund working paper by Tumer Kapan and Camelia Minoiu).  Arrayed against the world’s big banks are some of the
sharpest financial intellects, including Tom Hoenig, vice
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and author of
“ Basel III Capital: A Well-Intended Illusion ,” which explains
why the risk weights preferred by Sands are a dangerous fantasy.  “All of the Basel capital accords, including the proposed
Basel III, look backward and then attempt to assign risk weights
into the future,” Hoenig writes. “It doesn’t work.”  By contrast, he says, a properly defined leverage ratio
“provides a simpler, more direct insight into the amount of
loss-absorbing capital that is available to a firm.”  Pushing Back  The risk weights on assets are always wrong. You only need
to think back to mortgage-backed securities and euro-area
sovereign debt, or look ahead to the approaching train wreck for
some  emerging markets . Letting banks calculate their own risk
weights or develop their own methodologies makes no sense --
conflicts of interest predominate when you are too big to fail.
But asking rating companies or government officials to come up
with meaningful risk weights also is doomed to fail. They lack
the information, motivation and compensation incentives to do
this right.  By contrast with earlier eras, ours is a technocratic age:
Our debate concerns bank capital and the extent to which
financial-sector executives who run megabanks should be allowed
to gamble, even when they get the upside and the downside is
someone else’s problem, with this asymmetry exacerbated by
leverage.  The right historical analogy is the U.S. debate over
antitrust laws at the beginning of the 20th century. Many people
deserve credit for pushing this issue to the fore, notably
President Theodore Roosevelt, who brought a case against J.P.
Morgan’s Northern Securities Co. The matter was ultimately
decided in the government’s favor by the U.S. Supreme Court, in
a  5-to-4 decision  in 1904. That ruling spawned further cases,
legislation and, eventually, a big shift in public opinion.  Had the monopolists won, instead of enjoying a vibrant
competitive economy and a century of unprecedented growth that
made the U.S. the world’s greatest power, we would have ended up
much like other countries where a few businessmen are too
powerful: a bigger and more northerly banana republic.  Recently, the Fed’s Board of Governors agreed -- under some
pressure from the FDIC, among others -- to consider putting more
emphasis  on leverage ratios . Sands and his colleagues are
pushing back -- just as Morgan pushed back against Roosevelt.  Will the Fed stand with Hoenig and many others to defend
the public interest? Or will the central bank do what four
members of the Supreme Court wanted to do in 1904 and side with
the very powerful?  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the MIT Sloan School of
Management as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is co-author of “ White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You .”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 