-- Barclays, Foley & Lardner, Troutman, Dickinson: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-09-03T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/barclays-foley-lardner-troutman-dickinson-business-of-law.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, said it hired Bob Hoyt as group general
counsel from  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)   Hoyt will start in mid-October, replacing Mark Harding,
London-based Barclays said Aug. 30 in a statement. Before
joining the second-largest U.S. regional bank as general counsel
in 2009, Hoyt, 48, worked at the  U.S. Treasury .  Harding quit in February with Finance Director Chris Lucas,
who is under investigation by regulators about whether the bank
adequately disclosed fees it agreed to pay to the Qatar
Investment Authority when it sought to raise money from
investors including the sovereign-wealth fund. Lucas was
replaced by Tushar Morzaria last month.  “Banking is a highly regulated industry, the legal matters
we face are myriad and complex, and it was important that we
recruited a strong leader to succeed Mark,” Barclays Chief
Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said in the statement.  The chief executive said Hoyt completes his executive team.
He also hired Shaygan Kheradpir as chief operations and
technology officer, responsible for helping the lender automate
more systems to cut costs, and former Financial Services
Authority CEO Hector Sants as head of compliance and government
and regulatory relations.  Twitter’s General Counsel Announces Departure Via Tweet and Blog  Alexander Macgillivray, the general counsel of Twitter
Inc., is leaving the company. He announced his departure on
Friday, saying in his Twitter account that he is “Passing the
torch. I care deeply about Twitter and our users, will continue
to help while exploring other passions.”  Succeeding him is Vijaya Gadde, who, according to
Macgillivray’s blog, has been “managing Twitter’s corporate and
international legal work.” According to her LinkedIn profile,
Gadde has been with Twitter for two years.  Law Firm News  Foley & Lardner Hires Beth Boland in Boston Office  Beth Boland  has joined the business litigation and dispute
resolution practice of Foley & Lardner LLP in the Boston office.  Boland focuses her practice on complex business litigation
and government investigations in such areas as securities,
 insider trading , consumer and shareholder class actions and
privacy, the firm said in a statement. She represents clients in
industries that include high technology, financial services,
manufacturing and retail. Boland also advises corporate boards
regarding whistle-blower claims, corporate governance and
disputes involving  executive compensation  and strategic business
transactions.  “We are thrilled to add a lawyer of Beth’s caliber to our
multifaceted team of business litigation attorneys,”  Michael
Tuteur , chairman of Foley’s litigation department and business
litigation & dispute resolution practice, said in a statement.  Boland had been a partner in the Boston office of Bingham
McCutchen LLP.  Environmental Lawyer Joins Troutman Sanders in Richmond  Brooks Smith, an environmental and administrative lawyer,
has joined the environmental and natural resources practice of
Troutman Sanders LLP. Smith, who previously was co-chairman of
the environmental practice at Hunton & Williams LLP, will be
based in Troutman’s Richmond, Virginia, office.  Smith will focus on environmental markets, sustainability,
coal, energy, water, and compliance.  “Brooks’s deep environmental experience and top-flight
reputation will further enhance our national capabilities,”
Randy Brogdon, a partner in Troutman Sanders’s environmental and
natural resources practice, said in a statement. “Brooks will
play an important leadership role in the continued growth of our
environmental practice.”  Smith’s practice focuses on the  Clean Water Act  and other
areas of environmental law. Smith has helped clients develop and
implement compliance assurance programs and defend against
agency enforcement actions and citizen lawsuits. He has a client
base that includes electric utilities, coal companies,
manufacturers, water and wastewater authorities, local
governments, developers and agribusinesses.  Smith wrote three books on Richmond history, contributed
commentary to public radio for six years and served on a number
of local non-profit boards and foundations.  First Nations Lawyer Joins Dickinson Wright in Toronto  Cherie Brant joined the Toronto office of Dickinson Wright
LLP.  A member of the Mohawks of the Bay of Quinte and with
family from Wikwemikong First Nation on Manitoulin Island, Brant
advises both First Nations and industry in the areas of
commercial development, real estate and Aboriginal law. Brant
provides strategic counsel to proponents in the natural
resources and energy development sector seeking to develop
projects with First Nations and to understand and address
Aboriginal rights and interests.  In 2012, she completed the first 100 percent First Nation-owned wind power project in Ontario and is active in providing
on-going advocacy to promote renewable energy development
proponents across many jurisdictions, the firm said in a
statement.  Brant is a member of the Law Society of Upper  Canada , the
Ontario Bar Association and the Canadian Council of Aboriginal
Business. She is also an advisory member of the Collaborative
Circle on Land and People and a board member of the Nature
Conservancy of Canada, Ontario Region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in  New York 
at   erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 