-- Beijing to Issue Fewer Car Licenses From Next Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-03T17:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/beijing-to-issue-fewer-car-licenses-from-next-year.html
Beijing will reduce the number of
car license plates it issues starting next year to help ease
pollution and traffic congestion, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported.  The city will disclose details of the new limit, currently
capped at 240,000 a year, in November, Xinhua said yesterday,
citing the Beijing Municipal Commission of Transport. The city
government said on Sept. 2 it won’t allow the car population to
exceed 6 million vehicles by the end of 2017. Beijing had 5.2
million vehicles at the end of 2012, according to the Beijing
Traffic Management Bureau.  China, the world’s biggest carbon emitter, is home to seven
of the world’s 10 most polluted cities, according to a 2012
report by the  Asian Development Bank .  Air quality  in Beijing
reached hazardous levels for 20 days in January, according to
U.S. Embassy readings, sparking public calls for government
action.  “The pollution in the capital is heavy,” said Lin Huaibin, a Shanghai-based analyst with researcher IHS
Automotive. “The government is pretty serious about dealing
with it nowadays.”  Separately, Xinhua reported yesterday that Chinese Vice
Premier Zhang Gaoli said Beijing needs to urgently improve air
quality, control its number of vehicles and increase the number
of what’s known in China as new-energy vehicles -- electric cars
and hybrids -- to curb pollution.  Beijing introduced a license-plate lottery in January 2011,
with a monthly quota of 20,000 new vehicle licenses. Non-transferable license plates are issued through a lottery system.  Three other cities, including Shanghai and Guangzhou, have
vehicle ownership restrictions. Another eight cities, such as
Wuhan and Tianjin, are also considering imposing restrictions,
the state-backed  China  Association of Automobile Manufacturers
said in July.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  