-- BofA Rises as Lender Seeks $1.5 Billion in CCB Stake Sale
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-04T08:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/bofa-seeks-1-5-billion-from-china-construction-bank-stake-sale.html
Bank of America Corp.  expects to end
an eight-year investment in  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  by
posting a $750 million pretax gain from the sale of its
remaining stake in the Chinese lender.  Bank of America agreed to sell its 2 billion Construction
Bank shares, equal to 1 percent of the Chinese company’s stock,
according to a statement yesterday from the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender. The profit from selling the shares in the
open market will be included in third-quarter results and could
be reduced by accounting adjustments, Bank of America said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Citigroup
Inc. have sold their shares in Chinese financial institutions as
new international rules make it more expensive to hold minority
stakes in lenders. Bank of America previously reaped at least
$15 billion in sales proceeds and dividends, according to
Bloomberg calculations from regulatory  filings .  “They’re still trying to right the ship, and I think the
management team has done a great job given the ship that they’ve
got,” said  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets who
has a hold rating on the shares. “By righting the ship, you’re
giving up opportunities, but it’s more important to get a lot of
this stuff behind them.”  Shares of Beijing-based CCB, the second-largest Chinese
lender by market value, closed 1.4 percent lower at HK$5.85 in
Hong Kong, the biggest drop in a week.  Bank of America sold the stock for HK$5.70 in an open
market transaction that raised $1.47 billion, according to a
term sheet obtained by  Bloomberg News . The transaction was
expected to settle in two days,  Jerry Dubrowski , a company
spokesman, said in an interview.  Accord Continues  “We’ve been progressively selling the shares down and
these were the  last of the shares  that were still restricted,”
Dubrowski said.  The projected gain could be cut by negative fair value
option adjustments and debit valuation adjustments “if the
company’s credit spreads, which have improved significantly
during the third quarter of 2013, remain at current levels,”
Bank of America said.  The two banks will continue their strategic assistance
agreement, in which the second-biggest U.S. lender helps CCB
with tasks including customer service and sales models. Bank of
America, led by Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , said
it gets  brand recognition  in  China  and international experience
for its staff.  Four Sales  About 3,100 Bank of America employees and 5,000 CCB
employees have participated in exchanges since 2005, according
to the statement. The accord lasts until 2016.  The lender sold Construction Bank shares four times before
the latest transaction. It paid $3 billion for a 9.9 percent
stake in Construction Bank before its initial public offering in
2005, and later exercised an option to buy another 11 percent
for about $9.2 billion.  Not including Bank of America’s CCB sale, foreign
institutions have raised at least $14 billion from divesting
shares in Chinese financial firms since the start of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New rules set by the  Basel Committee  on Banking Supervision
require capital deductions for holding minority investments in
other financial institutions. U.S. regulators are also pushing
for bigger cushions against potential losses, proposing in July
that lenders’ leverage ratios, or capital as a percentage of
total assets, be pegged at 5 percent for holding companies, 2
percentage points more than the international minimum.  Chinese Investments  “Bank of America indicated that they have to sell the CCB
stake to replenish capital as U.S. regulators imposed more
stringent capital rules,” the Chinese lender said in a
statement today. Bank of America said in July its  leverage ratio 
was between 4.9 percent and 5 percent.  Goldman Sachs sold its remaining stake in  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  in May for $1.1 billion, capping a
$2.58 billion, seven-year investment in the nation’s largest
lender by garnering about $12 billion in sales proceeds and
dividends. Citigroup sold its stake in Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank in March 2012, nine years after buying it, for
an after-tax gain of $349 million. In February, HSBC completed a
$9.4 billion sale of shares in Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.  Global financial firms including Temasek Holdings Pte,
 Singapore ’s state-owned investment company, invested $33 billion
in Chinese lenders from 2001 to 2009, according to the country’s
banking regulator. They still own at least $30 billion of shares
in local banks, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Largest Shareholder  Temasek, which isn’t subject to the same  capital
requirements  as European and U.S. firms, held 7.15 percent of
Construction Bank’s outstanding shares as of March 31 after
buying 3.77 billion shares from Bank of America on Nov. 11,
2011.  The Singaporean institution has accumulated about $20
billion of holdings in Construction Bank,  Industrial &
Commercial Bank (1398)  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  over the past two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s government is the largest shareholder in the
nation’s four biggest banks, owning an average 68.8 percent of
their stock at the end of March, according to the lenders’
earnings statements. Some 57.22 percent of Construction Bank’s
shares were state-owned, according to its first-quarter profit
statement released April 26.  Chinese bank profits may decline in the next three years as
a government crackdown on industrial overcapacity curbs lending
and sours loans, Josh Klaczek, an analyst at  JPMorgan Securities 
(Asia Pacific) Ltd., said on July 31.  Higher Profit  Slumping stock prices have pushed valuations of
Construction Bank and its closest rivals close to record lows.
Construction Bank, which lost 4.7 percent this year in  Hong Kong 
before Bank of America’s announcement, was valued at about 5.6
times estimated 2013 earnings, down from 14 times in November
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The lender had a 9.7 percent increase in second-quarter net
income, based on figures announced Aug. 25, the slowest growth
in five quarters as bad-loan charges rose amid the nation’s
economic slowdown.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  