-- Bruce Willis Faces Skeptics Amid Trust Bank Bond: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-09-03T10:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/bruce-willis-faces-skeptics-amid-trust-bank-bond-russia-credit.html
Trust Bank, the Russian lender whose
products are advertised by actor  Bruce Willis , faces investor
skepticism in its bid to sell perpetual bonds to replenish
capital.  The lender, once part of jailed oil tycoon  Mikhail Khodorkovsky ’s business empire, is in talks with the central
bank about selling the bonds in rubles this year, Fedor
Pospelov, chairman of Trust’s management board, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. State-backed VTB Group sold $1
billion of perpetual bonds in July last year at 9.5 percent,
which will probably be at the low end of the sale by Trust,
Pospelov said.  “These bonds are very risky,” Alexander Losev, chief
executive officer of Sputnik Asset Management in Moscow, wrote
in e-mailed comments yesterday. “There would need to be a huge
premium to VTB.”  Trust Bank is joining Russian lenders including VTB, OAO
Sberbank and ZAO Russian Standard Bank offering bonds that
bolster their capital positions before so-called Basel III rules
aimed at reducing bank risk take effect at the start of next
year. VTB’s yield was 107 basis points below similar bonds from
 Banco do Brazil SA  on Aug. 30, the biggest discount since the
debt was sold, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Moody’s Investors Service  withdrew  Trust’s Caa1 rating, the
fifth-lowest non-investment grade ranking, at the lender’s
request in 2011.  Moonlighting, Armageddon  The yield on the perpetual bonds from VTB, which is rated
Baa2 by Moody’s, fell 100 basis points since their sale to 8.51
percent by 2:13 p.m. in Moscow today. The rate on January 2024
subordinated bonds sold by billionaire Roustam Tariko’s Russian
Standard fell 17 basis points since their sale in July to 11.19
percent today.  Trust has used the Die Hard, Armageddon and Moonlighting
star to front its advertising in Russia since 2010 and says his
image lured 11 billion rubles ($330 million) more than planned
in deposits in the month after the campaign began. Willis
replaced Russian weightlifter and actor Vladimir Turchinsky, who
died in 2009.  “We understand that Trust is not VTB, and must provide a
premium compared to a  state bank ,” Pospelov said. “Just how
big this premium should be is up for discussion. We have a
pretty good understanding of the limits, from 9.5 percent rising
up to a maximum of 11 percent.”  Perpetual bonds pay more than securities with set
maturities because issuers must compensate investors for the
risk of holding notes that may never be redeemed.  Premium Need  “There is a market for this debt, but it’s not that broad
or tradeable yet,” Neil Withers, the head of  investor relations 
at OAO Promsvyazbank, said by phone. Promsvyazbank sold $120
million of perpetual bonds in pounds, euros and dollars through
a private placement in January at a coupon of 9.5 percent,
Withers said. The lender is ranked Ba2 at Moody’s, its second-highest non-investment grade.  Russia  is rated one level higher than VTB at Baa1 at
Moody’s, the third-lowest investment grade. The yield on its
dollar bond maturing in March 2030 rose three basis points to
4.47 percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points to 238,
according to JPMorgan indexes.  Trust Bank may need to pay more than the 11.5 percent rate
on Russian Standard’s subordinated bonds, according to Mikhail Nikitin, a credit analyst at VTB Capital, said yesterday by
phone.  “I am concerned that there is no demand for these
instruments,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  