-- McAdam Combines Collaboration With Cash to Woo Vodafone
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-09-03T20:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/mcadam-combines-collaboration-with-cash-to-woo-vodafone.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  set the
stage for the $130 billion buyout of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s stake
in their U.S. venture two years ago, when it named a new chief
executive officer: Lowell McAdam, a 20-year veteran of the
wireless industry with long-standing ties to  Europe .  Executives at Verizon had been haggling to seal the deal
for a decade, rebuffed by Vodafone counterparts who balked at
parting with their share of the most profitable U.S. wireless
carrier. Vodafone’s top brass also clashed with Verizon’s then-CEO,  Ivan Seidenberg , a former cable splicer from the Bronx
whose brusque manner failed to win over the Europeans.  Enter McAdam, a soft-spoken Ivy League-educated engineer
who had worked with Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao since the 1990s.
From the start, McAdam vowed to make expanding the wireless
business his top priority. He adopted a more collaborative
relationship with suppliers, such as mobile-phone makers. His
demeanor, familiarity with Vodafone executives and willingness
to pony up cash reinvigorated the talks.  “This deal was a nonstarter until McAdam came on board,”
said Kevin Smithen, an analyst with Macquarie Securities USA
Inc. in New York. “You have to give McAdam credit for building
a strong relationship with Vodafone and earning their trust.”  The negotiations culminated with yesterday’s announcement
that New York-based Verizon will acquire Vodafone’s 45 percent
stake in  Verizon Wireless , giving the 14-year-old business an
implied market value of about $290 billion -- more than Google
Inc., the world’s largest Web-search provider.  Largest Provider  “We felt we had many of the assets -- wireline and
enterprise assets -- to do some exciting things here in the
U.S.,” McAdam, 59, said in an interview. “That’s where the
return was best for us.”  Forged in 1999 by combining Vodafone’s wireless properties
with businesses owned by Verizon’s precursor companies, Verizon
Wireless grew into the largest U.S. mobile-service provider
under McAdam and Seidenberg. McAdam served as CEO of the
partnership before becoming president of the parent company in
2010 and CEO the following year.  With full ownership under his belt, McAdam will probably
use the bigger share of  profit  generated by Verizon Wireless to
bolster the company’s network. He faces accelerating competition
in the U.S., notably with Sprint Corp. investing more after a
$21.6 billion takeover by Japan’s SoftBank Corp.  Vodafone shares declined 5 percent to close at 202.50 pence
in  London . In New York,  Verizon’s stock  fell 2.9 percent to
$46.01 at the close.  Restoration Experience  McAdam grew up north of Buffalo, New York, where his father
sold farm machinery and his mother was a teacher. “Growing up
in a small town in upstate New York was a great place to
start,” he said yesterday.  It was there that he developed a fondness for welding and
machining tools, according to a 2009 interview he did with the
University of  San Diego , where he earned a master’s degree in
business administration. McAdam also restores 1970s-era muscle
cars, according to the university’s video.  McAdam’s biggest project now will be to transform Verizon
into a provider of a broad range of telecommunications, from Wi-Fi to cloud computing, while lessening its dependence on a
shrinking landline phone business.  A former naval engineer and veteran of the mobile-phone
industry, McAdam took over as Verizon’s CEO in August 2011. He
vowed to turn the company into less of a utility -- “a
networking company one step away from just a pipe” -- and more
of a wireless-services provider.  Establishing Trust  Even before the Verizon Wireless deal, McAdam had already
begun acquiring wireless assets, spending $5 billion to make the
network more robust. The biggest came last year, when he bought
airwaves for $3.6 billion from Comcast Corp., Time Warner Cable
Inc. and Bright House Networks.  The transaction was notable for another reason: It
demonstrated McAdam’s ability to work with enemies. In this
case, he faced the cable companies that are vying with the
telephone industry for phone, TV and Internet subscribers.  “This was underappreciated,” said Smithen, the Macquarie
analyst, who has a neutral rating on the shares. “They did a
deal with the devil, the cable companies, and they got good
spectrum at a very good cost. It was a real coup.”  McAdam has also eased Verizon into a more collaborative
relationship with suppliers such as phonemakers -- a big step
for a company that often insisted devices carry only its logo.  After watching rival  AT&T Inc. (T)  tap a groundswell of demand
for smartphones through an exclusive deal to sell  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone, McAdam sought out a partnership with Google, another
company with which Seidenberg had differences.  Google Phones  In 2009, McAdam took a trip to Google’s headquarters in
Mountain View,  California , to work with then-CEO  Eric Schmidt  on
plans for smartphones that would use the search company’s mobile
Android platform.  “I give him a lot of credit for the success they’ve had
with Google,” said  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst with  Wells
Fargo & Co . in  Chicago  who rates the shares as outperform. “It
got the Android phones going at a time when AT&T had the iPhone
exclusively.”  McAdam received a bachelor’s degree in engineering at
 Cornell University  before his graduate work at the University of
San Diego. In between, he served in the U.S. Navy.  “You don’t survive six years with the Navy Seabees as a
wall flower,” McAdam said yesterday, referring to the service’s
construction battalion.  Persuasive Demeanor  The Navy gave him a taste of life abroad, and McAdam
extended his overseas focus after beginning his career in the
wireless industry. He worked in the 1990s at Vodafone AirTouch,
a unit of Newbury, England-based Vodafone. It was while
developing startups in countries such as  Italy  that he first
worked with Colao. AirTouch joined with Bell Atlantic Mobile
Inc. and GTE Corp. to form Verizon Wireless.  Jan Neels, a former president of AirTouch International,
said he remembers McAdam as being “down to earth,” task-focused and persuasive as the company worked on creating
partnerships in Germany, Spain and Italy.  Getting Vodafone on board with the sale of its Verizon
Wireless stake wasn’t easy.  As CEO, Seidenberg consistently said he wanted to acquire
Vodafone’s stake in the business, at the right price. Yet he
differed with Vodafone’s CEO at the time,  Arun Sarin , a person
close to the companies said last week. Sarin retired in 2008,
and relations improved when his successor, Colao, began
interacting with McAdam, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions were private.  ‘Very Smart’  Attempts to reach Seidenberg, an advisory partner at
Perella Weinberg Partners LP, through e-mail and company
representatives didn’t result in an immediate reply.  Bob
Varettoni , a Verizon spokesman, said the deal’s timing had more
to do with the  capital markets  than the CEOs’ personalities.  As for McAdam, Neels said he is “very smart in how he
deals with people.”  He “worked in an environment --especially
in the joint ventures where we didn’t have the majority -- where
we had to convince the partners to do it our way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  