-- Cameron’s Lobbying Bill Faces Criticism From Tory Lawmakers
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-03T16:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/cameron-s-lobbying-bill-faces-criticism-from-tory-lawmakers.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
attempt to introduce a register of lobbyists was attacked as
inadequate by lawmakers from his own  Conservative Party , and as
a restriction on free speech from his Labour Party opponents.  Cameron pledged the Transparency of Lobbying, Non-Party
Campaigning, and Trade Union Administration Bill in June after a
series of news reports alleged lawmakers were offering
parliamentary services in return for cash. It tied the
compulsory registration of some lobbyists to restrictions on the
political activities of labor unions.  The bill sets a 390,000-pound ($606,000) cap on the amount
any organization that isn’t a political party can spend during
an election. This would restrict labor-union campaigns in
support of Labour. Charities have questioned whether it would
catch them too. Meanwhile, it doesn’t cover in-house lobbyists.  “Lobbying scandals have mostly involved the power nexus
between Whitehall and big corporations,” Tory lawmaker
Douglas Carswell wrote on his Twitter feed. “The bill does
nothing about it, does restrict the freedom of local campaign
groups to engage in elections.”  Conservative Andrew Lansley, leader of the House of
Commons, defended the bill as lawmakers began debating the
proposals in the House of Commons. “We are very clear that we
are in no sense seeking to change the boundary between
campaigning on policies and issues which charities do and third
parties do to a substantial extent,” he said.  For Labour,  Angela Eagle  told the chamber it was “one of
the worst pieces of legislation I’ve seen any government produce
in a very long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  