-- Canadian Currency Gains as Syria Tensions Spur Demand for Oil
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-09-03T21:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/canadian-currency-gains-as-syria-tensions-spur-demand-for-oil.html
Canada ’s dollar rose versus most
major peers on bets demand for oil will be buoyed by heightened
tensions in the Middle East as U.S. President  Barack Obama  seeks
support in Congress for a military strike on Syria.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, gained as
much as 1.2 percent on concern an attack on Syria will disrupt
shipments from the Middle East. Bank of Canada policy makers
will leave the benchmark overnight rate at 1 percent tomorrow,
according to trading in overnight index swaps, which also show
investors are pricing in 10 basis points of tightening for the
bank’s June 2014 meeting, down from 16 points a month ago.  “The situation in  Syria  is going to take a lot longer than
people thought, so commodity prices are likely to stay elevated
a lot longer than people thought,” Greg Anderson, the head of
global foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of Montreal in New
York, said by phone. “Commodity currencies have become a lot
more attractive.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of a waterfowl on the C$1 coin, gained 0.1 percent to
C$1.0535 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after dropping
0.4 percent last week, its third straight weekly decline. One
loonie buys 94.92 U.S. cents.  Bonds Fall  Canada’s 10-year government bonds fell, pushing  yields  up
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.68 percent.
Yields touched 2.72 percent, the highest level since Aug. 23.
The price of the benchmark 1.5 percent debt due in June 2023
lost 52 cents to C$89.97.  Crude-oil futures traded at $108.47 a barrel in New York,
up 0.8 percent. Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
increased 0.7 percent.  Data showing a manufacturing rebound in  China , the world’s
biggest consumer of raw materials, also underpinned rising
commodity prices. An official purchasing managers’ index jumped
more than estimated to a 16-month high of 51.0, a government
report showed Sept. 1 in Beijing. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  Commodity-exporting nations have dropped this year in a
basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The loonie has fallen 1.1
percent, New Zealand’s dollar has dropped 1.1 percent and the
Australian currency has tumbled 9.3 percent.  Global Growth  “Commodity-centric currencies are benefitting from data
showing stabilizing and rebounding global growth,” said Adrian Miller, director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities
LLC in New York. “That and the delayed strikes on Syria are
responsible for risk-on sentiment today.”  Obama, in a surprise announcement Aug. 31, said he would
seek congressional authorization to strike at Syrian President
Bashar Al-Assad’s chemical-weapons capability in retaliation for
its alleged use last month against the country’s own people.  House Speaker John Boehner told reporters today he will
back the president’s call for action against Syria.  Bets by futures traders the Canadian dollar will weaken
versus its U.S. peer  outnumbered  those it will gain by the most
in 10 weeks, data from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show last week. The difference in the number
of wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on a
decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a gain --
so-called net shorts -- was 24,959 in the week ended Aug. 27,
the most since June 21.  Fed Stimulus  The Federal Reserve will trim its quantitative-easing
program of $85 billion in monthly bond purchases at its policy
meeting this month, according to 65 percent of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey in August. Fed policy makers meet Sept.
17-18 in Washington.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said he’ll mine economic data for
evidence of a sustained recovery before deciding when to begin
scaling back the stimulus program. The purchases, designed to
put downward pressure on borrowing costs, tend to devalue the
greenback.  The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing index
increased to 55.7 in August from 55.4 a month earlier, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The median forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a reading of 54.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate from April through June, up from previous
reading of 1.7 percent, Commerce Department figures showed Aug.
29 in  Washington .  Canada’s gross domestic product expanded 1.7 percent from
April through June, slowing from a 2.2 percent pace from January
through March, Statistics Canada reported Aug. 30 in Ottawa. A
Bloomberg survey projected growth of 1.6 percent.  The second quarter ended with a 0.5 percent decline in June
that was the most in a month since March 2009, during the last
recession, the data showed. Economists forecast a 0.4 percent
monthly contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  