-- China Africa Sunlight to Invest $2.1 Billion in Zimbabwe Power
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-09-03T10:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/china-africa-sunlight-to-invest-2-1-billion-in-zimbabwe-power.html
China Africa Sunlight Energy Ltd.
said it plans to invest as much as $2.1 billion developing coal
mines and building a 2,100-megawatt plant powered by the fuel in
 Zimbabwe  to help ease electricity shortages.  The company, a venture between Old Stone Investments Ltd.
of Zimbabwe and Shandong Taishan Sunlight, will start with
capacity to produce 300 megawatts by mid-2015 and raise this to
600 megawatts by the end of that year, General Manager Charles
Mugari said. The company has spent $20 million on exploration,
and was granted rights to look for coal and coal-bed methane in
the area in October 2012.  “For our project to be fully operational, we are looking
at five years,” he said in an Aug. 29 interview in Gwayi, 703
kilometers (437 miles) southwest of Harare, the capital. “For
the coal mining, we are looking at the end of next year. For
power generation and coal mining we are planning to sink a
billion dollars.” The company also wants to mine coking coal,
which is used in steelmaking.  The southern African nation, which has the world’s biggest
known reserves of platinum after neighboring  South Africa , has
capacity to produce 1,500 megawatts against peak demand of 2,100
megawatts, affecting industrial output, according to the
Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries. The country has coal
resources of 10 billion metric tons to 15 billion tons,
according to government estimates.  China Africa Sunlight Energy is working to sell some of its
electricity to ZESA Ltd., the state-owned power-generation
company, Mugari said.  Resource Study  The coal exploration area, in Gwayi in the western
Matabeleland region, has 4 billion tons of resources and China
Africa Sunlight Energy is conducting studies to measure how much
gas is available, with the results to be known in three months,
he said.  “If they discover gas, the way we think they are going to,
we want to export the gas overseas to  India ” in partnership
with Discovery Investments Ltd., Mugari said.  Depending on the outcome of the gas study, the company
wants to start a program piloting methane gas for domestic gas
in Hwange, also in Matabeleland, and extend this to Bulawayo,
the second-biggest city, if successful, he said. The projects
will create 4,500 jobs, he said.  China Africa Sunlight Energy is looking at the possibility
of pumping gas to the port city of Beira in neighboring
Mozambique, using an idle pipeline that the National Oil Co. of
Zimbabwe once used to bring fuel into the country, Mugari said.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the state-owned power utility in
neighboring South Africa, is spending 105 billion rand ($10
billion) developing the 4,800-megawatt Medupi coal-fired plant,
which has been delayed by labor unrest and faulty welds on
boilers.  Mozambique  has become a prominent destination for energy
investment as it looks to develop the largest natural-gas find
in a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  