-- China Sunergy Presses India to Abandon Dumping Probe
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-09-03T03:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/china-sunergy-presses-india-to-abandon-dumping-probe.html
China Sunergy Co. (CSUN)  and  First Solar
Inc. (FSLR)  of the U.S. urged  India  to end an investigation into solar
equipment dumping, saying the probe is undermined by errors.  India, which has increased solar capacity more than 70-fold
in less than three years, began examining claims last November
that imported photovoltaic cells and modules had been sold below
cost, hurting local manufacturers.  The country has broken disclosure rules by withholding
information that should have been available to all parties in
the investigation, China Sunergy said in testimony filed to the
government following the case’s first hearing and obtained by
 Bloomberg News . India also opened the probe without sufficient
data to justify it legally, according to the company.  The government “clearly acted beyond the scope of its
powers,” China Sunergy said.  Local manufacturers  Indosolar Ltd. (ISLR) , Jupiter Solar Power
Ltd. and  Websol Energy System Ltd. (WESL)  claim manufacturers in the
U.S.,  Europe , China,  Malaysia  and  Japan  dumped solar cells on
the Indian market, deepening a trade dispute among the world’s
biggest economies as they fight to protect their solar companies
amid a global glut of supplies that has dragged down prices.  J.S. Deepak, the commerce ministry official handling the
case, didn’t answer e-mails and phone calls requesting comment.
He also didn’t respond to questions about a public file of
evidence that every case is required to maintain under India’s
anti-dumping rules.  ‘Serious Errors’  The import data provided by the domestic manufacturers to
back their claims contain “serious errors” and, if corrected,
would demonstrate that U.S. imports weren’t sold below cost,
Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar said.  The U.S. company, the biggest maker of thin-film panels,
and China Sunergy confirmed the authenticity of their written
testimonies.  The domestic producers have argued that the import data
provided were the “best available” at the time.  The spat threatens to stymie investment in India’s solar
industry, jeopardizing Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s plan to
turn the nation into a global solar hub and almost triple output
capacity to 5 gigawatts by 2020. Instead, domestic manufacturers
have idled production capacity after failing to win orders.  During the period under investigation -- the 18 months to
June 2012 -- nationwide demand jumped more than sevenfold to 931
megawatts in annualized sales, whereas domestic producers sold
only 9.67 megawatts, according to testimony from Indosolar,
Websol and Jupiter. They allege foreign rivals undercut prices
as much as 20 percent and are demanding retrospective duties.  ‘Paralyzed Sector’  The dispute has “all but paralyzed the sector,” Mercom
Capital Group LLC, an Austin, Texas-based consulting firm, said
Aug. 26. “It’s naive to think that India can impose anti-dumping tariffs and at the same time attract investments from
these same markets.”  India’s biggest photovoltaic developer, Welspun Energy
Ltd., has said forcing projects to buy local equipment would
raise costs and compromise on quality.  “Not a single Indian manufacturer can provide insurance”
for their modules for the 25-year lifetime of projects, Welspun
Energy Managing Director Vineet Mittal said last month. 
That means banks won’t finance projects that use such equipment,
according to Mittal, who said locally made cells don’t convert
sunlight into electricity as well as foreign-made models.  China  Sunergy said in its submission that its cells have
efficiencies of more than 19 percent compared with 16.5 percent
for Indian-made versions.  “The inability of the domestic industry to keep up with
the technological developments of the global industry has
limited its ability to compete with international manufacturers
and is a major cause for injury,” China Sunergy said in its
testimony. India “should terminate this investigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  