-- China State-Assets Head Removed as Graft Inquiry Gains Pace
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2013-09-03T09:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/china-s-sasac-backs-jiang-probe-as-vows-to-support-xi-policies.html
China  removed the head of the agency
that supervises state-owned assets, pushing ahead with a
corruption probe targeting the highest-profile official since
the Communist Party began an anti-graft campaign in November.  Jiang Jiemin , 57, was removed as director of the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission on
suspicion of “serious disciplinary violations,” the official
Xinhua News Agency reported, citing the party’s Organization
Department. Authorities announced Sept. 1 that Jiang was being
probed for the violations, which typically refer to corruption-related allegations.  The removal reflected party leaders’ determination to move
swiftly against Jiang, formerly chairman of China National
Petroleum Corp. The probe comes as China’s anti-corruption
watchdog investigates at least four executives at the country’s
biggest oil producer under the campaign against graft that
President Xi Jinping unveiled last year when he took over the
party.  In a statement dated yesterday and posted on its website,
SASAC’s party committee said it “firmly supports” the probe
into Jiang. “It will continue to promote the reform and
adjustment of central enterprises,” the committee said in the
 statement .  Managers Removed  Last week, CNPC’s Hong Kong traded unit, PetroChina Co.,
said four senior managers had been removed amid an investigation
by authorities. Hong Kong-listed  Wison Engineering Services (2236)  Co.
 said  in a statement yesterday that its controlling shareholder,
Hua Bangsong, was assisting Chinese authorities with their
investigations, without giving specifics.  Wison provides consulting, engineering and construction
services to chemical factories and oil refineries. The company’s
shares fell as much as 18 percent yesterday before being
suspended.  CNPC’s management and workforce are generally good and the
central leadership realizes the oil industry’s achievements and
contributions to the country, Zhang Yi, party secretary of
SASAC, said at at meeting with CNPC Chairman Zhou Jiping.  Zhang said the anti-corruption investigation will cause
short-term volatility and bring healthy development in the long
run, according to a  statement posted  on CNPC’s website today.  Grave Threat  When Xi took over the top spot in the Communist Party last
November, he warned that corruption posed a grave threat to the
party. Since then, state-owned media have praised the
government’s targeting of both “tigers and flies” -- party
cadres across the power spectrum.  Other officials under investigation include Liu Tienan,
former vice chairman of the country’s planning agency, and the
deputy party secretary of Sichuan province, Li Chuncheng. Also
today,  China Central Television  reported on its microblog that
 Zhang Shuguang , former deputy chief engineer at China’s Railways
Ministry, is being prosecuted on charges he took about 47
million  yuan  ($7.7 million) in bribes in 2000-2011.  SASAC oversees trillions of yuan of the state’s stake in
more than 100  companies , including CNPC and China Mobile
Communications Corp., the parent of  China Mobile Ltd. (941)   Those are the type of companies that Xi and Premier  Li Keqiang  need to exert control over to help implement reforms
they seek to adopt at a November party meeting to discuss
economic policy, Beijing-based economic consulting firm GaveKal
Dragonomics wrote in a Sept. 2 report. The probe into Jiang as
well as several CNPC executives indicates Xi is amassing power,
the note said.  “Xi should have the ability to push through a strong
agenda, judging from the scale of the anti-corruption probes he
is overseeing,” the note said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in  Hong Kong  at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  