-- Chinese Police Say Glaxo Practices Come From Unit: Xinhua
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-09-03T10:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/chinese-police-say-glaxo-practices-come-from-unit-xinhua.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s China unit
crafted suspect business practices to meet revenue goals and
then blamed individual sales representatives after police began
an investigation, Xinhua reported, citing the police.  The company’s policies require employees to follow the law
and prohibits cash transfers to doctors or government officials,
China’s official news agency reported today. Glaxo’s China unit
“went through the motions in internal auditing so as not to
discover these violations,” Xinhua said. Simon Steel, Glaxo’s
London-based spokesman, didn’t immediately comment on the report
when reached by telephone.  The U.K.’s biggest drugmaker is being investigated over
allegations it used cash and sexual favors to bribe doctors and
health officials to promote sales of its medicines. A government
crackdown against corruption has extended to other foreign
drugmakers and local hospitals since  China  announced the Glaxo
probe.  The parent company assigned annual growth goals that
exceeded industry averages, Xinhua said, citing Huang Hong.
Huang, a business development manager with Glaxo, was among the
four executives who were detained on suspicion of economic
crimes. Salary was tied to sales volume, according to the
report.  Teams dealing with big customers had almost 10 million  yuan 
($1.65 million) of “public relations funds” to keep close ties
with key staff in major hospitals, Xinhua said.  Glaxo, which made about 1 billion pounds ($1.56 billion) of
revenue in China last year, is reviewing how it operates there,
Abbas Hussain, head of  emerging markets , said in July after
meeting with government officials in Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  