-- Citic Resources Said to Mull Bid for Glencore Copper Project
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-03T09:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/citic-resources-said-to-mull-bid-for-glencore-s-peru-copper-mine.html
Citic Resources Holdings Ltd. (1205) , the
commodities trader controlled by China’s largest state-owned
investment company, may join the bidding for  Glencore Xstrata
Plc (GLEN) ’s copper project in  Peru , said four people with knowledge of
the matter.  The Chinese company would probably bid as part of a group,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private. The Las Bambas mining project could
be worth more than $5 billion, according to one of the people.  Chinese miners including  Chinalco Mining (3668)  Corp.
International and  MMG Ltd. (1208)  are among companies studying offers
for Las Bambas, people with knowledge of the process have said.
Glencore, based in Baar, Switzerland, is selling the mine as
part of an agreement to obtain Chinese regulatory approval for
its $29 billion takeover of Xstrata Plc this year.  Calvin Lam, a Citic Resources investor relations manager,
said the company doesn’t comment on market speculation. A
spokesman for Glencore declined to comment.  Magris Resources Inc., the  investment company  founded by
former  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  Chief Executive Officer Aaron Regent,
is considering a bid for the mine, people familiar with the
matter said Aug. 23.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , China’s largest
producer of the metal, is also interested in Las Bambas, company
secretary Pan Qifang said the same day.  Citic Resources, 59 percent owned by China’s state-owned
Citic Group Corp., is a provider of natural resources including
coal, oil and aluminum, according to its  website . Its shares
rose as much as 5.8 percent in  Hong Kong  today, the biggest gain
in a month, and closed 3.9 percent higher at HK$1.08.  Alumina Deal  Citic Group, through Citic Resources and a unit, in
February paid about A$452 million ($407 million) for a 13
percent stake in Melbourne-based  Alumina Ltd. (AWC) , which produces
the material used to make aluminum. Citic Resources holds 7.8
percent of Alumina.  The Chinese company said Aug. 25 its first-half profit
plunged 54 percent to HK$104.3 million ($13.4 million) from a
restated HK$228.1 million a year earlier, hurt by lower
commodities prices.  About 58 percent of Citic Resources’s 2012 operating income
came from crude oil production, while commodities trading
accounted for 37 percent and aluminum smelting 4.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It had  assets  of $3.5
billion as of June 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Las Bambas mine is scheduled to produce 400,000 metric
tons of copper a year starting in 2015 for at least the first
five years. Xstrata said in January it was building the project
at a cost of $5.2 billion.  Two Scenarios  Glencore, the biggest publicly traded raw-materials
supplier, hopes to close the Las Bambas sale by the year-end,
CEO Ivan Glasenberg said on an Aug. 20 conference call. BMO
Capital Markets and Credit Suisse Group AG are advising Glencore
on the sale. The mine could fetch more than $6 billion, Liberum
Capital Ltd. analyst Ash Lazenby said in a note last month.  The agreement with  China  requires Glencore to pursue the
sale of Las Bambas to a buyer approved by the country’s Commerce
Ministry by Sept. 30 next year. The sale price will be the
higher of two scenarios -- either an evaluation by two
independent investment banks, or the total costs incurred by
Glencore and Xstrata at the project, according to Glencore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  