-- Citigroup Will Sell Private-Equity Unit to Rohatyn Group
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-09-03T19:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/citigroup-joins-with-rohatyn-for-emerging-markets-assets.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender, will sell its  emerging-markets  private-equity unit
to the Rohatyn Group to comply with new curbs on risky bank
investments. Terms weren’t disclosed.  The combined firm, dubbed TRG, will have more than $7
billion in  assets , including about $6 billion in private equity,
according to a statement today from both companies. TRG will
have 18 offices globally and investments will include private
equity, real estate, infrastructure, hedge funds, fixed income
and inflation-linked bonds.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  is among
U.S. bank chiefs grappling with the Volcker rule, which aims to
bar federally backed lenders from making bets with shareholder
cash that might lead to a catastrophic failure. The rule would
keep lenders from investing more than 3 percent of Tier 1
capital in private-equity and hedge funds or owning more than 3
percent of the funds.  “I’ve had an ongoing dialog with Citi and a number of
other banks through the years,” Nicolas Rohatyn, 53, CEO and
chief investment officer at TRG, said in a phone interview. “It
became clear after the financial crisis with the arrival of the
Volcker rule that this was going to put pressure on big banks.”  The Citi Venture Capital International unit, or CVCI,
manages about $4.3 billion, according to the statement. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup,
declined to comment on how much of that sum belongs to the bank.
Other CVCI investors include sovereign wealth funds, wealthy
individuals and family offices, Rohatyn said.  Who Stays  Marc Desaedeleer, CVCI’s chief investment officer, will be
appointed interim CEO and was named to TRG’s executive
committee, the firms said. Most CVCI staff will join the
combined firm, Rohatyn said.  Dipak Rastogi, CVCI’s founder and leader since inception in
2001, won’t stay with the venture, according to an internal memo
from Jamie Forese, Citigroup’s co-president, and James von Moltke, head of corporate mergers and acquisitions. Rastogi had
been with the company for 30 years, according to the memo.  “CVCI has one of the very few teams in the industry that
has created value for its investors while operating exclusively
in the emerging markets,” Forese said in the memo. The deal is
part of efforts to comply with the Volcker rule, according to
the memo.  Rohatyn is the son of Felix Rohatyn, the former head of
Lazard Freres & Co. who was credited with helping to save  New
York  City from bankruptcy during the 1970s. The younger Rohatyn
previously worked with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “We’d observed the trend in the market with a number of
banks shedding these operations,” Rohatyn said. “Citigroup was
certainly active in shedding some of these but so were other
banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  