-- ClickSoftware Sinks as Co-CEO Resigns: Israel Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-09-03T22:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/clicksoftware-sinks-as-co-ceo-resigns-israel-overnight.html
ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. (CKSW) , the
Israeli developer whose largest investor is  George Soros ’s fund,
tumbled in New York as the departure of its co-chief executive
officer raised concern about the company’s outlook.  Shares of the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company sank 1.5
percent, extending this year’s decline to 19 percent. The
Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the most-traded Israeli
stocks in New York was little changed and the shekel dropped the
most in a week on speculation the U.S. is moving closer to
striking Syria.  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR)  widened the discount
to its Tel Aviv shares to the biggest since July 21. The Israeli
stock market is closed today for a holiday.  Hannan Carmeli, who took the job of ClickSoftware’s co-CEO
in June, is leaving the company after more than 17 years,
according to a statement yesterday. Founder Moshe BenBassat will
continue as CEO, as the board determined that having two leaders
at the top of the company was not practical, it said.
ClickSoftware posted the biggest plunge in 15 months on July 8
after its preliminary revenue trailed analysts’ projections.  “It raises the question of what’s going on there,” Nathan Schneiderman, an analyst at Roth Capital Partners LLC, in
 Newport Beach , California, who rates the shares the equivalent
of hold, said by phone yesterday. “That’s an issue. There are a
number of concerns. There is a question if this is an indication
of a conflict over the company’s strategy.”  ClickSoftware signed new contracts in the third quarter,
including two “significant” cloud-based deals with new
customers, BenBassat said yesterday in the statement. The
company announced a plan in January to bolster revenue by
focusing on software applications for smartphones, expanding
into regions including  Latin America  and enhancing its cloud
computing services.  License Revenues  The company reported second quarter  loss  of 9 cents a
share, wider than the mean estimate of two analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Software license revenues for the three-month period
ended June 30 dropped 4 percent to $6.1 million, it said in a
July 24 statement.  ClickSoftware slid to $6.78 yesterday, the lowest level
since Aug. 22.  Israeli stocks fell yesterday as the nation said it carried
out a joint missile-defense test with the U.S. in the
 Mediterranean Sea . U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said he will
support President  Barack Obama ’s call for action on Syria. The
TA-25 Index slid 0.9 percent to 1,179.73, while the Israeli
currency dropped for the first time in five days.  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge rose less than 0.1 percent to
95.09. Partner sank 4.7 percent to $6.91, for the biggest
decline on the measure.  Radware Ltd. (RDWR) , an Israeli software maker,
jumped 3.2 percent to $14.72.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  