-- Co-Op Bondholders Seek Shelter From New Regulations: U.K. Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-09-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/co-op-bondholders-seek-shelter-from-new-regulations-u-k-credit.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc bondholders
say new legislation designed to make holding companies more
responsible for their financial businesses could save them from
being forced to bear the brunt of the lender’s bailout.  Under rules that came into force in April, the  Prudential
Regulatory Authority  can direct a parent company to raise new
capital, reorganize its financial unit and fire executives, said
Mark Taber, a Bristol, England-based organizer of a group of
bondholders who wants the PRA to review the proposed rescue.
That could weaken the threat by Euan Sutherland, chief executive
officer of parent company Co-Operative Group Ltd. to wind up the
lender if bond investors refuse to accept losses, he said.  Co-Op Bank must raise 1.5 billion pounds ($2.3 billion) to
plug a capital hole after losses incurred following its
acquisition of Britannia Building Society in 2009. The lender
plans to raise 500 million pounds by exchanging subordinated
debt for equity and another 500 million pounds from the sale of
senior debt issued by the member-owned parent company, which has
interests from retail to funeral homes. Co-Operative Group plans
to put in another 500 million pounds from the sale of insurance
interests.  “The potential brand damage for putting the bank into
administration would be pretty cataclysmic,” Gary Greenwood, a
banking analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool,  England , said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  Debt Exchange  Co-0p Bank is a public limited company  owned  through Co-Operative Banking Group Ltd., a unit of Co-Operative Group Ltd.
The parent also owns its insurance businesses through the
Banking Group. It sold Co-Operative Insurance Society Ltd., its
asset management and life insurance business, this year and now
owns a general insurer alongside the bank.  The PRA’s powers “are not applicable to the Co-Operative
Group following the completion of the disposal of CIS on July
31,” Manchester-based Co-Op said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday, declining to say why the rules don’t apply.  According to a  policy document  published by the Bank of
England in April, “in general, the PRA would consider action to
be most effective when taken in relation to the ultimate parent
undertaking at the head of the ownership chain, as that is
usually where most of the power to direct and control the group
resides.”  A spokesman for the Bank of England, which is responsible
for the regulation of the U.K. financial system through the PRA,
declined to comment yesterday.  ‘Onerous Requirements’  The regulator’s powers are “very broad,” Steven McEwan, a
partner at Hogan Lovells International LLP in  London , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The practical question would be
whether they will engage with the parent company taking into
account what is realistic, or use the power to impose onerous
requirements that the parent company cannot realistically
achieve.”  Regulators across the world have been grappling since the
2008 financial crisis to make banking more resilient and to take
taxpayers off the hook for rescues. European Union nations alone
provided 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) of support to their
banking systems since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., according to EU data.  “The PRA has the power to force them to put the money
down,” said Taber, who coordinated a bondholder campaign
against individual investors being forced to take losses
following the restructuring of  Bank of Ireland. (BKIR)   Exchange Effect  The Co-Op Bank’s 936 million pounds of senior subordinated
bonds, which can’t be forced to take losses outside of
bankruptcy, yield as much as 16.7 percent as investors gauge the
likely effect of the exchange offer. By comparison, the average
yield on bonds in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro
Subordinated Financial Index is 3.79 percent. The details of the
offer are expected to be made public next month.  Co-Op Bank’s 275 million pounds of 9.25 percent debt due in
April 2021 fell 0.8 pence to 68.56 pence on the pound yesterday,
approaching the 64 pence low reached May 13 after the company
was forced to abandon its attempt to buy 632 branches put on
sale by Lloyds Banking Group Plc. The lender’s 150 million
pounds of 5.875 percent notes maturing in March 2033 were quoted
at 64.42 pence to yield 10.07 percent, according to Bloomberg
prices.  “You need a stick to encourage bondholders to see that
agreeing to take a loss is the best way forward,” Roger Doig, a
credit analyst at  Schroders Plc (SDR) , which manages about $360
billion of assets globally, said in a Sept. 2 telephone
interview. “With junior debt you can switch off coupons, it’s
undated and so on, so you have a stick. With more senior debt,
it’s dated, you have to pay coupons, so you need a realistic
threat,” such as the possibility of winding up the lender, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  