-- Construction Spending in U.S. Climbed in July to Four-Year High
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-09-03T14:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/construction-spending-in-u-s-climbed-in-july-to-four-year-high.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
increased in July to the highest level in four years, propelled
by gains in residential real estate.  Outlays climbed 0.6 percent to a $900.8 billion annual
rate, the most since June 2009, after being little changed in
June, the Commerce Department reported today in  Washington . The
median forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 0.4 percent increase.  Gains in employment, housing and non-residential building
in the second half of the year will probably help strengthen the
economic expansion. Nonetheless, tight land inventories, rising
mortgage rates may temper the pace of the industry’s recovery.  “We’re going to continue to post growth,” Mike Englund,
chief economist at Action Economics LLC in Boulder,  Colorado ,
said before the report. “It’s growing a little faster than the
broader economy, obviously getting help from residential
construction.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a decrease of
0.7 percent to a gain of 0.8 percent. June’s reading was revised
from a previously reported 0.6 percent decline. Figures for May
were also revised up.  Construction spending increased 5.2 percent in the 12
months ending July after adjusting for seasonal variations,
according to the Commerce Department figures.  Private  homebuilding outlays  increased 0.6 percent to the
highest level since September 2008. The gain included a 0.8
percent increase in home improvement from June.  Non-residential building climbed 1.3 percent, reflecting a
jump in factory construction.  Government Projects  Outlays (CNSTTMOM)  on public projects dropped 0.3 percent, the report
said. Federal spending increased 1.1 percent, the biggest gain
since October, while state and local declined 0.4 percent.  Construction helped the world’s largest economy pick up
steam in the second quarter. Gross domestic product increased at
a more-than-expected 2.5 percent annualized rate after a 1.1
percent gain in the first three months of the year, Commerce
Department figures showed earlier this week.  Residential construction increased at a 12.9 percent
annualized rate, the report showed.  Corporate spending grew at a 9.9 percent annualized rate,
exceeding the 9 percent gain previously reported, amid bigger
increases in commercial construction.  Government spending  fell
at a 0.9 percent annualized rate.  Across-the-board cuts in federal government spending has
spurred companies such as  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK)  to ensure their sources
of revenue are diversified. Oshkosh, which designs and
manufactures specialty trucks and other vehicles, reported sales
and earnings that topped the average estimate from analysts
during the third quarter ended June.  Diversifying Revenue  “With the recovery in both residential construction and
the expected follow-on recovery in non-residential construction,
that will allow us to have a greater percentage of revenues that
are outside of government spending,” Patrick Davidson, vice
president of  investor relations , said at a presentation at the
Three Part Advisors LLC Midwest IDEAS conference on Aug. 27.
While progress in housing starts has been uneven, the
improvement over the past year “is a very positive sign, not
only for our telehandler business but also for our concrete
mixer business,” he said.  Work began on 2.2 percent fewer single-family homes in
July, taking them to a 591,000 annualized rate, the least since
November, according to Commerce Department data. Total housing
starts climbed to an 896,000 pace, propelled by a rebound in the
multifamily category, which can be volatile.  Purchases of new U.S. homes plunged 13.4 percent in July,
the most in more than three years. A jump in borrowing costs
over the past four months may be prompting buyers to hold back.
The  average rate  on a 30-year, fixed-rate purchase loan was 4.51
percent in the week ended Aug. 29, close to a two-year high,
according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  