-- Czech Yields Below Treasuries Prove Resilience Ahead of Election
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-09-03T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/czech-yields-below-treasuries-prove-resilience-ahead-of-election.html
Czech bonds are outperforming
higher-rated U.S. and German debt, buoyed by cash reserves big
enough to avoid market financing for the rest of the year, even
as the eastern European country heads toward a snap election.  Yields on Czech euro-denominated bonds due May 2022 traded
24 basis points below similar-maturity Treasuries yesterday,
compared with a 29 basis-point premium before Premier Petr Necas
resigned on June 17 amid charges of illegal spying and bribe-taking by government officials. The extra yield over bunds
narrowed to 74 basis points, or 0.74 percentage point, from 90
in the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Czech Republic ’s fiscal position is outweighing
concerns raised by the bribery investigation and speculation
that the  Federal Reserve  will start curbing stimulus, driving
capital away from emerging markets. Czech public debt relative
to economic output is about half of the average in the euro area
and the government’s cash reserves amounted to 94 percent of its
full-year borrowing plan on June 30, Finance Ministry data show.  “The low debt level is a fundamental strength that will
help Czech bonds outperform as long as the current global
selloff lasts,” Dmitri Barinov, who oversees $2.6 billion of
debt at Union Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said by phone
on Aug. 29. They are “in the hands of long-term buyers such as
German, Dutch or French banks and pension funds,” he said.  Sacrificing Growth  Necas’ three-year-old cabinet, which helped drive funding
costs to record lows by cutting the  budget deficit , collapsed on
June 17 after prosecutors charged his aide Jana Nagyova and two
military-intelligence agents with illegally spying on the prime
minister’s wife. Nagyova and three former lawmakers are also
facing a bribery investigation. They all deny any wrongdoing.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a July 23 statement the
political developments won’t reverse the “favorable fiscal
performance” and undermine the Czech  credit rating , which at A1
is the highest in emerging  Europe , on par with Estonia and one
level below those of  South Korea ,  Belgium  and  Japan .  Yields on the Czech 2022 Eurobonds were 2.46 percent
yesterday, up 22 basis points since Necas quit. The yield on
comparable Treasuries jumped 79 basis points in the period,
while bund yields climbed 41 basis points.  The opposition Social Democrats, whom polls favor to win
elections, have pledged to boost spending to ensure the economy
doesn’t return to recession. They want to raise taxes for the
biggest companies and scrap a law allowing workers to divert
part of their social-security taxes to private pension funds.  Budget Stimulus  “A slightly larger deficit is not that bad right now, as
the last years showed that too much fiscal tightening hurt the
Czech economy a lot,” Martin Marinov, who oversees $1 billion
of emerging-market debt as a  fund manager  at Raiffeisen
Kapitalanlage GmbH in Vienna, said by phone on Aug. 29.  An  index  tracking the 20 most-traded developing-country
currencies has fallen 8.1 percent this year, the most since the
14 percent drop in 2008, as speculation that the Fed will reduce
stimulus accelerates outflows from emerging markets, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The koruna has weakened 2.8
percent to the euro and 3.1 percent against the dollar in 2013.  While Necas’s austerity program helped trigger six quarters
of economic contraction through March, it contributed to the
country’s biggest bond rally in a decade in 2012, when local-currency notes returned 22 percent, data from the European
Federation of Financial Analyst Societies show. The government
used record-low yields to sell more debt than planned last year,
doubling its financing reserve to 140 billion koruna ($7.2
billion), according to data on the  Finance Ministry ’s website.  Tapping Reserves  The ministry said in July it was tapping its cash reserves
to reduce bond sales after yields began rising globally in May
on Fed tapering speculation. The reserve stood at 114 billion
koruna on June 30, compared with the full-year gross funding
need of 90.7 billion koruna to 120.7 billion koruna, according
to the data.  Czech public debt at 48.3 percent of GDP compares with 57.5
percent in  Poland , 79.7 percent in  Hungary , 81.1 percent in
 Germany  and the euro-region average of 95.5 percent, European
Commission forecasts for 2013 show. The Czech ratio has surged
from 28.7 percent in 2008 when the global financial crisis
began, a steeper pace than for its peers.  “The debt level is relatively low but keeps rising at a
worrying pace,” Marek Drimal, an economist at Komercni Banka AS
in  Prague , said in an e-mail on Aug. 30.  Social Democrat  plans
to boost spending when the economy is already recovering aren’t
“rational,” he said.  Less Reliant  The country relies on international investors less than its
emerging European peers, with foreign-currency debt representing
20 percent of the nation’s 1.61 trillion koruna of outstanding
bonds, compared with 31 percent in Poland and 40 percent in
Hungary, according to government data. The  International
Monetary Fund  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. bond indexes list the
Czech Republic among developed economies, while Poland and
Hungary rank as emerging markets.  The cost of insuring Czech debt with credit-default swaps
stood at 60 basis points, the lowest in eastern Europe and below
higher-rated  France  at 69, and Belgium at 63, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Voters will elect the eighth prime minister in a decade in
October, marking a more frequent leadership change than in
lower-rated, higher-yielding European Union nations such as
Greece, Italy and Romania, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Czech bonds are protected by a more stable investor base,
in some ways similar to that of developed rather than  emerging
markets ,” Raiffeisen’s Marinov said. “These long-term buyers
look past political bickering, as long as the strong
fundamentals don’t radically change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  