-- Daimler’s Mercedes Names AMG Head Kaellenius to Run Sales
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-09-03T15:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/daimler-s-mercedes-names-amg-head-kaellenius-to-run-sales.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz division,
the world’s third-biggest maker of  luxury vehicles , appointed
the head of the AMG high-performance business to oversee sales
as the company reorganizes how it deals with customers.  Ola Kaellenius, 44, will succeed Mercedes sales chief
Joachim Schmidt, who’s retiring at the end of the year after
turning 65 this month. The change is effective in October,
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler said today in a statement.  Daimler also said that sales, including at its banking
unit, will be organized more strictly according to business
lines, while country-based functions will be “streamlined.”
Schmidt’s retirement, which comes two years before his contract
expires, may mark the start of a larger generation change at the
manufacturer, which also owns the Smart city-car brand and
Mercedes, Freightliner and Fuso truck divisions.  “Schmidt embodies the Mercedes brand,” said Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based analyst with IHS Automotive. “He
steered the brand relatively unscathed through several
management and strategy changes. Mercedes is still one of the
most valuable brands in the automotive industry.”  Kaellenius, a Swedish national, led Mercedes-Benz’s high-performance engines business in Brixworth,  England , and he was
manager of the Mercedes auto plant in Tuscaloosa,  Alabama ,
before taking the helm at AMG in April 2010.  “With Ola Kaellenius, we have someone with cars in his
blood taking over the reins,” Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said in the statement.  34 Years  Schmidt, who holds a doctorate in mathematics, has served
Daimler for more than 34 years. After joining the development
team at the company, then called Daimler-Benz, he worked in
sales and marketing for more than two decades. He became head of
Mercedes sales in October 2009.  Schmidt indicated some time ago internally that he wanted
to hand over responsibilities after his 65th birthday, said a
person with direct knowledge of his plans who asked not to be
identified because the discussions were private.  Daimler said early this year that it’s following corporate-governance practice in giving three-year contracts to top
executives who are at least 60 years old or approaching that
age, rather than the five years standard in German industry.
Zetsche, who’s now 60, received a contract extension for the
shorter period in February. Schmidt’s contract at Daimler was
prolonged in March 2012 by three years until the end of
September 2015.  New Regions  “Joachim Schmidt understands and embodies Mercedes-Benz
like almost no one else,” Zetsche said in today’s statement.
“Under his leadership, the brand has conquered many new
regions.”  The reorganization of sales at Daimler, which will also
make its van and bus operations responsible for their own
customers, will involve Schmidt, who “will continue to oversee
the implementation of the new structure,” Bettina Singhartinger, a spokeswoman, said by phone.  “We will reduce complexity, become faster and more
flexible, and will give our divisions comprehensive
responsibility to manage their business efficiently and
farsightedly,” Zetsche said in a separate  statement . “This is
not primarily a matter of cost advantages, but of more direct
customer relations and of course of increasing our unit sales.”  A successor for Kaellenius at AMG will be announced
shortly, Daimler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  