-- De Blasio May Win NYC Mayoral Primary Without Runoff, Poll Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-09-03T18:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/de-blasio-may-win-nyc-mayoral-primary-without-runoff-poll-says.html
New York  mayoral candidate Bill de Blasio has support from 43 percent of likely Democratic voters,
which would be enough to avoid a runoff in a seven-candidate
Sept. 10 primary, a Quinnipiac University poll reported.  De Blasio, 52, elected four years ago to the citywide
watchdog office of public advocate, led former city Comptroller
 William Thompson  at 20 percent and City Council Speaker
Christine Quinn with 18 percent. An Aug. 28 poll showed de
Blasio with 36 percent.  A candidate needs more than 40 percent in the primary to
avoid an Oct. 1 runoff with the runner-up. De Blasio’s 3 percent
cushion is within the survey’s 3.6 percentage-point margin of
error.  “Can de Blasio keep his surge going for seven more days?
If he does, his first contribution could be to the New York City
budget -- saving the expense of a run-off election,” said
 Maurice Carroll , director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based
Quinnipiac University Polling Institute.  The survey is based on 750 telephone interviews Aug. 28 to
Sept. 1, a week after Quinn, 47, won endorsements from the New
York Times, the New York Post and the Daily News.  Democrats outnumber Republicans in the city more than 6-to-1. Of the other Democratic candidates, former U.S.
Representative Anthony Weiner has support from 7 percent; city
Comptroller  John Liu , 4 percent; Sal Albanese, 1 percent. About
8 percent were undecided, the poll said.  Stopping Frisking  De Blasio, a former city council member from  Brooklyn , has
proposed increasing the municipal tax on income above $500,000
to raise $532 million to pay for all-day pre-kindergarten and
after-school activities for adolescents. The measure would have
to be approved by the state legislature.  De Blasio, who is white, has also highlighted his
opposition to police stop-and-frisk tactics, which affect mostly
young black and Latino men. His wife, Chirlane McCray, who is
black, is a frequent companion at campaign events. In a
television commercial, their 15-year-old son, Dante, sporting a
large Afro, praises his father as the candidate most likely to
rein in stop-and-frisk.  Among black people, de Blasio outpolled Thompson, the only
African-American candidate, 47 percent to 25 percent.  “Dante’s big Afro is the campaign image everyone
remembers,” Carroll said.  Women gave de Blasio the edge over Quinn, the only woman in
the race, 44 percent to 18 percent. Weiner, who resigned from
Congress in 2011 after posting lewd photographs of himself on
Twitter, got 6 percent of the Democratic female vote, according
to the survey.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is barred by law from
seeking a fourth term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  