-- Dealers in Debt Pare Commitments Raising Risk as Rules Bite
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-03T14:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/dealers-in-debt-pare-commitments-raising-risk-as-new-rules-bite.html
The worst losses in  U.S. debt  in at
least 37 years are being magnified by investors exiting the
market at the same time new regulations prompt Wall Street firms
to cut back on trading corporate bonds.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Broad Market Index is
on pace to drop 4.41 percent, the biggest annual loss since at
least 1976. Investors pulled $123 billion from bond funds since
May, according to TrimTabs Investment Research.  Trading in corporate fixed-income securities is the lowest
ever as a proportion of outstanding debt, and volumes in
Treasuries are little changed from 2007 levels even though the
market has almost tripled to $11.5 trillion, Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority and ICAP Plc data show. Bonds are getting
riskier even with inflation at bay and corporate profits hitting
new highs.  “When bond investors start to meaningfully divest
themselves of their positions, it will be analogous to yelling
fire in a crowded theater,” Michael Underhill, the chief
investment officer at Capital Innovations LLC, which manages
$1.5 billion, said in an e-mail Aug. 23.  Investors say it’s becoming harder to quickly exit
positions as banks cut inventories and curb riskier businesses
such as  trading (NTMBIV)  with their own money to comply with rules from
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  and the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act.  More Help  Money managers who used an average of seven dealers for the
biggest purchases and sales of investment-grade securities in
2009 now say they need nine or 10, according to  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based financial advisory firm Greenwich Associates.  Dealers globally have cut more than 500,000 jobs in the
past five years. The credit-default swaps market has contracted
29 percent to $2.14 trillion of net outstanding positions since
October 2008, reflecting the reduced trading, according to data
maintained by the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation.  The shrinking derivatives market makes it more difficult
for dealers to hedge, reducing their willingness to own bonds,
according to Jeff Meli, the co-head of fixed-income, currencies
and commodities research at Barclays Plc in  New York .  “The question isn’t how much risk you can move in a good
market, but how much risk can you move in a down market,” Meli
said in a telephone interview Aug. 26. “Liquidity will remain
challenging. The forces that are pushing liquidity lower will
only get more severe.”  Borrowing Binge  That’s especially concerning to investors following a
borrowing binge spurred by the  Federal Reserve , which has kept
 interest rates  near zero since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in 2008 and pumped more than  $2.5 trillion  into the
financial system. It’s currently buying $85 billion of bonds
every month.  The face value of securities in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Broad Market Index has grown to $19.2 trillion, up 61
percent from $11.9 trillion at the end of 2008. Speculative-grade, dollar-denominated debt now exceeds $2 trillion, doubling
the past seven years, according to Morgan Stanley.  Bond investors, after enjoying annualized returns of 6.3
percent from the end of 2008 through last year, are now
suffering as the Fed considers reducing its stimulus.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year Treasury notes, a benchmark for
everything from company bonds to mortgages, jumped to 2.93
percent on Aug. 22, the highest level since July 2011. The yield
was at 2.89 percent as of 10:11 a.m. in New York, up from this
year’s low of 1.61 percent on May 1. The price of the benchmark
2.5 percent note due August 2023 dropped 28/32, or $8.75 per
$1,000 face amount, to 96 21/32, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices
show.  Seeking Refuge  Government bonds  have retreated on the Fed’s plans, not
because of inflation. The Commerce Department’s price index tied
to spending, a gauge tracked by Federal Reserve policy makers,
increased 1.4 percent in July from the same period in 2012.  Yields ended Aug. 30 at 2.79 percent, down 3 basis points
on the week, or 0.03 percentage point, as the threat of a
military conflict with  Syria  bolstered demand for government
debt as a refuge.  Corporate bonds yields in the U.S. rose to 4.18 percent on
Aug. 30 from a record low of 3.35 percent on May 2, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. Borrowing costs rose even as
companies grew more creditworthy. Earnings of Standard & Poor’s
500 companies surged to more than $100 per share last year from
about $60 in 2008 and default rates hold below 3 percent.  Pulling Cash  Borrowing costs may rise even more. Treasury 10-year yields
will jump to 3.2 percent by the end of next year, based on the
median estimate of 51 economists and strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg. In April, the forecast was for 2.8 percent.  Investors are pulling unprecedented amounts of cash from
bond mutual and exchange-traded funds after pouring $1.2
trillion into them in the three years after 2009, according to
an Aug. 20 report from TrimTabs in Sausalito,  California .  “The magnitude of the recent Treasury yield moves has
surprised a lot of people,” Yvette Klevan, a global fixed-income money manager at Lazard Asset Management, which oversees
$155 billion worldwide, said in an interview at the firm’s New
York office Aug. 20. “What is different this time compared to
other points in history is liquidity, and the fact that the
sell-side dealers have less appetite to use their balance
sheets” to facilitate trading, she said.  ‘Thin Markets’  At an average of $313 billion this year, the amount of
Treasuries  traded  through London-based ICAP, the world’s largest
interdealer broker, is little changed from the $301.4 billion in
2007. In that time, the amount of marketable Treasuries
 outstanding  has grown to $11.5 trillion from $4.34 trillion.  The 21 primary dealers authorized to trade with Fed have
cut corporate-debt  holdings  27 percent, to $14 billion on Aug.
21, from $18.7 billion on April 3. That follows a 76 percent
reduction in inventories from the peak in 2007 through March,
when the Fed changed the way it reported the data.  Inventories equal less than 0.5 percent of company debt in
the U.S., Fed and Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “Markets are very thin,” said Lazard’s Klevan. “We are
now in an environment where technicals and pricing dislocations
are being impacted by this liquidity situation.”  Risk Assets  That’s a small price to pay for regulations necessary to
protect markets, said  Anat Admati , the George G. C. Parker
Professor of Finance & Economics at  Stanford University ’s
business school in Stanford, California.  “We need to enable things to happen in the market at the
right price,” Admati said in an Aug. 27 telephone interview.
When markets “are a little bit less fragile, meaning everyone
involved is not in as much risk of distress and insolvency, then
they will be more useful,” she said.  Banks are setting aside more money to cover bad loans and
cope with downturns to comply with rules aimed at preventing
U.S. taxpayers from having to bail them out like during the
credit crisis, when financial institutions globally suffered
more than $2 trillion of credit losses and writedowns.  Internationally, capital rules passed by the 27-country
Basel Committee in 2010 require lenders reduce compensation
pools for fixed-income, currencies and commodities groups by
more than 20 percent, and cut risk-weighted assets by more than
25 percent, according to estimates by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Repo Cuts  “Dealers, given all the regulatory rules, can’t put as
much capital out to hold bonds now,” said Andrew Richman,
director of fixed-income at SunTrust Bank’s private wealth
management unit in  West Palm Beach ,  Florida . “All of this is
affecting the pricing in the market,” he said Aug. 2 in a
telephone interview.  Banks have reduced 505,339 jobs since the end of 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities industry
in  New York City  employed 169,700 as of December, regaining 30
percent of the 28,300 jobs eliminated during the recession,
according to New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli.  Cutbacks are also evident in the repurchase, or repo,
agreements that are used by banks and investors to borrow and
lend Treasuries, corporate bonds and other collateral. That
market has shrunk by 40 percent to an average of $2.6 trillion
in daily securities outstanding, from $4.3 trillion in the first
quarter of 2008, according to Fed data.  Price Swings  Corporate-bond  trading  dropped to a daily average of $14.8
billion since June from $19.4 billion earlier in the year,
according to data from Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
Finra. Volumes are equal to about 0.28 percent of the debt
outstanding, the smallest proportion ever.  Credit-default swaps contracts protecting against
individual borrowers missing payments have fallen 42 percent
since October 2008, to a net notional $919 billion on Aug. 23,
DTCC data show.  Prices of bonds in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Broad Market Index have swung by 6.65 cents this year compared
with 3.4 cents last year and 6.29 cents in 2011. Volatility in
Treasuries as measured by the bank’s MOVE index has averaged 89
since July 1, compared with more than 60 in the first six months
of the year.  “It’s a question of ‘buyer beware’ now,” Jason Brady, a
 fund manager  who helps oversee about $89 billion of assets at
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico ,
said in a telephone interview on Aug. 14. “What is clearly the
case is a liquid market is not really developing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  