-- Deere Exploring ‘Alternatives’ for Water Irrigation Unit
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2013-09-03T17:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/deere-exploring-alternatives-for-water-irrigation-unit.html
Deere & Co. (DE)  said it’s considering
strategic alternatives for the precision water-irrigation
business it moved into with the 2006 purchase of Roberts
Irrigation Products Inc.  The world’s largest farm-equipment maker said today in a
statement that no decisions or agreements have been made for
John Deere Water, part of the Worldwide Agriculture and Turf
Division. The Moline, Illinois-based company hired Bank of
America Corp. as exclusive financial adviser.  “To look to strategic options is not a surprise,” William
Blair analyst Lawrence De Maria said in an interview. “They are
more interested in the total farm controls through their
‘FarmSight’ marketing strategy than the actual systems.”  Other company leaders for a global sprinkler irrigation
system market estimated to reach $2.4 billion by 2016 include
Israel’s Netafim Inc., Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd. of India and
Toro Co. in the U.S.  While Deere doesn’t break out the unit’s results, some
analysts including  Wells Fargo & Co .’s Andrew Casey estimate
annual sales at less than $250 million, or below 1 percent of
total revenue. Both Casey and De Maria rate Deere
“underperform.”  Deere’s possible sale comes as Glencore International Plc
and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  in April both said they expected more merger and
acquisition activity. Water companies such as Xylem Inc. have
also been making purchases.  John Deere Water, which provides timed, precision watering
to make crop-growing more efficient, has about 1,300 employees,
spokesman  Ken Golden  said. That’s about 1.9 percent of Deere’s
workforce based on total employees at the end of fiscal 2012.  Last month, Deere took a $44 million impairment charge
related to assets in the division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  