-- Dell Says Shareholder-Advisory Firms Reiterated Deal Support
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-09-03T20:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/dell-says-shareholder-advisory-firms-reiterated-support-for-deal.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , seeking investor support
to take the personal-computer maker private at $13.88 a share,
said its latest offer has received renewed backing of the top
three shareholder-advisory firms.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., Glass, Lewis & Co.
and Egan-Jones Ratings Co. have all put out reports reiterating
their endorsement of the buyout, Dell said in a statement today.
Company founder  Michael Dell  and partner Silver Lake Management
LLC sweetened their offer to $13.88 last month by adding an
extra dividend of 13 cents.  Dell, who serves as chairman and chief executive officer,
is pushing to take the PC maker private so he can execute a
turnaround plan outside the spotlight of public markets. He’s
seeking to transform the business into a bigger provider of
technology and services for corporate-data centers, following
years of slumping PC sales.  Dell shares were unchanged at $13.77 at today’s close in
New York. The stock has climbed 36 percent this year on news of
the proposal to take the company private.  Shareholders will convene on Sept. 12 at Dell’s Round Rock,
 Texas , headquarters to vote on the buyout. It’s the fourth such
scheduled meeting -- the previous three were adjourned amid
procedural steps by CEO Dell, Silver Lake and the special
committee of Dell’s board managing the process.  The Silver Lake-led group sweetened its offer on Aug. 2,
and guaranteed payment of the company’s third-quarter dividend
by the time the deal closes.  The moves swayed investors including Franklin Mutual
Advisers to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to support the deal. The vote next
week would effectively mark the end of a saga that’s stretched
out for most of this year as Dell tried to win support for his
buyout against opposition by financier  Carl Icahn  and other
dissident shareholders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  