-- Detroit Tunnel Operator Sheds $830 Million in Debt
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-09-03T20:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/detroit-tunnel-operator-sheds-830-million-in-debt.html
American Roads LLC, operator of the
mile-long  Detroit Windsor Tunnel  linking the U.S. to  Canada , won
court approval of a turnaround plan to shed $830 million in debt
from swaps and bonds issued after a private-equity buyout.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland confirmed the plan
in  Manhattan . The deal transfers ownership of American Roads
from the investment company Alinda Capital Partners LLC, which
holds stakes in  London ’s Heathrow Airport and other
infrastructure projects, to the financial insurer Syncora
Guarantee Inc. in exchange for $334 million in swap liability.  Under the plan, holders of $496 million in bonds due in
2026 will receive nothing, though their rights to insurance
claims will remain intact. Lifland ruled Aug. 28 that an ad-hoc
group of the bondholders didn’t have legal standing in the case
and couldn’t object to the reorganization.  The ruling was issued about a month after Detroit-based
American Roads sought court protection from creditors, blaming
the city’s falling population, reduced traffic, natural
disasters, increased federal regulations and lower-than-forecast
revenue from four toll roads in  Alabama .  American Roads filed the July 25 bankruptcy petition
because it couldn’t meet obligations under the swaps and bonds,
which were issued in 2006 as part of a financial restructuring
after the acquisition by Alinda, court filings show. Alinda,
based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , owns infrastructure projects in
 North America  and  Europe  that serve about 100 million people a
day, according to its website.  Alabama Tolls  When the debt was issued, traffic on the company’s toll
roads in Alabama was projected to increase steadily. Instead, it
fell as much 8.6 percent through last year, according to a
description of the case filed by lawyers for American Roads.  The Chapter 11 filing wasn’t related to the city of
 Detroit ’s bankruptcy filing, American Roads Chief Executive
Officer Neal Belitsky said in court papers at the time. Detroit
filed under Chapter 9 on July 18, listing $18 billion in debt.  Syncora is also involved in Detroit’s bankruptcy in a
dispute tied to a proposed $253 million swaps settlement that
would save the city about $50 million a year. The judge
overseeing that case ruled Aug. 28 that Detroit’s casino tax
revenue put up by the city as collateral is protected by U.S.
law and can’t be frozen by Syncora.  American Roads negotiated its reorganization with Syncora
for months before the bankruptcy, allowing it to submit to the
court a pre-packaged Chapter 11 plan at the time of filing.
Syncora, the only creditor allowed to vote on the plan, is the
counterparty to the swaps and owns a “significant” portion of
the bonds, according to court papers.  Revenue Declines  The tunnel operator blamed traffic-related revenue declines
from the toll operations as a result of an economic recession,
volatile gas prices, reduced travel and lower discretionary
spending. Detroit’s population, which peaked at 1.85 million in
1950, has since dropped to about 700,000.  American Roads said it paid about $35 million in 2012 to
service its debt while in the same period generating about $14.2
million in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization.  The case is In re American Roads LLC, 13-bk-12412,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  