-- Deutsche Bank Arranges $535 Million Mortgage-Backed Debt for BGP
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-09-03T11:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/deutsche-bank-arranges-535-million-mortgage-backed-debt-for-bgp.html
Deutsche Bank AG arranged 406
million euros ($535 million) of commercial mortgage-backed bonds
for real estate investor BGP Investment Sarl.  The transaction is known as Monnet Finance Ltd. and it
refinances a maturing CMBS transaction called Quokka Finance Plc
as well as a separate portfolio of  mortgage loans , according to
Mark Dunstan, chief executive of Luxembourg-based BGP.  BGP is paying an all-in cost of less than 4 percent on the
bonds, about 1.25 percentage points below the rate on the
Quokka deal, Dunstan said. The real estate company included a
portfolio of German multi-family loans in Berlin and the Rhine-Ruhr region called Minotaurus Immobilien GmbH & Co KG, he said.  “Given the complexity of a deal like this, you need to
achieve a certain critical mass to make it worthwhile and we
therefore thought it made sense to add in the Minotaurus debt as
well,” Dunstan said.  The Monnet transaction was split into four portions, with
the 289.4 million-euro A tranche paying 192 basis points more
than the three-month euro interbank offered rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors in the 57.7 million-euro B
tranche will receive 326 basis points more than Euribor, the
data show.  Sales of commercial mortgage-backed securities in  Europe 
rose to the highest in four years in the first half of the year
to 5.4 billion euros, boosted by issuance of notes secured with
housing loans from  Germany , according to a report by  Standard &
Poor’s  last month.  BGP, which has about 1.5 billion euros of assets, was
established in 2005, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  