-- Deutsche Bank Hires Ex-BofA Trader Montana for Equities Division
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-09-03T12:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/deutsche-bank-hires-ex-bofa-trader-montana-for-equities-division.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, hired Matt Montana to head equity trading in the Americas
for its asset and wealth management division.  Montana, who was previously employed at Bank of America
Corp. for 25 years, will be based in  New York  and report to
Joshua Friedberg, head of trading for the Americas, according to
a press release. Deutsche Bank has hired at least 10 people
recently for its asset and wealth management group in a push to
boost profits from advising the ultra-wealthy.  “We continue to strengthen our trading team,” Friedberg
said in a statement. “Matt has deep market knowledge from his
background as a highly experienced trader and he will be an
integral part of the team.”  Montana  was among more than 30 trading and sales employees
dismissed from Bank of America in March, people with direct
knowledge of the moves said at the time. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender was seeking to reduce compensation costs,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the moves weren’t announced.  Deutsche Bank was the eighth-largest wealth manager
globally last year, with $387.3 billion of managed assets,
Scorpio Partnership, a London-based research company,  said  last
month. UBS topped the ranking with more than $1.7 trillion of
client funds. Swiss or American firms accounted for 13 of the
top 20.  Deutsche Bank’s asset and wealth management division
oversaw $1.2 trillion globally as of June 30, according to the
statement.  In June, Deutsche Bank listed 10 recent hires it made to
the group, including Raphael Zagury as head of key client
partners and wealth investment advisory for  Latin America .
Zagury was previously in charge of creating derivative
investments for wealthy clients at Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  