-- Dollar Drops Versus High-Yield Peers on China Data; Aussie Rises
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-09-04T21:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/dollar-trades-near-6-week-high-versus-euro-on-fed-tapering-bets.html
The dollar  weakened against its
higher-yielding counterparts after a report showed  China ’s
services industry expanded last month, adding to signs the
global economy is recovering.  The U.S. currency fell against the majority of its 16 most-traded counterparts after a Federal Reserve survey found
“modest to moderate” economic growth in early July through
late August. The Australian dollar climbed for a third day after
the nation’s economic growth quickened, while the New Zealand
dollar also advanced. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index halted a
five-day run of gains that took it to the highest level since
July.  “We’re seeing broad-based dollar weakness,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “The Chinese data
could be supportive of riskier currencies and lead to stronger
commodity prices. The market could also be getting a bit of
risk-on sentiment.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, fell 0.3 percent to 1,033.04
at 5 p.m. New York time, after reaching 1,038.61 yesterday, the
most since July 16.  The U.S. currency dropped 0.3 percent to $1.3207 per euro
after climbing yesterday to the highest level since July 22. The
greenback gained 0.2 percent to 99.74 yen.  Japan ’s currency lost
0.5 percent to 131.73 per euro.  Aussie Strength  The Aussie gained versus all but one of its 31 most-traded
counterparts on the Chinese services data and as a report showed
the country’s  gross domestic product  unexpectedly accelerated
last quarter. The currency appreciated 1.2 percent to 91.73 U.S.
cents after rising to the strongest level since Aug. 19.  New Zealand’s dollar rose versus all of its major peers as
services in China, its biggest trade partner, rose in August.
The so-called kiwi climbed 1.4 percent to 79.06 U.S. cents after
touching the highest since Aug. 21.  “The data coming out of China has been supportive of
growth and sentiment,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist
for Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s something that’s going to be a positive for
the Australian dollar and other high-yielders.”  The pound strengthened to a three-month high against the
euro as a report showed U.K.  services  expanded at the fastest
pace since 2006, boosted demand for the currency. Sterling
increased 0.2 percent to 84.52 pence per euro after reaching the
strongest since May 16. The British currency rose 0.4 percent to
$1.5626.  Central Banks  The Bank of England and the European Central Bank will
announce interest-rate decisions tomorrow. U.K. central bank
Governor Mark Carney introduced forward guidance on the path of
interest rates last month, saying the Monetary Policy Committee
won’t consider raising its key rate until unemployment falls to
7 percent, while MPC member Martin Weale voted against it.  “There is some speculation that the strength of the recent
data will see another member join Weale’s dissent,” currency
strategists at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. led by Marc Chandler in New York wrote in a research note.  The Canadian dollar gained for a second day versus its U.S.
peer as Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz kept his main
interest rate unchanged and reiterated that current monetary
policy remains appropriate. The currency appreciated 0.4 percent
to C$1.0496 per dollar.  BOJ Decision  The yen decreased versus all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts amid projections the Bank of Japan will keep its
monetary policy on hold in a decision tomorrow, refraining from
adding to the unprecedented easing unveiled in April, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of 32 economists. The BOJ is holding
a two-day meeting that begins today in  Tokyo .  The euro weakened against most of its major peers after a
 gauge of services  output in the euro area, based on a survey of
purchasing managers, expanded less than initially estimated in
August. Separate data showed the region’s economy grew 0.3
percent in the three months through June, in line with a
forecast last month.  HSBC Holdings Plc’s and  Markit Economics ’s services gauge
for China rose to 52.8 last month from July’s 51.3. An official
report released Sept. 1 showed a manufacturing gauge climbed to
a 16-month high in August, while data yesterday revealed the
government’s services index at 53.9 in August, above the 50
level that indicates expansion.  Fed Policy  In the U.S., Fed policy makers are debating whether the
economy is strong enough to allow them to pare monthly purchases
of $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage debt, which tend to
debase the dollar.  “Consumer spending rose in most districts, reflecting, in
part, strong demand for automobiles and housing-related goods,”
the Fed said today in its Beige Book survey, which is based on
anecdotal reports from its 12 regional banks. “Residential real
estate activity increased moderately in most districts, and
demand for nonresidential real estate gained overall.”  Labor Department figures due Sept. 6 will show payrolls
rose by 180,000 in August while the jobless rate held at 7.4
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “It’s still a broadly constructive dollar environment,”
said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London . “The payrolls report is
first among equals as far as data is concerned, which is not
surprising given the preoccupations with tapering.”  Officials will reduce the amount at their Sept. 17-18
meeting, according to 65 percent of economists in an Aug. 9-13
Bloomberg survey.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $26.9 billion, compared with $27 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the Australian dollar-U.S. dollar exchange rate totaled $6.6
billion, the largest share of trades at 25 percent. Options on
the U.S. dollar-yen pair amounted to $3.6 billion, or about 13
percent.  Australian dollar-U.S. dollar options trading was 251
percent more than the average for the past five Wednesdays at a
similar time in the day. U.S. dollar-yen options trading was 27
percent less than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  