-- Drawing Bright Lines for Banks
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-03T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/drawing-bright-lines-for-banks.html
What began as a simple idea aimed at
preventing banks from gambling with taxpayer money has become
one of the most-delayed elements of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Regulators are squabbling over how to get the wording right.
They would do best to just get it done.  Known as the Volcker rule, after former Federal Reserve
Chairman Paul Volcker, the legislation has a laudable goal: Ban
commercial banks, which enjoy government subsidies in the form
of federal deposit insurance and access to emergency loans from
the Fed, from putting taxpayers at undue risk by engaging in
short-term speculative trading.  Turning the  law  into an actionable  rule  has already taken
more than three years. Authorities say it could take several
months more. The difficulty arises mainly because the
legislation makes exceptions for activities that aren’t
speculation but can look like it. These include market making,
in which a bank buys and sells securities on behalf of clients,
and hedging, in which a bank takes positions designed to
mitigate potential losses on its loans and other investments.  Regulators have gotten themselves into a tangle over
drawing these distinctions. They’ve proposed a multitude of
revenue, turnover and other measures -- 17 for market making
alone -- without specifying how these numbers will be used to
identify illegal activity.  This we’ll-tell-you-when-we-see-it approach satisfies
nobody -- even if, as we have advocated, the measures are  pared
down  to the few most relevant. Proponents of the rule worry that
regulators, some perhaps hoping for future employment on Wall
Street, will let banks do pretty much anything. Others opposed
to the rule worry that banks will cut back on activity crucial
to the smooth operation of markets, for fear that authorities
will deem it illegal.  Some bright lines are needed, and they’re actually not that
hard to draw. Consider profit and loss. Speculative traders try
to generate large gains, and so often suffer large losses. Their
income is volatile. Market makers, by contrast, expect to avoid
volatility, aiming to generate steady revenue from the flow of
client business. Hedgers seek to reduce volatility by
definition.  Hence the bright line: The rule should say that positions
held by a bank’s market-making operation, or in a book of hedged
investments, shouldn’t exceed a certain level of volatility.
That level might change depending on whether the trading is in
stocks or distressed debt, but it would certainly be much lower
than that of the broader market. If a bank crossed the line, it
would bear the burden of proving that it wasn’t engaged in
illegal speculation.  To strengthen this approach, the Volcker rule should also
require that traders’ bonuses reward success in making markets
or hedging against losses, rather than for scoring big gains
incidental to those goals. For market making, the relevant
measure might be client volume. For hedging, it might be loss
mitigation, with the biggest bonuses going to those who show no
profit (or loss) at all. The rule should also specify penalties
for failure to comply, both for the traders and for the
executives who manage them.  Would banks be able to hide proprietary trading within
whatever limits regulators set? Probably, but the potential for
punishment would at least act as a disincentive. Would this
approach inhibit banks from making markets in more exotic or
distressed securities, for fear of accidentally breaching the
volatility limits? Possibly, but if such business would be
profitable in the absence of a taxpayer backstop, non-bank
financial firms will step in to do it.  The point of the Volcker rule is to deny public subsidy to
bank speculation. It isn’t the strongest defense against unsafe
banking -- that would be stricter capital requirements -- but it
will help, and the sooner it happens, the better. A relatively
simple rule, making relatively few demands on regulators’
discretion, isn’t hard to write. There’s no reason for further
delay.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 