-- Dubai Index Slides Most Since July After Russia Missile Report
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-03T10:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/dubai-index-slides-most-since-july-after-russia-missile-report.html
Dubai’s  benchmark index  tumbled to
the lowest in seven weeks, erasing a gain, after RIA Novosti
reported a missile launch in the Mediterranean.  The DFM General Index lost 3.7 percent to 2,489.38, the
lowest close since July 16. The measure plunged as much as 5.3
percent after the Russian report and had increased as much as 1
percent before.  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark index lost 1.8 percent.
 Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest
tower, slid 5.4 percent and discount carrier  Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI) 
fell to the lowest since July 29.  Russia’s missile tracking system detected the launch of two
ballistic rockets in the central Mediterranean, heading toward
targets in the eastern Mediterranean, Russia’s state-run RIA
Novosti reported, citing Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu. Shares
trimmed declines after RIA said the missiles had landed in the
water. Last week, Dubai’s benchmark had the biggest  weekly
plunge  since 2011 on fears of a military strike against  Syria .  “This gives us an indication of how the Dubai market will
react in case of a real strike,” Montasser Khelifi, a senior
manager for global markets at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd., said
in an e-mail today. “Dubai is the biggest hub in the region and
its economy relies on some sensitive sectors such tourism, or
air transport” and will be affected in case of a military
conflict, he said.  Dubai is home to Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by
international passenger traffic, the Dubai Mall, the world’s
largest by area. The economy of the emirate is rebounding from
the 2009 crisis amid a recovery in real estate and tourism.  Emaar Properties fell to 5.57 dirhams. Air Arabia dropped
4.4 percent to 1.3 dirhams.  Saudi Arabia’s (SASEIDX)  Tadawul All Share Index declined 0.6 percent
at 1:32 p.m. in  Riyadh . Kuwait’s benchmark index dropped 1.7
percent, Qatar’s QE Index retreated 0.9 percent, Oman’s gauge
fell 0.5 percent and Bahrain’s 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  