-- Dubai’s Majid Al Futtaim Said to Raise $1.5 Billion Loan
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-03T11:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/dubai-s-majid-al-futtaim-said-to-raise-1-5-billion-credit-line.html
Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC, the
operator of  Carrefour SA (CA)  stores in the Middle East, is raising
more than $1.5 billion from a revolving credit facility to
replace a loan, according to a banker familiar with the plan.  The Dubai-based company, which postponed the sale of
perpetual bonds in June, is raising the five-year loan in
dollars and dirhams, said the banker, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public yet. The debt is
priced at around 200 basis points, or 2 percentage points, above
the  London interbank offered rate  and the unused portion will
also carry a commitment fee, the banker said. About 15 banks
expected to participate in the loan, he said.  The operator of Dubai’s Mall of the Emirates, which boasts
an indoor ski slope, raised $1 billion from a three-year
revolving credit facility and a five-year  term loan  in July
2011. Twelve banks participated in that facility including
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc. (STAN)  The three-year facility paid a margin of 250
basis points and the five-year loan of 275 basis points, two
people familiar with the deal said at the time.  Majid al Futtaim is returning to the  debt market  after
Dubai companies, including Dubai Duty Free, reduced the pricing
on their loans. The cost to protect the emirate’s debt from
default has dropped more than 100 basis points from July 2011 to
230 yesterday, according to data from CMA, as several debt laden
state-owned companies repaid or restructured loans.  A spokesman for Majid Al Futtaim, who asked not to be
identified because of company policy, declined to comment.  Investments  Majid Al Futtaim said this year it plans to invest 3
billion dirhams ($817 million) in Dubai projects and may buy
part of Spinneys supermarket chain in the  Middle East . The
company delayed the June bond sale after global yields rose on
expectations the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce bond buying.  The yield on the company’s 5.25 percent $500 million of
bonds due July 2019 was little changed at 4.85 percent at 3:46
p.m. in Dubai. The yield has dropped three basis points over the
last year.  In a revolving credit facility money repaid can be borrowed
again.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  