-- Heart Strain Heralds Gain as Cyclists Outlive Other Men
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-09-03T08:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/heart-strain-heralds-gain-as-cyclists-outlive-other-men.html
Tour de France cyclists outlived
ordinary men by six years in a study that suggests the strain of
intense workouts may not be so bad for the heart after all.  The  study  examined 786 French cyclists who had taken part
at least once, between 1947 and 2012, in the grueling bicycle
race that has been compared to climbing Mt. Everest three times
or running a marathon for three weeks.  Researchers compared the cyclists with the rest of the
population of French men the same age. About a quarter of the
riders had died by Sept. 1, 2012 -- a  mortality rate  41 percent
lower than in the control group, said Xavier Jouven of the
Sudden Death Expertise Center in Paris. Jouven said the
cyclists’ comparative longevity surprised him and his
colleagues.  “We expected to observe exactly the opposite,” Jouven
said today in a webcast press conference from the European
Society of Cardiology’s annual meeting in Amsterdam. Doctors
should think twice before warning people who aren’t high-risk
patients away from intense sports, he said. “We have to
encourage people to exert themselves.”  Today’s study results come amid debate about how much
exercise is too much, especially for middle-aged men pushing
themselves through endurance races such as triathlons.  The cyclists in the study were hardly weekend warriors. The
elite athletes probably maintained a habit of rigorous exercise
over many years, according to Jouven.  The death rate statistic held true for all age groups
except those younger than 30. The younger racers showed a trend
toward dying sooner than the general population. Traffic
accidents accounted for much of the mortality in that group,
compared with  heart disease  and tumors for the older athletes,
the researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  