-- Ecobank’s Tanoh to Forgo 2012 Bonus as Bank Reviews Governance
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-09-03T10:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/ecobank-s-tanoh-to-forgo-2012-bonus-as-bank-reviews-governance.html
Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) ’s Chief
Executive Officer Thierry Tanoh will forgo a $1.14 million bonus
for 2012 as the lender reviews corporate governance after
allegations of fraud by a senior manager.  Executive Director of Risk and Finance Laurence do Rego
will meet the board next week about fraud allegations she made
to Nigeria’s Securities and Exchange Commission last month,
Jeremy Reynolds, a spokesman for Lomo, Togo-based Ecobank, said
by e-mail today. Do Rego said she had been pressured to write
off debts owed by a business chaired by Ecobank Chairman Kolapo Lawson and manipulate the bank’s results for 2012.  The bank, which operates in more African countries than any
other, will appoint external advisers to review governance,
Reynolds said. While the bank doesn’t agree with Do Rego’s
allegations, “she has the opportunity to elaborate and present
her evidence to the board,” he said.  Do Rego isn’t attending work at Ecobank while the bank
investigates a possible misstatement of her qualifications made
when she joined 11 years ago, Reynolds said. Do Rego said she
didn’t lie about her qualifications, the Financial Times
reported on Aug. 29.  The new allegations against Ecobank come after Nigeria’s
capital markets regulator met with the board last month.
Chairman Lawson came to an agreement over his outstanding debts
with the Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, a government agency
created to buy lenders’ bad loans. Ecobank’s board said there
had been no financial impropriety by Lawson.  Obi Adindu, a spokesman for the Abuja, Nigeria-based SEC,
declined to comment when contacted by phone today.  Founded in 1985, Ecobank has expanded into  France  and 34
African countries. It has representative offices in Beijing,
Dubai, Johannesburg,  London  and Luanda,  Angola . The bank’s
assets were $21 billion at the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  