-- Emerging ETF Rallies as U.S. Data Outweigh Missile Test
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-09-03T21:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/emerging-stocks-advance-for-fourth-day-on-china-growth-outlook.html
The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index exchange-traded fund posted the longest rally in three
weeks as U.S. manufacturing data bolstered confidence in global
growth. Stocks in  Turkey (XU100)  and Dubai sank as an Israeli missile-defense test provoked concern about regional tensions.  The developing-nation ETF added 0.6 percent to $38.26,
gaining for a fourth day. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index
declined 0.5 percent to 933.94. China’s stocks jumped as Premier
Li Keqiang said he’s confident the country will achieve this
year’s economic goals. Dubai’s DFM General Index and The Borsa
Istanbul National 100 Index slid more than 2.2 percent. Turkey’s
lira sank to a record low and  India ’s rupee fell amid higher oil
prices and concern about a credit-rating downgrade.  The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing index
increased to 55.7 in August from 55.4 a month earlier, beating
the median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg of
54. Stocks were briefly rattled by what  Israel  described as a
joint flight test with the U.S. of its Arrow missile-interception system over the Mediterranean Sea. House Speaker
John Boehner said he will support U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
call for action against  Syria .  “Manufacturing is starting to look better,” Phil Orlando,
New York-based chief equity strategist at Federated Investors,
which manages about $380 billion in assets, said by phone.
“There are a number of issues on the horizon that give us
pause. Some of these issues, particularly the Middle East, are
getting priced into the markets because of these increased
geopolitical risk concerns.”  Options Prices  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index extended this year’s plunge
to 11 percent, compared with an 11 percent advance for a measure
of developed markets. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, added 0.8
percent to 28.36.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa snapped a three-day rally as Cia. de
Bebidas das Americas, the Brazilian unit of Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV, tumbled. The real gained, reversing earlier losses, after
Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin told reporters that the
government will keep working to avoid excessive depreciation.  The IPC index declined for the first time in three days as
Credit Suisse Group AG said it’s ‘premature’ to move into
Mexican stocks. Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB sank the
most on the gauge.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose for a second day in Moscow as M.video,
Russia’s biggest electronics retailer, surged 4.4 percent. The
Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index dropped 2.3 percent, while the
lira depreciated 1.9 percent per dollar.  Higher Forecast  China’s stocks rose to a 10-week high as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. boosted its forecast for the nation’s expansion in
2013. Industrial Bank Co. and  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  surged
more than 4 percent to lead a rally for lenders and developers.  BYD Electronic International Co. and Compal Communications
Inc. led gains of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s Asian suppliers after Microsoft
Corp. offered to pay 5.44 billion euros ($7.2 billion) for the
Finnish company’s handset business.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
declined 1 percent.  India’s currency and stocks plunged the most in Asia after
Standard & Poor’s reiterated it sees more than a one-in-three
chance that the nation’s debt rating will be cut within two
years. Brent crude jumped after Russian news service RIA Novosti
reported the detection of a missile launch in the central
Mediterranean. The missile launch was a test, the Israeli
Defense Ministry said. Asia’s No. 3 economy imports almost 80
percent of its oil. The rupee slid 2.6 percent.  Rupiah Tumbles  Indonesia  missed its target at a local-currency sukuk sale
today for the first time since July, as investors favored the
relative safety of shorter-dated debt. The rupiah fell beyond
11,000 per dollar for the first time since 2009 on concern the
nation will struggle to rein in a record current-account gap.
The Jakarta Composite Index jumped 1.5 percent.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 3.7 percent to the lowest
level since July 16. Abu Dhabi’s benchmark index lost 1.8
percent.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s
tallest tower, slid 5.4 percent. Israel’s TA-25 Index and the
shekel snapped four-day rallies.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 351 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  