-- Merkel Asks for Four More Years as Steinbrueck Doubts Record
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-09-03T13:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/merkel-asks-for-four-more-years-as-steinbrueck-challenges-record.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  asked
Germans for four more years to strengthen the economy as her
Social Democratic challenger  Peer Steinbrueck  accused her of
lulling the nation to sleep with a lack of action.  Less than three weeks before the Sept. 22 election, the
candidates clashed over Merkel’s second-term record during a
debate in the lower house of parliament today. While Merkel said
she’d done the best for  Germany  during “unusually challenging”
times that included the euro-area crisis, Steinbrueck accused
her of leaving the country “under-sugared” and in urgent need
of attention.  “We’ve had four lost years under Merkel,” Steinbrueck
told lawmakers under the glass dome of the Reichstag building in
Berlin. “That’s why our country needs a new start.” Merkel
said opposition plans to raise income taxes were a mistake that
would jeopardize the success of Europe’s biggest economy.  Merkel, 59, and Steinbrueck, 66, stepped up their rhetoric
two days after sparring in the campaign’s only nationally
televised debate, as polls show the chancellor’s Christian
Democratic bloc leading the main opposition Social Democrats by
 14-19 percentage points . The chancellor reiterated today that
her goal is to repeat her coalition with the Free Democrats as
junior partner, an outcome that polls suggest has moved within
her reach over the last few months.  Merkel’s coalition parties have 44 percent voter support
compared with a combined 39 percent for the Social Democrats and
the Greens, who governed jointly between 1998 and 2005,
according to an INSA poll of 2,135 people published yesterday.  ‘Sensational’ Result  Merkel cited as the backdrop to her second term the
financial and economic crisis, the debt crisis that emerged in
 Greece  in late 2009 and the Fukushima nuclear disaster. She
referred to a “canny stimulus program’” enacted during her
first-term coalition with the SPD that ballooned the deficit,
with the subsequent reduction in net new borrowing during this
legislative period a “sensational” achievement, she said.  “Despite all of these challenges, these were four good
years for Germany all in all,” Merkel said. “The hallmark
of our policies is reliability.”  Steinbrueck, who was Merkel’s finance minister from 2005 to
2009 when the U.S. banking meltdown led to a global recession,
said she had failed to address the rich-poor gap as the economy
rebounded, while wielding a “savings club” over the euro zone.
Her second term was marked by “waiting and watching” and “a
language of ambivalence and dullness,” he said.  G-20 Meeting  With Steinbrueck on the campaign trail, Merkel plans to
break off for two days to attend the summit of leaders of 20
leading economies in St. Petersburg,  Russia , on Sept. 5-6.
German goals include further tightening of financial-market
regulation and curbing tax avoidance by multinational companies,
Merkel said in her speech today.  Steinbrueck criticized Merkel for what he said was an
unreleased television interview in which she describes the
Social Democrats as “unreliable” on European policy. All
through her second term, the Social Democrats never voted
against Merkel’s policy of contributing to euro-area bailouts in
return for austerity commitments by countries that get aid.  Merkel may need the support of SPD lawmakers in future
votes, Steinbrueck said, turning to address Merkel in the
government’s row of seats in the chamber.  “You have to know that you are burning bridges,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  