-- Merkel Recalls East German Collapse as Warning for Europe
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-09-04T08:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/merkel-recalls-east-german-collapse-in-europe-s-future-warning.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the
economic collapse of East Germany should serve as a lesson for
Europe, since there’s no alternative to hard work to remain
globally relevant.  Merkel, addressing a campaign rally yesterday in the
eastern town of Finsterwalde, south of Berlin, flaunted her
credentials as a fellow one-time citizen of the former German
Democratic Republic as she presented her vision for a more
competitive Europe to the crowd of about 3,000.  To sustain Europe’s high level of social expenditure
relative to the rest of the world, Europeans must innovate, “be
better than the others” and “exert ourselves,” Merkel said.
“Everyone who lived in the GDR knows that: Whoever is not
economically productive, whoever can’t sell products, will get
into difficulties.”  Merkel and her Social Democratic challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck , are honing their respective messages as they shift
their focus to winning over undecided voters less than three
weeks out from the Sept. 22 elections. While polls show the
chancellor’s Christian Democratic bloc leading the main
opposition Social Democrats by 14-17 percentage points, the
dynamics of coalition building mean the race is far closer.  In Finsterwalde, about half way between Berlin and Dresden,
Merkel appealed to voters to cast both their ballots for her
Christian Democratic Union party, saying it’s the second vote
“that keeps me chancellor.”  Knowing Merkel  “You know me a little,” Merkel said. “You know that I
consider something and then I act. And that’s the right way.”  The chancellor was speaking hours after asking Germans to
give her a third term to strengthen the economy during a speech
to lower-house lawmakers in Berlin, clashing with Steinbrueck
over the balance of her second term.  “We’ve had four lost years under Merkel,” Steinbrueck
told lawmakers, calling for “a new start.” Merkel said
opposition plans to raise income taxes were a mistake that would
jeopardize the success of Europe’s biggest economy.  Merkel, 59, and Steinbrueck, 66, stepped up their rhetoric
after sparring in the campaign’s only nationally televised
debate on Sept. 1, an encounter whose outcome has yet to be
fully measured in the polls.  Latest Poll  Merkel’s CDU and its CSU Bavarian sister party dropped one
percentage point to 40 percent in a weekly Forsa poll for Stern
magazine published today, as her Free Democratic coalition
partner held at 5 percent. The Social Democrats gained a point
to 23 percent and their Green party allies were unchanged at 11
percent.  The Left Party dropped a point to 9 percent, and the anti-euro AfD party had 4 percent, up a point to its best score.  The
poll of 2,502 people was taken Aug. 27-Sept. 2. The results have
a margin of error of as much as 2.5 percentage points.  Parties that are below the 5 threshold needed to win
parliamentary seats have a total of 12 percent backing in the
poll, meaning that half the rest -- 44 percent -- is enough for
a majority, Stern said. Hence with a combined 45 percent,
Merkel’s current coalition would have enough support to form a
government if replicated on Election Day, according to Stern.  While 38 percent of those polled said that Merkel won the
debate and 44 percent Steinbrueck, it’s still not possible to
say how the exchange played with undecided voters, Forsa chief
Manfred Guellner told Stern. “How many of those people will
actually vote SPD on Sept. 22 is unclear,” he said.  Savings ‘Club’  Merkel is campaigning on her record of tackling the debt
crisis that spread from  Greece  as well as her stewardship of the
Germany economy, with joblessness near a two-decade low and the
budget balanced. Steinbrueck, Merkel’s first-term finance
minister, says she has failed to address the rich-poor gap as
the economy rebounded, while wielding a “savings club” over
the euro zone.  For all the “unusually challenging” times of her second
term, “these were four good years for Germany all in all,”
Merkel told the lower house, the Bundestag, yesterday. “The
hallmark of our policies is reliability.”  Merkel presided over the weekly cabinet meeting in Berlin
today before holding a rally at 5 p.m. in the western German
town of Trier, famed for its Roman gate, the  Porta Nigra . She’ll
then break off the campaign trail for two days to attend the
summit of leaders of 20 leading economies in St. Petersburg,
 Russia , on Sept. 5-6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  