-- Erotic Art, Hadid’s New Serpentine Lead Fall Art Season
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-09-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/erotic-art-hadid-s-new-serpentine-lead-fall-art-season.html
“All art is erotic.”  Or so the fin-de-siecle Viennese architect Adolf Loos once
claimed.  At the  National Gallery  in  London  this autumn, there will
be an exhibition devoted to a culture and an era which believed
that proposition to be true (with the possible addition of a
little death, decadence and neurosis).  On display in “Facing the Modern: The Portrait in Vienna
1900” (Oct. 9 through Jan. 12 2014, sponsored by Credit Suisse)
will be pictures by contemporaries of Loos such as  Gustav Klimt ,
Oskar Kokoschka and -- making an unexpected appearance as a
visual artist -- the composer Arnold Schoenberg.  While this survey of paintings from the city of  Sigmund Freud  may well be the big attraction of the London art season,
there are many other shows devoted to work from civilizations
around the world.  The  British Museum  will be following Pompeii with “Beyond
El Dorado: Power and Gold in Ancient Colombia” (Oct. 17 to March
23, 2014).  The exhibition will contain some 300 highly wrought objects
in precious metal of the kind that dangerously over-excited the
conquistadors. These would also have fascinated Klimt, who was
fond of decoration so long as its symbolism was sexual; and
would have horrified Loos, who declared that ornament is crime.  Simultaneously, the  British Museum  will show some eroticism
that is certainly not disguised as symbolic embellishment in
“Shunga: Sex and Pleasure in Japanese Art” (Oct. 3 to Jan. 5,
2014).  Unabashedly Explicit  There isn’t a great deal in art (as opposed to pornography)
from anywhere in the world that is quite as unabashedly explicit
as these paintings, print and drawings. The BM advises parental
guidance; on the other hand, school parties, particularly
teenage ones, might be very interested.  Less outrageous and perhaps greater Far Eastern imagery is
coming to London for “Masterpieces of Chinese Painting 700-1900”
(Oct. 26 to Jan. 19, 2014) at the  V&A .  There is a strong case to be made that the masters of old
 China  were the greatest landscape painters who ever lived.
Depending on the quantity and quality of the loans, this too
could be one of the truly outstanding London exhibitions of late
2013.  Boldly, the  Royal Academy of Arts  is venturing far south to
a little known subcontinent, artistically speaking, with its big
show, “ Australia ” (Sept. 21 to Dec. 8). Personally, I have to
admit that I have never been convinced by the most high-profile
of Aussie painters, Sidney Nolan.  Parisian Vision  The RA’s other autumn show, “Daumier: Visions of Paris”
(Oct. 26 to Jan. 26) looks like a much safer bet. This should be
a marvelous little exhibition. Daumier was one of the major
painters and sculptors of 19th-century  France .  One of his most fervent fans was Vincent  van Gogh , two
years of whose work are the subject of a survey at a commercial
gallery. “Van Gogh in Paris” at  Eykyn Maclean , 30 St. George
Street, London W1 (Sept 26. to Nov. 29) examines the years 1886-7 in which Vincent encountered Impressionism and burst into
color.  In Paris itself, the  Grand Palais  will be hosting a major
survey of the work of  Georges Braque  (Sept. 18 to Jan. 6). The
quiet man of the Cubist duo, Braque has always tended to be
overshadowed by his friend and rival,  Pablo Picasso .  However, there were moments at which his work seemed both
deeper and stronger than Picasso’s. The French do these grand
retrospectives very well, so this should be worth a ticket on
Eurostar for Londoners.  Visible Klee  It is back to Mitteleuropa for the big  Tate Modern  show,
“ Paul Klee : Making Visible” (Oct. 16 to March 9, 2014).  Klee’s Swiss cuckoo-clock modernism can make him seem too
lightweight and whimsical to count among the really big guns of
20th-century art. It will be interesting to see what Tate Modern
makes of him.  An artist who once entitled one of his pictures “The
Twittering Machine,” thus clearly predicting contemporary social
media, cannot easily be written off.  The most important contemporary art event of the coming
months in London is a building, not an exhibition: the new
 Serpentine  Sackler Gallery in Kensington Gardens designed by
 Zaha Hadid . The space will open with a show by an Argentinian
artist, Adrian Vilar Rojas (Sept. 28 to Nov. 10).  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Guy Collins  on wine,  Jeffrey Burke 
on books and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 