-- Merrill Lynch $160 Million Race-Bias Accord Goes to Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-09-03T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/merrill-lynch-160-million-race-bias-accord-goes-to-judge.html
Bank of America Corp.  is seeking
approval of a $160 million settlement from a judge who thrice
rejected requests by black financial advisers at its Merrill
Lynch unit to sue as a group over alleged racial discrimination.  U.S. District Judge Robert Gettleman, whose decisions
denying claimants’ class status were overruled on appeal, is set
to hear arguments today from the bank’s attorneys and lawyers
representing at least 1,000 advisers.  The settlement, which would end an eight-year legal battle
if approved, is the third biggest in U.S. race-bias litigation,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In agreements that
included non-cash consideration,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  agreed in 2001
to pay $192.5 million. Texaco Inc. paid $176 million in 1997.  Beyond the proposed cash payout in the Merrill case, the
parties are aiming for “organic change” in how the firm
operates, said Linda Friedman, a lawyer for the advisers.  “We’re going to have the lawyers back off and create a
process by which the company can own the change from the get-go,” Friedman said in a phone interview.  “We are working toward a very positive resolution of a
lawsuit filed in 2005 and enhancing opportunities for African-American financial advisers,”  Bill Halldin , a Bank of America
spokesman, said last week in an e-mailed statement. The bank
doesn’t admit any wrongdoing in the settlement.  Dissolving Unit  The second-biggest U.S. lender by assets,  Bank of America 
acquired Merrill for $33 billion in 2009. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank plans to dissolve the unit as early as the
fourth quarter while keeping the Merrill Lynch brand for its
retail brokerage and investment bank, according to an Aug. 2
filing.  Merrill Lynch had about 14,000 financial advisers as of
June 30, excluding those working at bank branches. Bank of
America’s entire staff was 257,158.  The central claim in the case was that blacks weren’t given
the same business opportunities as whites in participating on
investment teams and in account distribution.  Formation of adviser teams is one of Merrill’s most
important business strategies, Stowell & Friedman partner
Suzanne Bish said in a phone interview last week. Black advisers
were segregated and excluded from the teams and the benefits and
business resources they afforded, she said.  The original complaint was filed in 2005 by George McReynolds, a broker in Merrill Lynch’s Nashville office.  Professional Attitude  McReynolds still works for Merrill Lynch, Bish said. He and
the firm maintained a professional attitude throughout the
litigation based on a common “passion for their clients,” she
said.  While Gettleman repeatedly rejected requests for group
claimant recognition, the black advisers prevailed after the
U.S. Supreme Court in 2011 refused to recognize a nationwide
class of 1.5 million women suing  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  for gender
bias.  In the Wal-Mart case, the high court concluded the women
failed to show the retailer had a nationwide policy leading to
discrimination.  The advisers’ suit was based on claims that the
discrimination was due to “very centralized control by Merrill
Lynch,” Bish said.  Class Certified  After a February 2012 appeals court ruling in the
employees’ favor, Gettleman certified a class of black financial
advisers and financial adviser trainees in the U.S. retail
brokerage unit of the firm’s global private client division.  The changes Merrill agreed to make under the accord include
appointing two experts to review the firm’s teaming and pooling
policies, Friedman said.  Those experts, one of whom will be selected by each side in
the case, will spend a year visiting firm offices and
interviewing people and will report on the company’s policies
and practices.  Immediate changes will be made to financial adviser
training, known as Practice Management Development, to stem
African-American attrition rates, Friedman said. The firm agreed
to appoint two coaches she described as “godfather rabbis” for
African-American trainees.  The cases are McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch, 11-01957,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit ( Chicago ), and
McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Inc., 05-cv-06583, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  