-- EU Agency Backs Some U.S. Swaps Rules in Bid to Counter Overlaps
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-03T14:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/eu-agency-backs-some-u-s-swaps-rules-in-bid-to-counter-overlaps.html
European Union regulators  said  that
many U.S. rules for over-the-counter derivatives are as tough as
EU standards, in a move that may shield banks from having to
comply with two sets of requirements.  U.S. rules on the use of clearinghouses and trade
repositories are broadly in line with EU measures, the European
Securities and Markets Authority said today. EU-based banks
would be allowed to only comply with U.S. rules for some
activities in the country if the European Commission agrees with
ESMA’s assessment.  “ESMA’s advice is based on a factual assessment of the
rules of each jurisdiction but has also taken into account
possible consequences for the stability and protection” of
banks and investors, the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. and European Union brokered a deal last month to
resolve clashes in their regulation of the  $633 trillion  swaps
market. The accord broke a deadlock over whether the U.S. could
impose its rules on trades booked in  Europe . Banks and other
swaps traders said the deal reduces the chance they will be
forced to comply with conflicting regulatory regimes.  The accord only partly settled how swaps rules will apply
across borders and averted a regulatory crisis. Both sides said
further negotiations would be needed on a range of issues.  While EU and U.S. rules on use of clearinghouses, trade
repositories, and on risk management for non-cleared swaps are
“equivalent,” this is not the case regarding rules for how
parties to a swap contract should resolve disputes, ESMA said.
The EU rules apply to a broader range of contracts, it said.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for the commission in
Brussels, couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  