-- Euro’s Strength Reflects Japanification, SocGen’s Juckes Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-09-03T16:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/euro-s-strength-reflects-japanification-socgen-s-juckes-says.html
The euro’s status as the best-performing currency in the past year is a sign Europe faces
challenges similar to those of  Japan , which had a so-called lost
decade during the 1990s, according to Kit Juckes, a global
strategist in London at Societe Generale SA.  The balance of goods, services and transfers in the 17-nation euro region doubled to a $221 billion surplus last year
from 2011, topping China’s $214 billion, International Monetary
Fund data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The current-account surplus is growing and growing,
looking more Japanese by the day,” Juckes said in an interview
on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Michael
McKee . “The inflation rate dipped a little lower, moving toward
deflation, just like Japan, in our own quiet way.”  The euro is the top performer among the 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes
during the past 12 months, rallying 8.8 percent. The dollar
strengthened 3.6 percent while the yen lost 21 percent.  Japan’s economy slipped in and out of recession amid growth
at an average rate of about 1 percent a year after the collapse
of a real-estate bubble in the 1990s.  Abe Policies  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s legislative, monetary and
fiscal policies, known as Abe-nomics, are designed to boost
Japan’s economy and rid the nation of deflation. The  Bank of
Japan  has pledged to expand the monetary base by 60 trillion yen
($600 billion) to 70 trillion yen per year.  “I would like to see Draghi-nomics as much as I’m admiring
Abe-nomics at the moment with aggressive monetary accommodation
to try and kick start things,” Juckes said, referring to
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi .  Draghi said in July the ECB would keep  interest rates  at
the present level or lower for an “extended period” based on a
“subdued” inflation outlook. Europe’s consumer price index may
increase 1.5 percent this year and next after rising 2.5 percent
in 2012, a separate Bloomberg survey shows.  The euro zone’s gross domestic product is forecast to
shrink 0.6 percent this year and to expand 1 percent in 2014,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The  U.S. economy  may grow 1.6 percent in 2013 and 2.7
percent next year.  “Let’s take the positives -- the U.S. economy as moves
forwards is taking Europe with it,” Juckes said. “The levels
of debt, the levels of unemployment and the pressures toward
deflation won’t go away in that environment. You need policies
that help the economy to kick on, as opposed to running the risk
that it’s just not got any kind of escape velocity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  