-- European Stocks Decline; Benchmark Stoxx 600 Index Falls
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-09-03T16:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/european-stock-futures-advance-nokia-vodafone-may-move.html
European stocks declined as U.S.
Speaker of the House John Boehner said he supports the
president’s call for action against  Syria , offsetting better-than-forecast manufacturing data.  Vodafone (VOD)  Group Plc slipped 5 percent as shareholders
weighed the details of the $130-billion deal to sell its stake
in Verizon Wireless. Nokia Oyj soared 34 percent after Microsoft
Corp. agreed to buy its handset business for 5.44 billion euros
($7.2 billion). Dufry AG, the operator of duty-free stores,
climbed 3.4 percent after winning contracts in  Brazil .  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.4 percent to 301.78 at
the close. Stock markets were rattled earlier, with the gauge
losing as much as 0.7 percent, by what Israel said was a joint
flight test with the U.S. of its Arrow missile-interception
system over the Mediterranean Sea. The measure lost 2.4 percent
last week on concern the U.S. and its allies would take military
action against Syria for chemical-weapons attacks that the Obama
administration said killed more than 1,400 people.  “Markets should explode on such good economic data from
the U.S., but there are other factors making investors more
prudent,” said John Plassard, vice-president at Mirabaud
Securities LLP in Geneva. “Markets are still nervous and
volatile on any news coming out of Syria as we saw earlier.
Investors are also weighing improving economic numbers looking
ahead to any tapering talk from the Fed’s next meeting.”  Boehner Support  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, told reporters after meeting
with President  Barack Obama  that the use of chemical weapons
requires a response and only the U.S. has the capability to
“warn others around the world that this type of behavior is not
going to be tolerated.”  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s  manufacturing 
index increased to 55.7 in August from 55.4 a month earlier, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The median forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for the measure to rise
to 54. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion
and contraction.  Data due on Sept. 6 may show that U.S. employers added more
workers in August. Payrolls probably rose by 180,000 last month,
after adding 162,000 in July, according to the median forecast
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Federal Reserve holds a policy meeting on Sept. 17-18
to decide whether to slow the pace of its bond-purchase program.
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has said that the central bank may
consider tapering if the employment outlook improves
substantially and the economy grows as forecast.  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes declined in 11 of the 18
western-European markets today.  France ’s CAC 40 and  Germany ’s
DAX each retreated 0.8 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 0.6
percent, while  Greece ’s ASE advanced 2.4 percent.  Vodafone lost 5 percent to 202.5 pence as Verizon
Communications Inc. agreed to buy the U.K. company’s 45 percent
stake in Verizon Wireless for $130 billion. The payout was
structured to prevent Vodafone from ending up with a large stake
in Verizon, two people familiar with the terms said. That forces
Vodafone investors who’d prefer cash, or aren’t authorized to
hold Verizon stock, to sell the shares they receive.  Analysts including  Robin Bienenstock  at Sanford C.
Bernstein said the so-called fixed value collar agreement, a
deal that protects the buyer from significant fluctuations in
the stock’s price between the start and completion of a merger
process, leaves investors “bearing potentially large downside
risk in Vodafone shares.”  Suedzucker Slides  Suedzucker AG fell 12 percent to 21.84 euros, for the worst
performance on the Stoxx 600 and its biggest drop since at least
October 1998. Exane BNP Paribas SA cut the maker of sugar,
starch and bakery additives to underperform from neutral,
meaning investors should sell the shares.  Exane said Suedzucker will need significant restructuring
to prosper amid increased competition and lower profits when the
current regulatory regime for the industry ends in 2017.  Nokia (NOK1V)  rallied 34 percent to 3.97 euros, its biggest gain
since at least 1991. The deal with Microsoft includes 3.79
billion euros for the devices unit and 1.65 billion euros for
patents, the companies said. Nokia Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop will step aside to return to Microsoft.  A gauge of European  technology shares  posted the best
performance of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600. Alcatel-Lucent SA rallied 9.2 percent to 2.20 euros, while Ericsson AB
jumped 5 percent to 82.50 kronor.  Dufry climbed 3.4 percent to 130.30 Swiss francs. The
company said it signed long-term contracts with airports in
Brazil and is investing $250 million to $275 million in its
projects in the country.  “ Dufry (DUFN)  will continue to be the leading retailer in
Brazil,” Rene Weber, an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, wrote
in a note to clients today. “With the new contracts, Brazil
will come back as an important growth driver. We view this as a
positive step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  