-- Everbright Sued by Investors in Guangzhou and Shanghai
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-03T07:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/everbright-sued-by-investors-in-guangzhou-and-shanghai.html
Everbright Securities Co. (601788) , ordered
by China’s securities regulator to pay a record 523 million  yuan 
($85 million) for  insider trading , was sued by investors in
Guangzhou and  Shanghai  seeking damages for losses.  Courts in the two cities have received the claims and
haven’t yet decided whether to accept them,  Ye Xiaolei  and Yan
Yiming, lawyers for the investors, said today.  State-controlled Everbright sold exchange-traded funds and
index futures on Aug. 16, before telling the market it had made
23.4 billion yuan of erroneous buy orders, the China Securities
Regulatory Commission said last week. The regulator barred the
company from most proprietary trading, and banned four of its
executives from the market for life.  “These lawsuits show that investors in  China  are
increasingly aware of their legal rights,” said Jessica Fei, a
Beijing-based disputes partner at Herbert Smith Freehills. Many
civil cases are still concluded through court-facilitated
settlements, she said.  The CSRC didn’t reply to a faxed query seeking comments and
three phone calls to Everbright’s offices in Shanghai went
unanswered today. The company hasn’t commented on the CSRC
ruling.  The Guangzhou investor is seeking 70,000 yuan in
compensation from Everbright and the  Shanghai Stock Exchange , Ye
said by telephone from Shenzhen today. The Shanghai investor is
seeking about 99,000 yuan, Yan said by phone from Shanghai.  Beijing-based lawyer  Zhang Yuanzhong  said his firm had been
contacted by investors who claim damages of more than 1 million
yuan for their losses due to the market turmoil. Everbright’s
orders helped push the benchmark Shanghai Composite index from a
loss of as much as 1 percent to a gain of 5.6 percent in two
minutes.  Chinese  securities law  allows investors to file civil suits
for losses arising from insider trading, the CSRC said in the
 statement  that detailed the penalties on Everbright. The
brokerage has the right to request a hearing with the CSRC
before the penalties become final, the regulator said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  