-- Ex-Cheap Trick Drummer Sued Over Director Removal
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-09-03T22:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/ex-cheap-trick-drummer-sued-over-director-removal.html
Three members of the  rock band  Cheap
Trick, which has a string of hits stretching back to the 1970s,
sued the group’s ex-drummer, claiming he was properly ousted as
a director of corporations overseeing the band’s tours and
merchandising.  Band members  Richard Nielsen ,  Thomas Peterson  and  Robin
Zander  contend in the  Delaware Chancery Court  lawsuit that
former drummer  Brad Carlson  was ousted from the group when he
stopped touring with the band and that left him subject to
removal as a corporate director without a unanimous shareholder
vote.  “Since March 2010, Carlson has not performed with the band
as a touring musician,” the group said in the suit, filed Aug.
31 in state court in Wilmington, Delaware. “The plaintiffs were
(and are) free to decide that the defendant is no longer a
member of the band.”  The  Delaware  suit comes more than a month after Carlson,
whose stage name is  Bun E. Carlos , sued his former musical
colleagues in federal court in  Chicago  over his ouster. Carlson
and David Frey, the group’s former manager, contend Cheap
Trick’s current members owe them hundreds of thousands of
dollars in compensation under various agreements.  Christine Lepera , a lawyer representing Carlson in the
Delaware case, didn’t immediately return a call for comment
today on the suit.  ‘Prompt Resolution’  Cheap Trick, formed in Rockford, Illinois, released its
first album in 1977 and had a string of hits over the years
including  “I Want You To Want Me,”  “Dream Police” and
“Surrender.” Zander is the group’s lead vocalist, Nielsen its
lead guitarist and Peterson plays bass guitar, according to the
suit.  The band originally set up corporations to oversee revenues
generated by tours and sales of Cheap Trick merchandise that
gave each member an equal stake and equal voting power. Last
month, the current band members changed the corporations’ bylaws
to oust Carlson as a director.  Lawyers for the current band members said they sued in
Delaware to get a quick resolution of the question of whether
Carlson was properly removed as a corporate director.  “While the dispute at issue in the  Illinois  Federal Action
overlaps with the dispute at issue in this action, a prompt
resolution of the corporate governance dispute is needed and the
Illinois Federal Court is not in a position to provide that
expedited relief,” the band’s attorneys said.  The case is Richard Nielsen v. Brad Carlson, CA No. 8855,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  