-- Exports Pull Czechs Out of Recession as Households Spend Less
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-09-03T10:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/exports-pull-czechs-out-of-recession-as-households-spend-less.html
Rising export demand helped the
 Czech Republic  exit a record-long recession in the second
quarter even as household spending renewed its decline.  The  economy  grew 0.6 percent from the previous three
months, less than the 0.7 percent preliminary estimate published
three weeks ago, the Prague-based statistics office said today.
 Gross domestic product  fell 1.3 percent from a year earlier.  Like other post-communist nations in the European Union,
the Czech Republic is looking to its main trading partners in
the euro area to reignite growth after government cutbacks
curbed spending and investment. The $196 billion  economy  ended a
slump that lasted for six quarters as the central bank reduced
the benchmark  interest rate  to  near zero .  “The latest data confirm the end of the Czech recession,
but the emerging growth is so far driven only by foreign
demand,” Petr Dufek, an analyst at CSOB AS, a unit of KBC Groep
NV in  Prague , said by e-mail. “Domestic demand didn’t do very
well in the second quarter, and investment data were especially
disappointing.”  The Czech koruna weakened 0.1 percent to 25.699 per euro as
of 10:34 a.m. in Prague, extending this year’s decline against
the common currency to 2.3 percent. The yield on 10-year
government debt rose 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 2.41 percent.  Household consumption dropped 0.4 percent from the first
three months after two quarterly increases, while  government
spending  fell 0.7 percent and fixed-capital creation declined
1.5 percent, the statistics office said. Exports rose 3.6
percent, outpacing a 2.5 percent increase in imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  