-- Female Rainmakers Nason, Cook Play Key Role in Verizon Deal
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r ,   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-09-04T12:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/female-rainmakers-nason-cook-play-key-role-in-verizon-deal.html
Two rainmakers who helped seal the
largest acquisition in more than a decade were women: Karen Cook, a 14-year veteran of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s investment
bank in Europe, and Jennifer Nason,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s top
adviser to technology companies.  Cook, 60, a London-based president for Goldman Sachs’s
European business, led the investment bank’s team on the deal.
Goldman Sachs and UBS AG advised  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  on the $130
billion sale of its 45 percent stake in its wireless joint
venture with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  JPMorgan is arranging
$61 billion in financing for Verizon with Morgan Stanley,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Bank of America Corp.  “It’s very unusual in mergers that are this large a size
to find senior bankers who are women,” said Jill Greenthal, an
M&A veteran and senior adviser to Blackstone Group LP who worked
with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  on its aborted $44.6 billion takeover of
Yahoo! Inc. in 2008. “Anytime you see a woman succeed in this
sphere, it’s a strong sign to women who are wondering if the
door’s open or closed to them.”  Less than one-third of executive and senior officials in
finance and insurance are women, even as they account for 59
percent of employees in those fields,  data  collected by the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission show.  Nokia, Cadbury  Alongside Goldman Sachs’s Cook, Vodafone’s advisers
included UBS’s Simon Warshaw, Jonathan Rowley and Christian
Lesueur, while Verizon was advised by Paul Taubman, a Morgan
Stanley veteran who is now working independently, and Guggenheim
Partners LLC’s Andrew Decker, Alan Schwartz and Jim Ferency.  JPMorgan’s Nason, 53, the firm’s Australian-born chairman
of global technology, media and telecom banking in New York,
also had a role advising Nokia on Microsoft Corp.’s proposed
$7.2 billion purchase of the Finnish company’s handset unit,
announced Sept. 2. Other members of JPMorgan’s team on the
Verizon deal included Andy O’Brien and Chris Ventresca.  Nason was among the advisers on Facebook Inc.’s $16 billion
initial public offering last year. Goldman Sachs’s Cook advised
Vodafone on the $10 billion acquisition of Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG, announced in June, and Cadbury Ltd. during its $21
billion hostile takeover by Kraft Foods Inc., which closed in
2010.  “It’s important to see that women on Wall Street are doing
major deals and getting significant press,” said  Jeanne Branthover , head of the global financial services practice at
Boyden Global Executive Search. “But people cannot forget how
few of these women there are.”  Following is a list of some of the bankers and lawyers who
advised the two companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  