-- Fidelity Says Shah to Step Down From Special Situations Fund
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-09-03T13:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/fidelity-says-shah-to-step-down-from-special-situations-fund.html
Fidelity Worldwide Investment said
Sanjeev Shah will step down as manager of the 2.8 billion-pound
($4.4 billion)  Fidelity Special Situations Fund (FIDSPSA) , five years
after taking over from  Anthony Bolton .  Shah, 43, will be replaced by Alex Wright, the money
management firm said in a statement today. Wright will remain
manager of  Fidelity Special Values Plc (FSV)  and co-manager of the
Fidelity U.K. Smaller Companies Fund with Jonathan Winton.  Shah took over from Bolton at the start of 2008, months
before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled
markets worldwide. The fund, started by Bolton in 1979, became
Fidelity’s flagship U.K. product, helping the company to become
the country’s largest asset manager. The pool is ranked top
among its peers in the years since it opened, according to data
compiled by Morningstar Inc.  “He took over the fund from Bolton at a murderous time for
the market,” Mark Dampier, head of investment research at
 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc (HL/) , Britain’s biggest retail broker, said
in a telephone interview. “In the last 18 months or so, the
fund has performed pretty well. There was always pressure on
him, but he stuck to his guns.”  Shah’s performance was initially hurt by the fund’s
holdings of banks in 2010 and 2011, but had started to rebound
in the second quarter of 2012, Dampier said. Since taking over,
he generated a 50.2 percent return, outpacing the FTSE All Share
Index’s 28 percent gain, according to Morningstar. That puts
Shah 42nd in his peer group, the data show.  Values Fund  Shah will hand over full responsibility to Wright in
January to take up a part-time role training portfolio managers
at the firm. He started talks with Fidelity at the beginning of
2013 to step back from running money on a day-to-day basis after
17 years in the industry.  “I am not burnt out in anyway,” he told reporters on a
conference call. “This clearly is a job that requires 110
percent dedication and for personal reasons I don’t want to
maintain that level of focus and discipline as I have done.”  Wright, 34, will see his assets under management increase
fourfold when he takes over. He joined the firm in 2001 as a
research analyst and began running money as portfolio manager of
Fidelity’s U.K. Smaller Companies Fund in February 2008. Since
then, he has generated a 209 percent return, compared with a 72
percent average for his peer group, Morningstar said. He took
over the Special Values fund from Shah 12 months ago.  ‘Same Mindset’  “I have the same value, contrarian approach that Sanjeev
has had for the Special Situations Fund and Anthony before
him,” Wright said. “We have the same mindset looking at
undervalued and unloved areas, which has led us to hold similar
kinds of positions.”  Both fund managers are bullish on the banking industry and
their biggest holdings include  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Wright
said.  Fidelity Worldwide Investment has been independent from
Boston-based Fidelity Management & Research since 1980.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  