-- Florida Dodging Storms Yields Cash as Bonds Suffer: Muni Credit
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-09-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/florida-dodging-storms-yields-cash-as-bonds-suffer-muni-credit.html
Florida ’s government-run insurance
system has amassed record cash reserves as hurricanes bypassed
the state since 2005. That hasn’t helped investors in its bonds,
with some trailing benchmarks by the most since February.  Yields on debt issued by the state-run Citizens Property
Insurance Corp. and the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund
Finance Corp. exceeded top-rated bonds with similar maturities
by the most in six months in August.  That slump probably will persist as money drains from the
$3.7 trillion municipal market, said Justin Land, who helps
manage $3 billion of state and local debt at Naples, Florida-based Wasmer, Schroeder & Co. With yields reaching the highest
since 2011 on bets the  Federal Reserve  will scale back its bond
purchases, munis have lost about 6 percent since Feb. 1, more
than double the declines on Treasuries and corporate borrowings,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  “I would expect some higher rate spreads” amid broader
losses in munis, said Land, whose firm holds hurricane bonds.
The constant threat that a storm may strike the region also
could foster concern that the bonds will suffer, he said.  Recalling Wilma  The last hurricane to make landfall in the state was Wilma
in October 2005, and August passed without an Atlantic hurricane
for the first time since 2002.  Colorado State University forecasters had predicted as of
Aug. 2 an above-average probability of a U.S. and Caribbean
“major hurricane landfall,” this season, which extends through
November. There’s a 28 percent chance this year that Florida
will be hit by a major storm with winds of at least 111 miles
(179 kilometers) an hour, they said last month. That’s up from
an average of 21 percent from 1950 to 2000.  Florida isn’t the only state that issues debt to hedge
against natural disasters.  Louisiana ,  North Carolina  and  Texas 
have government-run windstorm pools to provide insurance in
high-risk areas.  California  has a state-run earthquake insurance
system.  Citizens, whose policies cover homeowners and businesses,
and the catastrophe fund, which helps other Florida insurers
limit risk, were set up after  Hurricane Andrew  in 1992. One of
the century’s most destructive storms, it did an estimated $26
billion in damage, mostly near Miami, leveling 49,000 homes and
leaving at least 26 people dead, U.S. National Weather Service
records show.  Cash Preparation  During an unprecedented streak in which no hurricanes made
landfall in Florida, Citizens and the catastrophe fund built
combined reserves of $16.6 billion as they borrowed to prepare
for the next Andrew-sized storm and to avoid taking money from
Floridians to refill their coffers.  Both agencies can levy charges on consumers after a storm
to raise cash, if needed. State lawmakers have pushed them to
increase reserves to avoid that step.  That has boosted borrowing by Citizens and the catastrophe
fund. The insurer last sold tax-exempt hurricane bonds in June
2012, with a $1.3 billion offering, while the reinsurance agency
raised $2 billion in April.  Tax-exempt Citizens bonds maturing in June 2021 traded Aug.
22 at an average yield of 3.82 percent, or about 1.2 percentage
points more than benchmark debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg that screens for trades of at least $1 million. That
was the widest spread since at least February.  Largest Gap  Federally taxable bonds issued by the catastrophe fund that
mature in July 2020 traded Aug. 21 with an average yield as high
as about 4.4 percent, or about 2.2 percentage points above its
benchmark, also using trades of at least $1 million. That’s the
largest gap since the bonds were sold in April.  Hurricane bonds offer value because the threat of natural
disasters in Florida isn’t correlated to other risks in the
financial markets, Land said.  Citizens, Florida’s largest real-estate insurer, covers
almost 20 percent of the state’s property. The Citizens bonds
maturing in 2021 are rated A+ by  Standard & Poor’s , its fifth-highest grade.  The $2 billion the catastrophe fund raised in April was its
biggest offering since 2007, said  Jack Nicholson , the agency’s
director. That brought its reserves to about $11.8 billion.  “We’re in the best shape we’ve ever been in,” Nicholson
said. “The only thing that would stress the Cat fund would be a
major event, a once-in-100-years type storm.”  Sandy Example  Florida lawmakers have spent much of the past two years
urging Citizens to prepare for a storm like  Hurricane Sandy ,
which devastated coastal areas from  New Jersey  to  Connecticut  in
October.  Last year, Citizens, which covers 1.2 million properties,
also sold $750 million in catastrophe bonds into the corporate
market to raise capital in case losses exceed a certain
threshold. These bonds differ from the revenue-backed muni debt
sold by Citizens, providing buyers with higher returns in
exchange for risking a loss of principle.  Investors in the catastrophe bonds could lose the entire
$750 million if a major hurricane hits Florida this year,
Citizens documents show. If the reserve created by the sale goes
untouched into 2014, investors will earn about 18 percent or
more, according to Citizens. The insurer sold another $250
million in such securities in March.  Streak Survives  Florida’s hurricane-less streak going on eight seasons is
the longest on record, according to 162 years of data collected
by the National Hurricane Center in Miami.  From 1851 to 2004, 273 of the storms struck the U.S.
mainland, according to the center. Florida led the lower 48
states with 110 making landfall, including 35 of Category 3 or
stronger.  Florida is financially prepared for another storm like
Andrew, Nicholson said. Even so, a direct hit on a major
population center such as Miami or Tampa may cause much more
damage than Andrew, he said. The 1992 category 5 hurricane
struck near Homestead with winds  estimated  at 165 miles an hour.  “We’re in good shape, but that’s not to say things
couldn’t get really bad in a hurry,” he said. “Hurricane
season’s not even close to being over.”  In the nationwide market for new issues, municipalities
plan to offer about $2.4 billion of bonds this week, which was
shortened by yesterday’s Labor Day holiday.  The localities are selling with benchmark yields closed to
a two-year high. At  3.09 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year
munis compare with about  2.78 percent  for similar-maturity
Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields is about  111 percent , compared with
an average of 93 percent since 2001. The greater the figure, the
cheaper munis are relative to Treasuries.  Following is a pending sale:  The Board of Regents of the Texas A&M University System
plans to sell about $353 million of taxable revenue bonds as
soon as Sept. 4 to finance a redesign of the football stadium at
the flagship  College Station  campus, according to offering
documents. The revamped venue would seat 102,500, making it the
third-largest in the U.S. Moody’s gives the debt its top grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  