-- Forint Weakens to 4-Month Low on Loan Concern: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-09-03T14:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/forint-weakens-to-4-month-low-on-loan-concern-budapest-mover.html
The forint dropped to a four-month
low after Magyar Nemzet reported a leader of the ruling Fidesz
party as saying banks must bear most of the cost of phasing out
foreign-currency loans.  Hungary ’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 302.28 per
euro by 3:46 p.m. in Budapest, the weakest on a closing basis
since April 26. Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year
bonds rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.66
percent.  The state and borrowers will share the burden, albeit to a
much smaller degree, the newspaper reported today, citing an
interview with Antal Rogan, Fidesz’s parliamentary group leader.
An immediate conversion of foreign-currency loans would cost
banks about 950 billion forint ($4.2 billion), Sandor Csanyi,
chief executive officer of OTP Bank Nyrt., said in an ATV
interview late yesterday.  “The key local factor in Hungary is the uncertainty over
the foreign-currency borrowers’ rescue package, which is having
an impact on the forint,” Pal Saaghy, a Budapest-based currency
trader at broker Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., said by phone today.
“Rogan’s comment showed the burden is increasingly shifting
toward the banks.”  Shares in OTP fell 0.9 percent to 4,270 forint, extending
the decline to 15 percent since July 16 when the government said
it wants to eliminate foreign-currency mortgages. The forint
depreciated 3.1 percent against the common European currency in
the same period.  Final Plan  The government will finalize the relief plans for borrowers
by the end of December, Janos Lazar, the prime minister’s chief
of staff, told news website Vasarhely24.  While OTP would survive any type of relief plan, an
immediate currency conversion for loans may have “fatal”
consequences for the wider economy, Csanyi said.  “Csanyi threw in a rather large number for the losses in
case of total forint conversion, which probably increased the
risks for the forint,” Equilor’s Saaghy said.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.2 percent today,
erasing earlier gains, after  Russia ’s state-run news service RIA
Novosti reported the detection of a missile launch in the
Mediterranean. Israel said later that it was testing a missile-defense system.  Should the forint close weaker than 302 per euro, it would
open the way for a further slide to 304.5, said Szilard Denes, a
Budapest-based currency trader at MKB Bank Zrt.,  Bayerische
Landesbank ’s Hungarian unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  