-- Former NBA Player Dennis Rodman Makes Second Trip to North Korea
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-03T13:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/former-nba-player-dennis-rodman-makes-second-trip-to-north-korea.html
Retired National Basketball
Association player Dennis Rodman arrived in  North Korea  days
after the North rejected a visit by a U.S. envoy seeking the
release of a jailed American.  Rodman’s arrival today was announced in a one-sentence
statement carried by the North’s Korean Central News Agency.
During a stop in Beijing, Rodman, 52, said he just wanted to see
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, whom he called “my friend,”
according to The  Associated Press .  The trip comes after the North revoked an invitation for a
visit by Robert King, the U.S. State Department’s special envoy
on North Korean  human rights , to negotiate the release of tour
operator Kenneth Bae, who has been held since November. North
Korea said it canceled King’s invitation over U.S. military
drills with the South.  Rodman declined to say whether he would seek Bae’s release,
according to AP. He visited Pyongyang in February with the
Harlem Globetrotters in a trip orchestrated by VICE, a  Brooklyn ,
New York-based media company.  Bae is serving a sentence of 15 years of hard labor for
alleged hostile acts against the country. The U.S. is concerned
about Bae’s health and urges North Korea to release him on
humanitarian grounds, State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf
said in an earlier e-mailed statement.  Rodman won five NBA championships and was inducted into the
 Basketball Hall of Fame  in 2011. A seven-time NBA rebounding
champion, Rodman is known for his tattoos, multicolored hair,
piercings and outlandish behavior, such as competing in
professional wrestling events.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  