-- Gazprom Quarterly Net Rises 5.3% After Reversing Price Cuts
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-09-03T10:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/gazprom-quarterly-net-rises-5-3-after-reversing-price-discount.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZD) , the world’s biggest
natural gas producer, said net income rose 5.3 percent in the
first quarter after exporting more fuel and paying less to
clients for retroactive discounts than planned.  Profit rose to 381 billion rubles ($11.4 billion) from 361
billion rubles in the same period a year earlier, the Moscow-based company  said  today on its website. That was less than the
average estimate of 386 billion rubles from 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Gazprom, which provides a quarter of  Europe ’s gas,
renegotiated some agreements with utilities that lost billions
of euros after the 2008 crisis cut demand and made spot gas
cheaper than under the Russian company’s long-term contracts. In
June,  RWE AG (RWE)  won a price revision that was “far” from its
original demands, Gazprom said at the time. Exports rebounded
this year on colder weather after a slump last year.  “The second quarter will also be strong,” Timur Salikhov,
an oil and gas analyst at BCS Financial Group in Moscow, said by
phone. “Even if seasonally it’s a weak quarter, export volumes
were more impressive than last year.”  Gazprom shares rose 0.8 percent to 132.51 rubles at 12:23
p.m. in Moscow.  RWE Arbitration  Revenue jumped 19 percent to 1.46 trillion rubles. Gazprom
added 73.4 billion rubles to revenue after cutting previously
recognized obligations on retroactive payments to European
clients following adjustments of gas prices in its long-term
supply contracts. Gazprom cut revenue by 78.5 billion rubles for
retroactive payments in the first quarter of 2012.  RWE’s arbitration ruling added 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) to first-half operating profit, Bernhard Guenther,
Chief Financial Officer of  Germany ’s second-biggest utility,
said on Aug. 14.  “The reversal is a one-off non-recurring event that we
won’t see in the second quarter,” Salikhov said.  Gazprom, which reports quarterly earnings later than other
Russian oil and gas companies, benefited from colder than usual
weather across Europe. Exports jumped as much as 60 percent on
some days in March, compared with the same period a year
earlier, Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller said in April.  Playing Catch-Up  Russian gas shipments to Europe and  Turkey  in the first
eight months of this year rose 14 percent to 105.2 billion cubic
meters, the highest level since at least 2010, according to data
from Gazprom Export. Gazprom is benefiting from utilities
replenishing stores as liquefied natural gas producers shift
supply to  Asia  where prices are higher than Europe.  “European gas is the key  cash-flow  driver for Gazprom and
makes the investment case for Gazprom a ‘now-or-never,’”  Oswald
Clint , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said today in
an e-mailed report. The second half of the year “is the
inflection point for Gazprom as European inventories play catch-up into winter in a tight gas market.”  Free cash flow amounted to 114 billion rubles in the
period, compared with 221 billion rubles a year earlier,
according to Gazprom’s financial statement.  Net revenue from sales to the former Soviet republics, of
which Ukraine is the biggest buyer, declined 16 percent,
according to today’s report. Supplies to Ukraine, its biggest
market outside western Europe and Turkey, slumped 19 percent,
according to information  posted  earlier on Gazprom’s website.
Ukraine, seeking lower gas prices, is shifting purchases from
Gazprom to Hungary and  Poland , using pipelines in reverse.  Ukraine Margin  “There has been a decline for the former  Soviet Union ,
which is sensitive because Ukraine always gives quite a good
margin,”  Alexei Kokin , senior oil and gas analyst at UralSib
Capital, said by phone.  Gazprom’s management may comment at a conference call later
today on the debate on whether the gas exporter should decouple
its contracts from the oil price and switch to spot prices, as
well as provide guidance on European exports this year, Sberbank
CIB said in a note yesterday.  “For the market, it’s important what’s happening now with
exports, to Europe and Ukraine,” UralSib’s Kokin said. “It
will also be important to hear about retroactive payments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  