-- German Stocks Decline as ThyssenKrupp, Suedzucker Retreat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-03T15:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/german-stocks-decline-as-thyssenkrupp-suedzucker-retreat.html
German stocks  fell, after the  DAX (DAX) 
Index yesterday rallied the most in eight weeks, as investors
weighed an unexpected increase in a U.S. manufacturing index to
gauge the outlook for  Federal Reserve  stimulus.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  fell 1.7 percent after a report that
Germany’s biggest steelmaker may halt the planned sale of its
Steel Americas unit.  Suedzucker AG (SZU) , which makes sugar, starch
and bakery additives, tumbled 12 percent after Exane BNP Paribas
downgraded the shares. LEG Immobilien GmbH rose as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. upgraded its recommendation for the stock.  The DAX slid 0.8 percent to 8,180.71 at the close in
Frankfurt, after climbing 1.7 percent yesterday. The measure
lost 3.7 percent last week on concern the U.S. will take
military action against Syria for deadly chemical-weapons
attacks. The broader HDAX Index retreated 0.7 percent today.  The Federal Reserve holds a policy meeting on Sept. 17-18
to decide whether to slow the pace of its bond-purchase program.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said that the central bank may
consider tapering if the employment outlook improves
substantially and the economy grows as forecast.  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 manufacturing  index climbed to 55.7 in August from the prior
month’s 55.4, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed
today. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and
contraction. The median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for 54.  ThyssenKrupp retreated 1.7 percent to 15.99 euros after
 Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  said the company was halting the
divestment of its Steel Americas business. The steelmaker said
that it is still in talks to sell the units.  Suedzucker tumbled 12 percent to 21.84 euros, for its
biggest decrease since at least 1998. Exane downgraded the
shares to underperform from neutral, projecting a drop in future
earnings as the company may have to spend more on restructuring
and investments.  LEG Immobilien,  Germany ’s largest residential landlord by
market value, increased 0.8 percent to 41.93 euros after
JPMorgan upgraded the shares to overweight, a rating similar to
buy, from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  