-- Ghanaian Minister Says Plan to Halve Deficit Succeeding
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-09-03T10:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/ghanaian-minister-says-plan-to-halve-deficit-succeeding.html
Ghana’s plan to trim its  budget
deficit  by half over three years by containing public-sector pay
increases and raising taxes is showing initial signs of success,
Finance Minister Seth Terkper said.  The government is on track to achieve its deficit-reduction
target of 9 percent of gross domestic production this year from
12.1 percent in 2012 when spending rose in the run-up to
elections, Terkper said on Sept. 1.  “The deficit keeps improving,” he said in an interview in
the capital, Accra.  As the economy grows faster than the sub-Saharan African
average and the government “moderates” salary increases for
public servants, the fiscal gap is forecast to narrow to 5
percent and 6 percent of GDP by 2015, he said.  Expansion  in West
Africa’s second-largest economy is forecast at 6.9 percent this
year versus 4.8 percent for the continent south of Sahara,
according to estimates from the  International Monetary Fund .  The world’s second-largest cocoa exporter and an oil-producing nation since 2010 is implementing austerity measures
including the reduction of fuel and utility subsidies, combined
with higher revenue by adding at least four new taxes. The state
wants to lower the wage bill to between 30 percent and 35
percent of tax income by 2015 from 72 percent last year.  Cedi Weakening  Ghana’s cedi has weakened the most among African currencies
this year, after the South African rand, slumping 11.6 percent
against the dollar as a presidential election result was
disputed in court, creating political uncertainty. The country’s
 Supreme Court  last week upheld the December win of President
John Dramani Mahama, rejecting a challenge by opposition leader
Nana Akufo-Addo, who accepted the ruling.  “With the dispute out of the way, we expect the cedi to
stabilize,” Terkper said, declining to provide a forecast. The
currency traded unchanged at a record low for the third
consecutive day at 2.155 per dollar by 9:10 a.m. in Accra  Ghana  is moving toward lowering “political and credit
risks to a more conducive investment climate,” Terkper said.
“We are seeing positive signs and expect the economy to perform
strongly toward the end of the year and into 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  