-- Ghosn to Broaden Renault Operations Role After COO Leaves
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-09-03T11:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/ghosn-to-broaden-renault-operations-role-after-coo-leaves.html
Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Ghosn will take more direct control of day-to-day
operations at  France ’s second-largest automaker following the
departure of Chief Operating Officer Carlos Tavares last week.  Two new managing boards will be set up and report to Ghosn,
the manufacturer, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt, said today in a statement. One set of executives
will focus on developing and building vehicles, while the other
will be responsible for marketing and sales. The arrangement
eliminates the COO position and is permanent, Raluca Barb, a
spokeswoman, said by phone.  Tavares, 55, was the second executive in five years to hold
the chief operating officer position. The management
reorganization concentrates operational responsibility at
Renault in the hands of Ghosn, 59, who also runs Japanese
carmaker  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and the two manufacturers’ 14-year-old
production and sales alliance.  The model-producing managers, dubbed the competitiveness
group, will “reinforce the development of an attractive product
range” while ensuring vehicle quality and holding back costs,
Renault said. The sales executives in the so-called performance
group will focus on “growth, market share and profitability of
sales.” The company didn’t specify who will lead either board.  Potential Successors  “This strengthens Ghosn’s position and makes Renault’s
management organization closer to that of a German company” or
to Paris-based competitor  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , said Philippe Houchois, a London-based analyst with UBS Ltd, by phone. “This
will also enlarge the circle of executive board members that
could aspire to lead the company in about five years.”  Renault  fell  as much as 2.3 percent to 52.87 euros, the
lowest intraday price since July 3, and was trading down 0.1
percent at 1:03 p.m. in Paris. That pared the stock’s gain this
year to 33 percent, valuing the manufacturer at 16 billion euros
($21 billion).  Tavares, who joined Renault more than 30 years ago as a
test-driving engineer, stepped down two weeks after publicly
saying that he’d like to run  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  He said in a Bloomberg interview published Aug. 14 that
Ghosn planned to stay at Renault for the foreseeable future and
therefore he was interested in running a U.S. car company
instead.  Labor Accord  Under Tavares, Renault reported  unexpected growth  in first-half profit as labor-cost reductions and higher vehicle prices
more than offset an industrywide slump in European deliveries.
He was also instrumental in pushing through a deal with unions
in March to cut Renault’s French workforce 17 percent and freeze
wages in exchange for not closing domestic plants for three
years.  The company is targeting more sales outside Europe to
reduce reliance on its home region. Renault, which also owns no-frills carmaker Dacia, is reviving the Alpine sports-car marque
and expanding the Initiale Paris insignia into a luxury brand
under a strategy that Tavares outlined last year to add premium
models to increase earnings.  “Tavares left because of a lack of professional
perspective for him,” Houchois said. “He’s a relentless
executive with strong principles who isn’t afraid to make
enemies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  