-- South African Gold Miners Set for Strike Later Today
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-09-03T10:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/gold-miners-set-to-start-strike-as-south-africa-stoppages-spread.html
(Corrects spelling of Zuma in fifth paragraph.)  South African gold producers are
braced for a strike later today when 90,000 National Union of
Mineworkers members are due to join 120,000 workers who have
downed tools in other parts of the continent’s largest economy.  “Talks have continued with the unions, but we’re still
anticipating a strike by the NUM,” Charmane Russell, an
external spokeswoman for the country’s Chamber of Mines at
Russell & Associates, said today by phone from Johannesburg.  The strike is expected to start at 6 p.m., as night shifts
commence,  Lesiba Seshoka , an NUM spokesman, said by mobile
phone.  Members of the NUM, which represents 64 percent of
employees, will stop working after the chamber failed to meet
demands for wage increases of as much as 60 percent for entry
level workers. The chamber, which represents members including
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) , has made a final
offer to boost pay by 6 percent to 6.5 percent for about 142,000
workers.  Strikes cut 0.5 percentage point off gross domestic product
last year, when at least 44 people, including 34 killed by
police in one day, died near the operations of  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the
third-largest platinum producer. Stoppages have already shaved
30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage point, off GDP this year,
President Jacob Zuma said on June 13.  Police ‘Prepared’  The South African Police Service is “fully prepared to
maintain stability in the country and to ensure that safety
prevails during any intended strike action,” SAPS spokesman
Solomon Makgale said yesterday in an e-mailed response to
questions.  About 30,000 workers at plants operated by car
manufacturers including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  have been on strike since Aug. 19,
while 90,000 employees at building companies have stopped work.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union,
which represents 17 percent of gold miners at the pay talks,
hasn’t accepted the producers’ wage offer, or indicated whether
it will strike, Russell said.  AMCU members will report for duty, union President Joseph
Mathunjwa said in a phone interview today. “There’s still an
avenue, we’re still open to negotiation,” Mathunjwa said.  The AMCU is the biggest union at AngloGold Ashanti’s
Mponeng, Sibanye Gold’s Driefontein and Harmony Gold Mining
Co.’s Kusasalethu operations. All three are close to
Carletonville, about 80 kilometers (50 miles) west of
Johannesburg.  Trade union UASA, which represents 6.9 percent of workers,
on Aug. 30 accepted the chamber’s offer, Russell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  