-- Griffin Named Redskins’ Starting QB After Offseason Knee Surgery
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-03T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/griffin-named-redskins-starting-qb-after-offseason-knee-surgery.html
Washington Redskins quarterback
Robert Griffin III will start the team’s first game of the
regular season this weekend, eight months after surgery to
repair a torn ligament in his knee.  Griffin, 23, has practiced the past two weeks without
complications, coach  Mike Shanahan  told reporters yesterday. The
Redskins open their National Football League season on Sept. 9
against the division-rival  Philadelphia Eagles .  “He’s gotten a lot of great reps in practice, no setbacks,
no swelling,” Shanahan said. “We believe he can do everything
a quarterback is asked to do.”  A Pro Bowl selection in his rookie season, Griffin was
injured in the Redskins’ playoff loss to the  Seattle Seahawks  on
Jan. 6. He had surgery three days later to repair a torn lateral
collateral ligament and clean up a previous procedure on the
anterior cruciate ligament of his right knee.  Shanahan said James Andrews, the doctor who performed the
surgery, expressed some concerns about Griffin’s knee before the
team’s preseason finale and again on a conference call that also
included Griffin and General Manager Bruce Allen. Shanahan
didn’t elaborate on those concerns yesterday, saying there are
certain conversations that stay between a doctor and a player.  “You’ll have to trust us that the doctor feels good about
it regardless of what those concerns were,” Shanahan said.  The recovery time for torn knee ligaments typically varies
from six months to a year.  Minnesota Vikings  running back  Adrian Peterson  started the 2012 season less than nine months after
tearing his ACL and rushed for 2,097 yards, the NFL’s best
single-season total since 1984.  Griffin was the second overall pick in the 2012  NFL Draft 
after winning the Heisman Trophy as the nation’s top college
player. He threw for 20 touchdowns and 3,200 yards, and rushed
for another 815 yards and seven scores last season as the
Redskins won their first National Football Conference East title
since 1999.  He was named AP Offensive Rookie of the Year and had the
highest-selling jersey in the NFL last season.  “He’s ready to go,” Shanahan said. “Full speed ahead.”  -- Editor: Erik Matuszewski, Nancy Kercheval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  