-- Gundlach’s DoubleLine Fund Has Third Month of Net Redemptions
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-09-03T19:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/gundlach-s-doubleline-fund-has-third-month-of-net-redemptions.html
Jeffrey Gundlach ’s  DoubleLine Total
Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) , which has beaten 97 percent of rivals over the
past three years, had its third straight month of net
withdrawals as investors continued to flee bonds.  Clients pulled an estimated $1.1 billion from the $36.8
billion fund in August, according to research firm  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN)  The fund had $1.2 billion of net redemptions in June, its
first monthly withdrawals since opening in April 2010, followed
by redemptions of $580 million in July, Chicago-based
Morningstar said.  Fixed-income fund withdrawals were triggered by U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, who told Congress on May
22 that the central bank could start reducing its bond purchases
and is prepared to begin phasing out one of the most aggressive
easing programs in its century-long history later this year.
Investors pulled $17.1 billion from U.S. bond funds last month
through Aug. 21, according to  estimates  from the  Investment
Company Institute .  Gundlach said in an interview in April that shrinking
market returns would prompt an end to the rush of investor money
into bond funds, including his. Gundlach co-founded Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP in December 2009 after he was
dismissed from TCW Group Inc. over a dispute.  A phone call and e-mail to Loren Fleckenstein, an analyst
at DoubleLine Capital, weren’t immediately returned.  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund declined  0.9 percent  this
year, ahead of 87 percent of similarly managed funds, and has
advanced 7 annually percent over the past three years to beat 97
percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morningstar estimates deposits or withdrawals for mutual
funds by computing the change in assets on a monthly basis that
isn’t accounted for by performance. The fund’s actual
withdrawals or deposits may differ from Morningstar’s estimates
because of the timing of purchases and redemptions or dividend
distributions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  