-- Li Confident China Will Achieve Year’s Economic Goals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-03T04:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/li-confident-china-will-achieve-year-s-economic-goals.html
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said he’s
confident that the nation will achieve the year’s economic goals,
adding to signs that  China  will meet 7.5 percent growth target.  Recent data show employment and  prices  are stable and
market expectations have “apparently” improved, Li said in a
speech today at the China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, China, that was
broadcast on state television. The economy has “maintained
stable development” since the first half and “confidence is
increasing,” Li said.  The comments build on data this week showing manufacturing
strengthened last month, while trade and industrial production
topped analysts’ estimates in July. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
researchers today boosted their 2013  growth  estimate to 7.6
percent from 7.4 percent, joining Credit Suisse Group AG,
Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in raising projections.  “We are able to and have conditions to meet China’s major
economic and social development tasks this year,” Li said. “We
are also determined to lay a sound foundation for next year, for
the future and for long-term sustainable and healthy economic
development.”  The Shanghai Composite  Index (CPMINDX)  of stocks rose 0.5 percent at
the 11:30 a.m. local-time break.  The government signaled in July that it will defend its
economic-growth target for the year after expansion slowed for a
second quarter. China, the world’s second-largest economy, has
announced what Bank of America Corp. called a “small stimulus”
consisting of measures including tax breaks for small companies
and accelerated railway construction.  Growth Streak  The economy expanded 7.5 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, extending the longest streak of sub-8 percent
growth in at least two decades.  China is concerned about the challenges of capital outflows,
currency depreciation and rising inflation that some Asian
countries face amid expectations that developed nations will
stop monetary-easing policies, Li said today.  The U.S. Federal Reserve this month will probably reduce
its bond buying, according to 65 percent of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs, in a report today, cited a pickup in
industrial growth and other indicators over the past few months,
along with “improving global demand and the tighter but still
accommodative policy stance.” The investment bank left its 2014
growth forecast unchanged at 7.7 percent.  An official Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing
rose to a 16-month high in August, while a similar index from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed the biggest gain
in three years, according to data released earlier this week. A
government PMI for service industries fell to 53.9 in August
from 54.1 in July, a report showed today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net ;
Hu Shen in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  