-- Microbubble Venture for Cleaning Wafers to Wardrobes Plans IPO
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-09-03T21:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/microbubble-venture-for-cleaning-wafers-to-wardrobes-plans-ipo.html
Opt Creation Inc. , a Japanese
venture developing technology that could lead to less waste in
chip manufacturing and detergent-free washing machines, plans an
initial public offering on the  Nasdaq (CCMP)  Composite Index.  The Yokohama, Japan-based company is developing a process
that uses water infused with gas bubbles to clean semiconductor
wafers, Chief Executive Officer Junichi Iida said in an
interview last week. The process may cut costs and reduce the
use of sulfuric acid used for cleansing.  Opt Creation aims to raise as much as 10 billion yen ($100
million) by selling American depositary receipts by March 2015,
according to Iida. The company has started talks with a bank and
law firm to prepare for the listing, he said, declining to
identify them.  “We have chosen  Nasdaq  because the U.S. is the leading
nation for developers in the area of new technologies, including
microbubble,” Iida, 55, said in Yokohama last week. “We want
to be the world’s No. 1 developer in this area.”  Ubic Inc. (2158)  is the latest Japanese company to list American
depository receipts on the Nasdaq, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ADRs, which began trading in May, have fallen 21
percent this year, compared with a 19 percent gain for the
Nasdaq Composite Index.  Opt Creation is also studying how its technology might be
used to clean clothes in a detergent-less washing machine,
according to Iida. Opt Creation’s process enables ozone gas-containing microbubbles to sterilize for seven months, compared
with other existing processes where the gas dissipates within a
few minutes, he said.  20-Micrometers  The bubbles are about 20-micrometers in diameter, or
several times thinner than a human hair.  “The existing water for semiconductor wafer cleaning
usually contains sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide,” said
Masamichi Kobayashi, a spokesman for the Semiconductor Equipment
Association of  Japan . Opt Creation’s technology would cut
manufacturing costs, he said.  Opt Creation’s microbubble technology may also be used in
the medical industry, according to Iida. The company’s study
shows the process is able to kill coliform bacterias and treat
some types of periodontal disease, he said.  Opt Creation estimates revenue will more than double to 1.2
billion yen in the 12 months ending March 2014, from 500 million
yen a year earlier, Iida said. The company wants to boost annual
sales to 10 billion yen in the next five years, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  