-- Microsoft-Nokia Deal Timing Leaves ValueAct Fewer Options
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-09-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/microsoft-nokia-deal-timing-leaves-valueact-fewer-options.html
The timing of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
agreement to acquire  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s handset unit leaves activist
shareholder ValueAct Holdings LP with fewer options to oppose a
transaction some investors don’t favor, according to Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  ValueAct last week won an agreement from the world’s
largest software maker that would give it a seat on the
company’s board next year, along with guaranteed regular
meetings between ValueAct’s President Mason Morfit and
“selected Microsoft directors and management.”  The agreement was seen by analysts as a concession from
Microsoft. In return, ValueAct said it wouldn’t pursue or
participate in a proxy contest. ValueAct Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Ubben has praised Microsoft’s business software and
Internet-based cloud services, and a person with knowledge of
the matter has said the shareholder wants Microsoft to focus on
those products rather than consumer technology.  Microsoft’s announcement this week that it agreed to buy
Nokia’s handset unit and license its patents for 5.44 billion
euros ($7.2 billion) moves the company in more of a consumer
direction.  Yet “now that ValueAct has entered its standstill
agreement, it is not clear what alternatives ValueAct may have
to respond to shareholder dissatisfaction with the Nokia deal,”
Sherlund wrote in a note yesterday.  A share decline of as much as 6.3 percent following the
unveiling of the transaction will result in ValueAct pushing for
changes including increasing dividend payments and share
buybacks, Sherlund wrote.  No Knowledge  Microsoft General Counsel  Brad Smith , when asked yesterday
on a conference call with investors whether ValueAct knew about
the Nokia discussions before signing the cooperation pact, said,
“The answer is no. You would not expect the company to disclose
material, non-public information to an entity that doesn’t have
an appropriate non-disclosure agreement.”  Representatives for ValueAct didn’t return calls for
comment on the Microsoft-Nokia deal. Sherlund didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Amy Hood said in an
interview yesterday that she looks forward to talking to
ValueAct’s Morfit and that any conversations would remain
private.  Microsoft  shares  fell 4.6 percent to $31.88 at the close in
 New York , after earlier trading as low as $31.29.  More Cash  ValueAct in April had disclosed a stake of about $1.9
billion in Microsoft. The investor has been seeking a return of
more cash to shareholders, according to a person with knowledge
of the matter. Microsoft has  $77 billion  in cash and
investments.  Last week, Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said
ValueAct has the option of having Morfit become a director
beginning at the first quarterly board meeting of 2014. The
announcement came at a deadline for proxy contests and other
matters for the company’s November shareholder meeting, and
during a period of drastic change for Microsoft. The company
said last month that CEO  Steve Ballmer  would be retiring within
12 months.  Microsoft’s board has established a search committee to
seek a new CEO. If Morfit joins as a director next year, he
could become involved in the search if a successor to Ballmer
hasn’t yet been found.  Microsoft said ValueAct owns about 0.8 percent of its
shares outstanding and has $12 billion under management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  