-- India Moves Bill Favoring FDI in Pension Funds for First Time
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-09-03T10:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/india-moves-bill-favoring-fdi-in-pension-funds-for-first-time.html
India’s Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram moved a bill allowing overseas investment in the
country’s pension funds for the first time, as the government
tries to revive economic growth and stem the rupee’s slide.  He introduced an amendment in parliament today recommending
26 percent ownership by foreign companies in local businesses
selling pensions. The threshold for foreign direct investment in
pensions will be kept in line with the cap for insurance, which
was opened to overseas companies in 2000. The legislation needs
the approval of the lower and upper houses.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is pushing for the changes
after winning parliamentary backing last week for two key bills
appealing to India’s poor voters as he seeks to return his party
to power in elections next year. His second term has been marred
by graft scandals, the  weakest growth  in a decade and capital
outflows that contributed to the rupee’s 19 percent plunge
against the dollar this year.  “This is a token reform aimed at investors after passing
two very populist policies,” said P. Phani Sekhar, a  fund
manager  at Mumbai-based Angel Broking Ltd. “It is coming too
late in the day to restore any confidence in the reformist
credentials of this government.”  The measure is unlikely to reverse any of  India ’s economic
woes because it will take foreign companies at least six months
to strike any deals with local partners as they navigate rules
and regulations, Sekhar said.  The pension bill will also give statutory power to the
country’s pension regulator, which has been functioning as an
interim body for a decade without parliamentary approval. The
government is aiming to win support from the opposition for the
legislation by accepting some of their suggestions.  Allowing foreign firms to invest in pension funds will
bring in new practices, products and higher operating margins,
according to Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based analyst at SMC
Global Securities Ltd.  The government is also negotiating with opposition parties
to raise the FDI cap in insurance to 49 percent from the current
26 percent. That bill is pending in parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  