-- India Rupee Declines on Concern Capital Outflows to Intensify
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-09-03T05:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/india-rupee-declines-on-concern-capital-outflows-to-intensify.html
India ’s rupee fell for the second
day on concern capital outflows will rise as the U.S. prepares
to pare stimulus, increasing the currency’s vulnerability to the
current-account deficit and a weak external debt position.  Global funds pulled a net $2.3 billion from Indian stocks
and bonds last month, exchange data show, before the Federal
Open Market Committee meets Sept. 17-18 to decide on when to
taper its monthly bond purchases. India’s gross domestic product
grew in the second quarter at the  slowest  pace since 2009, which
could worsen the highest external-debt-to-GDP ratio in 12 years
and push policy makers to try and bolster foreign-exchange
reserves that dropped to the lowest since 2010.  “The weak external position puts the currency under
pressure and therefore limits policy makers’ ability to boost
growth,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in Mumbai. “Financing the current account is the single biggest
concern for India right now.”  The rupee weakened 1.2 percent to 66.8275 per dollar as of
10:23 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It plunged 8.1 percent last month, the
biggest drop since March 1992 and the steepest decline among 78
global currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It touched an
unprecedented 68.845 on Aug. 28.  India’s current-account deficit widened to a record 4.8
percent of GDP in the year ended March 31. The government’s
target of limiting the shortfall to 3.7 percent this year would
be higher than the 2.5 percent the central bank considers
sustainable.  Rajan ’Hamstrung’  The nation’s economic growth slowed to 4.4 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, compared with the 4.7 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, official data showed last
week. One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
five basis points today to 21.21 percent, still the highest
among 24  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  Raghuram Rajan, who is credited with predicting the 2008
financial crisis, takes charge as governor of the Reserve Bank
of India on Sept. 5 as Duvvuri Subbarao’s term ends. A weak
rupee boosts price pressures as India imports about 80 percent
of its oil.  “Monetary policy is hamstrung by currency volatility and
concomitant risks to inflation and external imbalances,”
Radhika Rao, an economist at DBS Bank Ltd. in  Singapore , wrote
in a research note today. “India lacks catalysts to
reinvigorate growth, save for fiscal support.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 1.2 percent to
68.38 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show, Offshore non-deliverable contracts declined 0.9 percent to 68.85. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  