-- Indonesian Tin Smelters Stop Exports on Exchange Trading Delay
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-09-03T11:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/indonesian-tin-smelters-stop-exports-on-exchange-trading-delay.html
Thirty Indonesian tin smelters have
stopped ingot shipments this month because of a delay in
regulatory approval to start physical trading on a local
exchange in the world’s largest exporter of the metal.  The smelters with a total production capacity of about
10,000 tonnes per month have committed to trade Serumpun Tin
contracts at the Jakarta Futures Exchange and have yet to
receive trading permits, Hidayat Arsani, president of the
Indonesian Tin Mining Association, said today. The independent
smelters accounted for about 70 percent of the country’s
shipments last year, according to trade ministry data.  The stoppage follows Indonesian rules requiring ingots for
export to be traded locally from Aug. 30 and higher purity
standards. Five producers out of a total of 47 in the country,
including the biggest  PT Timah (TINS) , have started trading physical
tin contracts on the rival Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives
Exchange.  “This is really bad, when some smelters have invested
money to meet the purity standard, now they still cannot
export,” Arsani said by phone from Bangka island, the country’s
main producing area. The smelters will wait up to 45 days for
the permits and if they are rejected will take the case to
court, Arsani said.  Tin for delivery in three months fell 0.4 percent to
$21,150 a ton on the London Metal Exchange by 6:02 p.m. Jakarta
time. The metal, used in soldering and packaging, has risen 5.9
percent since July 1, when the higher Indonesian purity
standards came into effect and led to a slump in exports.  Two Markets  The  Jakarta Futures Exchange  submitted a permit application
to the Commodity Futures Trading Regulatory Agency on Aug. 20,
Director M. Bihar Sakti Wibowo told reporters in Jakarta. The
smelters will meet tomorrow in Bangka, the country’s main tin
producing area, to discuss the matter, said Tjahyono Mukmin, the
president director of the Serumpun Tin board. Eighteen smelters
have registered as members to trade tin, out of the 30 had
earlier agreed to do so, said Mukmin.  “We are studying their application,” Sutiono Edi, head of
the Commodity Futures Trading Regulatory Agency, told reporters
in Jakarta today. “We need to evaluate the current contracts
first before we can continue with another. We want to have one
price reference, we don’t want to confuse the market by having
two markets.”  Indonesian smelters are backing local exchanges to try to
establish an alternative to the benchmark on the London Metal
Exchange.  “If we really have to, we can stop exports while waiting
for the permit for as long as 3 months,” Mukmin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  