-- Tinkler Aston Metals Placed in Receivership by HK Firm
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-09-03T09:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/tinkler-aston-metals-placed-in-receivership-by-hk-firm.html
Aston Metals Ltd., a mining
exploration company owned by  Nathan Tinkler , was placed in
receivership as the latest piece of the former billionaire’s
empire in Australia to be offered for sale to repay creditors.  John Park and Quentin Olde of  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN)  were
appointed as receivers in Australia, according to a statement
from the West Palm Beach, Florida-based  company . Madison Pacific
Trust Ltd., representing funds that hold Aston notes, named Park
and Olde, according to an e-mail from FTI. Tim Allerton, a
spokesman for Tinkler, didn’t respond to a request for comment
left on his voice mail.  Tinkler has been battling creditors since his A$5.3 billion
($4.8 billion) takeover bid for  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  in August
last year failed. Aston Metals has properties in Queensland,
 Australia , with five projects, according to FTI.  “Aston Metals and Mr. Tinkler have received a number of
notices over the previous 30 days requesting payment of the debt
as per the rights of the secured creditor,” FTI said in the e-mail. “This would not be a surprise for Aston Metals or Mr.
Tinkler.”  Under Australian law, secured creditors can force a company
into receivership without a court order and take control of some
or all of the company’s assets, according to the  Australian
Securities and Investments Commission . The receiver’s role is
then to collect and sell enough of the assets to repay the debt
owed to the secured creditor.  Madison Pacific is a Hong Kong trust company described on
its  website  as an independent provider of trustee and escrow
services.  Tinkler sold his stake in Whitehaven to Farallon Capital
Management LLC in June. He also agreed to pay A$12 million in
June to settle a dispute with Blackwood Corp., which sought to
freeze his assets over a failed share purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  