-- Israel Carried Out Test Missile Launch: Defense Ministry
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-09-03T13:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/israel-carried-out-test-missile-launch-defense-ministry.html
Israel  said it carried out a joint
missile test launch with the U.S. in the  Mediterranean Sea ,
raising regional tensions already heightened by the  Syria crisis 
and sending international markets tumbling.  “Today, the Israel missile defense organization and the
U.S. missile defense agency completed a successful flight test”
of the new version of the Sparrow target missile, the Israeli
army said in an e-mailed statement. “This is the first flight
out test of this new version of the Sparrow, and was conducted
at Israeli test range over the Mediterranean Sea.”  The test was launched at 9:15 a.m. Israeli time, the army
said. Russia’s state-run news service RIA Novosti first reported
the detection of a ballistic missile launch in the Mediterranean
more than an hour before Israel acknowledged the test.  Brent
crude  climbed and European stocks fell after the Russian media
report.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said the test
showed that Israel’s defense is built on an “iron wall, iron
dome and iron will.”  “These are the things that give us the strength to defend
ourselves, and to anyone who is thinking to attack us -- it’s
not worthwhile,” Netanyahu said.  The Israeli military said the Sparrow launch was done in
coordination with a test of its Arrow anti-missile defense
system, which successfully detected and tracked the target.  Iran Concerns  The Sparrow is designed to simulate ballistic missiles for
use in testing missile-defense systems, and that’s what probably
misled the Russians, said retired Brigadier-General Shlomo Brom,
former head of the Israeli military’s Strategic Planning
Division.  “Normally, this kind of test wouldn’t be publicly
announced, so Israel was probably forced to do so by the Russian
reports,” Brom, now senior Research Fellow at Tel Aviv
University’s Institute for National Security Studies, said in a
phone interview. “This test wasn’t necessarily directly
connected with the Syrian situation. When you have a new version
of the Sparrow, it has to be tested, and it’s part of the
general upgrading of Israel’s missile-defense systems, which
have more to do with concerns about  Iran  than the current Syrian
situation.”  Israel’s defense capabilities depend on new technology
systems that must be tested, Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon said in remarks broadcast on  Army Radio . Today’s missile
test was successful, he added.  The main contractor for the development of the Sparrow is
Israel’s Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd., and the main
contractor of the Arrow is Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd.,
together with  Boeing Co. (BA) , the army said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  