-- Israel Missile-Defense Test Sends Signal, Rattles Markets
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   J a m e s   N e u g e r
-- 2013-09-03T19:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/israel-missile-defense-test-sends-signal-rattles-markets.html
Israel  signaled its ability to
defend itself with a missile-defense test over the Mediterranean
Sea today that briefly rattled stock and oil markets on edge
over prospects for a U.S. attack on  Syria .  As the Obama administration presses Congress to authorize a
military strike against Bashar al-Assad’s regime, Israel
conducted what it called a joint test with the U.S. of its Arrow
Ballistic Missile Defense system. The Israeli Defense Ministry
called it a success.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said after the
test that Israel’s defense is built on an “iron wall, iron dome
and iron will.”  “These are the things that give us the strength to defend
ourselves, and to anyone who is thinking to attack us - it’s not
worthwhile,” Netanyahu said, according to a text message from
his office.  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said the U.S. gave only
“technical assistance and support” to a “long-planned” test.  The demonstration of Israeli preparedness served as a
signal to Syria and to  Iran , the embattled Assad’s main ally,
and dramatized the potential for a regional spillover of a U.S.-
led offensive against Syria’s chemical weapons capability.  “Nobody tests a missile system in the middle of an
environment like this without being aware of it being
interpreted as a message or signal,” said  Aaron David Miller , a
vice president at the Woodrow Wilson Center for International
Scholars in  Washington  who’s advised several U.S.
administrations on Middle East policy.  On Sidelines  “The Israelis don’t like sitting on the sidelines
passively, particularly when they’re worried about security
issues,” Miller said.  The Israeli Defense Ministry said in a statement that “all
elements of the system performed according to their operational
configuration.”  Little said in a statement that “this test had nothing to
do with United States consideration of military action to
respond to Syria’s chemical weapons attack.”  He said the flight test of a Sparrow target missile over
the Mediterranean was designed to evaluate the Arrow system’s
“ability to detect, track and communicate information about a
simulated threat to Israel.”  The Arrow interceptor is designed to stop medium-range
missiles such as Syria’s surface-to-surface Fateh 110, supplied
by Iran, which has a range of about 124 miles (200 kilometers).  Russian Ships  Depending on the trajectory of the target missile, the
Israeli test also could help assess the ability of Syrian
defenses and Russian ships in the Mediterranean to detect sea-launched missiles, intelligence that could be useful to the U.S.
if President  Barack Obama  orders a cruise-missile attack on
targets in Syria, said two American officials familiar with such
testing who asked not to be identified in order to discuss
classified matters.  The officials said U.S. and Israeli intelligence and the
U.K.’s electronic listening post on Cyprus normally listen for
bursts of radio traffic from Syrian air defense sites and from
any Russian ships in the area that would indicate that the
launch of the target was detected, and how quickly and
accurately.  Russia’s RIA-Novosti news agency was the first to report
today’s Israeli test, saying Russia detected two unknown
ballistic missiles that had been launched at sea and fell back
into the Mediterranean.  Low-Altitude Missiles  Russia’s ability to detect the test may be of limited value
to Syria if the U.S. attacks with cruise missiles, which unlike
ballistic missiles generally fly at low altitudes, and as a
result are harder for defense radars to detect, the two
officials said.  Oil futures jumped as much as 1.2 percent after RIA-Novosti
reported the missile test. The market settled down on
confirmation that war hadn’t broken out. The price of crude
traded at $115.04 per barrel at 1:10 p.m. in  London  today, 0.6
percent higher than yesterday’s close.  In Washington today, House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, urged Congress to support Obama’s call for lawmakers
to authorize limited military action against Syria. At a Senate
Foreign Relations Committee hearing, the panel’s Democratic
chairman, Senator Bob Menendez of  New Jersey , also backed Obama.  The committee’s top Republican,  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee ,
said he was dismayed the administration isn’t doing more to aid
the “vetted, moderate opposition” in Syria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  