-- Lithium Reels in $50 Million as Public Offering Nears
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-09-03T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/lithium-reels-in-50-million-as-public-offering-nears.html
Lithium Technologies Inc., a
developer of social-networking software for companies, raised
$50 million in a funding round, the latest business-technology
provider to tap public-market investors in a private financing.  The investment came from a syndicate that included a mutual
fund company with about $1 trillion in assets, said Lithium
Chief Executive Officer Rob Tarkoff, declining to provide the
name or Lithium’s valuation.  New Enterprise Associates , a
venture firm and existing investor, also participated.  Even with cloud software vendors like  Workday Inc. (WDAY)  and
ServiceNow Inc. thriving on the public markets, Lithium is
holding off on an initial public offering while adding customers
such as EBay Inc. and Barclays Plc. Staying private enables the
company to smooth out its business model without having to worry
about quarterly earnings.  “This is an opportunity to take some capital from very
sophisticated investors and continue to build the business for
the long term,” Tarkoff, 44, said in an interview. “I want to
have this well worked out and well tuned by the time we’re ready
to go.”  Other business-technology startups that recently tapped
large institutional investors for private financing include
flash-memory provider Pure Storage Inc. and customer-relationship software provider SugarCRM Inc.  Business Model  Lithium, based in San Francisco, competes with
Salesforce.com Inc. and  Jive Software Inc. (JIVE)  in providing social-networking software to businesses. Founded in 2001, Lithium has
more than 300 customers using its cloud technology to converse
with customers, get feedback on products and attract fans. The
company sells monthly subscriptions that vary in price based on
the size of the deployment and number of products purchased.  Lithium has raised a total of more than $150 million,
including $53.4 million last year from investors NEA, SAP AG’s
venture arm and Benchmark, among others. Tarkoff declined to
provide the company’s revenue. He said the company has doubled
in every significant metric since he joined two years ago and
now has several hundred employees.  The company also said today that former Yahoo! Inc.
executive Tapan Bhat is joining as senior vice president and
chief product officer. In December, Lithium hired former
DemandTec Inc. executive Mark Culhane as chief financial
officer, as part of its preparation for an IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  