-- Jeter Breaks Hitless Streak as Yankees Win 9-1 Over White Sox
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-03T05:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/jeter-breaks-hitless-streak-as-yankees-win-9-1-over-white-sox.html
Derek Jeter  drove in two runs with a
pair of singles to break his hitless streak and help the  New
York Yankees  to a 9-1 victory against the  Chicago White Sox  in a
rain-delayed Major League Baseball contest.  The Yankees (73-64) are in fourth place in the American
League Eastern Division, eight games behind the Boston Red Sox
(82-57), who lost 3-0 yesterday to the Detroit Tigers. New York
is 2 1/2 games back in the race for the second of the AL’s two
wild card playoff berths, trailing the Tampa Bay Rays, whose
11-2 loss to the Los Angeles Angels was their fifth in a row.  Jeter, who was 0-for-14 since returning from a strained
muscle Aug. 26, hit a single to send home  Brett Gardner  in the
first inning to give New York a 1-0 advantage yesterday at
Yankee Stadium. The shortstop added a run-scoring single in the
team’s eight-run fourth inning.  Jeter missed the first 91 games of the season while
recovering from a fractured left ankle. He strained a thigh
muscle while running the bases in his season debut on July 11,
forcing him to miss 12 more games, and returned to the disabled
list Aug. 5 with a strained calf muscle.  David Huff (2-0) allowed five hits, including a home run to
Paul Konerko, over 5 2/3 innings after entering the game in
relief of starter  Phil Hughes , who was taken out following a one
hour, 53 minute-rain delay in the top of the second inning.  “We’ve played better, there’s no doubt about it,” Yankees
manager  Joe Girardi  said after the win. “I feel a lot better.”  The  Oakland Athletics  beat Texas 4-2 yesterday to pull into
a tie with the Rangers atop the AL Western division at 79-58. It
was the fourth straight win for the A’s.  The Baltimore Orioles topped the Cleveland Indians 7-2 to
get within two games in the AL wild card race.  The Pittsburgh Pirates moved back into first place in the
National League Central as Neil Walker hit a three-run home run
in a 5-2 win against the Milwaukee Brewers. The Pirates (80-57)
moved one game ahead of the St. Louis Cardinals, who lost to the
Cincinnati Reds 7-2 yesterday.  The NL West-leading Los Angeles Dodgers’ winning streak
reached five games with a 10-8 victory in  Colorado .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  