-- KBR Seeks Combat Immunity in Soldier Toxic-Exposure Suit
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-09-04T01:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/kbr-seeks-combat-immunity-in-soldier-toxic-exposure-suit.html
KBR Inc. invoked federal laws
shielding contractors during wartime in an effort to avoid a
Texas trial over injuries claimed by troops who were exposed to
toxic chemicals while guarding a work site in  Iraq .  KBR argued today before a U.S. Court of Appeals panel in El
Paso, Texas, that contractor-on-the-battlefield statutes act as
a firewall to litigation. Without that protection, KBR and other
contractors might abandon military support work altogether, the
company has said.  “The judges were focused on how far can KBR stretch these
government contracting defense doctrines to grab immunity for
their conduct,” Mike Doyle, the soldiers’ lead attorney, said
in an interview after the 75-minute hearing. The judges weren’t
“overly receptive” to KBR’s claim of “blanket immunity,”
Doyle said.  Lawyers for injured  soldiers  urged the three-judge panel to
reject KBR’s theory that the Houston-based  company  is immune
from the lawsuits. The plaintiffs, 125 national guardsmen from
 Indiana  and West Virginia, as well as 13 members of Britain’s
Royal Air Force, accuse the company of exposing them to toxic
chromium compounds in Iraq in 2003.  Wartime Decisions  “We had an excellent opportunity to get our points across
to the panel today, that this is a case that should never go to
trial,” Lawrence Ebner, KBR’s appellate attorney, said in an
interview after the hearing. Any lawsuit requiring an
examination of U.S. wartime decisions, “as this one would, is
barred” by the military-contracting defenses, he said.  A trial court judge in Houston found the company’s conduct
can be judged separately from the actions of the U.S. Army and
allowed the case to proceed to trial. KBR appealed that decision
two weeks before jury selection was scheduled to begin.  U.S. Circuit Judge Carolyn Dineen King pressed lawyers at
today’s hearing on the exact meaning of the political question
doctrine and whether it applies to cases in which the trial
judge has already ruled the Army can’t be held responsible. That
doctrine bars courts from passing judgment on decisions by the
executive branch, of which the military is an extension. The
combatant activities exemption blocks litigation over injuries
suffered in active war zones.  “It isn’t the fact of what the government did -- the raw
fact -- it’s a question of re-evaluating the wisdom of it and
the reasons for it” that are prohibited under the statute, King
told the lawyers, according to a transcript of the proceeding.  “This case would simply be impossible to try without
examining military judgments,” Ebner replied.  Congress didn’t intend for military contractors to use
“court-made doctrines” as a means to “slam the courthouse
door in the face of Americans” supporting the war effort
overseas, University of Baltimore law professor Charles Tiefer
said in a phone interview before today’s hearing.  ‘Judicial Backlash’  “KBR has been straining these defenses way too much,”
said Tiefer, an expert on defense contractors who served three
years on the U.S. Commission on Wartime Contracting. “There
seems to be some judicial backlash which might bring KBR to
account on some of these matters.”  KBR’s lawyers have said the stakes in the  Texas  case are
high, as it presents the clearest picture yet of how the
military-contracting statutes should be interpreted.  The laws were designed “to eliminate courts from the
battlefield,” Mark Lowes, KBR’s litigation vice president, said
in an interview before the hearing.  “All contractors, not just KBR, are in the business of
controlling risk,” Lowes said. “Next time, there may be no one
there to support the Army because there’s no way to evaluate the
risk.”  Still Working  Military contractors are unlikely to stop pursuing work
with the army if KBR is found liable for injuries to the troops,
Tiefer said.  “Trucking companies have to pay damages in trials, but I
continue to see trucks on the highway,” he said. “War zone
contracts have been very lucrative. There’s no sign companies
won’t eagerly compete to get those contracts.”  Geoff Harrison, one of KBR’s lead attorneys, said a ruling
against the company could undermine military discipline with
“potentially disastrous” consequences during wartime.  “If civilian defense contractors like KBR are exposed to
post-combat, after-the-fact U.S. tort liability, based on their
work in a war zone under the direction of the U.S. military in
wartime on foreign soil, then contractors will be forced to
second-guess U.S. military decisions and instructions, and be
forced to pick and choose what orders to follow and not to
follow,” Harrison said in an interview.  Burn Pits  From 2006 through this year, judges largely agreed with
KBR’s interpretation of the law and threw out death and injury
cases involving dozens of  workers and soldiers . Those included
suits over convoy drivers killed or injured outside of  Baghdad 
and by soldiers claiming they were harmed by toxic smoke from
company burn pits in Iraq.  In November, an Oregon federal jury -- the first to hear
claims tied to the company’s work in Iraq -- awarded $85 million
to 12 soldiers who claimed they were poisoned by chromium dust
while guarding a company work site in 2003. Most of the award
was for punitive damages, and KBR appealed the verdict.  Last month, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia
ordered KBR to stand trial over allegations that shoddy
workmanship caused a soldier in Iraq to be electrocuted. Days
later, a federal judge in Houston ordered KBR to face trial in
April on human-trafficking claims involving foreign workers in
Iraq.  ‘False Starts’  “Our defenses are right, but being right on the law and
the facts don’t mean you get the right result,” Lowes said.
“We can expect some false starts from courts as they struggle
through what to do.”  The soldiers in the case that was argued in El Paso today
contend their injuries resulted from KBR’s failure to warn them
of widespread toxic contamination at the Qarmat Ali water-treatment plant and weren’t caused by Army decisions.  KBR was hired to rehabilitate Iraq’s oil-production
facilities after the U.S.-led invasion in 2003. The soldiers
were assigned to protect KBR at Qarmat Ali.  Company officials  noted yellow sodium-dichromate dust, a
carcinogen used to inhibit corrosion, blowing about the site
shortly after their arrival in May 2003, according to documents
produced in the case. The plaintiffs alleged that chromium dust
exposure can cause skin, eye and lung irritations and lead to
genetic mutations that trigger immune disorders and cancer.  “KBR had numerous opportunities to inform the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers and onsite personnel of the danger,” David
Gunn, a lawyer for the soldiers, said in a court filing.  Complaints Dismissed  Health complaints at Qarmat Ali were routinely dismissed by
company officials as “nothing” or as expected complications of
working in a harsh desert climate, the soldiers said in court
filings. Only after KBR managers arrived at the site wearing
chemical protective suits and respirators in August 2003 did the
soldiers say they learned the truth, according to their lawyers.  “The delay occurred because KBR did not fully comply with
occupational safety and health standards required by the
contract,” Gunn said, quoting from the 2011 Defense Department
Inspector General’s report into the incident.  “KBR’s contract said to check out the site, and if there
was any danger, to shut it down,” Doyle said in an interview.
The company continued the work to meet project deadlines and win
performance bonuses, he said.  KBR contends it followed both Army orders and the terms of
its  contract . The company has said it promptly and properly
alerted soldiers to the dangers at Qarmat Ali, and it disputes
that soldiers were harmed by their exposure to the sodium-dichromate dust, which in some places formed drifts four feet
thick, according to court filings.  Health Studies  “None of the soldiers was injured or sickened in any way”
by their alleged exposure in Iraq, Harrison said. He said
contemporaneous health studies by the U.S. and U.K. military
disprove claims of physical injuries to the troops.  Lowes said KBR believes its contractor-on-the-battlefield
defenses will ultimately prevail, even if the company has to
carry the fight to the U.S. Supreme Court.  “We support the soldiers,” Lowes said. “We support the
national goals and activities of our duly elected U.S.
government. How can that be anything but patriotic?”  The case is McManaway v.  KBR Inc. (KBR) , 12-20763, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 lcalkins@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  