-- Murder of Yellowstone Wolves Threatens Area Renaissance
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2013-09-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/killing-of-yellowstone-wolves-threatens-area-renaissance.html
The air in Yellowstone National Park
is chilly at the crack of dawn, even in August. If you want to
see a  wolf , you get up early and shiver.  “It’s more difficult right now to spot a wolf,” says Marc
Cooke, president of Wolves of the Rockies. He means both the
time of year -- wolves are less active in summer -- and the
recent decline in wolf numbers, which he attributes to “the
devastating impact from the needless trapping and hunting
season.”  At last count there were 95 wolves in the park, traveling
in 11 packs. A few years ago there were almost twice as many.
Part of the decline is due to the natural ebb and flow of
ecological systems, but hunters can legally shoot wolves when
they stray outside the park into  Wyoming , Montana or  Idaho , even
if they’re wearing radio collars.  Just last week, a collar-wearing female wolf that had
killed a chicken was shot by a resident of Jardine, Montana.  As tenuous as the population is, the U.S.  Fish and Wildlife
Service  has proposed to delist the species, which is currently
designated as “endangered” or “threatened” in most of the
lower 48 states. The wolf would still be protected in
Yellowstone, but would be at the mercy of bloodthirsty types
just outside the park when the hunting season opens in
September.  After a couple days, I finally catch the briefest glimpse
of a pair of black wolves, loping over a rise and out of sight
in the park’s stunning Lamar Valley. Though I’m looking through
a spotting scope and the wolves are more than a mile off, the
scene takes my breath away.  Wolf Renaissance  As an apex predator, wolves are essential to an ecosystem’s
health. Soon after reintroduction to Yellowstone in 1995, wolves
helped cull the overpopulated elk herds. This led to a
rejuvenation of verdant ground cover that the elk had been
mowing down, which in turn attracted animals that rely on low
foliage for cover and food.  Yellowstone wolves are undoubtedly responsible for a
renaissance of songbird and beaver populations and a lot more.  “You could argue that they’ve affected everything through
the system,” says wolf biologist Doug Smith, Yellowstone’s
longtime wolf project leader. “Wolves have been good for fish,
reptiles, amphibians and invertebrates.”  Wolves are even good for another top predator, the grizzly
bear, which feeds on berries that bounced back with the
reappearance of wolves.  “We’ve got the most predators, or carnivores, in
Yellowstone in the park’s entire history,” says Smith.
“Arguably, Yellowstone is as pristine as it’s been in its
entire history.”  Weak Culled  Wolves are even good for the elk herds on which they feed,
since they tend to cull weaker members, thereby improving the
stock. Contrast that dynamic with the human hunter, who targets
the biggest specimens for his trophy.  Hunters say the wolves are depleting the native elk
populations; ranchers fret their livestock is at risk. Both
claims have a scintilla of truth in them, but are mostly
overblown. Unfortunately, ranchers and hunters have political
clout in these parts.  “With 1,500-plus wolves killed in  Montana , Idaho and
Wyoming in the last three years by wildlife services, hunting
and trapping, we are on the road to the second eradication of
wolves in the  Rocky Mountains ,” laments Cooke. “Clearly state
fish and wildlife agencies are not using the best available
science. Instead, they appear to be puppets of the hunting and
livestock producers, who have an obvious anti-wolf agenda.”  Neutral Stance  I spend a little time in and around Gardiner, Montana,
which sits just outside the northern entrance to Yellowstone
and, as such, enjoys a great deal of commerce from wolf-friendly
visitors and hunters alike. The Gardiner Chamber of Commerce,
wishing to alienate neither group, calls itself neutral on the
wolf question.  Reflecting this Swiss-like positioning is Gardiner
businessman Zabun Burton, who runs the Iron Horse Bar & Grill
and rents cabins to both hunters and wolf watchers.  “If people tell me they’re pro-wolf, then I’m pro-wolf. If
they say they’re anti-wolf, I’m anti-wolf. I run a business, and
I don’t want anarchy.”  Protecting the wolf population isn’t complicated. Create a
buffer zone around Yellowstone to safeguard the park’s animals.
Prohibit trapping wolves everywhere. Compensate ranchers who
lose occasional livestock. Don’t even think about delisting this
besieged species.  The public can comment on the delisting proposal by Sept.
11 at www.fws.gov/graywolfrecovery062013.html.  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on TV and Laurie
Muchnick on new business  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 