-- Kodak Moments Just a Memory as Company Exits Bankruptcy
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-09-03T19:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/kodak-exits-bankruptcy-as-printer-without-photographs.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the photography
pioneer overcome by digital competition, emerged from bankruptcy
today as a commercial-printing company that sells nothing to
consumers.  The new, smaller Kodak has shed the cameras, film sales and
consumer photo developing that made it a household name,
focusing on printing technology for corporate customers, touch-screen sensor components for smartphones and computer tablets,
and film for the movie industry. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper last month approved Kodak’s exit plan, which cut about
$4.1 billion of debt and left shareholders empty-handed.  Kodak, based in Rochester, New York, filed for bankruptcy
in January 2012 after earlier spending $3.4 billion to shrink
and restructure. Businesses including photographic film and
digital patents, consumer-printing products, photo kiosks,
online picture-sharing and document scanners were sold during
the bankruptcy or spun off to settle pension claims. The
commercial-printing businesses will continue making presses and
technology to print documents, publications and product
packaging.  “This is a totally new company,” Antonio Perez, Kodak’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in an interview.
“When we created the new portfolio we were very aware of the
fact that we were going to be late coming into this market. The
only way that you could be successful coming in late is to come
into the market with breakthrough technologies and very
differentiated value propositions, and this is what we have.”  Sales Forecast  The new Kodak -- excluding units that have been sold or spun
off -- will report about $2.5 billion in revenue in 2013, Perez
forecast. It will have $167 million in earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, he said.  The Kodak brand remains “very valuable” in the imaging
industry and will remain lucrative through licensing deals,
Perez said.  “If it has to do with imaging, Kodak is a very strong
brand all over the world,” he said.  Perez will continue as CEO for another year, or until his
successor is elected. He will serve as a special adviser to
Kodak’s board for up to three years, the company said in July.  Creditors’ Stock  Most of Kodak’s unsecured creditors, who recovered 4 cents
to 5 cents on the dollar for their debt in bankruptcy, bought
stock in the emerging company through a rights offering.  Kodak’s restructuring before bankruptcy included shuttering
facilities and payouts to fire  47,000 employees  since 2003. It
entered court protection with about 17,000 employees and emerges
with about 8,500, after previously agreed unit sales and
spinoffs.  The company, which sold the first consumer camera 125 years
ago, was founded by George Eastman, who developed a method for
dry-plate photography before introducing the Kodak camera in
1888, according to the company’s  website .  It went on to invent film, enabling Thomas Edison to
develop the motion-picture camera, and introduced Brownie
cameras selling for $1 and Kodachrome film. It also invented the
digital camera -- a technology it mothballed and failed to
commercialize.  In April, Kodak spun off its personalized- and document-imaging businesses for $650 million to its U.K. pension plan in
a deal that settled $2.8 billion in claims against the company.
It also reached a deal to resolve environmental liabilities in
New York by establishing a trust and contributing $49 million.  “Chapter 11 is a complex, very expensive and exhausting
process, but it does have certain positives and among them is
that you are able to deal with and resolve legacy issues in a
way that you wouldn’t have been able to do without it,” Perez
said. “I wouldn’t recommend to anybody to file for Chapter 11,
but if you have to deal with legacy costs, in my opinion it’s
the only way you can do it.”  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  