-- Glenview Joins Bass Raising J.C. Penney Stake
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-09-05T16:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/kyle-bass-boosts-j-c-penney-bet-with-5-holding.html
(Corrects Sept. 4 story in third paragraph to say credit-default swaps were sold.)  Glenview Capital Management LLC
joined J. Kyle Bass in raising its stake in J.C. Penney Co.,
becoming its biggest shareholder in a bet the retailer will
recover after  Bill Ackman  ended a revamp effort last month.  Hayman Capital Management LP, Bass’s hedge fund, held 11.4
million shares of the Plano, Texas-based department-store chain,
according to a  filing  yesterday. In a separate  filing , Glenview
said it owned 20.1 million shares, or 9.1 percent.  Bass, who focuses on corporate turnarounds, had already
accumulated a long position in J.C. Penney in buying the
company’s secured loans and selling credit-default swaps last
month in a wager that the chain can stabilize sales and has
enough funding to get through the 2014 holiday season, a person
familiar with the matter has said. Glenview’s new holding more
than doubles its  investment.   The century-old retailer is trying to recover from former
Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ’s failed overhaul which
resulted in a 25 percent drop in sales in 2012. His plan to turn
stores into collections of boutiques and swapping in merchandise
to court younger shoppers alienated long-time customers. Mike Ullman, who replaced Johnson, has borrowed more than $3 billion
since his arrival in April.  Hand-Picked  J.C. Penney rose 6.1 percent to $13.50 at the close in New
York. The stock has fallen 32 percent this year, as the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index gained 16 percent.  New York-based Glenview held 8.4 million shares as of June
30, according to a filing. Soros Fund Management LLC owns 20
million shares and Perry Capital LLC has 19 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ackman, founder of  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP,
who hand-picked Johnson in an attempt to turn around the
retailer, ended his association with J.C. Penney last month when
he sold his 18 percent stake and stepped down from the board.
Ackman sold his holding for $504 million, about half of what he
paid for it, capping more than two years of failed efforts to
improve the retailer.  Pershing Square became J.C. Penney’s largest shareholder in
October 2010 and Ackman joined the board in February 2011. He
began agitating for changes and four months later the retailer
chose Johnson to replace Ullman as CEO, hiring him away from
heading Apple Inc.’s successful stores.  The sale of Ackman’s holding last month followed his
agreement earlier in August to resign from the board after a
public clash over the company’s direction and management
succession. He had pushed directors to replace Ullman and drew
their anger by making public a letter he sent to them saying he
had persuaded former CEO Allen Questrom to agree to return as
chairman if he approved of the next CEO.  J.C. Penney adopted a takeover defense plan last month that
would be triggered if a person or group acquires 10 percent or
more of its shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  