-- Natural Gas Futures Climb to Five-Week High on Atlantic Storms
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-09-03T19:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/natural-gas-rises-as-warm-weather-forecast-boosts-demand-bets.html
Natural gas futures climbed to a
five-week high in New York on concern that storms would disrupt
supplies amid hot weather that may stoke demand for the power-plant fuel.  Gas gained 2.4 percent after the National Hurricane Center
said low-pressure systems were producing showers and
thunderstorms over the Lesser Antilles and  Mexico ’s Bay of
Campeche. MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland ,
predicted above-normal temperatures in the central U.S. through
Sept. 17.  “These storms are definitely providing a little extra
support for the market because there’s concern that they could
move into the Gulf,” said Phil Flynn, a senior market analyst
at Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “It’s pretty warm in the
Midwest and the hot temperatures are still boosting cooling
demand.”  Natural gas for October delivery rose 8.5 cents to $3.666
per million British thermal units at on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the highest settlement since July 24. Trading volume
was 3.7 percent above the average at 3:02 p.m. Prices are up 9.4
percent this year.  The discount of October to November futures narrowed 1.1
cents to 9.2 cents. October gas traded 31.7 cents below the
January contract, compared with 34.5 cents on Aug. 30.  Options Trading  November $3 puts were the most active options in electronic
trading. They were 0.3 cent lower at 0.7 cent per million Btu on
volume of 941 at 3:08 p.m. Puts accounted for 56 percent of
trading volume. Implied volatility for October at-the-money
options was 31.64 percent at 3 p.m., compared with 30.42 percent
on Aug. 30.  There was no floor trading yesterday because of the U.S.
Labor Day holiday, and yesterday’s electronic transactions were
booked today for settlement purposes.  The area of low pressure in the Bay of Campeche has a 20
percent chance of becoming a tropical system in the next five
days, the National Hurricane Center in Miami said in a 2 p.m.
 outlook.  The system in the eastern Caribbean near  Dominica  has a
50 percent chance of developing over the same period.  The storms “serve to remind the market that conditions are
ripe for a hurricane to develop in the Gulf,” Aaron Calder, an
analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston, said in a note to
clients today.  The Gulf will account for 5.7 percent of U.S. gas
production this year, EIA data show. Sept. 10 is the statistical
peak of the Atlantic hurricane season, according to the
hurricane center.  Weather Outlook  The high in Chicago on Sept. 8 may be 82 degrees Fahrenheit
(28 Celsius), 4 higher than average, according to  AccuWeather
Inc.  in State College,  Pennsylvania . Houston temperatures may
reach 95 degrees Fahrenheit, 5 above average, AccuWeather data
show.  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas
demand, according to the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm.  Gas inventories totaled 3.13 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended Aug. 23, 1.5 percent above the five-year average and
7 percent below last year’s supplies, EIA data show.  PVR Partners LP (PVR)  is partnering with  Hess Corp. (HES)  to develop a
45-mile natural gas pipeline and associated gathering lines to
transport supplies from the Utica shale formation in eastern
 Ohio , PVR said in a statement today.  The line will have a minimum capacity of 450 million cubic
feet a day and may begin operations in late 2013, PVR said.  U.S. Output  The U.S. lowered its 2013 natural gas production estimate
to 69.89 billion cubic feet a day from last month’s forecast of
69.96 billion, the EIA said Aug. 6 in its  Short-Term Energy
Outlook . Output may rise 1 percent from a year ago to a record
as onshore supplies climb.  Inventories may reach 3.8 trillion cubic feet at the end of
October, about 130 billion below last year’s level for the time
of year, the EIA said.  U.S. approval each year of 1.5 billion to 2 billion cubic
feet a day of liquefied natural gas export capacity would be
“palatable” for consumers, according to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “We believe this level represents an amount of shale gas
production growth that can be achieved with a reasonable, but
not too high, price signal,” analysts including Bob Brackett
said in a report published today.  The exports will raise gas prices as much as $1.02 per
1,000 standard cubic feet from 2010 levels, they said, citing
estimates in an Energy Department-commissioned study.  The U.S. met 87 percent of its own energy needs in the
first five months of 2013, on pace to be the highest annual rate
since 1986, according to EIA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  