-- New Chinese Luxury: Pairing Wine With Duck, Not Sprite
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-04T07:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/new-chinese-luxury-pairing-wine-with-duck-not-sprite.html
Can’t tell a Monet from a  Van Gogh ?
Christie’s International’s  China  staff can help. Mixing a pricey
 Chateau Petrus  or Chardonnay with Sprite? Sommeliers at Shanghai
wine retailer Sarment will explain why not.  As growth in China’s luxury industry slows and consumers
turn more selective, high-end brands are boosting efforts to
educate consumers on the finer points of haute couture and
vintage wines to persuade them to pay up.  Growth in China has decelerated for two straight quarters,
a government anti-corruption drive is discouraging expensive
gifts, and consumers are shifting to more-understated luxury. To
shore up sales and convince Chinese that their products are
worth the hefty price tag, luxury companies are offering in-depth lessons in appreciating art, wine, designer clothes,
whiskey, and more.  The anti-graft push has “accelerated the change from
extravagance to more discerning enjoyment,” said Horace Ngai,
China managing director at Paris-based distiller  Pernod Ricard
SA. (RI)   Pernod Ricard’s teams have organized trips to vineyards and
whiskey regions in  France  and  Scotland  and tasting sessions in
China. Sales of its liquors priced over 1,500  yuan  ($245) in
China rose more than five times in the last three years.  Subdued Luxury  China’s big spenders are usually self-made entrepreneurs
who have spent years “on their business with less time to be
immersed in luxury culture and education,” Ngai said. “They
now need others to take them on the journey.”  Pernod is battling slower growth in  emerging markets  as
these economies slow.  Chinese consumers were the world’s biggest buyers of luxury
goods in 2012, accounting for 27 percent of industry sales,
according to consultant McKinsey & Co. Until recently, the
wealthiest buyers gravitated to logos and bling. That’s changing
as growing numbers travel overseas and get familiar with the
more subdued  luxury goods  popular in  Europe .  President Xi Jinping has since last year limited official
spending on high-end banquets and discouraged gifts of pricey
watches and alcohol that are common in business dealings. Xi
warned in November that resentment at graft and the enrichment
of cadres and their families threatened the Communist Party’s
grip on power.  Mainland luxury industry sales growth is expected to slow
to as little as 12 percent annually in the three years to 2015
from an average 27 percent between 2008 and 2012, McKinsey
forecasts.  Last year “was the tipping point,” said Ken Grant,
director of luxury consultancy FDKG Insight in Shanghai.
“People are being selective on how they spend their money.”  Art Tour  Christie’s International has seen a spike in Chinese buying
art for pleasure or investment and seeking more information on
the subject. The number of clients from mainland China bidding
at its international auctions has doubled since 2008.  The auction house this year started offering a Mandarin-language art tour, a 14-day, 198,000 yuan ($32,350) course that
moves from Beijing to Taipei to  Hong Kong  to  London  examining
topics from antique Chinese ceramics to impressionists such as
 Claude Monet .  Many Chinese luxury shoppers are “in stages of
discovery,” said Yuval Atsmon, a McKinsey partner in London.  While luxury brands invest in educating shoppers globally,
they go a step further in China. As the country’s middle class
expands, some are making their first purchases from Gucci or
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA. (MC)  High-end department store
Lane Crawford runs personal styling and concierge teams, where
customers can make appointments to pick an outfit for a special
occasion or even for an image makeover.  Socialist Uniforms  Many European consumers grew up with an affinity for brands
their parents and grandparents trusted, while Chinese shoppers
have no such tradition to rely on, said Angelica Cheung, editor-in-chief of Vogue China.  “Grandmothers and mothers grew up wearing socialist
uniforms,” she said. “People cannot tell the difference in
quality, and the level of sophistication.”  As wine shops mushroom across Shanghai, Sarment Wine is
differentiating itself with classes that teach potential
shoppers how to pair wines with foods and distinguish among
varietals, vintages and regions.  Stephen Su, a 30-year-old project manager at a construction
company in Shanghai, noted that China has come a long way since
the days when mixing wine with Sprite was popular. On a recent
weekday evening he listened attentively as Jean-Marie Pratt, a
former head sommelier for chef  Gordon Ramsay  in London, extolled
the pleasures of pairing a New Zealand Pinot Noir with Peking
duck.  “You can’t learn much about wine on your own,” said Su,
surrounded by other professionals reading booklets on wine.
“You need to discuss it in a group setting. It not only helps
your knowledge, it enhances the experience.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  