-- New York Mayor’s Office Sues City Council Over Police Law
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-09-03T21:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/new-york-mayor-s-office-sues-city-council-over-nypd-law.html
New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
sued the city council to overturn a statute that allows lawsuits
based on allegations a police officer used racial profiling to
pick someone out for questioning.  The mayor’s office, in a suit filed today in state Supreme
Court in  Manhattan , said the act is preempted by the state’s
Criminal Procedure Law and “exceeds the bounds of permissible
legislation” by the council. The council last month overrode
the mayor’s veto of two bills, one permitting the suits and the
other creating an inspector general to oversee police practices.  The Criminal Procedure Law “is a comprehensive and
detailed regulatory scheme that imposes burdens, limitations and
obligations on  law enforcement , including the Police Department
and individual officers,” according to the mayor’s suit. “It
is intended to be a uniform and complete set of laws for the
entire state.”  The two bills were passed after a federal judge ruled last
month that New York police violated the U.S. Constitution in
stop-and-frisk encounters with hundreds of thousands of mostly
black and Hispanic young men. To restrain the practice, U.S.
District Judge Shira Sheindlin in Manhattan appointed a monitor
she said would ensure that police act lawfully.  ‘Ill-Advised Litigation’  “ Mayor Bloomberg  can sue all he wants, but at the end of
the day, we will successfully beat back this ill-advised
litigation and ensure the prerogative of the city council to
reform stop and frisk,” council Speaker Christine Quinn, a
Democratic candidate for mayor, said in a statement.  Bloomberg, 71, has said the council’s actions and the
court-appointed monitor would hinder patrol officers’ ability to
make split-second decisions on the street, making it more
difficult to fight crime and terrorism.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP. A political independent, he is barred by
law from seeking a fourth term. Quinn, 47, is one of seven in
her party seeking to replace him next year.  The case is Mayor of the City of New York v. Council of the
City of New York, 451543/2013, New York State  Supreme Court , New
York County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  