-- News Corp. Sells Newspaper Group to Fortress for $87 Million
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-04T20:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/news-corp-sells-local-newspaper-group-to-fortress-investment.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the publisher of the
Wall Street Journal, sold local newspapers such as Oregon’s
Ashland Daily Tidings and Massachusetts’ Cape Cod Times to an
affiliate of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  for $87 million.  The Dow Jones Local Media Group operates 33 publications,
including eight daily newspapers and 15 weeklies,  News Corp .
said yesterday.  Newcastle Investment Corp. (NCT) , a real estate
investment trust managed by Fortress, acquired the publications,
it said in a separate statement today.  News Corp., led by Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , is narrowing
its focus to larger publications such as the Journal, the New
York Post and the U.K.’s Times. The company split off this year
from the billionaire’s entertainment properties, starting out
with $2.6 billion in cash and zero debt.  The sale reduces the Dow Jones unit to the Wall Street
Journal, MarketWatch, Barron’s, SmartMoney.com and the
conferences business and news site AllThingsD, whose contract
with the company ends this year.  Shares of News Corp. rose 1.6 percent to $16.03 at the
close in New York, where it has its headquarters. New York-based
Fortress gained 2.2 percent to $7.32.  The newspapers will be combined with  GateHouse Media Inc. ,
another unit of Fortress that currently operates 78 daily
newspapers, to create a print and online company called New
Media, Fortress Co-Chairman Wesley Edens said today on a
conference call. GateHouse will file a prepackaged bankruptcy
next week as part of the plan.  1936 Founding  The community-paper division sold by News Corp. was formed
after Ottaway Newspapers merged with Dow Jones in 1970. The
Ottaway business was founded in 1936 when James H. Ottaway
bought the Bulletin in Endicott, New York, according to Dow
Jones’s  website .  The Local Media Group also includes Middletown, New York’s
Times Herald-Record; Stockton, California’s Record; New Bedford,
Massachusetts’ Standard-Times; Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania’s
Pocono Record; Portsmouth, New Hampshire’s Herald; and Medford,
Oregon’s Mail Tribune.  Waller  Capital Partners  advised News Corp. on the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  