-- Nike, Schlumberger, ABA, Wiley: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/nike-schlumberger-aba-wiley-intellectual-property.html
Nike Inc. (NKE)  said it can make a golf
shirt that could replicate what a coach does.  The world’s largest maker of sporting goods obtained about
a dozen patents on Aug. 27, including one invention with the
potential to irk golf pros.  “A coach or trainer can greatly improve an athlete’s form
or body positioning, which can result in improved athletic
performances,” Nike said in patent 8,516,616, issued by the
U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office . “For most people, however, a
coach or trainer is not always available” and there isn’t an
easy way to check positioning on your own, the company said.  The patent covers “articles of apparel providing enhanced
body position feedback.” The clothing will have tighter
material in areas key to a repetitive movement, like a golf
swing. The snug fit increases muscle stimulation, giving a
better feel that will improve form, according to the patent.  Obtaining a patent doesn’t mean for certain that the
invention will be used in a product. Companies are granted
millions of patents a year and many never become a reality.  In the golf patent, Nike describes thin elastic material
embedded into the part of the garment that covers the lower back
to heighten sensation. That part of the body is essential to a
swinging motion and is impossible to see and difficult to feel
while performing, which is why a coach is needed to give
feedback, the document said.  Besides boosting performance, the shirt also could lower
injury risk by keeping athletes in proper form as they swing a
golf club or a baseball bat over and over again, Nike said.  Mary Remuzzi, a company spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the patent.  Under U.S. Golf Association rules, compression and posture
garments are allowed during competition while clothes designed
to store and release energy aren’t, said Joe Goode, a spokesman
for the Far Hills, New Jersey-based group that governs golf
rules in the U.S. and  Mexico . He declined to comment on whether
a product based on the Nike patent would be permitted.  Oil Patch Follows Smartphone Makers in Patent Defenses  Battles for supremacy in the $680 billion oil and gas
industry are moving from the hardhats and steel-toed boots of
the drilling rig to the Brooks Brothers suits of law firms
representing the biggest patent holders.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) ,
the world’s largest oil service providers, secured a total of
1,257 patents last year, more than twice the annual number of a
decade earlier. In the past three years,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
doubled its revenue from technology it licenses to others.  The impulse to patent harks to Silicon Valley as companies
stake their claims to new techniques and equipment for hydraulic
fracturing, automated drilling and computer software that helps
find and reach oil and gas deposits. As research and development
expenses rise, stronger patent defense is part of the arsenal
energy companies deploy to win or maintain market share, said
Bart Showalter, a partner at  Baker Botts  in  Dallas .  The world’s four largest oilfield service providers spent a
combined $21.8 billion on research and development since 1997,
according to  Barclays Capital . Patent protection gives companies
exclusive rights to use or sell their technology, and to sue if
someone else copies it.  Baker Hughes was  granted  368 patents last year, compared to
138 in 2002. During the same period, Schlumberger patents rose
to 588 from 235. Halliburton’s patents rose 80 percent to 301.  Among the oilfield innovations that have won protection in
the past few years: lasers to help drill wells, wired drill pipe
for high-speed data transfer, and a subsea “glider” robot that
delivers gear to the seafloor.  The patent race may lead to a swell of litigation as the
 energy industry  follows a pattern established by smartphone
manufacturers, said Dean Becker, chief executive officer of ICAP
Patent Brokerage, the world’s largest. At least a dozen lawsuits
have been filed in federal courts over the past year including
two pitting the world’s largest service companies against one
another.  “This is the beginning of a tsunami to come,” he said.
“You’ve got a big marketplace for people to figure out how to
fit in.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  University of Oregon Steps Back From $500,000 Royalty Demand  The  University of Oregon  has dropped plans to require
licensees to guarantee $500,000 in royalty payments to the
school each year in return for being able to use its trademarks,
the Register-Guard newspaper  reported .  The royalty requirement would have caused job losses at a
number of Oregon licenses who, while they have made licenses
products for years, weren’t big enough to generate the $5
million in annual sales necessary to yield that large a royalty,
the newspaper reported.  Matt Dyste, director of the Eugene, Oregon-based school’s
marketing and brand-management program told the newspapers that
only four or five companies were able to submit proposals that
would meet the guarantee requirement.  When the school announced last spring that it was moving to
a $500,000 royalty requirement, small businesses, public
commentators and one state legislator all reacted negatively,
saying the $500,000 figure was unattainable for all but the
largest national companies, according to the Register-Guard.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Website Fights ABA’s Copyright Claim to Bank Routing Numbers  A six-lawyer  Vermont  firm is providing pro-bono
representation to a website operator accused of copyright
infringement by the  American Bankers Association .  Greg Thatcher drew the bankers group’s ire when he began
publishing bank routing numbers on his GregThatcher.com website.  The site contains an assortment of computer games, math and
physics-themed calculators, animations, the periodic table of
elements, and sets of fractals created by Thatcher, a software
engineer at  Reprise Apps LLC  of Lafayette,  California .  In June, Thatcher received a cease-and-desist letter from
Washington-based Covington & Burling LLC, counsel for the
association. In the letter, partner  Nigel Howard  said that each
ABA number “is an original copyright work carefully selected
and arranged as a result of the ABA’s creativity.” He also said
that while the banker’s group is considering whether to develop
a licensing program for the numbers, the group “does not have a
licensing program available for websites like yours at the
current time.”  Andrew B. Delaney  of Barre, Vermont’s  Martin & Associates 
responded Aug. 23. In his letter to Howard, he said “Because
Greg is very concerned about potential copyright infringement
and your letter actually scared him, we want to set the record
straight.”  In one footnote he said the firm wasn’t charging Thatcher
because “we used to use his site a lot. And we never paid him
anything. But then you wrecked it for everyone. That wasn’t
nice.”  Delaney pointed out that routing numbers are like telephone
numbers, and that part of each number is the  Federal Reserve ’s
routing symbol, which, as a government work, isn’t afforded
copyright protection. He also referred to a 1991 copyright case
in which the court said that a directory of phone numbers wasn’t
protectable either.  Thatcher’s site is provided as a public service, Delaney
said, arguing that the use of any copyrighted material should
fall within copyright law’s “fair use” provision.  Delaney asked that the bankers’ group allow Thatcher to put
his site back up, and to quit “intimidating our client.” He
said the public “will see you and your client as big bullies”
if the banker’s group continues to press the infringement issue.  Below his signature, Delaney appended a copyright notice.
Then he added “But wait ... fair use allowed and encouraged.
Actually go ahead and publish the whole thing as is. We don’t
care.”  Schwegman Firm Defeats Copyright Claim by John Wiley & Sons  Schwegman Lundberg & Woessner PA, a Minneapolis-based IP
specialty firm, has prevailed in a copyright suit brought by
 John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A)  and the American Institute of Physics.  Hoboken,  New Jersey ’s Wiley is a publisher of scientific,
technical and medical books. The publisher and the AIP filed
suit in federal court in  Minnesota  in February 2012, claiming
that the firm’s inclusion of 18 articles from the publisher’s
journals to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office constituted
copyright infringement.  Wiley later amended the complaint to say that it wasn’t the
submission to the patent office that infringed the copyright.
Instead, the publisher argued that the infringement lay in
Schwegman’s downloading, storing, making internal copies and
distributing them by e-mail.  U.S. District Judge Richard H. Kyle disagreed. He said that
the way that the firm used the journals’ content “remains
intertwined with Schwegman’s practice as a patent prosecution
firm.”  An applicant for a patent is required to submit what is
known as “prior art.” This is information related to the
patentability of the invention for which the patent is sought.
This requires the submission of a legible copy of non-patent
literature relevant to the invention.  Judge Kyle said that the publisher submitted no evidence
that the use of the articles to meet their obligations to submit
prior art didn’t have any effect on the traditional market for
those articles.  He said that Schwegman’s use of the journals’ articles
constituted fair use, and that submitting them with the patent
applications “promoted the progress of science and useful
arts” which is the purpose of U.S. copyright law.  He dismissed the case with prejudice, which means that the
publisher is not free to re-file it.  The case is American Institute of Physics v. Schwegman
Lundberg & Woessner, 12-00528-RHK-JJK, U.S. District Court,
District of Minnesota.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 