-- Nokia’s Surge Reveals Short Sellers, Analysts’ Errors
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-09-03T14:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/nokia-s-surge-reveals-short-sellers-analysts-errors.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s 48 percent rally today
spells bad news for  hedge funds  and analysts that bet against
the Finnish mobile-phone maker.  Nokia had the biggest percentage of its shares out on loan
-- 11.84 percent -- through Aug. 30 among Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
companies with a market value of more than 10 billion euros ($13
billion), according to Markit data on Bloomberg. Shares on loan
indicates how much short-selling activity has taken place. The
company was analysts’ 17th least liked stock from Europe’s 190
biggest listed businesses, Bloomberg data show.  Short sellers and analysts who failed to account for a
takeover saw their bets implode today when Nokia posted its
biggest rally since at least 1991 on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s agreement
to buy the company’s mobile-phone business and patents for 5.44
billion euros. Once Europe’s biggest company, Nokia’s market
value had fallen to as little as 11 billion euros from more than
300 billion euros in 2000 as the company lost market share to
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and devices running Google Inc.’s Android.  “It’s caught everyone by surprise, no doubt about that,”
Mika Heikkinen, who helps oversee about 2 billion euros at FIM
Asset Management Ltd. in Helsinki, said by phone today. He holds
more shares of Nokia in his funds than are reflected in
benchmarks. “The main driver behind short-sellers was that the
Windows phone would not be profitable. And I always thought that
there was a future in the Windows phone.”  Shares in Espoo, Finland-based Nokia surged as  much  as 48
percent to 4.40 euros today.  Hedge Funds  Almost 12 percent of  Nokia’s shares  outstanding were on
loan on Aug. 30, down from a high of 20.6 percent in March,
Markit’s data show. That compares with an average so-called
short interest of 1.3 percent in Europe’s largest companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  According to Bloomberg data based on regulatory filings,
Discovery Capital Management LLC reported on July 22 a short
position in Nokia. The phone maker’s shares  fell 1.9 percent 
from then through yesterday.  Blue Ridge Capital LLC reported a bet against Nokia’s
shares on July 25. The stock  declined 3.1 percent  between then
and yesterday.  Viking Global Investors LP on Aug. 8 said it had bet that
Nokia shares would drop, the data show. The handset maker  slid
4.1 percent  between that date and yesterday. Rose Shabet, the
chief operating officer of Viking Global, said the company
doesn’t comment on individual positions.  Spokesmen for Blue Ridge Capital and Discovery Capital
declined to comment.  Lone Pine  Capital LLC, Maverick Capital
Ltd. and Brookside Capital Management have also reported short
positions in Nokia since June. Lone Pine declined to comment.
Spokespeople for Maverick Capital and Brookside Capital didn’t
return phone calls seeking comment.  Analysts Consensus  The Finnish company yesterday had an analyst consensus
rating of 2.84 on a Bloomberg scale that goes from 1 for the
most sell recommendations to 5 for the most buys. By today, the
rating had climbed to 3.04.  “This transaction comes as a surprise to us,” wrote
analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. led by  Pierre Ferragu  in
London in a report. They raised their recommendation to market
perform, or hold, from underperform, or sell.  “Our short thesis on Nokia has always been grounded on the
assumption that nobody would dare to buy out a business of that
size and in such a difficult position,” the analysts wrote.
“We recognize today we underestimated this upside risk.”
Bernstein had an underperform rating on  the shares  since June
2011 and a share-price estimate of 1.50 euros. The brokerage has
set a new forecast of 3.60 euros.  Price Targets  Kai Korschelt, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG who had a
sell recommendation on Nokia for the past year, today raised the
brokerage’s recommendation to hold, while leaving its price
estimate at 2.20 euros. Credit Suisse Group AG increased its
recommendation to neutral from underperform, and lifted its
price forecast to 4.80 euros from 2.25 euros.  Nokia plunged 98 percent between its highest price in 2000
and its subsequent low in 2012 as the company reported slumping
phone sales and shrinking margins. The retreat forced Nokia to
leave the  Euro Stoxx 50 Index  in March this year. The company
had been a member of the benchmark gauge since the index’s
inception in February 1998.  As part of today’s announcement, Nokia’s devices and
services unit, which accounted for more than half of the
company’s 2012 revenue, along with 32,000 employees, will
transfer to Microsoft. Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, 49, will return to Microsoft after a three-year stint
running the Finnish manufacturer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  