-- Nonprofits Are Growing. What Is It They Do?
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-09-03T20:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/nonprofits-are-growing-what-is-it-they-do-.html
The U.S. nonprofit sector has
survived surprisingly well since the 2008 financial crisis. Even
during the depths of the downturn, its revenue rose steadily.
Today, nonprofit sales of goods and services to households
amount to almost $1 trillion a year -- or more than 5 percent of
gross domestic product.  This continues a longer trend. From 2000 to 2010, nonprofit
revenue increased by more than 40 percent in inflation-adjusted
terms, Amy Blackwood, Katie Roeger and Sarah Pettijohn of the
Urban Institute  estimate .  Nonprofit employment has increased, too -- by almost 2
percent from 2007 to 2009, according to  an analysis  by Lester
Salamon, S. Wojciech Sokolowski and Stephanie Geller of  Johns
Hopkins University . In the for-profit sector, in contrast,
employment fell by almost 4 percent. As the authors conclude,
“nonprofits have been holding the fort for much of the rest of
the economy, creating jobs at a time when other components of
the economy have been shedding jobs.”  One in 10 workers outside government now works for a
nonprofit, and that number is projected to keep rising. The  2013
Nonprofit Employment Trends Survey  indicated that 44 percent of
nonprofits intend to create new positions this year, while just
20 percent intend to freeze hiring, eliminate positions or
gradually reduce staff.  What exactly, you may be wondering, does the nonprofit
sector do? The best data we have come from the  Internal Revenue
Service ; even though nonprofits don’t pay taxes, the large ones
are required to file informational returns. These records show
that about 60 percent of nonprofit revenue is received by
hospitals and other health-care providers. Education accounts
for an additional 16 percent.  Nonprofit Expansion  So roughly three-quarters of what nonprofits do involves
either health care or education. This helps explain why the
nonprofit sector weathered the recession better than the private
sector did.  For-profit providers of health care and education also
expanded during the recession, the Hopkins study on employment
trends found. But the for-profit sector as a whole contracted,
because it is not as concentrated as the nonprofit sector is in
health care and education.  The ultimate question is whether we should welcome or be
concerned about the growth of nonprofits. The answer is linked
to whether we want to spend more on health care and education.
To my mind, as the U.S. grows richer, we should welcome spending
more on health care and education -- but only if we obtain
better value from the money we spend.  Revolutions are under way in both sectors. In health care,
as I have  written , a  shift  away from fee-for-service payment and
progress toward  digitization  may produce substantial  changes 
over the coming decade. Digitization is also occurring in
primary and secondary education, time in the classroom is
increasing, and teacher performance is being more rigorously
evaluated; in higher education it’s possible that massive open
online courses, such as those provided by Coursera and edX, will
force universities to wring more value from their tuition. So
there are at least some grounds for hope that we’ll get better
value for the money we spend through nonprofits.  Even so, the role of nonprofits in providing those services
may be a concern. Senator  Charles Grassley  has long called
attention to the risk that  tax exemption  may give nonprofits an
undue advantage and that their activities may not be
sufficiently distinguishable from what for-profits do to warrant
the tax break. I’m not sure that Grassley is right, but I’m also
not sure he is wrong. If we as a nation ever get around to  tax
reform , these questions should be part of the discussion.  We should at least adopt one of Grassley’s more modest
ideas:  to estimate  how much tax revenue is forgone by the breaks
for the nonprofit sector. No one knows, in part because the
Joint Committee on Taxation doesn’t consider the exemption from
corporate income taxation for most nonprofits to be a tax
expenditure. The rationale for this -- that nonprofits don’t
compete with for-profit businesses -- may not be entirely true
in practice. Congress should at least find out what the figure
is.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 