-- North Korea Could Launch a Nuclear-Weapon Strike, South Says
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-03T10:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/north-korea-can-launch-nuclear-tipped-missiles-south-korea-says.html
North Korea  has the ability to
“weaponize” its nuclear technology and put a warhead on a
missile, the South Korean  Defense Ministry  said, contradicting
the U.S. position that the country is years away from gaining
the technology.  The report presented earlier today to lawmakers said the
North can turn its nuclear devices into weapons at any time.
After details of the study became public, the ministry toned
down the findings, saying in an e-mailed statement that the
report meant that the possibility of a North Korean ballistic
missile being paired with a nuclear warhead was “high.”  “The report is an acknowledgment that the North has the
capability to put nuclear bombs on at least short-range
missiles,” Yang Uk, a senior researcher at Seoul’s Korea
Defense and Security Forum think tank, said by phone.  North Korea threatened first strikes against South Korea
and the U.S. in March after a February nuclear test prompted
tightened UN sanctions against the Kim Jong Un regime. President
 Barack Obama , who has called on North Korea to renounce its
nuclear program, said in April the country didn’t have the
ability to launch an atomic weapon on a missile.  Rocket Launch  Yang questioned whether the North can tip a long-range
missile with a nuclear warhead. Last December, North Korea
succeeded in launching a rocket to put a satellite in space for
the first time. The U.S. and South Korea called the event a test
of long-range missile technology in violation of UN Security
Council resolutions.  The North routinely tests short-range missiles. It claimed
in February after its third nuclear test that it had succeeded
in making its nuclear bombs smaller and lighter.  “Just having short- or mid-range nuclear missiles would
give the North far more considerable destructive power over the
South,” Yang said.  The U.S. Forces Korea didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the report. Japanese Defense Minister
Itsunori Onodera said at a press meeting today that he believes
the North continues to advance its nuclear arms programs.  “Their capability has improved considerably with each of
the three nuclear tests they have carried out,” he said,
referring to the North, which conducted its two previous tests
in 2006 and 2009.  Uranium Enrichment  In April, North Korea said it would restart all its nuclear
facilities at Yongbyon just north of Pyongyang. In early August,
the Washington-based Institute for Science and International
Security said that the North might have doubled the size of its
uranium enrichment facility. The institute cited satellite
images taken July 28.  North Korea ratcheted down tensions with the South last
month when it agreed to reopen an industrial complex jointly run
with  South Korea . That park was shuttered in April after the
stricter sanctions of its nuclear program and during joint South
Korean-U.S. military drills. The North has since agreed to
resume the reunions of families separated by the  Korean War .  The North “continues to implement its plan to develop
nuclear missiles while focusing on inducing the mood for dialog
and creating conditions for developing the economy,” the report
said.  The North’s relations with the U.S. have yet to show a sign
of improvement. Citing annual U.S.-South Korean defense drills,
the North withdrew its invitation on Aug. 30 to a U.S. envoy
seeking the release of an American sentenced to 15 years of hard
labor in North Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  