-- Norwegian Air Targets California in Dreamliner-Led Low-Cost Push
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   E k
-- 2013-09-03T12:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/norwegian-air-targets-california-in-dreamliner-led-low-cost-push.html
Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA (NAS)  will offer
flights from  Scandinavia  to  California  using the latest batch of
 Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner planes it says have made long-haul
discount routes newly viable.  Services linking  Stockholm  with  Los Angeles  will commence
next March, to be followed by flights from Copenhagen in April
and Oslo in June, with an introductory fare of $236 each way.
Oakland will be served from Stockholm and Oslo starting in May.  “We believe that the U.S is low-hanging fruit,” Chief
Executive Officer Bjorn Kjos said today in a press briefing in
the Swedish capital, adding that there are few direct flights
from Scandinavia to West Coast cities. “People love to fly
cheap and they love to fly far.”  Norwegian Air is leveraging the all-composite 787’s lower
operating costs as it seeks to offer discounted trans-Atlantic
trips at a profit and succeed where long-haul no-frills carriers
such as Laker Airways have failed. The company will hire as many
as 350 U.S. staff and add bases at existing destinations  New
York  and  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , Kjos said in an interview.  Fornebu-based Norwegian began long-haul operations in May
and currently has five weekly services from Stockholm and Oslo
to Bangkok and six from the two Nordic cities to New York.  Sales Success  Flights to the U.S. metropolis from Copenhagen will
commence in February, according to a statement. The carrier will
also add a second Florida destination, connecting Oslo with the
theme-park resort town of  Orlando  from May, it said today.  Flights to Fort Lauderdale from the three Nordic bases have
already been announced and begin in November. Ticket sales to
New York, Bangkok and the Florida city have been “tremendous,”
with most summer services fully booked, Kjos said, even after
initial trips had to use Airbus SAS A340 jets when 787 handovers
were delayed by battery glitches that grounded the Boeing model.  The CEO said in March that the longer-term aim for the
Dreamliner, of which there are eight on order, is to focus on
destinations in  Asia , tapping demand for affordable long-haul
trips among the emerging middle class.  The company has applied for a permanent air operator’s
certificate in Ireland to establish a low-cost domicile for the
long-haul unit that would permit the addition of flights to
cities such as Beijing, Kjos said. Approval may take six months.  Norwegian, founded in 1993, switched to a discount model in
2001, emulating  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  to sharpen
short-haul competition with state-backed Nordic No. 1 SAS Group
AB, and ranks as Europe’s fourth-largest low-cost airline.  The company last year ordered 222 Boeing and Airbus single-aisle jets valued at 127 billion kroner ($21 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Ek in Stockholm at 
 vek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  