-- Obama Tells Congress United Front on Syria Strengthens U.S. Hand
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o e   S o b c z y k
-- 2013-09-03T14:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/obama-tells-congress-united-front-on-syria-strengthens-u-s-hand.html
President  Barack Obama  told leaders
of Congress he wants a “prompt” vote authorizing military
action against  Syria , saying a  united front  will strengthen the
U.S. hand in confronting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Obama vowed that any strike by the U.S. will be limited and
“proportional,” and won’t involve U.S. ground troops. He
indicated he’s open to changes in the resolution authorizing
force to respond to concerns of lawmakers.  “This is not Iraq and this is not  Afghanistan ,” Obama
said at the White House.  Obama spoke just before a meeting with congressional
leaders from both parties and the top lawmakers on the main
committees dealing with national security issues. The session is
part of the administration’s campaign to persuade U.S. lawmakers
that the U.S. needs to apply military force in response to the
Syrian government’s use of sarin gas against civilians last
month.  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee is scheduled to hold
its first hearing on Obama’s request for congressional
authorization to take military action against Syria, with
Secretary of State  John Kerry , Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and
General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
testifying.  The administration also is conducting a classified briefing
open to all members of Congress.  The military authorization is consuming all debate in
Washington over the next several days as Obama and his aides
press skeptical lawmakers, some of whom are questioning the
evidence gathered by intelligence agencies or whether the U.S.
has a vital security interest at stake.  An Israeli missile-defense test this morning shook a region
already on edge anticipating a military strike. Stock and oil
markets were briefly rattled by what Israel described as a joint
flight test with the U.S. of its Arrow missile interception
system over the  Mediterranean Sea .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  