-- Hockey Says No Australian Austerity in Upbeat Election Pitch
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-04T03:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/hockey-says-no-austerity-for-australia-in-upbeat-election-pitch.html
Joe Hockey , the frontrunner to
become  Australia ’s next Treasurer, said the coalition wouldn’t
embark on an austerity drive and expressed economic optimism
that contrasts with the governing  Labor party .  “The Australian economy is on the threshold of its
greatest ever era,” Hockey, 48, said in an interview in Sydney
today. “There’ll be no austerity. People just expect us to be
careful with their money. You’ve got to look after taxpayers’
money as you’d look after your own.”  Economic management has been at the centerpiece of the
campaign ahead of the Sept. 7 election after the Treasury last
month forecast the  budget deficit  will widen over the next three
years as growth slows and unemployment rises. The Liberal-National coalition, which leads in opinion polls, has pledged to
cut 12,000 civil service jobs and scrap mining and carbon taxes,
while Labor has warned the opposition’s plans risk tipping the
world’s 12th biggest economy into recession as the China-led
mining investment boom wanes.  Echoing his leader  Tony Abbott ’s free-market stance toward
the currency, Hockey said Australia must learn to “deal with
the cards as they fall.” He said automakers must stay
competitive by responding to consumer demand.  Auto Industry  Facing a deteriorating budget position, the coalition plans
to cut A$500 million ($453 million) from carmaker subsidies by
2015. Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s government has set aside A$5.4
billion for the domestic car industry until 2020 and pledged
another A$700 million during the campaign.  “Australia shouldn’t be punished for having competition in
motor vehicles and we’ve got to make sure we’re producing motor
vehicles that the world wants,” said Hockey, as he campaigned
with Abbott at the Sydney Markets’ annual mango auction, which
raises money for charity. The two were thronged by media and
well-wishers as they greeted workers and customers at the
markets.  Manufacturers have struggled with a local currency that has
traded about 30 percent higher over the past 12 months than its
average since floating in 1983. The Aussie traded at 90.99 U.S.
cents at 1:50 p.m. in Sydney.  Second-quarter  gross domestic product  advanced 0.6 percent
from the previous three months, when it rose a revised 0.5
percent, a Bureau of Statistics report released in Sydney today
showed. The result compared with the median of 31 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey for a 0.5 percent gain. From a year earlier,
the economy expanded 2.6 percent, also exceeding estimates.  The coalition leads Labor 54 percent to 46 percent on a
two-party preferred basis, a Newspoll published Sept. 2 in the
Australian newspaper showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  