-- OECD Lifts European Growth Forecasts on Recovery
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-09-03T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/oecd-lifts-european-growth-forecasts-on-recovery.html
The  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  lifted its growth forecasts for
 Germany ,  France  and the U.K. while urging the region’s most-indebted nations to step up changes to improve competitiveness.  Germany will expand 0.7 percent this year instead of the
0.4 percent predicted in May, while France will grow 0.3 percent
instead of shrinking 0.3 percent as previously predicted, the
Paris-based organization said in an interim report published
today. Growth in the U.K., which isn’t part of the euro bloc,
will be 1.5 percent, instead of the 0.8 percent forecast in May.  Europe ’s economic revival comes in the face of slower
growth elsewhere, especially in  emerging markets . Policy makers
need to stand ready to support demand should the recovery
falter, said the OECD, which advises its 34 member governments
on economic policy.  “In the euro area, re-balancing remains incomplete with
weak domestic demand in high debt countries having been offset
by stronger exports only to a limited extent,” the OECD said.
“Supportive monetary conditions must be maintained, while scope
for further monetary easing remains if the recovery were to fail
to take hold.”  Italy, the third-largest euro-area economy, stands out for
showing little signs of recovery, according to the OECD. Italian
gross domestic product will probably shrink 1.8 percent this
year, the OECD said, maintaining its May forecast.  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, 2013 GDP will
expand 1.7 percent instead of the 1.9 percent predicted in May,
the OECD said.  China ’s expansion will be 7.4 percent instead of
the 7.8 percent previously predicted.  “Growth in China has seemingly already passed the trough
and looks set to recover further in the second half,” the OECD
said. “In a number of other emerging economies, the recent
financial market tensions and weak momentum suggest both a
reappraisal of trend growth and deterioration in cyclical
conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  