-- Once-Hot Indonesia Loses Allure as Prices Chill Buyouts
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-09-04T10:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/once-hot-indonesia-loses-allure-as-prices-chill-buyouts.html
Indonesia has lost much of its
allure for private equity as steep valuations restrain buyouts
in a country that two years ago was, in the words of one
investor, “probably the sexiest destination in the  emerging
markets .”  International private-equity firms have acquired stakes in
four Indonesian companies this year, down from 10 in 2011 and
seven last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the
 Asian Venture Capital Journal . Total transaction values fell
from $649 million for the nine deals in 2011 where terms were
disclosed to $324 million for the six deals last year for which
prices were available, the data show.  Deals have fallen precipitously this year, to $87 million
for three of the four announced deals. The biggest was a
purchase by  KKR & Co. (KKR)  making its first entry into Indonesia in
July, buying a stake in publicly traded noodle maker  PT Tiga
Pilar Sejahtera Food (AISA)  valued at $35 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Expectations have been high over the past two years for
private-equity deal making in Indonesia,” said Nicholas Bloy,
Kuala Lumpur-based managing partner at Navis Capital Partners
Ltd., which oversees $3 billion in public and private equities
in Asia. “But many players in the industry had a sobering
reality check and now need to be more realistic in their return
expectations, as they are facing inflated valuations by
sellers.”  Still High  Even after its 22 percent decline from its all-time high on
May 20, the  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has surged 75 percent over
the past four years, compared with a 11 percent increase in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The Indonesian index closed at
4,073.46 today, down 2.2 percent from yesterday’s close.  The companies in the Jakarta index are trading at 17 times
earnings, compared with 11 times earnings for companies in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Value expectations have been at record highs,” Bloy
said. “Cautious investors are looking at valuations in a
different way than bullish entrepreneurs.”  In addition to valuations, deal making is being chilled by
shifting government regulations, which complicate market
assumptions for acquirers, and competition from strategic
buyers.  ‘Sexiest Destination’  Growth in private equity in Indonesia has turned out to be
“lumpy” rather than “a straight line,” said Juan Delgado-Moreira, a Hong Kong-based managing director at Hamilton Lane
Advisors LLC, which invests in private equity.  “There is a bid-ask gap to bridge” because of high prices
in the stock market, “which some would say is overheated”
despite the recent drop, he said.  Delgado in January 2012 had said that “Indonesia is
probably the sexiest destination in the emerging markets now,”
calling it “one of the key long-term investment destinations in
Asia.”  Large global private-equity firms this year have been
selling more than buying.  TPG Capital, the Fort Worth, Texas-based private-equity
firm started by  David Bonderman  and  Jim Coulter , is the most
active in Indonesia. In May, TPG was one of the sellers of part
of a 72 percent stake in Indonesia’s  PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan
Nasional (BTPN) , which it bought in 2008, remaining the biggest
shareholder with 41 percent, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  CVC Sale  In 2010, along with Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund GIC
Pte, the private-equity firm invested in  PT Delta Dunia Makmur (DOID) ,
the owner of a coal-mining contractor. The following year, TPG
joined a consortium in a 45 percent stake in consumer lender PT
BFI Finance Indonesia.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd., one of Europe’s largest private-equity firms, in March was among the sellers of a 12.7 trillion
rupiah ($1.2 billion) share of  PT Matahari Department Store (LPPF)  it
had purchased three years ago and owned along with Indonesia’s
Lippo Group. CVC in 2011 had made a $275 million investment in
PT Link Net  cable television  and its parent company, PT First
Media, according to the London-based firm’s website.  ‘Growth Market’  Spokesmen for CVC, TPG and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  declined to
comment on Indonesia’s climate for private equity. Carlyle, the
world’s second-biggest private-equity group, last year purchased
a minority stake in telecommunications company, PT Solusi Tunas
Pratama, without disclosing terms.  Indonesia is “a large and attractive growth market” with
an “economic trajectory that is on pace to become a top 10
economy by 2030,” Ridha Wirakusumah, a Southeast Asia director
for KKR, said in a July 22 announcement of the purchase of the
9.5 percent stake in Tiga Pilar Sejahtera Food. The statement
said the deal wasn’t financed by KKR’s usual private-equity
investment vehicle and instead was by its asset-management fund
that also makes loans and buys companies’ bonds, in addition to
taking equity stakes.  “KKR is pushing into other businesses like credit and
alternative credit because an investment from a private-equity
fund is not the form of capital that makes sense to everybody in
every situation,” according to a further statement by
Wirakusumah provided by KKR in August.  High Valuations  Deals in Indonesia have failed because of unrealistically
high valuation expectations by sellers. One consumer company
seeking a valuation at 12 to 14 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization for a private-equity stake
should have been priced around eight times Ebitda based on
comparable public companies, according to Navis Capital’s Bloy.  “When you have a slight divergence you can adjust, but
here you can’t bridge the gap,” Bloy said. “Someone has to
give.”  PT Lippo Karawaci (LPKR) , Indonesia’s largest publicly traded real
estate developer by assets, last year attracted interest from
private-equity investors when it offered a stake in its
hospitals unit PT Siloam International Hospitals, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Lippo Karawaci instead chose an initial public offering,
expected Sept. 12, and ended up cutting the size of it by almost
40 percent due to the recent market selloff.  Improving Opportunities  If the selloff in share prices as well as Indonesia’s
rupiah continues, it may improve opportunities for private-equity investors, according to Sebastien Lamy, a Singapore-based
partner at management consultancy Bain & Co.  The rupiah has plunged 13 percent this year to the weakest
level in four years, making it the worst performer among
Southeast Asia’s currencies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency traded at 11,125 against the dollar at 5
p.m. local time, down 0.5 percent from yesterday.  “If the stock-market adjustment lasts, it will also have
an impact on private-equity valuations, and those lower
valuations would mean that private equity deploys more capital
in the country,” Lamy said. “A lasting devaluation of the
rupiah will have the same effect.”  Price expectations so far have been driven by this year’s
exits through public markets. Shares in Matahari surged 160
percent in Jakarta when trading resumed March 26 after CVC and
its partner were said to have sold stakes at more than double
the market price at the time. The stock has fallen 1.8 percent
since.  Whetting Appetites  “The Matahari sale whetted a lot of sellers’ appetites,”
said Edwin Soeryadjaya, the co-founder of  PT Saratoga Investama
Sedaya (SRTG) , an investment firm with $1.1 billion of assets under
management, which went public in June. “If the potential seller
sees a comparable company sell in the stock market at 14 times
earnings, he doesn’t realize that in a private deal that’s not
what you can expect.”  High asking prices have also been bolstered by the prospect
of increasing economic expansion. Growth rates in Indonesia,
Southeast Asia’s largest economy and home to 249 million people,
are forecast to increase from 5.8 percent this year to 6.4
percent in 2015, according to the median forecast of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  That’s higher than projections for neighboring Malaysia and
about double the growth expected for the global economy.  Surpassing Germany  Economic growth of about 6 percent a year would mean
Indonesia’s economy will  surpass  Germany and the U.K. in size by
2030, according to a report last year by consulting firm
McKinsey & Co. By 2020, the number of middle-class and affluent
Indonesians may double to more than 141 million,  Boston
Consulting Group  said in a March report. That’s greater than the
population of Japan, and almost that of Russia.  Private-equity deal making is also complicated by the
threat of changing government regulations, according to the
Southeast Asia Private Equity-Venture Capital Report, published
in May by Bain.  In a bid to protect domestic farmers, Indonesia last year
tightened regulations requiring licenses for the import of
horticultural products, according to the Office of the U.S.
Trade Representative, which is disputing the rules at the  World
Trade Organization  in Geneva.  “What if you buy Indonesia’s best-branded papaya sauce
manufacturer?” asked Xavier Jean, director of corporate ratings
at  Standard & Poor’s  in Singapore. “You are going to have a
problem if they forbid the import of papaya. You probably have
to buy domestically at much higher prices because everybody is
going to rush to the domestic sector.”  ‘What’s Next?’  The Indonesian government in 2009 passed a law requiring
coal companies to sell a portion of their production
domestically at a minimum price before exporting and in June
proposed additional rules that could threaten mining companies’
profit margins. In May, the government limited the number of
 convenience stores  and restaurants that a global company can run
in conjunction with local partners.  “So what’s next?” Jean said. “Is it the capital goods
sector? Is it the telecommunications sector? This kind of policy
uncertainty could make investors think twice about investing.”  Private-equity investors in Indonesia are also facing
increased rivalry from companies elsewhere in Asia seeking
partnerships in their own industries, known as strategic
investors, according to the Bain report. Such activity has been
curbing private-equity deals, said Bain’s Lamy.  “You had a number of deals in Indonesia where financial
investors have been competing with strategic buyers and where
strategic buyers have won in the end,” Lamy said.  Failed Bidder  Carlyle Group , based in Washington, was among failed
bidders for a 30 percent stake in  GarudaFood Group , an
Indonesian maker of chips, peanuts and other snacks, in 2011.
GarudaFood then signed an agreement with  Suntory Beverage & Food
Ltd. (2587)  of Japan for a drinks venture.  Danny Koh, a Singapore-based director at London buyout firm
Actis LLP, which has $5 billion of assets under management, said
he’s encountering more such deals.  “This invariably results in increased competition and
higher valuation expectations,” Koh said, citing Japanese,
Korean and Chinese companies “moving aggressively to establish
their market position and presence by acquiring companies that
could extend their distribution channels or product ranges.”  “A Japanese consumer player may pay over the top for an
Indonesian firm because it is the one chance to enter the
market,” he said.  Being Disappointed  Last year, Japanese beer maker Asahi Group Holdings Ltd.
took a majority stake in a joint venture with  PT Indofood Sukses
Makmur (INDF) , the world’s largest noodle-maker, to produce and market
non-alcoholic drinks.  Many of the private-equity firms which set up offices in
Indonesia may be disappointed now, said Agnes Safford, managing
director at Jakarta-based advisory firm  GreenWorksAsia , which
focuses on renewable energy.  “In the financial world, it’s all about herd mentality,”
she said. “But you can’t come here and think it’s fast and
easy. It’s not that kind of country. You need a lot of patience.
It’s also very much about establishing relationships, and that
takes a lot of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  