-- London Walkie Talkie Owners Probe Tower’s Car-Melting Ray
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-09-03T15:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/london-walkie-talkie-owners-probe-tower-s-car-melting-light-ray.html
The owners of the 37-story tower
known as the Walkie Talkie in the  City of London  financial
district are investigating a light beam cast by the building
that’s so intense it melted parked cars.  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND)  and Canary Wharf Group Plc are
examining the phenomenon and, along with the City of  London ,
have blocked three parking spaces around the building at 20
Fenchurch Street that may be affected, the companies said in a
statement after the market closed yesterday. The glare from the
skyscraper, whose nickname derives from the tapering design
that’s responsible for the beam, has melted parts of vehicles,
City AM newspaper reported yesterday.  “We are taking the issue of light reflecting from 20
Fenchurch Street seriously and are looking into the matter as a
priority,” Land Securities and Canary Wharf Group said in the
statement.  The light beam, which depends on the sun’s elevation in the
sky, lasts about two hours a day at this time of the year, the
companies said. Preliminary modeling indicates it will be
present for two to three weeks.  Being in the stream of light was “like walking through a
wall of heat,” James Graham, a consultant at  Hydrogen Group
Plc (HYDG) , a recruiting firm located near the building, said in an
interview. “I hope it hasn’t damaged my eyes.”  Diffused Light  The companies said they’re “consulting with local
businesses and the City to address the issue in the short term
while also evaluating longer-term solutions to ensure the issue
cannot recur.”  The developers may have to apply a finish to the outside of
the glass that diffuses light rather than reflecting it at full
intensity, said Koen Steemers, head of  Cambridge University ’s
department of architecture.  “It probably wouldn’t affect the transparency of the
glass, but would slightly scatter the reflected solar
radiation,” he said.  The Walkie Talkie, designed by Uruguayan architect Rafael Vinoly, is due to be completed next year. Tenants have signed up
to occupy 52 percent of the building and contracts for a further
4 percent of the space are awaiting legal confirmation, Land
Securities said on July 17.  The building is popular with companies from the  insurance
industry  because it’s close to the Lloyds of London building.
 Markel Corp. (MKL) , Ascot Underwriting Inc. and Kiln Group Ltd. have
signed as tenants.  “The developer has moved very quickly to meet and discuss
with anyone affected,” the City of London Corporation said in a
statement on its website. “They have compensated a car owner,
spoken to local businesses and explored temporary solutions,
perhaps including partial screening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  