-- Money-Market Funds Face EU Capital Rules in Regulatory Push
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-03T13:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/money-market-funds-face-eu-capital-rules-in-regulatory-push-1-.html
Banks and asset managers running
money-market funds face a regulatory push from the European
Union amid warnings from lenders that the plans may kill off
part of the $4.7 trillion global industry.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, will
call for the funds to hoard easy-to-sell assets and in some
cases to meet minimum  capital requirements , in a bid to limit
the scope for excessive risk taking, according to a document
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Regulators need to counter the threat of “investor runs”
on a fund, according to the document, a draft version of
proposals to be presented by Barnier tomorrow. Money funds, a
type of investment vehicle focused on short-term, high-quality
assets, “play a central role in the short-term funding of
entities like banks, corporations and governments” meaning a
run could have “broader macroeconomic consequences.”  Regulators are working to impose tighter restrictions on
 money-market funds  since the September 2008 collapse of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by
losses on debt issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
triggered a wider run on the industry that helped freeze global
credit markets.  Money funds act as intermediaries between shareholders
seeking liquid investments and borrowers seeking short-term
funding. They typically invest in money-market instruments such
as commercial paper and government debt.  Fixed Price  The EU plans include requiring  money-market funds  that
maintain a fixed share price to build up a cash buffer
equivalent to 3 percent of their assets, according to the draft.  The funds are “an important source of funding for the EU
economy and help to ensure that risk is not concentrated solely
in the banking sector,” Alexandria Carr, a regulatory lawyer at
Mayer Brown, said in an e-mail.  “So any new legislation will need to ensure that it
strikes a balance between introducing appropriate protection
measures whilst still allowing the money market funds to operate
in a way that ensures they continue to add value to the real
economy.”  Funds that are already in place before the rules become law
would have 3 years to fully meet the cash-buffer requirement.
This is longer than in an earlier draft of the plans, which
would have required funds to comply with the measure six months
after the law is published.  The European Fund and Asset Management Association, a group
representing the investment management activities of banks
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and JPMorgan Chase and Co., has
 warned  that setting capital requirements for money funds risks
destabilizing their business model and confusing investors, who
may simply look elsewhere.  Safe Impression  Funds with a fixed share price have come in for particular
attention from regulators, as they give “an impression of
safety even though money funds are subject to credit,  interest
rate  and  liquidity risk ,” the  International Organization of
Securities Commissions  said last year. The failure of one fund
to honor this commitment can put pressure on others, and trigger
runs, Iosco said.  The EU money-market fund industry is concentrated in
France, Ireland and Luxembourg. Funds domiciled in these three
countries account for more than 95 percent of the EU money fund
market, according to European Commission data.  Minimum Rules  Under the draft EU plans, funds would face limits on the
timespan of their investments, and minimum rules on diversifying
their portfolios. One measure would prevent funds from exposing
themselves to potential losses on securitizations amounting to
more than 10 percent of their assets.  Other parts of the draft EU rulebook would limit the assets
they can invest in, and ban them from taking part in activities
including short-selling and securities financing transactions
such as repos. Funds would also be banned from paying ratings
companies to assess their creditworthiness.  The  International Monetary Fund  and global regulators at
the Financial Stability Board have urged national governments to
press ahead with regulating money-market funds, identified as
part of the global shadow-banking system. Iosco published a set
of recommendations to regulators last year.  The EU measures, which require approval from the European
Parliament and national governments to take effect, have some
parallels to draft rules issued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The SEC has sought views on two proposals, one of which
would impose a floating-share value on the riskiest money-market
mutual funds, while the other would allow them to suspend
redemptions in times of stress.  Barnier will tomorrow also unveil broader plans for
toughening regulation of shadow banking, according to the EU’s
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  