-- TOP Oil Market News: Brent Crude Fluctuates on Syria Uncertainty
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-09-03T06:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/top-oil-market-news-brent-crude-fluctuates-on-syria-uncertainty.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Brent Crude Fluctuates as Lawmakers Urge Syrian Military Action  Brent crude swung between gains and losses after rising for
the first time in three days as U.S. lawmakers urged backing for
military action against Syria, fanning concern that possible
strikes may disrupt  Middle East  oil exports.  Carbon’s Four-Month Rally Faces EU Supply Hurdle: Energy Markets  The pace of carbon’s longest rally since 2008 is set to
slow as the European Union decides on this year’s allocation of
permits, typically released in February.  Fuel Oil Supplies to Asia Rise to 3.1 Million Tons in October  Fuel oil  supplies scheduled to arrive in  Asia  next month
from Western countries almost doubled from last week to 3.1
million metric tons, shipping data show.  Europe Naphtha Cargoes Headed to Asia Rise to Four in September  European naphtha shipments headed to Asia this month rose
to four, compared with no cargoes three weeks earlier, shipping
data show.  JX Resumes Kawasaki Naphtha Cracker After  Power Failure : Table  JX Holdings Inc. restarted its Kawasaki naphtha cracker on
Aug. 29 after an unplanned shutdown on Aug. 18, according to a
company official.  Formosa Petrochemical Offers to Sell Sept. Fuel Oil Cargoes  Taiwanese refiner offers 40,000 mt of high-sulfur fuel oil,
10,000 mt of pyrolysis grade for Sept. 18-20 loading from
Mailiao, according to tender information obtained by Bloomberg.  Taiwan’s CPC Seeks to Buy Fuel Oil Cargo for Oct. Delivery  Refiner seeks 40,000 mt or 80,000 mt of low pour, low-sulfur grade for Oct. 1-31 delivery to Keelung, Kaohsiung or
Taichung, according to statement on its website.  Kuwait Petroleum Offers to Sell Light Naphtha Cargo for Sept.  Co. offers 24,000 mt for Sept. 27-28 loading, according to
tender information obtained by Bloomberg.  Citic Resources Said to Mull Bid for Glencore’s  Peru  Copper Mine  Citic Resources Holdings Ltd., the commodities trader
controlled by China’s largest state-owned investment company,
may join the bidding for Glencore Xstrata Plc’s copper project
in Peru, said four people with knowledge of the matter.  OPEC  Saudis to Leave Crude Output at Current Levels: Persian Gulf Oil  Saudi Arabia will keep September crude output at about 10
million barrels a day. The country this week releases official
price differentials for October sales.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Marathon Shutting Refinery Equipment After Pipeline Leak: NRC  More than 100 pounds of hydrogen sulfide leaks from a
pipeline to the Marathon refinery near  Detroit ,  Michigan ,
according to a filing with the National Response Center.  Formosa Petrochemical Mailiao Refinery Stack Blower Has Upset  Hydrogen operations at 540,000 b/d refinery “slightly
affected” by upset, co. President Tsao Mihn says by phone
today.  Petrobras Pasadena Refinery Reports FCC Shutdown  Fluid catalytic cracker unit shut down due to issue with
sulfur recovery unit, Co. says in filing with Texas regulator.  Marathon Detroit Refinery Reports Sulfur Recovery Unit Upset  Co. attempting to restart unit after upset late Aug. 30,
according to a filing with the National Response Center.  ICE Gasoil Drops; Total Gonfreville Plant Restarts: Oil Products  Gasoil drops for second day as backwardation widens on ICE
exchange. Morgan Stanley sells gasoline barges.  Crack Narrows; Reliance, ONGC Sell Sept. Cargoes: Asia Naphtha  Asia naphtha’s discount to crude narrows for the first day
in six. Reliance, ONGC and Mangalore Refinery sell Sept.-loading
cargoes from  India .  Total Restarts Gonfreville Oil Refinery Operations After Fire  Facility had fire at diesel desulfurization unit 3 Aug. 31,
co. says today in posting on website.  Chennai Petroleum to Shut Crude Unit for Maintenance End-Sept.  56,000 b/d crude distillation unit to be closed for about a
month, Managing Director A.S. Basu says in phone interview
today.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Tankers Worst Since 1997 as Africa Oil to China Slows: Freight  China’s smallest oil imports from West Africa in at least
two years are curbing demand for tankers on the second-longest
trade route, prolonging the worst rates in more than a decade
for Frontline Ltd. and other owners.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  was unchanged at 10.36 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates Rises 0.9% to 31.91 Points  The cost of delivering Middle East crude to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, gained 0.9 percent to
31.91 Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
 London .  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Stocks Advance With Copper on China Output as Crude, Yen Slip  Stocks climbed around the world and copper rallied as
manufacturing in China and Europe expanded and prospects of an
imminent strike on Syria faded. The yen weakened, bonds declined
and crude oil fell for a third day.  Norway Oil Riches Up for Grabs as Anti-Tax Group Set to Win (2)  Norway’s Sept. 9 election is set to open up a debate on how
much of the nation’s oil wealth can be funneled straight into
Scandinavia’s richest economy.  Solar Defaults Shock Holders as $8.4 Billion Due: China Credit  LDK Solar Co.’s delay in paying debt and Suntech Power
Holdings Co.’s attempts to renegotiate obligations are prompting
investors to gird for losses as $8.4 billion in renewable energy
comes due by the end of next year.  Gold Bulls Increase Wagers to Highest Since January: Commodities  Hedge funds  and other speculators are making the biggest
bet on a gold rally since January as mounting signs that the
U.S. will lead a military strike against Syria drove prices to a
three-month high.  Hedge Funds Add Bullish Oil Bets on Syria Threat: Energy Markets  Hedge funds raised bullish oil bets for the first time in
five weeks on speculation the U.S. will attack Syria after
saying the Middle East country’s use of chemical weapons killed
more than 1,400 people.  Abe Says He’ll End ’Ad Hoc’ Response to Fukushima Nuclear Crisis  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said his government will spend
whatever funds are necessary to contain the Fukushima nuclear
disaster and will end the “ad hoc” response to the escalating
crisis.  Keystone Decision Delay Seen Giving Time for Climate Concessions  A decision on whether to approve the Keystone XL oil
pipeline may slip into next year, giving opponents time to
marshal efforts against it while offering President  Barack Obama 
a chance to wring concessions from Canada.  China 2013 Coal Imports to Rise to Record 312 Million Tons: CCTD  Country to import “high volume” in next few months, China
Coal Transport and Distribution Association says in statement
posted on website.  China Sunergy Urges India to Scrap Dumping Probe on Error Claims  China Sunergy Co. and First Solar Inc. of the U.S. urged
India to end an investigation into solar equipment dumping,
saying the probe is undermined by errors.  Indonesian Coal Producers to Benefit From Weak Rupiah: Bahana  Dlr appreciation provides benefits for coal cos. as most
have dlr-based sales while some cost components are denominated
in rupiah, allowing for operating and net margin expansions in
2H, Jennifer Frederika Yapply, analyst at Bahana Securities,
says in note today.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Rise Most in a Month as Aussie Strengthens With Won  Asian stocks climbed the most in a month, led by Japan, and
South Korea’s won appreciated on evidence of a pickup in global
manufacturing. Australia’s dollar strengthened after the
nation’s central bank kept its key rate unchanged, while U.S.
Treasuries declined.  Yen Touches One-Month Low on Global Growth Signs; Aussie Gains  The yen touched a one-month low as signs of economic
improvement across the globe damped demand for refuge assets
while data from Japan signaled progress in the central bank’s
easing efforts.  Swiss Franc Outpaces Yen as Forecasts Race to Bottom: Currencies  Two years after  Switzerland  took unprecedented steps to
curb its strength in foreign exchange, the franc has overtaken
Japan’s yen as the currency that strategists most love to hate.  Asian Stocks Rise Most in a Month on Global Economic Recovery  Asian stocks rose for a fourth day, with the regional
benchmark gauge climbing the most in a month, as Japanese shares
were boosted by the yen weakening against the dollar and amid
optimism the global economy is recovering.  Buybacks to Dividends at Risk With Record-Low U.S. Yields Ending  U.S. companies, which have almost doubled profits since the
financial crisis, are losing the benefit of record-low debt
expenses as  Federal Reserve  plans to taper bond purchases send
borrowing costs higher.  Soybeans Jump Most in a Week as Lack of Rain May Hurt U.S. Crops  Soybeans climbed the most in a week in  Chicago  as forecasts
showed that a lack of rain in parts of the U.S. Midwest may hurt
yields. Corn advanced.  Copper Rally Reversing as Glut Expands to ’01 High: Commodities  The biggest rally in copper in three months is reversing as
analysts predict that the largest glut in 13 years will
overwhelm consumption from an accelerating Chinese economy,
which uses two in every five tons.  Boxing Win at Oxford Shows Abbott Drive to Australia Premiership  Tony Abbott  had learned to box only a few months before
that night in 1982 when he climbed into the ring for the
deciding bout in the Oxford-versus-Cambridge annual collegiate
boxing contest. And he faced a taller opponent with a longer
reach.  Obama Told to ‘Up His Game’ in Persuading Congress on Syria Plan  President Barack Obama and his aides are meeting resistance
from multiple directions as they seek congressional backing for
military action against Syria, and a prominent critic told the
president to “up his game.”  SPORTS  Everton Sells Fellaini to Manchester United for $42.7 Million  Everton said it sold midfielder Marouane Fellaini to
English Premier League soccer rival  Manchester United  for 27.5
million pounds ($42.7 million).  Henrik Stenson Wins Second PGA Tour Playoff Event by Two Shots  Henrik Stenson captured golf’s Deutsche Bank Championship,
pulling out a two-stroke win in the U.S. PGA Tour’s second
playoff event after having two runner-up and two third-place
finishes over the past two months.  Arsenal Signs Ozil From Real Madrid for Club Record Sum  Arsenal signed German international midfielder Mesut Ozil
from Real Madrid for a record sum for the English Premier League
soccer club.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      106.85  -0.80  -0.7  Nymex     Oct.
 Brent Crude  ($/Bbl)    114.24  -0.09  -0.1    Ice  October
Gasoil ($/Ton)         960.00  +1.75  +0.2    Ice     Oct.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       288.04  -0.97  -0.3  Nymex     Oct.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.67  +0.08  +2.3  Nymex     Oct.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    114.12  -0.07  -0.1    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            313.88  +0.22  +0.1  Nymex     Oct.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.36  +0.3
Gold ($/Oz)          1,396.10  -1.2
MSCI World Index     1,484.61  +0.2
Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  