-- Morgan Stanley Ordered to Pay Fired Commodity Trader $8 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-09-03T23:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/morgan-stanley-ordered-to-pay-fired-commodity-trader-8-million.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  must pay $8.01
million in deferred compensation to an energy trader the firm
fired for not meeting with government investigators in 2009, a
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration panel ruled.  Amit Gupta was awarded $4.7 million of stock units he was
promised from 2006 to 2008 and a deferred-cash award of $1.84
million from 2008, plus interest, according to the  panel’s Aug.
29 ruling . Gupta, who earned more than $64 million in pay during
his time at Morgan Stanley, also sought as much as $14.2 million
in lost earnings from 2010 to 2012, the ruling shows.  Morgan Stanley didn’t consider “mitigating circumstances”
and follow contractual obligations when it chose to fire Gupta
for cause after he refused to meet in 2009 with the Manhattan
District Attorney’s office, which was investigating a trade,
arbitrators wrote without elaborating on the probe. No charges
were ultimately brought against Gupta.  “Mr. Gupta received no fair, reasoned, fully-informed.
individualized consideration of his circumstances,” arbitrators
wrote in the ruling. “The decision to terminate him ‘for cause’
was so flawed that it does not constitute valid action by Morgan
Stanley.”  Morgan Stanley is among Wall Street firms that have
increased pay deferrals and strengthened clawback provisions to
recoup compensation from employees fired for cause in the wake
of the financial crisis. Morgan Stanley last year expanded the
list of misconduct that might trigger such penalties.  One of the three arbitrators dissented. Gupta’s decision
was on the advice of his lawyers after an assistant district
attorney said he believed Gupta had committed “a pretty clear
violation” of criminal law, wrote  John Martin , the dissenting
arbitrator. Gupta knew at the time that Morgan Stanley
policy required he cooperate with the inquiry, Martin wrote.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment. Eric Seiler, an attorney for Gupta, said he
was pleased with the ruling and that it speaks for itself.
Reuters reported the decision earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  