-- Tough-to-Kill New York Buses Drive Through U.S. Loopholes
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-09-03T12:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/tough-to-kill-new-york-buses-drive-through-u-s-loopholes.html
Outside  New York ’s Winter Garden
Theatre, where “ Mamma Mia ” is nearing the end of a 13-year
Broadway run, unwitting tourists board a bus bearing the name of
a company U.S. regulators tried to close two years ago.  New York Party Shuttle LLC was  told  to stop running buses
in 2011 after failing a safety audit. A sister company in
Washington was ordered off the road in April for violations that
included lying about using a driver who failed a drug test,
according to the shutdown  order .  The companies nonetheless helped load buses daily in both
cities, showing how businesses can exploit loopholes and murky
jurisdiction to stymie regulators who say they’re aggressively
policing buses for hire.  “They’re regulating an amorphous industry with moving
targets, like a game of whack-a-mole,” said  Deborah Hersman ,
chairman of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board, which
investigates bus crashes.  The companies’ owner, Houston lawyer C. Thomas Schmidt,
said in an e-mail and interview that his operations now fall
outside of federal, state or local rules. Regulators to date
have agreed or found no evidence to contradict him.  Bus transportation was the fastest-growing form of U.S.
intercity travel last year, with scheduled departures up 7.5
percent to 1,052 trips a day, the most in four years, according
to a DePaul University study. It’s grown between 5.1 percent and
9.8 percent a year since 2006, reversing a 26-year decline.  Regulatory Limits  The growth has come at a cost. In February, a bus carrying
Mexican tourists returning from a daytrip to the mountains
crashed in  California , killing eight people. In 2011, a bus
carrying residents of New York’s Chinatown coming back from a
casino crashed in the Bronx with 15 fatalities.  “Reincarnated” carriers  frustrate regulators because they
repaint buses and change names to evade shutdown orders. The New
York and Washington companies, which operate as OnBoard Tours,
are different in that they operate in plain view.  Men wearing blue OnBoard Tours shirts check names off a
clipboard as passengers present tickets for the “NY See It
All” tour, with stops in Times Square, the Flatiron Building,
 Wall Street  and  Central Park ’s Strawberry Fields. A driver with
an OnBoard Tours shirt sits behind the wheel. The scene repeats
itself in  Washington ’s “DC It All” tour.  Schmidt, in an interview, said his New York company can no
longer be federally regulated because it doesn’t operate over
state lines. It isn’t subject to state regulations because New
York City sightseeing tours are exempt, he said.  Like Expedia  Last year Schmidt persuaded a judge he wasn’t a tour
operator, either, in a decision that overturned a $71,200 fine
imposed by the city Department of Consumer Affairs for operating
a sightseeing company without a license.  In Washington, Schmidt has been allowed by U.S. regulators
to run tours by chartering an outside bus operator. The shutdown
order prohibits him from leasing or renting vehicles.  Federal regulators “have zero authority over a tour
company,” Schmidt said. “They only have authority over buses.
The tour is not a bus thing. It’s a walking thing and a boat
thing. The bus just takes you from a couple of point As to a
couple of point Bs.”  In a December hearing before a  New York City  administrative
law judge, Schmidt called himself a “travel agency of the
modern day,” comparable to Expedia.com, selling tickets for
other companies without operating buses or tours.  While Schmidt said he’s not a tour operator, OnBoard Tours
sells tickets through branded  websites  operated by a Delaware-based company whose officer is Schmidt, corporate records show.  Pow Wow  In June, Schmidt marketed OnBoard Tours in Washington, New
York and  Las Vegas  at the U.S. Travel Association’s
International Pow Wow trade show, according to an eyewitness and
Schmidt’s personal Twitter feed. A post from June 10  reads  “I’m
at PowWow 2013 #ipw13 (Paradise, NV) w/ 3 others [pic],” with a
link to a photo of his booth.  “@OnBoardDCTours is running the Delta Sigma Theta Tour in
Washington this weekend,” Schmidt posted to his  Twitter  account
July 9, referring to the sorority’s 100th anniversary. Schmidt
posted 25 additional times about the tour that weekend.  New York denies operating authority for any bus ordered off
the road by U.S. regulators, Beau Duffy, a spokesman for the
state transportation department, said in an e-mail. The state
won’t inspect buses of a company that doesn’t have authority to
operate, he said.  A sightseeing bus would need a city license, Schmidt said
in the interview. He said he now relies on the state department
of motor vehicles to do safety inspections.  ‘Not Transportation’  Schmidt told city officials during the December hearing
that he didn’t operate buses. Vehicles listed as being operated
by New York Party Shuttle, though, have undergone state
inspections in each of the past three years although the federal
shutdown order hasn’t been rescinded. Half the 20 buses
inspected during that period, ending March 31, 2013, were
ordered off the road for serious defects, records show.  OnBoard Tours excursions were using buses labeled
“Operated by New York Party Shuttle” as recently as last week.  “We’re not a transportation company,” Schmidt said. “The
buses we own and operate in DC and New York are part of a legacy
business. We’re a tour company. We provide zero transportation
with our vehicles, other than for our tours.”  First Target  Washington DC Party Shuttle LLC, which operates as OnBoard
DC Tours, was the first company U.S. regulators  closed  this year
after training 54 investigators to target what they deemed the
riskiest operators.  Schmidt is the company’s chief executive officer, and
corporate records show he organized it.  Ray LaHood, then transportation secretary, said in an April
24 press release that the department was “making good on our
pledge to get unsafe companies off the road.” The Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration, the transportation department’s
bus regulator, has ordered 28 motorcoach companies to shut down
since that effort began.  OnBoard DC Tours continues to offer daily tours with buses
operated by CP Limousine and Consulting Services Inc., based in
 Falls Church ,  Virginia  -- an arrangement Schmidt said is allowed
by the shutdown order. Before Schmidt’s company was shut down,
CP Limo had one bus and two drivers, according to Transportation
Department records. It now has five buses and 11 drivers.  CP Limo is providing “transportation services” to Party
Shuttle Tours LLC, not leasing buses, David Dopsovic, the
company’s outside attorney, said in an interview. CP Limo hired
some of Washington DC Party Shuttle’s drivers.  ‘No Say’  According to the 2013 shutdown  order , Washington DC Party
Shuttle and Schmidt can’t be involved in bus operations in any
way, even with rented or leased vehicles.  Party Shuttle Tours plans the routes, Dopsovic said. Its
employees sell the tickets, and its dispatchers work on site, he
said. CP Limo has no control over these functions, he said.  “They plan the tours,” Dopsovic, with the Washington law
firm Lasa, Monroig & Veve, LLP, said of Washington DC Party
Shuttle. “They have no say in the running of CP Limousine’s
buses.”  CP Limo recently passed an FMCSA audit of its safety and
employee screening processes, Dopsovic said.  New York Party Shuttle has operated buses without
insurance, according to a lawsuit related to a 2011 accident in
which a pedestrian was injured. She is suing Schmidt to recover
the cost of her medical bills, court records show.  ‘Red Flags’  In 2010, an insurance company revoked New York Party
Shuttle’s liability coverage. The insurer said it was misled
into believing the buses weren’t crossing state lines, according
to an e-mail obtained by Bloomberg and confirmed by the insurer
as authentic.  “There are red flags at every turn,”  Lancer Insurance
Co .’s Fran Walsh wrote in the e-mail. “To knowingly be running
across interstate lines illegally is unacceptable.  ‘‘Had we been given FULL disclosure on the signed
application we received, this would have been an easy decline,’’
Walsh said.  Lancer issued another policy for New York Party Shuttle
beginning April 15, 2011, the day after the federal shutdown
order was issued, U.S. Transportation Department records show.
That occurred after the company reorganized to stay within state
lines, said John Petrilli, senior vice president and general
counsel at Lancer, based in  Long Beach , New York.  Insurance costs for intrastate companies generally are
lower because they have lesser coverage requirements than
interstate companies, Petrilli said. New York Party Shuttle’s
policy is for $5 million, the level required for interstate
operations, he said.  Wrong Brochure  Schmidt gave lengthy, varied answers during the city
hearing in December about why he didn’t have a sightseeing
license, or whether his company had or would operate buses. He
said it would register two buses while also saying he’d avoided
owning vehicles because it was too difficult to match supply and
demand.  ‘‘I don’t want to say we are going to operate tours with
those buses,” Schmidt said during the hearing. “I’m not going
to say we are not going to. I don’t know what is going to
happen.”  New York City’s case against New York Party Shuttle for
operating as an unlicensed tour operator collapsed when Schmidt
cross-examined the city inspector who cited him.  The inspector, according to a hearing transcript, produced
as evidence of the company’s operations a marketing brochure for
a different business, City Sights NY.  City Rules  Schmidt’s company has since applied for a license and
regulators are evaluating it, said Abigail Lootens, a New York
City Department of Consumer Affairs spokeswoman. It has
investigated two enforcement complaints filed against the
company, she said.  OnBoard Tours hasn’t abided by rules that New York’s 15
licensed sightseeing companies have to follow, said John
Bilello, who was Schmidt’s partner in New York Party Shuttle
before the two had a falling-out that led to a lawsuit and
settlement. Bilello is now a competitor.  “Since the bus regulatory agencies, especially those in
New York City, either take forever to inspect, or have no
authority anyway, we make it our own business to rigorously
check our own vehicles and drivers,” Bilello said. Referring to
OnBoard Tours, he said, “I’m not sure every bus operator is as
careful as we are.”  Workaround Sought  Letters between Schmidt and FMCSA officials show he was
searching for ways to get back in business within days after
Washington Party Shuttle was ordered to shut down.  He asked the regulator whether Party Shuttle Tours LLC, his
Delaware holding company, could use “properly licensed third-party motor carriers” to organize tours and whether the company
can operate motor vehicles that aren’t “commercial.”  The order doesn’t prevent selling tickets for bus tours as
long as neither Schmidt nor the company “engage in or control a
motor carrier operation,” Field Administrator Curtis Thomas
wrote April 26.  The order stated it applied to Washington DC Party Shuttle
and Schmidt personally, as well as “all of its officers,
members, directors, successors, assigns and closely affiliated
companies.” It applied to “all motor carrier operations and
all vehicles owned, leased, rented or otherwise operated by
Washington DC Party Shuttle.”  ‘Ticket Seller’  Schmidt and his companies remain blocked by federal
regulators from operating buses. A proposal by Washington Party
Shuttle to improve its safety practices and end the April
shutdown order was rejected, said Marissa Padilla, a FMCSA
spokeswoman.  “To date, we have no evidence that the out-of-service
order that was issued against the company and its owner has been
violated,” Padilla said. “We encourage anyone with information
to the contrary to provide it to authorities immediately so the
appropriate action can be taken.”  The April 24 imminent-hazard-to-public-safety order states
Schmidt can’t transport passengers by bus or control the
operations of a bus company. It applies “without limitation to
all interstate and intrastate transportation.”  “While we are aware that the owner sells tickets for tours
through other carriers, the agency does not have the authority
to regulate such activities,” Padilla said.  Washington DC Party Shuttle is working on a plan to end the
shutdown order with the help of a former FMCSA administrator,
Annette Sandberg, Schmidt said in an interview. The company
expects to have its federal authority restored within the next
two weeks, he said.  Sanberg confirmed she is working with Schmidt to meet
regulatory requirements.  Enforcement Power  Responding to criticism by Congress and safety board
officials that the agency hadn’t done enough to get unsafe
companies off the road, current FMCSA Administrator Anne Ferro
last year asked for and received greater authority, including
higher fines and more power to go after reincarnated carriers.
Penalties increased from $2,000 to $25,000 per violation.  The bus agency has added regulations to ensure companies
can’t evade orders by creating affiliates. FMCSA officials can
determine that a company is an affiliated business operation
under common control.  Bus-ticket sellers aren’t federally regulated, something
U.S. accident investigators have identified as a safety concern
since 2005. A motorcoach carrying senior citizens evacuating
Hurricane Rita crashed, caught fire and killed 23 people. The
nursing home used a broker which hired a company with a spotty
safety record.  “This has been our frustration with this agency on many
different issues,” said  Henry Jasny , vice president and general
counsel with Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety, a
Washington-based group that pushes for tougher bus regulation.
“They say the right things. The follow-through doesn’t always
live up to its billing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  