-- How 37-Year-Old Teacher Imperils Pimco’s Bond Bet: Mexico Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-09-03T19:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/how-37-year-old-teacher-imperils-pimco-s-bond-bet-mexico-credit.html
For Pedro Hernandez, a striking
elementary-school teacher from the southern state of Oaxaca, his
union’s protests disrupting  Mexico ’s capital aren’t just about
education. They’re about stopping President Enrique Pena Nieto.  “We’re against all the structural reforms,” the 37-year-old said last week as he walked down Mexico City’s central
boulevard as part of an organized march of 15,000. Hernandez
held a sign that read, “Mexico has no president.”  The demonstrations, which persuaded Mexican lawmakers to
delay votes on education-reform legislation that would have
subjected teachers to standardized evaluations, are a sign to
Barclays Plc that Pena Nieto may struggle to push through his
energy and tax-law proposals without modification.  Opposition to those pledges, which carried him to victory
in July 2012, is also undermining confidence in Mexico’s economy
that led foreign investors such as Pacific Investment Management
Co. to increase their bond holdings to a record this year.  Yields on Mexico’s peso-denominated bonds due in 2024 have
climbed 1.93 percentage points from a record low on May 9,
losing 18 percent in dollar terms over the period compared with
a 10 percent average drop across  emerging markets . Dollar-based
losses were exacerbated by a local currency that slid 4.8
percent against the dollar in August, the most in  Latin America .  No Picnic  “The education reform shows that it’s not going to be easy
for the government to pass other reforms that hurt certain
political groups or interests,” Marco Oviedo, chief Mexico
economist at Barclays, said in a telephone interview from the
country’s capital. “It’s not going to be a picnic.”  Foreign holdings of Mexico’s fixed-rate bonds surged to a
record 1.16 trillion pesos ($87 billion) in May after Pena Nieto
worked with rival parties to craft constitutional changes that
led to the education bill. He also signed telecommunications
legislation meant to boost competition and foreign investment in
the industry.  Barclays said last month that the president’s proposal to
break the state oil company’s 75-year monopoly on drilling in
the country would attract investment, potentially adding 1.5
percentage points to Mexico’s potential economic growth.  Pimco, the world’s biggest bond  fund manager , is the
biggest holder of Mexico benchmark peso-denominated bonds due in
2024, according to filings data compiled by Bloomberg. Officials
in Pimco’s press office didn’t respond to an e-mailed request
for comment on whether the teacher protests were impacting the
company’s outlook on Mexican debt.  ‘All Instruments’  Pena Nieto said yesterday in the annual presidential
address to the nation that he “knew beforehand that to achieve
great transformation in Mexico would be complicated.”  “I’m determined to use all instruments of a democratic
state to promote the transformation that the majority of
Mexicans demand,” the 47-year-old former governor said in a
tent pitched on a lawn outside the presidential mansion. As he
spoke, synchronized videos of oil rigs and  power plants  played
on overhead screens.  Over the past two weeks in Mexico City, the protesters set
up a tent city in the capital’s main square, blocked access to
Mexico City’s airport long enough to delay as many as 60 flights
and amassed outside congressional chambers, forcing legislators
to meet at alternative sites.  Soccer Match  The strain on police resources also caused a professional
soccer game to be postponed, the daily Reforma reported last
week on its website. Pena Nieto’s government cited protesting
teachers as a reason the president pushed off his  state of the
union  speech to yesterday from Sept. 1.  After rescheduling last month’s education vote until later
this week, Mexico’s lower house of Congress on Sept. 1
accelerated the tally to that night. The bill passed with 390
votes in favor and 69 against.  “The new government is going to have to show here if it
really has authority and sufficient power to pass all of these
reforms,” said Araceli Espinosa, a fixed-income analyst at the
local unit of Scotiabank. “This moment is very, very
important.”  The teachers will join protests against Pena Nieto’s oil
industry reform proposal that  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , the
runner-up in last year’s presidential race, has scheduled for
Sept. 8, according to Inesimo Pelaez, an organizer of the recent
marches.  “We could block banks, toll booths or airports,” Pelaez
said in an Aug. 28 interview.  ‘Natural Reaction’  Alejandro Diaz de Leon, who oversees government bond sales
as the head of public debt at the  Finance Ministry , said the
scale of the demonstrations is “a natural reaction and reflects
the reach of reforms.”  “This is a proposal that changes the status quo, and this
could generate a certain inconvenience for some groups and a
certain optimism and encouragement for others,” he said in a
telephone interview Aug. 30. “In the short term, there could be
tension, protests and disruptions.”  Edwin Gutierrez , a fund manager who helps invest about $10
billion of emerging-market debt including Mexico government
bonds at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, says the education
protests are little more than a sideshow.  “The whole focus remains very much on what’s going on in
energy reform,” Gutierrez said by phone from  London . “As long
as they push forward with the schedule that they have, the
market’s happy.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  fell five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 217 basis points at 3:33 p.m. in
 New York , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified index.  Mexico’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts that
protect holders of the nation’s debt from non-payment, rose one
basis point to 133 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Mexico’s peso slid 0.5 percent to 13.3992 per dollar.  Hernandez, the striking teacher, says the reforms “are
damaging our country,” and that Pena Nieto “is stomping on”
Mexico through legal changes that won’t benefit the poor. He’s a
local precinct secretary general for the teachers’ union CNTE,
which is leading the demonstrations.  Barclays’s Oviedo today is hosting an investor conference
in Mexico City on the reforms. The risks posed by demonstrations
is on the agenda, he said.  “There’s a probability again to see protests of different
groups that are opposed to” energy reforms that involve
constitutional changes as Pena Nieto has proposed, Oviedo said
in the interview. “That is the next test for the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  