-- Polish GDP Will Accelerate as Crisis Ends, Tusk Says
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-09-04T07:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/polish-gdp-growth-will-accelerate-as-crisis-ends-tusk-says.html
(Corrects zloty-dollar conversion in last paragraph.)  Poland ’s economy may grow faster
than the government’s forecast of 1.5 percent this year as the
country emerges from the European crisis, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said today.  The government expects  gross domestic product  to expand
faster than 2 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier
and by 3 percent in the first three months of 2014, Tusk told a
business forum in Krynica, southern Poland. Economic growth
quickened to 0.8 percent in the second quarter from 0.5 percent
in January-March, the Warsaw-based Central Statistical Office
said on Aug. 30.  “The crisis in Europe is ending but in Poland we can say
that we’ve already fended it off,” Tusk said in a speech
opening the Krynica Economic Forum. “There won’t be any
recession or stagnation here.”  The prime minister’s 2013 forecast outstrips the 1.1
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey last month of 43
economists, who predicted Poland would post its slowest growth
rate in at least 17 years. Industrial  output  in the European
Union’s biggest eastern economy grew at the fastest pace in 18
months in July, while new manufacturing orders in August soared
the most since March 2011, HSBC Holdings said in a survey
published yesterday.  “The PMI data show the improving growth outlook for the
second half and next year,” Tusk said.  Win-Win Strategy  The government is working on a “post-crisis” economic
strategy, Tusk said, starting with an overhaul of its pension
system to “lift the crushing fiscal burden” of transfers to
privately managed pension funds. The cabinet’s decision on the
revamp will be announced tomorrow at noon, he said.  Poland needs a “win-win” strategy to coax consumers into
boosting spending, building on export growth and signs employers
have started hiring, according to the premier. He added that the
government plans to introduce a simplified tax system by 2016,
without providing details.  The growth program will help the government achieve its
goal of a 2 trillion-zloty ($618 billion) economy in 2017,
doubling its size since the onset of global financial crisis in
2008, Tusk said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  