-- Potential Atlantic Systems Probably Won’t Become Storms Soon
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-03T13:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/potential-atlantic-systems-probably-won-t-become-storms-soon.html
Three potential tropical systems
stretch across the Atlantic from  Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula to
Africa’s west coast, though none is expected to become a major
threat this week, forecasters said.  The westernmost of the three, over the Yucatan, has a 20
percent chance of becoming a tropical system in the next two
days, according to the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  in Miami.
The second, over Dominica in the Lesser Antilles, is given 20
percent odds for growth in the next 48 hours, while the one off
Africa has a 10 percent chance.  “None of them look too imminent for development at this
point,”  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC
in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in an e-mail interview.  Storms are tracked by energy and commodity markets because
they can disrupt supply and demand of petroleum products,
natural gas and crops. The  Gulf of Mexico  is home to about 6
percent of U.S. natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production
and more than 45 percent of petroleum refining capacity,
according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Florida , which is struck more often than any U.S. state, is
the second-largest producer of oranges behind Brazil.  The disturbance over the Yucatan may have time to develop
once it gets into the Bay of Campeche, said MDA Weather Services
in Gaithersburg, Maryland. It isn’t likely to become a problem
for the main U.S. Gulf energy production area, MDA said.  Antilles Outlook  The Lesser Antilles system is expected to bring downpours
across the islands, as well as  Puerto Rico , as it drifts
northwest through the week, according to AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania .  The storm area is expected to then swing into the western
Atlantic and out to sea, away from land, MDA predicts.  Rogers said he doubts there will be much chance of a large
tropical system developing in the next week or so.  “Today is the 95th day of the  Atlantic hurricane season 
with still zero hurricanes so far,” Rogers said in his daily
forecast. “The models are showing a few windows with tropical
development potential, but the earliest risk to the Gulf looks
to be toward late next week into the middle part of September.”  The most active part of the Atlantic season runs from Aug.
20 to about the first week of October. The statistical peak
occurs on Sept. 10, according to the hurricane center. Six
tropical storms, with winds of at least 39 miles (63 kilometers)
per hour, have formed in the Atlantic so far this season. None
of them became hurricanes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  