-- Quebecor Seen Thriving as Verizon Wireless Threat Fades
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-09-03T20:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/quebecor-seen-thriving-as-verizon-wireless-threat-fades.html
Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B) , the best performing
mobile-phone provider in  Canada , is poised to be one of the
biggest winners in a government auction of wireless airwaves now
that  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  has said it doesn’t plan to
expand north.  While Canada’s three largest carriers,  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus Corp. (T) , can only acquire
one block each of airwaves in an auction of wireless spectrum
this month, Quebecor has no limits. With New York-based Verizon
backing away from the Canadian market, Quebecor will face fewer
challenges from competitors in acquiring the spectrum it needs
to feed data-hungry smartphones and tablets. Verizon Chief
Executive Officer Lowell McAdam said in an interview yesterday
the company had no interest in expanding to Canada.  “If Verizon doesn’t show up, they’re actually in a very
strong position to buy a block of spectrum that will not be very
expensive,”  Maher Yaghi , an analyst at Desjardins Securities
Inc., said of Quebecor. “Wireless is currently providing them
with a nice growth platform.”  Canadian telecommunications stocks have tumbled since May
on concern that the largest U.S. carrier will expand to Canada
by entering the wireless auction on Jan. 14, and buy a smaller
Canadian company such as Wind Mobile.  Quebecor rose 3.2 percent to C$23.29 at the close in
Toronto today. BCE, Rogers and Telus also soared.  Before today’s gains, Quebecor, whose Videotron unit offers
mobile-phone services in Quebec, had dropped 1.9 percent since
June 17, when Verizon said it’s interested in buying Wind
Mobile. That compared with a 9.5 percent drop for Rogers, a 7.5
percent decline for Telus of  Vancouver  and 2.4 percent for BCE.  Vodafone Bid  Verizon confirmed yesterday it will purchase Vodafone’s 45
percent stake in  Verizon Wireless  in a $130 billion transaction
that gives it full control of the most profitable U.S. mobile-phone carrier.  Including dividends, Quebecor stock has returned 29 percent
over the last 12 months before today, at least three times more
than its three bigger Canadian competitors. Among cable
providers, Quebecor’s performance is second only to  Cogeco Cable
Inc. (CCA)  of  Montreal , which has returned 35 percent.  Quebecor would have been better insulated than its larger
rivals since Verizon would have had to build a network from
scratch in Quebec or rely on roaming agreements with other
companies even if it had acquired a carrier such as Wind Mobile
or Mobilicity, Andrew Calder,  vice president of global research
at  RBC Capital Markets , said in an Aug. 28 phone interview.
Wind, Mobilicity and Public Mobile, another small carrier, don’t
have wireless networks in Quebec.  Lobby Effort  Verizon’s interest in a northern toehold triggered a
national lobbying campaign by BCE, Rogers and Telus to change
the auction rules. They say the rules favor foreign carriers,
which don’t face bidding restrictions in the spectrum auction.
The government has said it will block purchases of small firms
that curb competition, making it difficult for the largest
Canadian carriers to buy companies like Wind. The government has
rejected the calls from the carriers, saying it wants to promote
competition and lower prices.  Quebecor Chief Executive Officer Robert Depatie said on an
Aug. 8 conference call with analysts that Verizon’s entry would
have a “catastrophic” effect on regional wireless providers.
Still, the company didn’t join the lobbying campaign by taking
out newspaper or television ads, as its bigger competitors did.
Quebecor publicly lobbied against Montreal-based BCE’s C$3
billion ($2.84 billion) acquisition of  Quebec  broadcaster Astral
Media Inc., holding meetings with more than 50 government
officials.  Protected Carrier  Depatie told analysts his company was “somewhat”
protected from Verizon’s entry by spectrum holdings it acquired
in 2008 and an agreement with Toronto-based Rogers to share the
cost of building and operating a faster network. Quebecor
doesn’t face the same restrictions as BCE and the other larger
companies because Quebecor doesn’t have as much market share.  Quebecor spokesman Martin Tremblay didn’t respond to a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Verizon’s decision not to enter Canada may benefit Quebecor
by lowering the company’s cost of acquiring airwaves. Spectrum
licenses allow companies to use portions of a nation’s radio
frequencies to transmit voice calls and  Internet access  to
devices such as phones and tablets. Gaining more licenses gives
companies more capacity to offer faster speeds and handle higher
volume.  Quebecor’s wireless operations, introduced in 2010, have
helped offset slowing growth in the Montreal-based company’s
cable business and falling revenue in its news division. The
company had 451,100 mobile subscribers at the end of June, up 30
percent over the previous year.  Asset Gem  Sun Media Corp., Quebecor’s publishing unit, said in July
it will close 11 newspapers and cut 360 jobs in a move to save
C$55 million a year.  “That Videotron asset really is a gem,” said Stephen Groff, a portfolio manager at Cambrige Global Asset Management,
a unit of CI Investments Inc. that manages over C$7 billion.
“Quebec is a unique marketplace, and having the special French
content mixed with the cable offering can give you a good
bundled play.”  Quebecor’s ratio of net debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization is the second highest among
Canadian wireless and cable companies, next to Cogeco Cable.
Chief Financial Officer Jean-Francois Pruneau told analysts Aug.
8 the company has the “financial flexibility” to buy spectrum
in the auction, which will be carried out in January.  The company paid C$555 million to acquire 17 airwave
licenses in the government’s last sale in 2008. The licenses
include rights in Toronto and other parts of Ontario, the
country’s most populous province. Companies must submit deposits
for the January auction by Sept. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  