-- Quinn Joins Jets’ Quarterback Rotation With Starter Undecided
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/quinn-joins-jets-quarterback-rotation-with-starter-undecided.html
Quarterback Brady Quinn signed with
the  New York  Jets, who have yet to announce a starter at the
position for their National Football League season opener in
five days.  Neither Mark Sanchez, Geno Smith, Matt Simms nor Quinn has
been designated as the starting quarterback when the Jets host
the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sept. 8.  Quinn, 28, said he didn’t know if he was among the
candidates to start. The Cleveland Browns’ first-round choice in
2007 replaces Graham Harrell, who was released after signing
last week, in the quarterback rotation.  “I don’t know all those answers right now,” Quinn said
yesterday. “I’ve got a lot on my plate. I just got here late
last night and I’m still trying to get adjusted to everything.”  Jets coach Rex Ryan said the acquisition of Quinn wasn’t an
indication that Sanchez won’t play, although the quarterback
didn’t practice again yesterday because of a shoulder injury.
Sanchez has been the Jets’ starter the past four seasons.  “It was just an opportunity for us, as we feel, to get a
good football player, and that’s kind of where we are with it,”
Ryan said of signing Quinn.  Sanchez, who injured his right shoulder in the Jets’
preseason 24-21 overtime win against the New York Giants on Aug.
24, said he wasn’t frustrated by the thought of losing the
starting job because of the injury.  “There’s nothing I can do about it,” Sanchez told
reporters yesterday. “I just got to keep rehabbing and try to
come back as soon as possible.”  Sanchez, 26, completed 28 of 42 passing attempts for 266
yards, two touchdowns and two interceptions in three preseason
games. He’s declined to give specifics about the injury or how
long it might keep him out, saying only that he’s day-to-day.  Smith Ready  Smith, who sprained his ankle, said he’s prepared to play
in the opener. The 22-year-old rookie completed 22 of 37 passing
attempts in the preseason for 246 yards, one touchdown and three
interceptions.  “I’ve been preparing extremely hard and I think I’ve
gotten a lot better,” Smith told reporters. “If my chance is
Sunday, I’m going to go out there with the intent to lead my
team to victory and that’s just the way it is. I’m always going
to play like that, be aggressive.”  Simms, who played in three preseason games, connected on 44
of 59 passing attempts for 478 yards and one touchdown  Quinn spent his first three seasons with the Browns,
recording a 3-9 record in 12 starts. He was traded to the Denver
Broncos and then played last year for the Kansas City Chiefs. He
played in the preseason with the Seattle Seahawks, completing 22
of 38 passing attempts for 271 yards and two touchdowns, before
getting cut.  During his six-year career, he is 296-for-500 for 3,043
yards, 12 touchdowns and 17 interceptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  