-- RBA Running Out of Room to Cut Rates, Australia’s Robb Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2013-09-03T04:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/rba-running-out-of-room-to-cut-rates-australia-s-robb-says.html
Australia ’s central bank is running
out of room to implement emergency stimulus measures should they
be needed with interest rates at historical lows, Shadow Finance
Minister Andrew Robb said.  The central bank doesn’t have “a lot of room left if there
was some other unforeseen event in the world economy to make a
difference,” Robb, whose Liberal-National coalition is on track
to win government at the Sept. 7 election, said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television today. “The Reserve Bank has been
relied upon, or pressured, to do the heavy lifting in the
economy for the last few years.”  Robb’s Liberal-National coalition, helmed by Tony Abbott,
and Kevin Rudd’s governing Labor Party are vying for stewardship
of the world’s 12th-biggest economy amid slowing  growth  and
rising joblessness. RBA Governor Glenn Stevens has cut rates by
2.25 percentage points since November 2011 and left the
benchmark at a record-low 2.5 percent today.  The Treasury said Aug. 13 the budget deficit will widen as
growth slows and unemployment rises to 6.25 percent by mid next
year, from 5.7 percent in July. Government debt will peak at
A$370 billion in April 2016, the Treasury projected. The
opposition is vowing to cut red tape, reduce company taxes by
1.5 percentage points to 28.5 percent and abolish levies on
mining profits and carbon emissions should it win power.  “We’ve got to restore an appetite for risk and investment
in Australia,” Robb said. “It’s been snuffed out in many
respects the last year or two with the overhang of all this debt
and the regulations that have been imposed.”  The opposition led Labor 54 percent to 46 percent on a two-party preferred basis, according to a Newspoll published in the
Australian newspaper yesterday. The coalition is in a “healthy
condition” to win the election, Robb said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Li  in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  