-- Richard III Battled Roundworm Before Death at Bosworth
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-09-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/richard-iii-battled-roundworm-before-death-at-bosworth.html
King Richard III’s gut was infected
with roundworm at the time of his death, according to the first
study describing the state of the monarch’s health when he met
his end more than 500 years ago.  Scientists examining soil around his remains, which were
 dug up  last year in a car park in England, found fertilized
roundworm eggs near his pelvis, where the intestines would have
been. The findings by researchers from the universities of
Cambridge and Leicester were published today in  The Lancet .  Richard III was probably killed by one of two injuries to
the skull according to a study of his skeleton by researchers
who are also investigating whether he suffered from disease. The
results of an investigation of the cause of the hunchbacked
ruler’s scoliosis, to be published in the coming months, may
shed light on whether his spine was twisted due to illness or
genetics, said  Piers Mitchell , a trained surgeon who lectures at
the University of Cambridge’s Department of Archeology and
Anthropology.  “We’re looking at all aspects of his health and not just
how he died,” Mitchell, who led the research team that looked
at the soil samples, said in an interview.  Richard III, branded as a villain by William Shakespeare,
ruled  England  from 1483 until 1485. He died at age 32 at the
Battle of Bosworth Field in Leicestershire, about 100 miles
north of London.  Four Humors  Roundworms, which can grow as long as a foot in the
intestine, wouldn’t have killed the king, though they could have
caused pain if fully grown, Mitchell said. Once roundworm eggs
are ingested, they hatch and travel to the lungs where they
grow. They then crawl up the wind pipe to the back of the throat
where they are swallowed into the intestines.  In the medieval period, people didn’t realize worms were
parasites, Mitchell said. They thought any ailment was an
imbalance of the “humors,”  four body fluids  that physicians
and philosophers believed affected health and mood. Doctors
would study urine samples to determine whether any of the fluids
-- yellow bile, black bile, phlegm and blood -- were off kilter
and then prescribe a remedy. Treatments included blood-letting
into a bowl, medicines made from herbs and spices or a warmer,
drier diet to combat cold and dampness.  “If he did pass any worms through his bottom then that’s
how they might have treated him,” Mitchell said,  Roundworm infection is still common globally, though is
rare in the U.K., Mitchell said. The parasite is spread by fecal
contamination, which means the king probably got it from crops
from a field fertilized with dung or from people who prepared
his food and didn’t wash their hands properly.  Researchers didn’t find any evidence of other parasites
related to pork, beef or fish, which means his food had been
cooked thoroughly, Mitchell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  London  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  