-- Riksbank Seen Keeping Rates Unchanged as Economic Growth Revives
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-09-03T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/riksbank-seen-keeping-rates-unchanged-as-economic-growth-revives.html
Sweden ’s central bank will keep its
 main lending rate  unchanged tomorrow as the Nordic region’s
largest economy recovers.  Policy makers at the world’s oldest central bank are
meeting today to discuss rates and will publish their decision
tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. in Stockholm. All of 20 economists
 surveyed by Bloomberg  said the bank will leave its repurchase
rate unchanged at 1 percent for a fourth meeting.  “There has been quite a lot of positive economic data
abroad over the summer, and here at home unemployment has come
in lower than what the Riksbank forecast while inflation has
been slightly higher,” said Michael Grahn, an analyst at Danske
Bank A/S in Stockholm.  Sweden’s export-reliant economy is recovering as the euro
area emerges from its record recession and Prime Minister
 Fredrik Reinfeldt  boosts spending to stimulate growth ahead of
elections next year. Unemployment has fallen and manufacturing
activity picked up since the central bank’s July meeting.
 Lending to consumers  has also gathered speed, sparking concerns
as private debt climbs to records.  At its July meeting, the Riksbank cited  household debt  as a
reason for not lowering the repo rate even as  inflation  has
trailed the bank’s 2 percent target since 2010.  Consumer debt 
has almost doubled to more than 170 percent as a share of
disposable income in the past 20 years. The bank forecast in
July it will keep the repo rate unchanged until the second half
of next year when it will start to raise it toward 2 percent in
the third quarter 2015.  Rate Path  The government last month proposed a package of measures
aimed at strengthening banking stability, including giving the
Financial Supervisory Authority more tools and putting the
regulator in charge of oversight.  According to Anna Raman, a senior analyst at Nykredit Bank
A/S in Copenhagen, the bank is likely to raise its projection
for its main rate, which in July indicated a 24 percent
probability of a cut in the coming quarters.  “Since then, data on both the Swedish and the global
economy have been mixed but generally indicate a hike of the
interest rate path in the front,” she said.  Futures on Sweden’s benchmark repo rate for December next
year rose to 1.44 percent from 1.19 percent on July 4 amid signs
of improving economic growth. The yield on the two-year bonds
has risen to 1.31 percent from as low as 0.79 percent in April.  Rate Increases  “The market has misinterpreted tapering and therefore
started to price in rate increases in Sweden and I simply
believe that’s completely wrong and therefore I think short
 interest rates  in Sweden will fall after Thursday,” said Par Magnusson, chief economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
Stockholm. “I don’t think they will raise the repo rate path
for 2014 by that much.”  Analysts are divided on when the Riksbank will start to
raise rates. While Danske’s Grahn said the first increase may
come as early as April, SEB AB forecasts the bank will wait
until the end of next year and then gradually raise it to 1.75
percent by the end of 2015.  “We don’t believe that the Riksbank will deliver the rate
increase that it has communicated” since “we don’t think
inflation will develop as the Riksbank thinks,” said Robert Bergqvist, chief economist at SEB in  Stockholm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  