-- Rio to BHP Invest $244 Billion as Glasenberg Warns: Commodities
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-09-04T16:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/rio-to-bhp-invest-244-billion-as-glasenberg-warns-commodities.html
The biggest mining companies are set
to spend about $244 billion on expansions to 2015, slow to heed
Glencore Xstrata Plc Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg’s
call for austerity to end an oversupply in mineral markets.  That’s just a 2.4 percent drop from the $250 billion in
 capital expenditures  made in the previous three-year period,
according to forecasts compiled by Bloomberg for the 20 largest
mining companies by market value. Glasenberg joined a chorus of
investors pushing for spending cuts after the companies had to
make $60 billion of writedowns over 18 months.  From  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest, to Rio Tinto
Group, industry members are telling investors they’ve become
more optimistic for demand growth in the U.S. and  China , the
biggest minerals buyer, and that future capex will be more
disciplined. The Bloomberg World Mining index has jumped about
16 percent from a four-year low in July.  “Institutional shareholders still feel that management
need to prove to them that over the long term the discipline
associated with capital allocation is there,” Catherine Raw,
co-manager of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s $7 billion World Mining Fund,
said yesterday in a phone interview from  London . “They could
always do more. Shareholders are not releasing the pressure.”  Glasenberg’s own Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, in which
he holds an 8.3 percent stake, estimates  spending  of $29 billion
on new projects over the next three years before outlays drop to
$4 billion to $5 billion annually, the company said in May.
Spokesmen for Glencore and Rio declined to comment. London-based
Rio is looking to cut  capital spending  20 percent to about $14
billion this year, with a similar drop the following year.  Annual Spending  “Investors are happy with growth, if it’s high-returning
growth,” said  Paul Young , a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in Sydney
with buy ratings on Rio and BHP. He cites shareholder approval
of their  iron ore  and copper expansions. “Capex relative to
history is still high, but the growth is all good growth.”  Annual expenditure by the top 20 is forecast to drop by
about a third to $66 billion in 2015 from 2012 levels, in line
with Glasenberg’s push. The three-year comparison is little
changed, because of the number of projects put in motion in
recent years that have helped create an oversupply of
commodities including copper.  Glasenberg in an Aug. 21 interview applauded his peers for
responding to his call to restrain spending and had set the tone
for the new “age of austerity” for miners, Bank of America
Corp. analysts said in May. In the past 18 months, BHP, Rio and
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  were among the mining companies to appoint
new CEOs, and they began to rein in future capex budgets, sell
assets and cut workers.  BlackRock Pressure  Investors including BlackRock, the world’s biggest money
manager, have been pressuring mining companies to boost
shareholder returns and defer building mines as waning demand
and declining prices erode profits.  “Where I would say we are still cautious and still waiting
is whether or not they’ve actually changed religion,”
BlackRock’s Raw said. “We just feel the genetics of current
management haven’t necessarily changed. However, we do
appreciate that there is a much greater focus on cost delivery
and on free cash flows versus previously.”  BlackRock’s World Mining Fund has dropped about 23 percent
this year, beating the 25 percent decline in the Bloomberg
mining index.  BHP, after putting an estimated $68 billion of projects on
hold last year, including its Jansen potash project in  Canada ,
last month decided to proceed with a $2.6 billion investment in
Jansen, which may end up costing $15 billion. Rio, the world’s
second-biggest iron ore exporter, is planning an estimated $5
billion expansion in  Australia .  BHP CEO  Fiona Hadley, a spokeswoman for BHP, declined to comment on
the company’s spending plans and noted a May speech by CEO
 Andrew Mackenzie  saying BHP would “remain focused on value and
returns above all else.” The company’s spending will fall this
year and capital will be directed “even more selectively”
toward major operations, he said last month.  “There has been a push for more efficient use of capital,
which doesn’t necessarily mean you shouldn’t develop projects,”
Neil Boyd-Clark,  executive director  at Arnhem Investment
Management who helps manage about A$3.5 billion ($3.2 billion)
including BHP and Rio shares, said in a phone interview. “They
have got the capacity to grow their businesses and demand for
commodities continues to grow.”  Chinese Railways  Vale, the biggest iron-ore exporter, is planning to spend
about $15 billion on expansions in both 2014 and 2015, according
to Chief Financial Officer Luciano Siani. In July it forecast a
10 percent increase in steel output this year in China, the
world’s largest steelmaker, saying the nation proved pessimists
wrong. China’s  iron ore imports  set a record in July, leading
gains in purchases of raw materials by the biggest consumer.  The 111-company  Bloomberg mining index ’s recent gains came
after hitting a four-year intraday low in July as metal prices
plunged in London and after  iron ore  touched a seven-month low
in May. The outlook for minerals has brightened after Chinese
Premier Li Keqiang said in July the world’s biggest buyer of
metals will speed railway construction.  “We are now seeing new project approvals for these urban
rail systems across China that’s about $5 billion to $8 billion
dollars of  capital investment ,”  John Meyer , a mining analyst at
London-based SP Angel Corporate Finance LLP, told  Mark Barton  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” in an interview. “Those
rail systems use huge amounts of metals. Specialty metals,
nickel, vanadium, manganese, iron ore -- that’s going to drive
demand beyond expectations through the second half.”  Project Scrutiny  To be sure, not all the producer’s plans have met
shareholder approval. BlackRock’s  Evy Hambro , who manages the
World Mining Fund with Raw, pointed to BHP’s Jansen potash
project, saying Aug. 7 that events in the world potash market
made any large-scale investment unattractive. Still, slowing
spending to preserve it as an option makes sense, he said.  BHP’s Jansen project will be looked at with a “high degree
of scrutiny” by investors, Paul Gait, a London-based mining
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., told Francine Lacqua on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” in an interview. “This
feels a lot like this kind of grand greenfield project, building
these grand tier-one assets.”  BHP, targeting a 27 percent drop in capital spending to $16
billion in fiscal 2014 from $21 billion in fiscal 2012, Rio and
Glencore all raised dividends last month. Those three companies
and Anglo American, the four biggest miners on the London
bourse, boosted their combined payout to about $5.8 billion for
this earnings period from $5.2 billion a year earlier.  “Increasingly, companies seem to be listening,” said Paul Phillips, a Melbourne-based  fund manager  with Perennial Growth
Management Pty that holds BHP shares. “On a one-year or two-year view, I’m pretty positive that they’ve listened, but on a
10-year view” it’s less certain, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  