-- Rio Olympics Facing Tight Deadlines Told to Focus on Priorities
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-03T03:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/rio-olympics-facing-tight-deadlines-told-to-focus-on-priorities.html
The  International Olympic Committee 
warned organizers of the 2016 Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro to
“focus on priorities” as they face a tight schedule to have
the event ready on time.  An IOC inspection team yesterday concluded a two-day visit
of the city, which in 2009 won the right to become the first
South American host of the Olympics.  “A lot of work has been done, but a large amount, however,
still remains across the entire project and some timelines
remain very, very tight,” Nawal El Moutawakel, who heads the
IOC’s coordination commission for Rio 2016, said yesterday at a
news conference. The games are scheduled for Aug. 5-21, 2016.  The inspection visit came amid concerns about the speed of
work at Deodoro, one of four main zones slated to host events at
the 2016 games and a slowdown in sponsorship income. It also
followed nationwide demonstrations in June that included
protests against the amount of public spending on sports events.  Gilbert Felli, the  executive director  for  Olympic Games  at
the Lausanne, Switzerland-based IOC, said organizers need to
work harder to engage with the public. Rio 2016’s new
communications director Mario Andrada has been tasked with
publishing a list of legacy goals.  “We believe the organizing committee didn’t do enough,”
Felli said yesterday. “The authorities need to engage and
explain more to the population.”  Felli’s comments echo those made by Brazil’s deputy sports
minister Luis Fernandes during June’s Confederations Cup, a
warm-up event for next year’s soccer  World Cup . The eight-nation
competition took place against a backdrop of protests outside
all of the six tournament stadiums. The demonstrations were the
biggest in Brazil in more than two decades and featured clashes
between security forces and protestors.  Peaceful Protests  El Moutawakel said the IOC supported peaceful protests and
the games shouldn’t be used as platform for disorder.  “We’d like also to protect our athletes,” she said.
“We’d like to make sure that the Olympics Games are run in a
peaceful way.”  Television images of police firing tear gas and rubber
bullets toward protesters during June’s riots were broadcast
around the world, sparking criticism in local and international
media about the use of force. Felli said the IOC asked the
British and Australian security forces to share crowd control
tactics with their Brazilian counterparts.  “There were not so many protests before in  Brazil ,” he
said. “In countries where you’ve got a lot of protests in the
streets, they are more used to managing the crowd. It’s why we
tried to put them together so they can have better training.”  IOC inspectors said they also had concerns about how the
games would be financed amid slowing sponsorship sales. Leonardo
Gruyner, chief operating officer of local organizer Rio 2016,
said the entire $700 million contingency fund provided by the
government will likely be needed to cover shortfalls.  Felli said a slowdown in the Brazilian economy meant
companies “have more difficulty in understanding the value of
putting big money” into projects like the Olympics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  