-- Federer’s Earliest U.S. Open Loss Since 2003 Stops Nadal Matchup
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-03T05:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/roger-federer-loses-in-u-s-open-fourth-round-to-tommy-robredo.html
Five-time champion  Roger Federer 
looked for the positives after his earliest exit from the U.S.
Open in 10 years prevented a first meeting with  Rafael Nadal  at
the tennis season’s final Grand Slam tournament.  Federer, seeded seventh, was beaten 7-6 (7-3), 6-3, 6-4 by
19th-seeded Tommy Robredo of  Spain  in a fourth-round match last
night at the National Tennis Center in New York. The loss denied
him a chance to play Nadal, with whom he shares 29 Grand Slam
titles, for the first time in 14 appearances at the tournament.  “It would have been a quarters, not a final,” Federer,
32, said at a news conference. “It’s not that much of a
disappointment at the end of the day. If I’m playing like this,
I’m not going to beat Rafa.”  For the first time since 2002, Federer failed to reach the
final at any of the sport’s four Grand Slams. The record 17-time
major champion from Switzerland is out of the  U.S. Open  before
the quarterfinals for the first time since 2003, the year before
he started his run of five consecutive titles.  No. 2 seed Nadal moved into an all-Spanish quarterfinal
against Robredo with a 6-7 (4-7), 6-4, 6-3, 6-1 victory against
22nd-seeded Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany in hot, humid
conditions in Arthur Ashe Stadium. It was the 19th straight win
on hard courts for Nadal, a 12-time major champion whose lone
U.S. Open title came in 2010.  “For two times we were one point away, for this time we
were one match away,” Nadal told reporters about the missed
chance to play Federer. “You look at the matchups before the
tournament is played. But every tournament is so tough.”  Tuesday Schedule  Top-seeded Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  and defending champion
 Andy Murray , the No. 3 seed from  Scotland , are both scheduled to
play today in Arthur Ashe Stadium. Djokovic will meet Marcel Granollers of Spain and Murray faces  Denis Istomin  of Uzbekistan
for spots in the final eight.  Also today, No. 5 Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic plays
No. 9 Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland, and No. 21  Mikhail Youzhny  of  Russia  faces  Lleyton Hewitt  of Australia, the 2001
U.S. Open winner.  Defending women’s champion  Serena Williams  seeks a spot in
the semifinals against No. 18 Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain in
tonight’s first featured match.  Fifth-seeded Li Na of China plays No. 24 Ekaterina Makarova
of Russia in the other quarterfinal, while No. 2 Victoria Azarenka of  Belarus  faces No. 13 Ana Ivanovic of Serbia in a
fourth-round match that was pushed back until today because of
rain.  Federer’s Failure  Federer failed to win one of the sport’s four major
tournaments for the second time in three years. His exit comes
less than two months after he was beaten in the second round at
Wimbledon and he also lost in the quarterfinals at the  French
Open  and in the semifinals of the Australian Open.  Federer had won all 10 of his previous meetings against
Robredo, who had taken a total of only three sets in that span.  “I feel like I beat myself, without taking any credit away
from Tommy,” Federer said. “I kind of self-destructed, which
is really disappointing. When things came to crunch I just
couldn’t do it. It was a frustrating performance.”  Robredo, 31, reached his first U.S. Open quarterfinal,
having been 0-7 in his previous fourth-round matches.  “Roger, when he was No. 1, to the Roger right now, he’s
not maybe with the same confidence,” Robredo said. “He’s the
same player and he plays unbelievable. But I knew that if right
now I had a little bit more chances, maybe he will have a little
bit of doubt.”  Ferrer’s Win  Fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  of Spain reached his eighth
straight Grand Slam quarterfinal with a 7-6 (7-2), 3-6, 7-5, 7-6
(7-3) victory against Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia.  Ferrer, who was a semifinalist last year, moves on to face
No. 8 Richard Gasquet of France, who pulled out a five-set
victory against No. 10 Milos Raonic of Canada last night,
winning 6-7 (4-7), 7-6 (7-4), 2-6, 7-6 (11-9), 7-5.  Roberta Vinci became the first woman to reach the
quarterfinals yesterday before rain delayed the day session for
4 1/2 hours. Fellow Italian Flavia Pennetta and Slovakia’s
Daniela Hantuchova then won to join her.  Hantuchova, 30, beat American Alison Riske 6-3, 5-7, 6-2 to
reach the last eight for the first time since 2002. Pennetta won
6-2, 7-6 (7-3) against No. 21 Simona Halep of Romania and moved
on to face 10th-seeded Vinci, who made a total of nine unforced
errors as she defeated fellow Italian Camila Giorgi 6-4, 6-2 in
67 minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  