-- Ronald Coase, Nobelist Who Studied Corporations, Dies at 102
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-09-03T21:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/ronald-coase-nobel-winner-who-studied-corporations-dies-at-102.html
Ronald Coase, the British-born
 University of Chicago  economist whose Nobel Prize-winning work
on the role of corporations stemmed from visits in the early
1930s to American companies including Ford Motor Co. and Union
Carbide, has died. He was 102.  He died yesterday at St. Joseph Hospital in Chicago,
according to a news release from the University of Chicago. No
cause was given.  The Royal Swedish Academy of Science  awarded  Coase the 1991
Nobel in economics “for his discovery and clarification of the
significance of transaction costs and property rights for the
institutional structure and functioning of the economy.”  Unusual for an economist, Coase had concluded early in life
that mathematics “was not to my taste.” So he built his  career 
offering insights on the legal precepts and institutions, such
as the corporation, on which the field is built. He was one of
the first economists to treat the size and function of companies
as a subject worthy of more than incidental attention.  Coase “is one of the most influential economists of his
day,” Oliver Williamson and Sidney Winter wrote in a  1993 book 
on his work. “His seminal thinking has pushed economics to
reconsider its primitives.” Williamson, a student of Coase, won
the Nobel in economics in 2009.  Coase’s 1937 article, “ The Nature of the Firm ,” explained
how the costs of economic transactions -- including time, fees,
and what became known generally as overhead -- determine the
size of the companies that arise to carry out the transactions.  New Ideas  The Nobel committee wrote that Coase “showed that
traditional basic microeconomic theory was incomplete because it
only included production and transport costs” and “neglected
the costs of entering into and executing contracts and managing
organizations.” This new way of thinking had implications for
corporate and contract law as well as for the structure of the
financial system.  Coase further explored transaction costs in a 1960 paper,
“The Problem of Social Cost,” which examined how to address
harm caused by business, such as pollution from a factory.
Holding the company liable and ordering it to pay money to an
affected property holder is less likely to yield an optimal
result than having the parties negotiate, he wrote.  The paper spawned what became known as the  Coase Theorem ,
which conservative legal activists cited to support free-market
solutions rather than  government regulation .  ‘Obvious Point’  “All it says is that the people will use resources in the
way that produces the most value, that’s all,” Coase said of
the theorem in an  interview  with Reason magazine published in
1997. “I still think it’s an obvious point. You wouldn’t think
there was a need for a Coase Theorem, really.”  Ronald Harry Coase was born on Dec. 29, 1910, in Willesden,
a suburb of  London . His father was a telegraph operator in the
post office, where his mother also worked until their marriage.  At 12, he won a scholarship to the Kilburn Grammar School
and earned distinction in history and chemistry on his college
entrance exam four years later. He spent two more years at
Kilburn beginning his university-level studies, choosing
commerce as his major.  At the  London School of Economics  & Political Science,
starting in 1929, he was influenced by the teachings of Arnold
Plant, a commerce professor newly arrived from the University of
 Cape Town  in  South Africa .  “What Plant did was to introduce me to  Adam Smith ’s
‘invisible hand,’” Coase wrote in an  autobiography  for the
 Nobel Foundation . “He made me aware of how a competitive
economic system could be coordinated by the pricing system.”  U.S. Visit  For his third year of studies -- “no doubt as a result of
Plant’s influence,” Coase wrote -- the University of London
awarded him a Sir Ernest Cassel Traveling Scholarship, and he
spent the 1931-1932 school year in the U.S., studying the
different structures of American industries. His visits to
factories and businesses shaped his ideas on transaction costs
and the role of firms.  He taught at the Dundee School of Economics and Commerce
from 1932 to 1934, at the University of Liverpool from 1934 to
1935 and then at the  London School  of Economics. During World
War II he worked for the U.K. Forestry Commission, then at the
 Central Statistical Office , part of the Offices of the War
Cabinet. He returned to the London School of Economics in 1946.  Moving to the U.S. in 1951, he worked at the University of
Buffalo before joining the  University of Virginia  in 1958.  Radio Frequencies  Building on research he had done in the U.K. on the British
Broadcasting Corp., he studied the Federal Communications
Commission’s allocation of the radio frequency spectrum. In a
1959 article, he advocated selling frequencies to the highest
bidders -- a policy enacted in 1994 after decades of giving them
away for free.  He joined the  University of Chicago Law School  as an
economics professor in 1964 and served as editor of the Journal
of Law and Economics until 1982. He became professor emeritus in
1981.  His final book, “How China Became Capitalist,” co-written
with a former student, Ning Wang, who now teaches at  Arizona 
State University, was published last year, when Coase was 101.  New Journal  Also last year, he tried to start a new academic journal
amplifying his belief that traditional economics had become too
focused on statistical measures. “Economics as currently
presented in textbooks and taught in the classroom does not have
much to do with business management, and still less with
entrepreneurship,” he wrote in an  essay  for Harvard Business
Review.  In an article timed to Coase’s 102nd birthday in December,
Wang and Siri Terjesen, an assistant professor at  Indiana
University , said Coase remained an avid reader of science
magazines and academic journals and was “still preoccupied with
economic research.”  He and the former Marian Hartung married in 1937. She
preceded him in death, according to the University of  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  