-- S. Africa Business Confidence Slumps as Strikes Intensify
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-09-03T10:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/s-africa-business-confidence-slumps-as-strikes-intensify.html
South African business confidence
declined as accelerating  inflation (SACPIYOY) , a weakening currency and
labor strikes hurt sentiment in  Africa ’s largest economy, two
separate reports show.  The South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s
 business confidence index  remained close to the lowest level in
a decade, dropping to 90.5 in August from 90.7 a month earlier,
the business group said in an e-mailed statement today. The
 RMB/BER business confidence index  fell 6 points to 42 in the
third quarter, which indicates that almost three fifths of
respondents aren’t satisfied with prevailing business
conditions, RMB said in an e-mailed statement.  “The continuing lack of economic momentum, on-going labor
disruptions of the economy and the slowdown in growth in the
Brics countries are important factors affecting business
confidence,” the Johannesburg-based  chamber  said. “It is
important that supportive conditions for economic growth and
disruptions by militant labor conduct are addressed urgently.”  Workers in carmaking and construction industries are on
strike and as many as 90,000 gold-mining workers may down tools
later today to demand higher wages. Mining strikes shaved about
0.5 percentage point off economic growth last year, according to
the government. The rand has lost 18 percent against the dollar
in 2013, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Strikes Spread  “Sluggish, and volatile, economic growth is probably the
best we can hope for in the period ahead,” RMB, a unit of
Johannesburg-based  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , said. “Deteriorating
confidence coupled with widespread strike action point to growth
in all likelihood having fallen back to levels of around 2.5
percent in the second half of the year.”  While gross domestic product growth accelerated to an
annualized 3 percent in the second quarter from 0.9 percent in
the previous three months, it missed the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The  Reserve Bank  is
forecasting growth of 2 percent this year, which would be the
slowest since a recession in 2009. Inflation at 6.3 percent in
July exceeded the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target
range for the first time in 15 months.  The Bureau for  Economic Research  compiles the quarterly
confidence indicator on behalf of Rand Merchant Bank from
surveys of businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  