-- Sands China Operating Chief Leaves After Three Years at Company
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-09-03T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/sands-china-operating-chief-leaves-after-three-years-at-company.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928)  said Chief
Operating Officer David Sisk, a veteran of the Las Vegas casino
industry, quit after three years at the Macau gambling resort
operator controlled by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson .  Sisk “has resigned and is no longer with the company,”
the  Las Vegas Sands (LVS)  Corp. unit said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday, without providing a reason for his departure.  Sands China has more than doubled revenue over the last
four years, while losing some top executives. Former Chief
Executive Officer Steven Jacobs sued Sands in 2010, claiming
wrongful termination, after he was fired.  The former COO “wasn’t a board-level executive,”  Philip Tulk , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Standard Chartered said by
phone. “There are quite a lot of well-qualified people in the
company who may be able to replace him.”  Sisk joined Sands in 2010 as chief casino officer and in
his most recent role was second to Chief Executive Officer
Edward Tracy. Before coming to Sands China, he had held senior
roles at Las Vegas casinos including  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)   Previous Departures  Sands China does not comment on personnel movements, it
said in the statement. Spokeswoman Mabel Wu declined to say why
Sisk had left.  Former CEO Jacobs claimed he had been directed to secretly
investigate Macau government officials, while Sands denied the
allegations.  Sands has said it plans to invest another $2.8 billion in
the former Portuguese colony to build its fifth resort, to be
named Parisian, to attract middle-class gamblers from  China .  Sands China has added more hotel rooms and family-style
entertainment to draw the Chinese tourists who have helped turn
Macau into the world’s largest gambling hub with $38 billion in
revenue last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  