-- Scottish Independence Support Declines as More Voters Undecided
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/scottish-independence-support-declines-as-more-voters-undecided.html
Support for Scottish independence
dropped to a six-year low as more voters say they are undecided
before next year’s referendum, the latest poll showed.  Those in favor of breaking away from the U.K. dropped to 25
percent of respondents from 30 percent in April, the  TNS BRMB 
survey found. Support for maintaining the status quo fell to 47
percent from 51 percent. The proportion of people saying they
haven’t made up their minds rose to 28 percent from 19 percent.  “The surge in the number of those who have not decided how
to vote may have arisen because both campaigns have succeeded in
giving rise to doubts among some who have previously backed the
other side,” Tom Costley, group director at TNS Research in
Edinburgh, said in an e-mailed statement. “With so many
undecided, there is still all to play for.”  With just over a year to go until the Sept. 18, 2014, vote,
the jump in the number of voters yet to make up their mind
mitigates the drop in support for Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond ’s flagship policy of independence. While his  Scottish
National Party  won unprecedented control of the Edinburgh
parliament in 2011, no main polling company has found a majority
of people wants to leave the U.K.  “It may be that the increase in the ‘don’t knows’ is a
sign that people are starting to engage and think about it,”
said Nicola McEwen, senior lecturer in politics at Edinburgh
University. “it is difficult to read too much into the polls
except that neither side has convinced the other.”  Polling History  The 22 percentage-point gap in favor of  Scotland  remaining
part of the U.K. follows a  YouGov Plc poll  released on Aug. 31
that showed a 30-point difference. The YouGov survey indicated
10 percent of voters are still undecided.  A Panelbase poll commissioned by the SNP and published two
days ago meanwhile showed those in favor of independence at 44
percent and those against on 43 percent.  The TNS BRMB survey in April showed a gap of 21 percentage
points, up from 19 points in February. Its latest canvassing of
1,017 voters was carried out between Aug. 21 and Aug. 27 and no
margin of error was given. All three polls were done after the
 Electoral Commission  agreed on the question for the referendum:
“Should Scotland be an independent country? Yes/No.”  Among those certain to vote, 51 percent of respondents last
month want to stay part of the U.K., compared with 30 percent
who want full autonomy. The survey found that 62 percent of
people are certain to vote, while a total of 14 percent either
won’t cast a ballot or are very unlikely to, TNS said.  Party Support  Almost one in five people who supported the SNP at the last
Scottish parliamentary election in 2011 plan to vote against
independence, the survey found. That suggested they preferred
the SNP’s policies for the devolved government rather than
independence itself, TNS BRMB said.  The case for independence was based on the idea that
decisions about Scotland should be taken by those who live and
worke in the country, Salmond told lawmakers yesterday in
Edinburgh as he introduced his government’s last legislative
program ahead of the referendum.  “The contrast, and also the choice, facing the Scottish
people next year could not be clearer,” Salmond said.  The Scottish Parliament legislates on matters such as
transport, health, justice and education, while the U.K.
controls broader economic policy and finances as well as
defense, foreign affairs and social welfare.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government has been
stepping up its campaign to keep the status quo. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  this week published the fifth
analysis paper of the implications of independence.  It would be easier for the U.K. as a whole to cope with the
volatility of oil and gas revenue than for an independent
Scotland, he told an offshore conference in Aberdeen.
Independence would also lead to a lessening of trade over time
between Scotland and the rest of the U.K., the paper said.  The U.K. earlier this year all but ruled out having a
formal currency union with an independent Scotland. It also said
that Scotland would have to reapply to the European Union for
membership in the event of separation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  