-- Shekel Intervention May Increase on Growth Risks: Morgan Stanley
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-09-03T11:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/shekel-intervention-may-increase-on-growth-risks-morgan-stanley.html
The  Bank of Israel  may intervene in
the foreign  currency market  more aggressively as the shekel’s
gain is posing a risk to growth in the export-driven economy,
according to Morgan Stanley.  The shekel has outperformed other major currencies this
year, spurred by the start of gas production and expectations of
a faster-growing economy. The Bank of  Israel  yesterday bought
around $300 million, according to Rony Gitlin, head of spot
trading at Bank Leumi Le-Israel, after the shekel rose the most
in seven weeks. Bank of Israel spokesman Yoav Soffer declined
to comment.  “The currency has appreciated significantly and poses a
risk to growth,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief emerging-markets economist
at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in a note to clients today.
“High foreign exchange reserves and a current account surplus
with a fairly stable macro picture suggest that the currency
will remain strong.”  A more-aggressive intervention policy could be back on the
table once a new governor is in place, Aksoy added. The Bank of
Israel has been headed by interim Governor Karnit Flug since
 Stanley Fischer  stepped down at the end of June.  The shekel weakened for the first time in five days,
falling 0.4 percent to 3.6335 a dollar at 2:30 p.m. in Tel Aviv,
trimming this year’s advance to 2.7 percent.  Dollar Purchases  Under Fischer’s leadership, the Bank of Israel announced a
program in May to purchase $2.1 billion in foreign currency this
year to offset the effects of the start of natural gas
production on the currency. The central bank has bought $1.02
billion as part of that program as of the end of August,
according to Bank of Israel data. Israel’s foreign currency
reserves were at $78.5 billion at the end of last month,
according to the data.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  raised this year’s forecast for the Israeli
economy to 3.8 percent from 3 percent after growth expanded an
annualized 5.1 percent in the second quarter compared with a
revised 2.7 percent in the previous quarter. Faster growth in
2014 might be a “significant challenge” amid the government’s
fiscal austerity program, according to Morgan Stanley, which
lowered its growth forecast for next year to 3 percent from
3.4 percent.  “The currency continues to appreciate and one of the ways,
other than the intervention policy, might be to lower real
 interest rates  further,” according to Aksoy. “We cannot rule
out another 25 basis points” reduction.  The Bank of Israel kept the benchmark lending rate
unchanged at 1.25 percent on Aug. 26 for a third month amid
signs a global recovery is strengthening. All 15 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast the rate will be held by policy
makers at their next meeting on Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  