-- SNB Franc Shield Reaps Reward of Growth Defying Euro Area
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-09-03T12:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/snb-shield-reaps-reward-of-growth-defying-euro-area.html
Switzerland ’s economy defied the
recession that afflicted its neighbors to notch up a year of
uninterrupted growth, underlining the importance of the
country’s currency ceiling as it marks its second anniversary.  Swiss  gross domestic product  rose 0.5 percent in the second
quarter from three months through March, when it expanded by 0.6
percent, the Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern said in a
statement today. That is more than a median estimate of 0.3
percent in a Bloomberg survey of 18 economists.  Since the  Swiss National Bank  set a cap on the franc of
1.20 per euro on Sept. 6, 2011, the economy has seen just a
single quarter of contraction, while the debt-plagued euro area
only emerged from 18 months of recession last quarter. Given the
need to keep prices stable and the chance of the euro-area
crisis flaring up again, the ceiling remains the right policy
tool, SNB President Thomas Jordan said in a Berner Zeitung
interview published yesterday.  “It’s a clear success -- they achieved what they wanted,”
minimizing deflation risks, said Daniel Hartmann, an economist
at Bantleon Bank in Zug. “At the beginning the step was met
with much skepticism. There were worries the cap wouldn’t be
manageable, that it would fail or the SNB would have to buy lots
of euros and was exposing itself to huge losses.”  Consumer Prices  In a sign of how well the measure has worked,  21 months  of
falling consumer prices ended in June, and the Swiss economy is
expected to outperform that of the euro area again this year.
The  European Central Bank  forecasts the 17-nation currency bloc
will contract 0.6 percent, while the SNB sees growth of 1
percent to 1.5 percent in Switzerland. It will issue a new
forecast at its policy review on Sept. 19.  To be sure, a calming of financial markets, fiscal reforms
from  Spain  to  Italy  and a pick up of momentum in the U.S. have
played into the SNB’s hands by lessening investors’ interest in
the franc, which they tend to buy in times of turmoil.  Spanish unemployment unexpectedly was little changed last
month, data today showed. That is the first time Spain’s
joblessness hasn’t increased in August since 2000.  Euro ‘Mess’  With  Europe ’s revival taking hold, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development today lifted its growth
forecasts for  Germany ,  France  and the U.K. while urging the
region’s most-indebted nations to step up changes to improve
competitiveness.  Separately, last month’s construction output in the U.K.,
which isn’t part of the euro area, rose at the fastest pace
since September 2007, Markit Economics and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said in a statement today.  Even so, uncertainty over the euro area’s health persists.
The cap on the franc will remains “as long as it corresponds to
monetary conditions,” SNB Vice President Jean Pierre Danthine
said yesterday during a speech in Lausanne.  Compared with a year ago, the Swiss economy grew 2.5
percent in the second quarter, up from a revised 1.2 year-on-year growth rate in the first, today’s data showed.  “The  euro zone  is not yet out of the mess for good -- one
swallow doesn’t make a summer,” said Christian Lips, an
economist at NordLB in Hanover. “Even with the end of the
recession things are still on shaky ground there and could flare
up again. The SNB could again find itself up against the wall on
the exchange rate again.”  Depreciating Franc  The easing of the debt crisis has led the franc to
depreciate 2.1 percent against the euro this year, allowing the
SNB to hold off on major interventions. In 2012, it spent 188
billion francs ($201 billion) defending the cap, and as a result
now holds foreign currency equal to three-quarters of the
economy’s annual output.  The SNB’s cap defense, undertaken over the past 18 months
under Jordan, stands in contrast to the strategy pursued in
2010, when his predecessor Philipp Hildebrand was at the helm.
For that year, the SNB suffered a  record loss of 26 billion
francs  on its foreign currency positions, after having injected
more than 100 billion francs  into spot markets .  “The franc is still overvalued, albeit less strongly than
in 2011,” said Maxime Botteron, an economist with Credit Suisse
Group AG in Zurich. “We don’t think the SNB will change its
stance before the end of 2014.”  The franc was little changed at 1.2325 per euro at 2:16
p.m.in Zurich, while it fell 0.1 percent against the dollar to
93.55 centimes.  Exports Rise  Less volatility in the  exchange rate  due to the cap has
also helped the export sector, which grew 0.9 percent in the
second quarter. Domestic demand, which constitutes a large share
of the economy, grew 0.5 percent in the three months through
June.  The SNB’s loose monetary policy has kept mortgages cheap,
boosting demand for homes and apartments. The central bank has
sounded the alarm about borrowers overextending themselves.  To prevent the mortgage writedowns from hobbling economic
growth, the SNB, whose hands are tied on the interest rate front
by the cap, pushed for a bank capital buffer. The measure, set
at 1 percent of mortgage-related assets, comes into force at the
end of this month and can be increased to as much as 2.5
percent.  “With the very expansionary monetary policy, the risk for
new excesses and new risks to financial stability can arise,”
NordLB’s Lips said. “Limiting the financing may help, but it
may not be enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  