-- Solar Defaults Shock Holders as $8.4 Billion Due: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-03T04:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/solar-defaults-shock-holders-as-8-4-billion-due-china-credit.html
LDK Solar Co.’s delay in paying debt
and Suntech Power Holdings Co.’s attempts to renegotiate
obligations are prompting investors to gird for losses as $8.4
billion in renewable energy bonds come due by the end of 2014.  The 2014 securities of LDK slid to a record low of 25.6
yuan per 100 yuan face value last week after the manufacturer
said a payment due Aug. 28 on the notes would be delayed. That
compares with the 30 euros per 99.861 euro issue price on Bonn-based  Solarworld AG. (SWV)  Suntech, once the world’s biggest panel
maker, said former chairwoman Susan Wang and two other directors
quit amid negotiations with holders of its defaulted debt.  Premier  Li Keqiang ’s steps to cut the state’s role in the
economy are forcing investors to reconsider bailout bets as $1.3
billion of bonds in businesses including electric  car batteries ,
hydropower and biofuels matures by the end of the year and $7.1
billion in 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. His
predecessor  Wen Jiabao  turned China into the world’s biggest
maker of solar panels through spending including $47.5 billion
of credit lines that crippled the industry with overcapacity.  “The debt repayment problems at Chinese solar companies
are shocking investors who can now only wait to see how the
government will handle them,” said Wu Yun, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Evergrowing Bank Co. “Credit defaults may be
concentrated in the second half of 2014.”  Solar Debt  China ’s 10 biggest photovoltaic companies had debt of more
than 100 billion yuan ($16.3 billion), the Ministry of Industry
and  Information Technology  said Aug. 15. Notes coming due next
year include 600 million yuan of securities sold by GCL-Poly
Energy Holdings Ltd., the world’s biggest maker of polysilicon,
and 100 million yuan of bonds from ZK Energy Science &
Technology Co., a wind-solar hybrid system maker.  LDK failed to fully repay $23.8 million of convertible
bonds that matured April 15 and is restructuring another $240
million of securities that were due in June. The company ended
the second quarter with $2.8 billion in debt and $85.1 million
in cash, the least since 2009.  Messages left at  LDK’s (LDK)  U.S. office in Sunnyvale,  California 
for Chief Financial Officer Jack Lai weren’t returned on Aug. 27
and Aug. 29. Peng Shaomin, LDK’s director of media at the
company’s headquarters in the southeastern province of Jiangxi,
declined to comment when contacted by phone yesterday.  “LDK’s missed payment will enable the process of weeding
out the companies that have become uncompetitive in an industry
that is mired with oversupply,” said Amit Jain, a Bangalore-based analyst at SJS Markets Ltd. “The industry will run its
course and only the fittest will survive.”  Suntech Restructuring  Offshore bondholders have more risks since “even the
domestic banks may not completely recover their money,” Jain
said.  The Suntech directors who quit cited concern about
negotiations with bondholders,  cash flow  and a lack of a clear
business plan, the manufacturer said in an Aug. 28 statement.
The resignations highlight divisions among management following
the company’s default in March on $541 million of convertible
notes.  In June, the manufacturer extended a forbearance agreement
with “a majority” of the bondholders until Aug. 30. The maker
of devices that convert light into power expects to enter a
restructuring framework agreement “in the next week or so,”
according to a statement with PR Newswire dated that day.  Rising Risks  “Regarding the negotiations with the bondholders, as per
our press release, we have reached an agreement with them to
proceed as detailed,” Ryan Scott Ulrich, a spokesman, wrote in
response to e-mailed questions. The company “plans to equitize
the debt,” Ulrich added. “The restructuring will include both
convertible bonds and domestic debt.”  Slowing economic growth is adding to concerns that more
companies in China will miss payments. While recent trade and
manufacturing data have shown stabilization, gross domestic
product will still probably expand 7.5 percent this year, the
slowest in more than two decades, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  China’s credit-default swap contracts insuring the nation’s
debt against non-payment have increased 38 basis points this
year to 104.3, according to data provider CMA.  The yield on the country’s benchmark 10-year sovereign note
has leapt 46 basis points to  4.04 percent . The premium on top-rated corporate securities due in a decade increased 3 basis
points last month to  162 basis points . The  yuan  was at 6.1205
per dollar as of 11:55 a.m. in  Shanghai , China Foreign Exchange
Trade System prices show.  Survival Chances  Authorities will likely try to focus support for the solar
industry on bolstering demand rather than providing funds
directly, according to Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-based analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Bankruptcies may help weed out companies that are unable to
meet their obligations, Wang said. “More and more solar
companies will go bankrupt starting this year without continuous
cash flow.”  China’s solar industry may revive this half as consumption
grows abroad and local demand takes off, the Ministry of
Industry and Information Technology said Aug. 15. The China
Photovoltaic Industry Alliance between companies and the state
expects the nation to double total solar installations from last
year’s level.  Some top panel makers in China including  Yingli Green
Energy Holding (YGE)  Co., the nation’s largest, and JinkoSolar Holding
Co. are returning to profitability following two years of
losses, after Asian demand drove up margins in the second
quarter. Panel  prices  have gained 2.6 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
JinkoSolar’s convertible dollar-denominated bonds fell to 11.7
percent on Aug. 30, the lowest since 2011.  “Banks and material suppliers are choosing companies with
larger chances of surviving,” BNEF’s Wang said. “We’ll see
improvement in collecting overdue payments as panel prices
rise.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  