-- Sony Eyes Sensors in Wearable Computers to Gesture TVs
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-09-04T18:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/sony-eyes-wearable-computers-to-hand-gesture-tvs-for-sensors.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  is considering applying
its image sensors to wearable computers and hand-gesture TVs as
it expects smartphone revenue to peak around 2015.  The company plans to seek growth in developing the chips,
already used in smartphones and digital cameras, for products
such as self-driving cars and medical equipment,  Yasuhiro Ueda ,
senior vice president for Sony’s image sensor unit, said in an
interview.  Sony has garnered almost a third of the $7.6 billion market
for the low-power chips, known as complementary metal-oxide
semiconductors, that quickly capture crisp snapshots in high-end
smartphones, a market that is nearing saturation. The company
sells CMOS to others, with versions in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones 5
and 4S and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s flagship Galaxy S4,
according to SMBC Nikko Securities.  “We have a high sense of crisis after seeing the high-end
smartphone market start to saturate this year,” Ueda said
yesterday at Sony’s technology center in Atsugi, near Tokyo.
“Our plan is to draw a growth strategy in an area where we see
shipment potential of 10 billion units a year.”  Sony’s Exmor image sensor works as an eye for electronic
products, capturing light to convert into electronic signals for
processing. The latest chip uses less power and faster
processing to catch vivid images under low light.  Surging Shipments  Chief Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai has said the company
plans to leverage the technology to expand in medical equipment
business. The chips can be offered for endoscopes used to look
inside body cavities and medical testing devices, Ueda said.  Worldwide CMOS shipments rose 25 percent to 2.5 billion
units last year and may show a similar increase this year,
according to an estimate by Techno Systems Research Co. That may
slow down to about 11 percent in 2015, according to the Tokyo-based researcher.  Sony’s revenue from the chips probably rose to $2.45
billion in 2012 from $1.89 billion a year earlier, garnering 32
percent of the global market’s sales, according to estimates
made by Techno Systems.  Omnivision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  is ranked
second with 14.4 percent, followed by Samsung at 12.9 percent.  ‘Robust Orders’  “Sony’s CMOS business, which has seen robust orders from
smartphone makers may be reaching a turning point as demand
shifts toward middle- to low-end handsets,” said Ryosuke Katsura, an analyst at UBS AG in Tokyo. “There will be a higher
risk going forward for the business” unless it finds a new
growth driver, the  analyst  said.  Sony rose 0.9 percent to 2,059 yen as of the close of trade
in Tokyo. The stock has more than doubled this year, compared
with a 34 percent gain in the Topix index.  Global smartphone revenue will rise 22 percent in 2013, or
nearly half the pace of an expected 41 percent gain in
shipments, amid falling prices, according to UBS.  Sony unveiled its Xperia Z1 smartphone today at the IFA
 consumer electronics show  in Berlin. The phone will be available
this month, equipped with a 20.7 megapixel camera and a free
download of the movie “Elysium.”  Sony’s device division generated operating profit of 10.9
billion yen ($110 million) in the June quarter with most of the
earnings generated by sales of the chips, Deutsche Bank AG
estimates. The  division  was the biggest source of profit after
its insurance business.  Ueda declined to elaborate on revenue and profit from its
image sensors.  Apple, Samsung  Sony started developing image sensors in 1970 as it tried
to compete with Eastman Kodak Co. in photographic devices. The
Tokyo-based company’s first such chip was used in a camcorder
before the growth driver shifted to digital still cameras and
smartphones, Ueda said.  Future growth may come from devices such as Google Inc.’s
Glass, a set of Web-enabled eyewear, according to Ueda. Apple
and Samsung’s planned watch devices may lift sales of wearable
gadgets to 70 million units in 2017 from 15 million this year,
according to Juniper Research.  “Image sensors will be crucial device for wearable
computers,” Ueda said. Sony is “very keen to expand our
business in this area.”  Sony’s SmartWatch 2 will hit stores worldwide later this
month, and will be able to be used as a second screen for the
Xperia smartphone, the company announced today in Berlin.  Autonomous Vehicles  Samsung may unveil a wristwatch-like device named the
Galaxy Gear that can make phone calls and surf the Web and
handle e-mails, people familiar with the matter said last month.
Cupertino, California-based Apple has a team of designers
working on a watch-like device, two people familiar with the
matter said in February.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  plans to deliver fully autonomous vehicles
to the market by 2020, Andy Palmer, the automaker’s executive
vice president, said last month. Technology underpinning
autonomous cars, including adaptive cruise control and
electronic steering is already available, and added sensors and
road-monitoring capabilities are being refined, Palmer said.  Self-driving cars are currently legal in three U.S. states
and may offer a revenue opportunity of more than $200 billion,
according to a June report by Piper Jaffray & Co.  “If you want to make self-driving cars, you need several
sensors in the car,” Ueda said. “Hand-gesture TV sets may see
a booming demand, while house-clean robots can probably do a
better job if image sensor was added.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  