-- SouFun Drives Gains as Baidu Advances: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-09-03T21:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/soufun-drives-gains-as-baidu-advances-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities trading in the U.S.
rose to the highest in seven months, led by  Baidu (BIDU)  Inc. and
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , on prospects the nation will meet its
economic growth target.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. added 2.6 percent to 97.47 yesterday
in  New York , the highest since Feb. 6. Baidu, owner of China’s
largest Internet search engine, gained after saying it will sell
smart TVs, while real-estate information website SouFun jumped
13 percent to a record high. Suntech Power Holdings Co. slipped
as the solar company said it will convert debt to equities as
part of a restructuring plan.  Premier  Li Keqiang  said yesterday that he’s confident the
nation will achieve this year’s goal of 7.5 percent growth.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its estimate for China’s 2013
growth to 7.6 percent from 7.4 percent yesterday, after an
identical revision by JPMorgan Chase & Co. on Sept. 1. China is
taking measures including tax breaks for small companies and
accelerated railway construction to sustain growth after
expansion slowed for a second quarter.  “Things are moving back in the right direction,” said
Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc.,
which manages $700 million of assets, said in a telephone
interview from Lisle,  Illinois  yesterday. “The key is that
China macro data and other indicators like increased rail spend
indicate  China’s economy  has bottomed. In the Internet space,
clearly you get really good growth.”  ETF Gains  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 3.1 percent to
$36.23, the biggest jump in three weeks. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index added 0.4 percent as data showed U.S. manufacturing
expanded in August and construction spending increased in July.  Baidu rose 0.5 percent to $136.17. The company said
yesterday that it will start selling smart TVs with  TCL
Multimedia Technology Holdings Ltd. (1070)  in order to compete with
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. in the growing online video business.  SouFun, China’s biggest property market information
website, surged to $47.12, the highest since the company’s 2010
U.S. offering. JPMorgan assigned a new buy rating on Aug. 30
with a target of $49. China’s new home prices jumped 8.6 percent
in August, the most since December, SouFun said on Sept. 2.  China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation, or  Sinopec (SNP) ,
advanced 6.1 percent, the most since January 2012, to $76.38.
Sinopec’s Shanghai Petrochemical Co. is studying the possibility
of building a 1 million-ton paraxylene factory, Chairman Wang Zhiqing said at a media briefing in  Hong Kong  yesterday. Wang
also said operational results over the past two months showed
that Sinopec’s profit will increase in the third quarter,
compared with the first half of the year.  Sinopec Discount  Sinopec’s shares traded 0.8 percent lower than its
equivalent shares in Hong Kong, narrowing its discount from 2.9
percent on Sept. 2 when the U.S. markets were closed for a
holiday, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Suntech, whose biggest unit was forced into bankruptcy this
year, lost 1.9 percent to $1.01 after declining as much as 15
percent earlier. The company said in a filing Sept. 2 that it
reached an “understanding” with creditors to convert debt to
equities. Suntech, once the world’s biggest solar-panel maker,
defaulted on $541 million of bonds this year, opening the way
for bondholders to sue in the U.S., where its shares and notes
trade.  Increasing Confidence  Premier Li said in a speech in Nanning,  China  that the
economy has “maintained stable development” since the first
half and “confidence is increasing.”  An official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for manufacturing
rose to a 16-month high in August, while a similar index from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed the biggest gain
in three years, according to data released earlier this week.  “Sentiment toward China has definitely picked up,
particularly after the recent PMI numbers,” Tony Hann, the head
of emerging-market equities at Blackfriars Asset Management
Ltd., which manages $320 million in assets, said in an e-mail
from  London . “I think those that trade the market shorter term
had gotten quite bearish in June and July and we are now seeing
them reverse that positioning.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 2 percent to
a three-month high of 10,250.97. The Shanghai Composite Index
rallied 1.2 percent to 2,123.112.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  