-- South Africa Reviews Water Rules Amid Resistance to Shale Gas
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-09-03T13:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/south-africa-reviews-water-rules-amid-resistance-to-shale-gas.html
South Africa  is reviewing its water
regulations to guard against damage to the environment from the
exploration and extraction of shale gas after opposition from
green campaigners and farmers to the drilling technique.  “Our key priority is protecting the environment and our
water resources,” Water and Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa told reporters today in  Pretoria . “We will take every
precaution to ensure that the possible impact of fracking on our
water is carefully managed and minimized.”  South Africa’s shale reserves, concentrated in the semi-desert Karoo, may be the world’s eighth-largest, the U.S. Energy
Information Administration said in June.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
Chevron Corp. and  Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd. (FO)  are among companies that
have a applied for permits to explore for the gas. Campaigners
say the industry may destroy the area’s fragile ecosystem.  Gas is pumped from shale using hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, where pressurized water, chemicals and sand are
injected underground to shatter rock and release trapped fuel.
The government estimates gas sales may generate 1 trillion rand
($97 billion) within three decades and help bring a country that
imports 70 percent of its crude oil needs closer to supplying
its own energy demand.  The government declared shale gas extraction a so-called
controlled activity needing a water license that’s only issued
once the effect on ground water is taken into account.  The water review will also include policies such as whether
the state’s allocation of 25 liters (6.6 gallons) of free water
a person each day is adequate. The country is also considering
stripping parties of allocated water rights if they aren’t used
within a specified period, Molewa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  