-- Subaru’s Anti-Crash Feature Lures Japanese Seeking Safety
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-09-03T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/subaru-s-anti-crash-feature-lures-japanese-seeking-safety.html
Inching forward in heavy traffic
toward the ski slopes of Niigata,  Japan , Tomohiro Azuma cursed
as the car in front stopped suddenly, forcing him to slam on the
brakes of his  Subaru  Legacy.  “There was a voice in my head saying, ‘Damn, too late!’”
Azuma, 46, said of the near-collision in February. “Then my car
stopped with a jerk and for a moment I didn’t know what had
happened.”  The information technology manager from Tokyo had averted a
pileup thanks to a feature called  EyeSight , which stopped his
car when the gap with the vehicle ahead became perilously small.
The technology has helped Subaru build a reputation as a leader
in safety -- typically the domain of high-end brands like
Mercedes-Benz and  Volvo (VOLVB)  -- and buck falling sales in its home
market.  “Subaru may not be the carmaker with the best technology
globally, but in Japan it’s No. 1,” said Takashi Morimoto, a
consultant at  Frost & Sullivan  in Tokyo. “Thanks to successful
marketing, from the consumer’s point of view, it’s the front-runner.”  The brand, owned by  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) , offers
EyeSight as a 100,000-yen ($1,002) add-on in Japan for most of
its models. In the first half, about 90 percent of Japan buyers
of Subarus that offer the feature opted to install it. That
helped the Tokyo-based company boost Japanese deliveries 40
percent from a year earlier, even as the country’s auto  market 
fell 12 percent, according to the Japan Automobile Dealers
Association.  Two Cameras  EyeSight monitors traffic via two cameras on either side of
the rearview mirror. It can  slow the car  or brake automatically,
and it sounds an alert if there is danger of a collision or the
driver is swerving outside the lane.  Subaru says its system is an affordable alternative to
those in luxury brands, which often include radars. The company
acknowledges that stereo cameras aren’t as precise because they
operate much like a human’s eyes. A dirty windshield or rain or
snow can hobble EyeSight, and sudden events such as an animal or
pedestrian dashing in front of the car are hard for the system
to detect immediately.  Subaru introduced EyeSight in May 2010, when it began
selling a taller and bigger Legacy to cater to tastes in the
U.S., the automaker’s biggest market. For Japan, where roads and
parking spots tend to be narrower, Subaru pitched EyeSight as an
antidote to buyer concerns that cars as hefty as the new Legacy
would be hard to handle on crowded streets.  Local Appeal  “Our salesmen knew a larger size wouldn’t work in Japan,”
President Yasuyuki Yoshinaga said in an interview in  Tokyo  on
Aug. 5. “So they decided to try promoting EyeSight
aggressively.”  The automaker ran television  commercials , held nationwide
test drives, and cut the price for the option by half to make it
as affordable as replacing a bumper in Japan.  Subaru’s success in boosting sales through EyeSight has
spurred other nonluxury automakers to roll out similar features
to bolster their safety image and create an extra source of
revenue, according to Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. Global
sales of such driver assistance systems are expected to more
than double from last year to $5.4 billion by 2017, Berger
estimates.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  gives buyers of its revamped Mazda6 the
option of technology like EyeSight. About 70 percent of Japanese
buyers of the model, released in November, have chosen the
option, the company says.  Other Options  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s 2013 Fusion sedan offers a lane-keeping
feature, adaptive cruise control and forward-collision warning
as extras.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s  Up ! wagon has a standard laser-based
emergency-braking system, and Honda’s new Fit, available this
month in Japan, will have an auto-stop function similar to
EyeSight.  Subaru has yet to sell Eyesight heavily in the U.S., where
the brand markets its vehicles as safe and also  fun  to drive.
EyeSight is available on the 2013 Legacy and Outback models as
part of a package of  extras  that can cost more than $4,000. The
company says 7 percent of cars sold in the first half in the
U.S. had EyeSight.  Subaru says it has no plans to offer EyeSight as a
standalone option in the U.S. because capacity constraints at a
 supplier  mean it can’t secure enough components to meet the
demand in its home market.  In Japan, EyeSight has helped broaden Subaru’s appeal
beyond its core customer base of driving geeks who choose the
brand for its low center of gravity and four-wheel-drive
prowess.  “I visited dealers before the birth of my kid because the
Eyesight offers so many safety features,” said Michihiro
Sasaki, 37, who bought a  Legacy  in 2011. “In the end, I found
the car was fun to drive, too.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  