-- Swiss Penalty, India Margins, Dutch Insurers: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/swiss-penalty-india-margins-dutch-insurers-compliance.html
Swiss banks that seek to avoid
prosecution for fostering  tax evasion  through secret accounts
held by U.S. clients face penalties of as much as 50 percent of
the value of those assets, the U.S. government said.  Hundreds of Swiss banks could be covered by a U.S.-
Switzerland accord over how to punish financial institutions
that used secret accounts to help American clients hide assets
from U.S. tax authorities. The U.S. said Aug. 29 it will
continue criminal probes of 14 banks while allowing others to
avoid prosecution by paying penalties and disclosing accounts.  The accord lets Switzerland, the world’s largest offshore
financial center with about $2.2 trillion of assets, resolve
talks spanning two years after U.S. criminal prosecutions eroded
Swiss bank secrecy. Those under investigation include  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-largest Swiss bank;  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , the largest European bank; and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)   Since 2009, the U.S. has prosecuted 68 account holders and
more than 30 banking professionals for offshore tax crimes.  Under the accord, banks that seek to avoid prosecution must
pay penalties, disclose their cross-border activities, give
detailed account information for U.S. clients, describe other
banks that received secret accounts, and cooperate in requests
for information under a U.S.-Swiss tax treaty.  Banks wanting to participate in the program will need to
apply for individual authorization, the Swiss government said in
a statement Aug. 30. Banks that believe they have violated U.S.
tax law must request non-prosecution agreements by Dec. 31.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  India Doubles Gold Futures Margins as Prices Rally to Record  India’s commodity markets regulator ordered exchanges to
double margins on gold futures after a record plunge in the
nation’s currency fueled a rally in bullion priced in rupees to
an all-time high.  Initial margins on all contracts will rise to 5 percent of
the value from Sept. 2, from 4 percent, the  Forward Markets
Commission  said on its website. An additional margin of 5
percent will be levied on gold, silver,  Brent crude , crude oil,
and natural gas contracts due to high volatility in prices and
it will be effective until further orders, it said.  Futures on the Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. in
Mumbai advanced to a record last week, rebounding 32 percent
from a two-year low in June, threatening jewelry demand during
the main festival season. Consumption in the country, which
imports almost all the bullion it needs, accounted for about 20
percent of global demand in 2012, according to data from the
World Gold Council.  Futures have gained 6.3 percent this year, compared with a
17 percent drop in the metal priced in dollars.  India’s rupee fell to a record low of 68.8450 on Aug. 28
and has lost 17 percent this year.  China Starts Bond Futures Trading Sept. 6, Security Times Says  The China Securities Regulatory Commission approved the
China Financial Futures Exchange to start government bond
futures trading on Sept. 6, the  Securities Times  reported,
citing an unidentified spokesman from the commission.  The nation began treasury futures trading in 1992 and
stopped it three years later after an investigation into alleged
market manipulation.  Separately, the commission will introduce new rules on
high-frequency trading, the Securities Times reported, citing an
unidentified spokesman from the commission.  Separately, China will regulate its state-owned companies
and control its shareholders’ actions, according to a statement
posted to the commission’s website.  The nation’s state-owned companies should coordinate
business development with listed companies they control to
eliminate internal competition, the commission said in the
statement.  India Said to Plan Tax Cut on Some Ore Exports to Help Rupee  India is considering reducing taxes on some exports of iron
ore to boost shipments and help reverse a decline in the local
currency, said two government officials with direct knowledge of
the matter.  Taxes on overseas shipments of low-grade fines, or small
particles, may be cut to 20 percent from 30 percent, the people
said, declining to be identified before a public announcement.
The lower tax will apply only to a part of the exported
quantity, they said without elaborating. The proposal is with
the  finance ministry  and will be placed before the cabinet for
approval soon, they said.  Boosting exports will help Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
narrow the current account deficit, avert a balance of payments
crisis and stem the plunge in the rupee, which has declined 16
percent this year, the worst performance after the South African
Rand among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Lower taxes will also help Indian miners regain market share in
China from  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  BHP Billion Ltd. (BLT)   D.S. Malik, a spokesman at the finance ministry, declined
to comment, while Ruby Sharma, spokeswoman for the mines
ministry, didn’t answer two calls to her office numbers after
business hours.  Compliance Action  Dutch Regulator Keeps Insurer Rate Curve After France Cut  Aegon NV (AGN)  and  Delta Lloyd NV (DL)  are among Dutch insurers facing
a drop in solvency because regulators decided to preserve the
interest-rate curve used to calculate liabilities following
France’s downgrade.  “Discussions took place at the request of the Dutch
Association of Insurers to explore the possibility to allow for
a different alternative interest-rate curve,” the Dutch Central
Bank, or DNB, said Aug. 29 in a statement. “However, DNB
currently sees insufficient reason to approve a different
alternative interest-rate curve.”  Insurers asked the regulator to reconsider after Fitch
Ratings stripped France, Europe’s second-largest economy, of its
AAA rating in July.  The Dutch Association of Insurers, a trade
group representing about 95 percent of the market, said the
industry still has a strong solvency position.  The Netherlands, together with Germany, Finland and
Luxembourg, are the only remaining countries in the euro region
that have top ratings at the three major rating companies.  Bitcoin Exchange Tradehill Pauses for Regulatory Reasons  Tradehill Inc. , an exchange for virtual currencies such as
Bitcoin, is temporarily suspending trading, citing unspecified
banking and regulatory reasons.  “This decision has not been made lightly and we regret
having to take such action,” the company said Aug. 30 on its
website. The company said it plans to “to upgrade, improve, and
polish our trading platform.”  Tradehill has been seeking more business from investors and
financial institutions as it works to legitimize virtual-currency trading in the U.S. The San Francisco-based company is
among several upstart exchanges such as  Mt. Gox  and  BTC-e  that
have emerged to support Bitcoin trading. Jered Kenna, chief
executive officer of Tradehill, didn’t immediately return
requests for comment.  Tradehill registered last month with the Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network, a U.S. Treasury agency that targets  money
laundering , the company said in its statement. Steve Hudak, an
agency spokesman, said he couldn’t comment on any regulatory
issues for a specific firm.  FinCEN, as the Treasury agency is known, released guidance
in March saying digital-currency administrators and exchangers
are considered money-services businesses subject to regulations
and anti-money-laundering controls. Regulators in Tradehill’s
home state, California, have also been watching virtual
currencies.  Mark Leyes, a spokesman for California Department of
Business Oversight, didn’t respond to requests for comment on
Tradehill.  Payment Group Says U.S. Banks Can Work With Legal Online Lenders  Banks can do business with Internet-based lenders that
don’t violate the law, the nation’s primary payment system said
in a letter that followed warnings from regulators about the
online firms’ practices.  Nacha, the group that oversees the automated clearing house
network, told the Online Lenders Alliance, an industry
association, that banks have to examine the circumstances of
lenders’ work and “take action where appropriate.”  Banks need not stop processing payments “for online
lenders engaged in legal lending activity,” Jane Larimer, the
executive vice president and general counsel of Nacha said in an
Aug. 26 letter.  Nacha’s members include  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  PNC Financial
Services Group (PNC)  and  U.S. Bancorp. (USB)   Benjamin Lawsky , New York’s state superintendent of
financial services, on Aug. 6 ordered a group of 35 online
lenders, including at least four owned by Native American
tribes, to cease offering loans in New York. He charged the
loans violated New York’s interest rate caps.  Lawsky also sent a letter to 117 banks and Nacha itself
requesting their assistance to “choke off” the lenders from
the automated clearing house system, the bank-supported network
that handles electronic bank account debits. Nacha responded on
Aug. 8 by asking banks to advise the payment network whether
they are still doing business with the online lenders named by
Lawsky.  The online lending group has argued, on various grounds,
that its members do not violate the law.  The Department of Justice and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. have also been pressuring banks to reconsider their
relationships with online lenders.  Norway’s FSA Says Banks Had Core Capital of 11% End of June  Norway’s Financial Supervisory Authority said banks are
meeting minimum capital requirements put in place from July 1
this year, according to an e-mailed statement Aug. 30.  The nation’s banks had core capital of 11 percent at the
end of June, the Authority said in the statement.  The Authority also said banks had core capital of 9.9
percent a year earlier.  Rhoen Assumes It’s Not Focus of German Prosecutors Investigation  Rhoen-Klinikum (RHK) , the German health-care facility operator,
has no information about reported investigations, spokesman
Sascha Schiffler said in e-mail statement Aug. 30.  Rhoen said the company would fully cooperate if public
prosecutors contact it. The Data Protection Authority, or DPA,
reported alleged market manipulation by Rhoen staff, citing
Steinkraus-Koch of the Munich public prosecutors office.  The case concerns alleged violation of security trading law
and attempted coercion, according to the DPA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  