-- Swiss Bankers’ Odier Sees U.S. Tax Spat Resolved by 2015
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-09-03T15:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/swiss-bankers-odier-sees-u-s-tax-spat-resolved-by-2015.html
Swiss banks will reach final
settlements over tax disputes with the U.S. by 2015, according
to  Patrick Odier , chairman of the Swiss Bankers Association.  “The situation would be sorted out within the next 12 to
18 months,” Odier, 58, told reporters in Zurich today. “That’s
the advantage of having a program.”  Hundreds of banks may be covered by an accord between the
U.S. and Switzerland over how to punish firms that used accounts
to help American clients evade the Internal Revenue Service.
Swiss banks that seek to avoid prosecution for fostering tax
evasion through secret accounts held by U.S. clients face
penalties of as much as 50 percent of the value of those assets
under the plan announced by the U.S. government on Aug. 29 and
accepted by the Swiss.  The SBA, which has more than 300 members, agreed by a
“definite majority” to support the program as it’s the sole
remaining solution for Switzerland after more than two years of
government talks, Odier said.  “We don’t know the sum of money that might be involved,”
said Odier, who is also senior partner at Lombard Odier & Cie.,
Geneva’s oldest private bank. While most firms will be able to
cope with the penalties, “banks that are too small and too
focused could have really serious consequences,” he said.  Profit Declines  Swiss banks are already suffering pressure on margins from
increased compliance and regulatory costs and after income from
trading, commission and services fell last year. Aggregate net
income slumped to 186.1 million francs ($200 million) in 2012
from 13 billion francs in 2011, with 43 banks posting a loss,
according to the SBA’s annual  banking barometer  published today.  Aggregate operating profit slipped 0.2 percent to 59
billion francs even as assets under management increased by 320
billion francs to 5.6 trillion francs. The proportion of foreign
assets was unchanged at just over 50 percent, the study found.  The U.S. has said it will continue criminal probes of 14
banks while allowing others not already under investigation to
avoid prosecution by paying penalties and disclosing accounts
under the program announced last week.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
the nation’s second-biggest bank,  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  and the
Swiss private bank of  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  are among the firms
being probed. That group should be able to settle disputes
sooner than the rest of the industry, Odier said.  U.S. Prosecutions  UBS AG (UBSN) , the world’s largest wealth manager according to
Scorpio Partnership, avoided prosecution by paying $780 million
in 2009, admitting it aided U.S. tax evasion and handing over
data on 4,500 accounts. Wegelin & Co., the oldest Swiss private
bank, pleaded guilty in January and paid $74 million.  Since 2009, the U.S. has prosecuted 68 account holders and
more than 30 banking professionals for offshore tax crimes. The
Department of Justice expects Swiss banks seeking to avoid
prosecution to disclose their cross-border activities, give
detailed account information on U.S. clients, describe other
banks that received secret accounts and cooperate with requests
for information under a 1996 U.S.-Swiss double taxation
agreement, in addition to paying fines.  Arrangements to resolve the dispute over undeclared
“legacy” accounts won’t deter Swiss firms from managing taxed
cross-border assets for Americans in future, Odier said in an
interview on the sidelines of today’s press conference.  Firms including UBS, Pictet & Cie. -- the nation’s largest
closely held private bank -- and Lombard Odier all have
 investment advisers  registered with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission that oversee assets for Americans.  “Our U.S. clients for the future will certainly be well-served by this SEC-registered company when it comes to asset
management, and this is our core business,” Odier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  