-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed Before U.S. ISM Report
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-09-03T08:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-before-u-s-ism-report.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed,
after the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  yesterday jumped the most in
more than eight weeks, as investors awaited a report on U.S.
manufacturing.  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the U.K.’s biggest fixed-line phone company,
gained 2 percent.  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  added 2 percent
as Exane BNP Paribas raised its recommendation for the shares.
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  dropped 1.6 percent, snapping a three-day
rally, as Macquarie Bank Ltd. downgraded the mobile-phone
operator after it agreed to sell its stake in a joint venture to
Verizon Communications Inc.  The FTSE 100 Index climbed 9.34 points, or 0.1 percent, to
6,515.53 at 9:05 a.m. in London, having gained as much as 0.3
percent and declined as much as 0.2 percent. The gauge  has
advanced  8.1 percent from a low on June 24 as the  Bank of
England  gave forward guidance on interest rates for the first
time. The broader FTSE All-Share Index added 0.2 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index was little changed.  “We are expecting a modest slowdown in the ISM
manufacturing data,” Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at Ava
Capital Markets Ltd. in Dublin, wrote in a note, referring to
the Institute for Supply Management’s index. “The volatility in
this week will remain elevated given that the economic docket
for this week is full of colorful fireworks.”  The volume of shares traded in FTSE 100-listed companies
was 26 percent higher than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. manufacturing expanded at a slower pace in August, a
report at 10 a.m.  New York  time may show. The ISM’s factory
index dropped to 54 last month from 55.4 in July, economists
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion. U.S. reports later this week may show employers in
the world’s largest economy added more workers last month than
in July, while the country’s services industry grew at a slower
pace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  