-- U.K. Construction Grew at Fastest Pace in Six Years in August
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-09-03T09:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/u-k-construction-grew-at-fastest-pace-in-six-years-in-august.html
U.K. construction grew at the
fastest pace in six years in August amid a revival in the
housing market, adding to signs the economic recovery is gaining
traction.  An index of output rose to 59.1 from to 57 in July, Markit
Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply
said in a statement today in  London . Economists forecast 56.9,
according to the median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The report suggests the recovery is taking hold across the
economy, with Markit’s gauge of manufacturing output published
yesterday rising to a 2 1/2-year high. Bank of England
officials, who start their two-day policy meeting today, will
probably maintain the level of stimulus after Governor Mark Carney and officials pledged to keep the benchmark interest rate
at a record low for three years.  The figures “are yet another indication that the U.K.
economy has performed impressively over the summer months,” Tim Moore, senior economist at Markit, said in the statement. “It
seems highly likely that the construction sector will provide
another positive contribution to U.K. GDP in the third quarter
of 2013.”  Residential construction was the best-performing sector
last month, growing at the fastest since June 2010. Civil
engineering expansion was the strongest since September 2007,
and commercial construction rose at the fastest pace since May
2012.  New work coming in rose at the fastest rate since March
2012, with anecdotal evidence of a pickup in housing-related
demand and more public-sector infrastructure spending, the
report said.  Housing Boom  London-based property researcher Hometrack Ltd. said
yesterday house-price growth accelerated in August in the
strongest market conditions for six years. The Engineering
Employers’ Federation also raised its forecasts for economic
growth and manufacturing output.  Persimmon Plc, the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by market
value, said Aug. 20 first-half earnings increased 40 percent as
the company sold more homes at wider profit margins.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will keep its
bond-buying program at 375 billion pounds ($584 billion),
according to all 37 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Officials will also hold the key rate at a record low of 0.5
percent, a separate survey showed.  The MPC will announce the decisions at noon in London on
Sept. 5. Their meeting was moved forward to allow Carney to
attend the Group of 20 summit on Sept. 5-6 in St. Petersburg,
 Russia . Minutes of the decision showing how officials voted will
be published Sept. 18.  “This adds to the weight of evidence that the economy --
and in particular housing -- is recovering far more quickly than
previous stages of the recovery,” George Buckley, an economist
at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said in a research note. “Growth
in construction sector output is likely to continue going
forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  