-- UBS Sees Grounds Riff Like Richards Winning Asia Deals
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-09-04T08:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/ubs-sees-grounds-riff-like-richards-winning-asia-deals.html
As  UBS AG (UBSN)  board members gathered in
Sydney last year to consider the bank’s fate, they joined 200
clients to drink champagne, eat canapes and mingle among beds of
anthurium with purple spadixes jutting into the air.  Chairman  Axel Weber , who had flown to Australia from Zurich
for the board’s first-ever meeting there, took the stage at  Cafe
Sydney  overlooking the harbor and lauded  Matthew Grounds  and his
team for their “unparalleled footprint across the region.”
Grounds, 44, who heads UBS’s Asia-Pacific corporate client-solutions unit, led Switzerland’s largest bank to the No. 1
position in equity underwriting in the region excluding Japan in
2012, and he’s doing the same this year.  UBS’s Asia-Pacific performance stands in contrast to the
rest of the world, where the bank is undergoing radical surgery,
discussed at the Sydney meeting, to shutter most debt-trading
and cut 10,000 jobs. The firm has almost doubled its market
share from last year in advising on mergers and acquisitions in
the region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “People incorrectly put that down just to me,” Grounds
said in an interview in a sun-flooded, 16th-floor conference
room at UBS’s Australian headquarters in Sydney, citing 20 years
of teamwork among his business heads who sometimes just give him
a role to come in and play for a deal they’ve already scripted.
“I’m trying to be like  Keith Richards .”  ‘Rock Star’  That may well make Grounds the “rock star” that the
Australian Financial Review called him in a profile last year, a
term that causes him to roll his eyes, knit his brow, and
complain. He’s hardly Mick Jagger, the front man for the Rolling
Stones, whom he saw on their most recent world tour, he said.
Instead, he said, he’s more like Richards, the guy playing riffs
in the background.  Grounds, who’s also chief executive officer for Australia
and  New Zealand , has plenty to strut about. The holding company
for UBS’s Australian businesses reported a 63 percent increase
in profit to A$60.8 million ($55 million) last year in a filing
to the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.  That’s in contrast to the net loss of 2.5 billion francs
($2.7 billion) UBS posted worldwide after being fined about $1.5
billion for trying to rig benchmarks such as the London
interbank offered rate.  UBS ranks sixth this year in M&A advising worldwide, moving
up from 11th place last week before it helped  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
on its $130 billion sale of a stake in Verizon Communications
Inc., and is sixth in equity underwriting, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Europe Model  The future of UBS could look like the Australian and Asian
businesses, Grounds said in the interview in July, calling them
capital-light, dominant in equities and with a strong position
in research and  investment banking .  “I’m not saying UBS is going to be No. 1 globally,” he
said. “But there’s no reason why Europe can’t have this
model.”  The corporate client-solutions unit that Grounds heads in
the Asia-Pacific region -- which includes advisory, equity and
debt capital markets, as well as financing for businesses -- is
key to growth in a part of the world where linking investment
banking with Asia’s increasing number of wealthy clients is
critical to profitability, said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst with  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)   The unit  contributed  35 percent of investment-banking
revenue worldwide in the first half of the year compared with 23
percent before the 2008 financial crisis, when UBS was building
up fixed-income trading.  “It’s not so much as nice to have, it’s essential,”
Wheeler said. “The big entrepreneurs very much look for a
holistic service.”  Wealth Relationships  UBS has been able to take advantage of relationships
between wealth management, headed in Asia by Kathryn Shih in
Hong Kong, and the investment bank, according to Matthew Hanning, who reports to Grounds as co-head of investment banking
for the region, excluding Japan. The reorganization is freeing
up resources to grow in Asia, “where the integrated bank story
has worked very well,” Hanning said in a phone interview.  The Swiss bank is pushing both sides to cooperate in
selling products they manage or underwrite, such as bonds, to
wealthy customers. UBS also is pressing to handle those clients’
deals in a region where the number of millionaires is rising
faster than in developed economies and the wealthiest people are
the ones with companies seeking to go public or issue bonds.  Moving Faster  UBS tied with New York-based Citigroup Inc. as the biggest
private bank by assets in the Asia-Pacific region last year,
according to the Boston Consulting Group. The bank said in July
that it has a relationship with as many as 80 percent of Asia’s
billionaires. It  reported  1.7 trillion francs under management,
with 210 billion francs of that in Asia.  Hanning and Guy Fowler, head of investment banking for
Australia and New Zealand, also cited teamwork for the strong
track record. Knowing each other’s views and having earned trust
from top management means the bank can move faster on deals.  “It’s quite a unique, almost family-like culture,” said
Fowler, one of the 20-year team members Grounds credits for
UBS’s success in Australia. “We can get things done quickly,
and I’d say more quickly than a lot of our competitors.”  Several of UBS’s equity deals in Southeast Asia this year
were linked to wealthy families. In Thailand,  CP All Pcl (CPALL) ,
controlled by billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s Charoen Pokphand
Group, raised $315 million in a February offering. In the
Philippines, billionaire Lucio Tan’s  LT Group Inc. (LTG)  sold $912
million of stock in April.  Ermotti’s Vindication  The surge in such transactions vindicated the move last
year by UBS’s CEO  Sergio Ermotti  to shrink riskier and capital-intensive businesses, such as bond trading, to concentrate on
wealth management. The bank sped up its reduction in risk-weighted assets, surpassing the year-end level it had targeted.  Grounds became the head of UBS Australia and New Zealand in
May 2008, moving up from joint head of investment banking. He
joined Potter Warburg & Co., a UBS predecessor, in 1994 from
boutique investment bank Schroders Australia Ltd.  A graduate of the University of New South Wales, where he
studied commerce and law, Grounds worked at Clayton Utz, an
Australian commercial law firm, before starting on a finance
career. He lives with his wife and two children in the Sydney
suburb of Mosman.  ‘Completely Dominated’  “He’s a good manager, runs a very tight ship and also has
a very global view on where Australia is in the global
perspective and how local companies act internationally,”
 Oswald Gruebel , a former UBS CEO, said in a phone interview.
“He’s a good dealmaker and a good manager, which is something
you don’t find very often among investment bankers. Usually it’s
one or the other.”  In 2008, after Grounds took over the Australian unit, UBS
“completely dominated the recapitalization of the Australian
banking system” in an unprecedented way, as typically banks
would jointly underwrite capital raising, and UBS was the sole
underwriter for some of the deals, said  Magellan Financial Group
Ltd. (MFG)  CEO Hamish Douglass, who calls Grounds a friend.  “It goes down to Matthew’s skills and relationship at the
highest levels of corporate Australia and also the dominance of
the UBS equity-capital-markets franchise,” Douglass said.  Sole Underwriter  UBS helped Australian banks and insurers raised about A$13
billion of equity capital in 2008 and 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show, including a last-minute underwriting of a
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  offering after the bank
terminated a transaction led by Merrill Lynch & Co. The New
York-based bank said at the time it didn’t accept the bank’s
version of the events that led to its dismissal.  Yesterday, UBS was the sole underwriter for energy-utility
investor DUET Group’s A$100 million capital raising in its
latest deal.  The Swiss bank’s Australian unit contributed about 45
percent of the total Asia-Pacific fees from 2008 to 2012, up
from 41.8 percent before Grounds took over, according to data
compiled by New York-based consultant Freeman & Co. The Asia-Pacific region generated 21 percent of UBS’s global fees in 2012
and the first half of 2013, the data show.  This year, UBS has jumped to be the No. 1 share-sale
underwriter in Southeast Asia for the first time in six years,
from fourth last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bank
has helped raise about 33 percent of Southeast Asia’s total from
equity sales, compared with 23 percent for second-place  CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)   Contrary Deal  When the Queensland state government wanted to sell part of
its stake last year in QR National Ltd., a rail-freight company
now called  Aurizon Holdings Ltd. (AZJ) , top investment banks vied for
the deal, Grounds said. So he told the state’s officials that,
contrary to the discount his competitors were suggesting, UBS
could help lift the stock’s trading price based on precedents
over the last 10 years, he said.  UBS arranged in October for the state to sell some shares
to select investors and for the company to buy back its stock.
Five months later, when UBS helped the state cut its remaining
18 percent stake in half, the strategy proved right. The holding
sold at A$4.03 a share, a 16 percent increase from October. The
 stock  closed at A$4.50 a share in Sydney today.  Here’s the catch: It was Fowler’s idea, Grounds said,
adding that he himself was skeptical at first, until Fowler
convinced him. After that, his role was to come in and sell it.  ‘Top Rank’  “I love going into a client meeting,” said Grounds. “It
happens many times, ‘Well, Matthew, are you absolutely committed
to this?’ I will say, ‘Yeah, I am.’ But in a couple of weeks
they’d be saying not, ‘Where’s Matthew?’ but ‘Where is Guy, or
where is Anthony Sweetman?” he said, referring to Fowler and to
Sweetman, the head of corporate advisory services in Australia
and New Zealand.  Grounds did take the lead role in the Commonwealth Bank
share offering on Dec. 17, 2008, according to  Ralph Norris , the
bank’s former CEO, who called Grounds’ actions “magnificent”
that day.  “He saw the Merrill transaction had failed,” Norris said
in a phone interview. “He rang me first thing the next morning
after the issues had become obvious the previous night. Matthew
indicated to me he could undertake and complete the transaction
by midday. This was half past seven in the morning. I said,
‘Come and see me.’ We had a discussion, and I decided we would
undertake the capital-raising with UBS. He delivered.”  “He’s top-rank,” Norris said. “There’s no doubt about
that.”  Improving Japan  One place where UBS isn’t tops in Asia is Japan. It ranks
ninth in equity and equity-linked underwriting in a market led
by  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  and  Goldman
Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., data compiled by Bloomberg show. In 2004, UBS
was as high as fourth. Grounds said he intends to change that.
UBS has a new managing director at its Japan banking unit, Junya Nishiwaki, who was hired from Goldman Sachs and started Aug. 23.  “Improving our position in Japan would be our priority
just by investing in people,” Grounds said. “We would like to
be among the top three international banks of choice in Japan.”  The bank plans to increase its Asia corporate advisory and
capital markets team by 10 percent over three years, Grounds
said in an interview in April, even as UBS is paring fixed-income jobs.  There won’t be a letup on China, where regulators have
frozen approvals on initial public offerings for more than 10
months amid an equity-market slump, Grounds said. The firm’s
joint venture in China, UBS Securities Co., has been the top
underwriter backed by a foreign bank for domestic share sales
since 2010, ahead of Goldman Sachs’s joint venture, Goldman
Sachs Gao Hua Securities Co., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Strong Position’  “We have such a strong position, we are just going to
maintain it,” Grounds said.  UBS also beat Goldman Sachs in 2008 in Australia when it
became the first international bank to open an office in Perth
ahead of that area’s mining boom. Natural resources-related
equity offerings ballooned to A$23 billion in 2009 and M&A
increased to a record A$55 billion in 2011. Goldman Sachs set up
an office in Perth last year, according to Hayley Morris, a
Sydney-based spokeswoman for the New York-based firm, who
declined to comment further.  “If I say we can do it, we’ll do it,” Grounds said.
“It’s very hard to replicate our depth. That sounds arrogant.
The reality is there is a lot of power in our team.”  To protect his top managers in Australia from global cost-cutting at a time when UBS is scaling back pay and bonuses
worldwide, Grounds managed to secure pay incentives, a “long-term, deferred-retention senior incentive” plan available only
in Australia, according to  UBS’s 2012 annual report .  In addition to making sure his team is well-compensated,
Grounds insists on sharing the accolades.  “This cannot be about me,” he said. “If this is about
me, it hurts my capacity to enable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  