-- Rupee Drop Proves Lucky for Strides Investors: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-09-04T10:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/lucky-strides-poised-for-upgrade-as-rupee-drops-corporate-india.html
The rupee’s biggest drop in 20 years
is a stroke of luck for investors in Indian drugmaker  Strides
Arcolab Ltd. (STR)   Strides, which is selling its injectables unit Agila
Specialties to  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  for $1.6 billion, has pledged to
distribute as much as 50 percent of the proceeds to
shareholders. Analysts from Fortune Equity Brokers Ltd. to IDFC
Securities Ltd. are poised to upgrade their forecasts for the
stock as the more than 20 percent fall in the currency since the
 transaction  was announced boosts the value of the deal.  The rupee’s depreciation means  dividends  for investors
including Reliance Mutual Fund, India’s second-largest money
manager, and Strides founder Arun Kumar may increase by 10.7
billion rupees ($157 million), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Strides surged to a six-month high on Aug. 29, a day
after the currency plunged to an unprecedented low.  “They’ve been very lucky with their timing,” said Hitesh Mahida, a Mumbai-based analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers. “I
don’t think anybody expected this kind of currency
devaluation.”  Strides has risen 29 percent in the past month making it
the best performing stock on the 17-company S&P BSE India
Healthcare Index after  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  The shares
gained 0.3 percent to 893.2 rupees. in Mumbai.  Price Forecast  Mahida set his  target  price for the stock at 1,333 rupees
should the deal happen when the rupee is at 67 to a dollar.
Macquarie Securities Ltd. analyst Abhishek Singhal estimates the
share may exceed his price estimate by as much as 15 percent
with the rupee at 65 per dollar.  The currency plunged to a record low of 68.8450 per dollar
on Aug. 28. UBS AG says a drop to 70 is possible. One-month
onshore forwards traded at 67.64, while the rupee advanced 0.9
percent to 67.1250 in the spot market at 3:42 p.m. in Mumbai.  “They are a big gainer from the rupee, because they have
not hedged their proceeds from the divestment,” said Nitin Agarwal, an analyst with IDFC Securities Ltd. “A large chunk of
the target price would depend on the transaction and the price
they realize.”  The company didn’t hedge the proceeds because rules require
it to seek regulatory approval for the sale transaction before
it can insure against adverse foreign-exchange movements, Group
Chief Financial Officer T.S. Rangan said on a call with analysts
on July 25.  Government Approval  Strides won cabinet approval for the deal yesterday.  The company estimates it will get the  payment  by the first
half of October, Group Chief Executive Officer Kumar said in a
call with analysts on July 25. Strides will receive an
additional $250 million from Mylan four to six months later,
after it invests another $125 million in the subsidiary.  As much as $800 million of the payment will be  distributed 
to Strides shareholders either through a share buyback or
dividends, Kumar said in February. Founders including Kumar  own 
about 27 percent of Strides. Billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance
Growth Fund owns about 3 percent, while SBI Funds Management
Pvt., controls 1 percent of the company, according to data on
the BSE  India  website.  Kumar along with K.R. Ravishankar started the generic
drugmaker in 1990. The Bangalore-based company became a supplier
of off-patent sterile  injectable  and oral products to Pfizer
Inc. in 2010.  Biosimilar Drugs  Strides will also pay as much as $300 million in taxes,
Kumar said. The company will use $400 million of the funds to
repay all its debt, employees and minority partners. Another
$100 million will be invested into its remaining pharma and
biotech business, including the development of biosimilar drugs,
which are low-cost versions of treatments made from living
organisms.  “It’s difficult to predict whether they’ll succeed in
biosimilars; even though they’ve shown their capability in
developing injectables with Agila, biosimilars are way more
complex,” said Surya Narayan Patra, an analyst at
PhillipCapital India Pvt. in Mumbai. “I’m not factoring any
value into their biotech investment.”  Strides’ Agila unit contributed 13.7 billion rupees or 60
percent of the company’s  revenue  last year, according to its
 annual report . Generic drugs accounted for the balance.  Sales at the company’s business excluding the Agila unit
fell 14 percent in the three months ended June 30, Strides said
in a filing to stock exchanges.  “After the  dividend payout, the remaining business is
hardly worth 200 to 250 rupees a share,” said Mahida. “If the
stock price is lower than that after the dividends have been
paid, it might be worth keeping the shares.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  