-- Uruguay Taking Bids on First Big Solar Farms Using Wind Strategy
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-09-03T16:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/uruguay-taking-bids-on-first-big-solar-farms-using-wind-strategy.html
Uruguay is accepting bids for its
first two large-scale solar farms as the nation seeks to take
advantage of falling panel prices, replicating a strategy it’s
using for  wind energy .  Companies have until Oct. 3 to bid for rights to sell
energy from a 1-megawatt project and a 5-megawatt site and the
winners will be chosen by the end of the year, Martin Scarone,
an engineer at the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining, said
today in a telephone interview. The auction documents were made
available yesterday.  Uruguay is seeking to roll out solar farms on a large scale
as panel prices fall, as it’s doing now with wind turbines,
Ramon Mendez, the ministry’s director of energy, said in a
telephone interview. The government expects to be able to buy
solar power at rates that are competitive with other energy
sources in 2017.  “We’re at the same level with photovoltaic energy now as
we were with wind energy five years ago,” Mendez said. “We
don’t subsidize renewable energy. We use the maturest
technologies to decrease costs.”  Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Transmisiones
Electricas, the state power company known as UTE, expects to
have 300 megawatts of  wind turbines  installed by 2014, up from
50 megawatts now, he said. It will be purchasing power from at
least 900 megawatts of wind farms that will come online through
2016 at rates as low as $62.35 a megawatt hour.  Profitable Power  The government last year offered to accept proposals from
companies seeking to sell energy from large solar plants at
$91.50 a megawatt hour after developers said they could do so
profitably, he said. Companies including local developer Tecnova
Renovables proposed 166 megawatts of projects.  “No one in the world believes we can get projects for $92
a megawatt hour. Not even ourselves,” he said. The auction will
guarantee “that at least we will have two smaller projects
operational if those other projects are aborted.”  More than 60 companies from  Europe ,  China  and the Americas
have expressed interest in bidding, Mendez said.  The  price  of solar panels has fallen to 80 cents a watt
from about $4 in 2008 and will reach 52 cents by 2020, Jenny
Chase, head solar analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance,
said today in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  