-- TV Makers Track What Viewers Watch Seeking Access to Ads
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-09-05T17:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/tv-makers-track-what-viewers-watch-seeking-access-to-ads.html
(Corrects third paragraph of story published yesterday to
clarify talks aren’t limited to Cognitive software.)  Televisions reaching consumers this
year will be able to tell what audiences are watching and relay
the information to marketers over the Web, opening the door to
new ad revenue as well as privacy concerns.  Coming Web-connected units from  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and
other manufacturers contain digital sleuthing technology that
tracks live and recorded programs as they’re shown on-screen.
Sets being demonstrated by Seoul-based LG in Berlin this week at
 IFA , Europe’s largest  consumer electronics show , will use
software from San Francisco-based  Cognitive Networks Inc.   Major players including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Vizio
Inc. are discussing using such software in their sets, Cognitive
Chief Executive Officer Michael Collette said in an interview.
Manufacturers are trying to carve a slice of a worldwide TV
advertising market  forecast  to total $196.5 billion this year by
researcher Magna Global. Any ad revenue could help TV makers
improve profit margins, which have suffered amid slowing demand
and price competition.  “Our job is to produce recurring revenue for TV guys who
are lucky if they can produce margins of 5 percent on their
hardware,” Collette said. “The 4 bucks they make on a set,
they can at least double with the $5 they may make a year from
the new recurring revenue.”  Sony Push  Cognitive pumps viewing information back to a database
through the Internet, allowing marketers to tailor messages in
real time, according to an Aug. 28 statement announcing the deal
with LG. Viewers who opt-in to the service gain access to
advanced interactive features. While LG is demonstrating 2014
models at IFA, sets sold this year and next will have the
technology, according to Cognitive.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Gracenote unit, a competitor to Cognitive, is
also in talks to put its content-recognition software in TVs.
Gracenote is “finalizing contracts with TV manufacturers and
broadcasters for fall launch,” according to Sunok Pak, a
spokeswoman for the Emeryville, California-based division.  Gracenote acquired Bulldog United’s video fingerprinting
technology in June 2012 to identify which movies, TV shows and
commercials people are watching, whether the source is a set-top
box, Blu-ray player or streaming device.  Uphill Climb  SungIn Cho, a spokeswoman with Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, had no immediate comment. Jim Noyd, a spokesman for
 Irvine , California-based Vizio, didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  The manufacturers are trying to break into a market that
has proved resistant to change, with incumbent pay-TV services
that will be difficult to unseat. To build an audience of
interest to advertisers, they’ll need to have at least 10
million units that use the fingerprinting technology, according
to Cognitive’s Collette.  There’s also the question of perception. Companies that
tackle the advertising market from an engineering perspective
lack experience interacting directly with consumers, and risk
pushing the boundaries of privacy, said Warren Schlichting,
senior vice president of media sales and analytics with  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH) , the No. 2 U.S. satellite TV broadcaster.  ‘Creepy Factor’  “We’re primarily in the pay-TV business,” Schlichting
said. “While my advertising business is flourishing, we’re not
going to risk the creepy factor or pushing the envelope for the
sake of doing better in something that’s not core to our
customer focus.”  As an example, Schlichting cited a backlash from consumers
that caused  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to withdraw its original plan to
require users of its Xbox One to log into the Internet at least
once every 24 hours, and a requirement that its Kinect camera,
which watches for consumer movements, be plugged in.  Web Features  Executives at both Cognitive and Gracenote said their
technology is similar to software that tracks websites consumers
visit using computers and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads.  After users agree to initial setup of the television,
advertisers and programmers gain access to the video information
and a device ID number to determine when and where to place
their content, Gracenote President Stephen White said.  “It’s important to be upfront with consumers about how
you’re going to use their data,” White said. “If you’re doing
things that create a better experience for them and give them
things they’re going to care about, we believe they’re going to
opt in.”  Twenty nine percent of Internet-capable TVs were  connected 
to the Web, including those routed through other devices, while
only 15 percent had a direct link to online services such as
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , researcher NPD Group said December. Shipments of
so-called smart TVs are projected to reach 141 million units, or
55 percent of the global television market, by 2015, IHS Screen
Digest predicted in February.  Gracenote can download its software to any smart TV
purchased since late 2011, according to Pak.  Ad Premium  The technology from both Cognitive and Gracenote scans
pixels on connected screens almost continuously to determine,
for example, what a viewer is watching and where in the program
they are.  A pizza chain could theoretically ask for an ad insertion
at a commercial break to offer 10 percent off to viewers near
its shops, and LG could tie in Skype calling so the person never
leaves the couch. Proceeds, after the networks’ share, would be
divided between the software companies and TV makers.  Because so-called dynamic advertising can be better
targeted to the individual, some advertisers are willing to pay
a premium of as much as 25 percent above traditional  television
advertising , according to Ooyala, a  Mountain View , California-based company that analyzes video data.  While the technology could threaten traditional ads,
companies that pursue a multiple-device approach and seek to
coexist with existing ad systems have the best chance of
success, Gracenote’s White said.  “When you have content and context-aware devices, the
reality is you can do a lot more to hyper-target consumers and
give them information they care about,” White said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  