-- Verizon Communications Debt Falls on Plan for Biggest Bond Sale
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-09-03T22:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/verizon-communications-debt-falls-on-plan-for-biggest-bond-sale.html
Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
fell as the carrier plans to issue as much as $50 billion of
securities to help finance its purchase of Vodafone Group Plc’s
45 percent stake in  Verizon Wireless .  The company’s $1.75 billion of 2.45 percent bonds maturing
in 2022 dropped 1.2 cents to 87.1 cents on the dollar to yield
4.16 percent as of 4:27 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The cost to protect corporate bonds from
default in the U.S. was little changed.  Verizon’s offering may exceed Apple Inc.’s record $17
billion issue in April, according to a person briefed on the
company’s plans, who asked not to be identified citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly. Proceeds would help fund its
acquisition of Vodafone’s Verizon Wireless stake for $130
billion, giving it full control of the most profitable U.S.
mobile-phone carrier in the biggest buyout in more than a
decade.  “A solid industrial acquisition with both the ability and
opportunity to pay down debt are interesting plays for
bondholders,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of
corporate credit for Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in
New York. “However, there will be such a glut of Verizon paper
and that may limit total-return potential.”  Verizon’s bonds are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, accounting
for 6.6 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more as of 5:39 p.m. in New York, Trace data show.  Permanent Financing  Verizon’s $1.25 billion of 3.85 percent bonds due in
November 2042 declined 1.7 cents to 78.4 cents on the dollar to
yield 5.32 percent, Trace data show.  Credit-default swaps tied to the New York-based carrier’s
debt were quoted at a mid-price of 83.5 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp.
and Barclays Plc are supplying a $61 billion bridge credit
facility, which Verizon plans to reduce “with the issuance of
permanent financing,” the company said yesterday in a
statement.  Verizon said it expects to maintain finances that are
consistent with investment-grade credit. Moody’s Investors
Service lowered its rank one level yesterday to Baa1, three
steps above speculative grade, to reflect an increase in
leverage, and  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating to an equivalent
BBB+.  Risk Premium  The cost to protect against losses on corporate bonds was
little changed. The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade
Index, a credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 0.5 basis point to a mid-price of 83.6 basis points as
of 5:02 p.m. in New York, CMA data show.  The measure, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates, climbed 5.3 basis points last week, the biggest
jump since the period ended Aug. 16. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, declined 4 basis points to 401.7, CMA data show.  Nokia Swaps  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries increased 1.9 basis points to 130.9,
Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 6.2 to 577.9.  Credit swaps tied to  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  dropped to the lowest level
since June 2011 after  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  agreed to buy its handset
unit and license its patents for 5.44 billion euros ($7.2
billion). Nokia’s five-year swaps plunged 320 basis points to
209, CMA data show.  The devices and services unit, which accounted for half of
Nokia’s 2012 revenue, along with 32,000 employees, will transfer
to Microsoft, the companies said. The sale removes a money-losing handset business and lets it focus on networking gear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  