-- Vivus Names Fischer CEO as Zook Resigns for Health Reasons
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-09-03T20:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/vivus-names-fischer-ceo-as-zook-resigns-for-health-reasons.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) , the obesity-drug maker
that overturned its board and management in July after a proxy
fight with its largest shareholder, said new Chief Executive
Officer Tony Zook has resigned because of health reasons.  Seth H. Z. Fischer, formerly with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , will
replace Zook immediately, the  Mountain View , California-based
company said today in a statement. Vivus cited “recurring
issues associated with a previously diagnosed medical
condition” for Zook’s departure.  Zook started as CEO on July 22 after  shareholders  First
Manhattan Co. and Sarissa Capital Management LP ousted former
chief Leland Wilson when they won control of the board.
Fischer’s mandate will be the same as Zook’s: expanding use of
the obesity drug Qsymia, finding a marketing partner, getting to
market in  Europe  and cutting costs.  “We don’t see a real impact on Vivus with Mr. Zook’s
departure,” Simos Simeonidis, an analyst with Cowen & Co.,
wrote today in a research note. “Our optimism about the new
(board) leadership at Vivus stems from our expectation that
there should now exist a change in the overall strategic
direction of the company and that there should now exist more
accountability in the company, which, in our view, starts at the
board level.”  Vivus rose 3 percent to $12.90 at the close in  New York .
The shares have lost 40 percent in the past 12 months. Qsymia
was approved in July 2012 and sales have missed expectations,
with $5.5 million in the second quarter compared with analysts’
average estimate of $7.6 million.  Fischer retired from  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J
last year after serving as company group chairman and worldwide
franchise chairman of Cordis Corp., Vivus said. Before that he
was J&J’s company group chairman of North America
Pharmaceuticals. He helped oversee the selling of medicines
including Topamax, a treatment for migraines and epilepsy whose
ingredient topiramate is also part of Qsymia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  