-- Vodafone Decade of Patience Was a $125 Billion Virtue
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-09-04T15:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/vodafone-decade-of-patience-pays-125-billion-real-m-a.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s payout from a
decadelong dance with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  over the fate
of their U.S. wireless joint venture was worth the wait.  By holding off until now to sell its 45 percent stake in
Verizon Wireless, Vodafone secured $130 billion, adding to more
than $15 billion in dividend payouts since the venture was
formed in 1999. With Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. estimating
Vodafone’s initial investment at $20 billion, the company is
getting as much as $125 billion more than that for a sixfold
return, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After years of speculation, Vodafone is selling at an
opportune time, according to Macquarie Group Ltd. The U.S. has
more wireless devices than people, and  Verizon Wireless  is
poised to face stiffer competition from rivals such as  Sprint
Corp. (S) , which is now backed by  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  Interest rates at
near record lows also helped Verizon finance a bid that would
have previously been unthinkable, Berenberg Bank said. Earlier
this year, Verizon was willing to pay about $100 billion,
according to a person familiar with the deal, who asked not to
be identified discussing private deliberations.  “I can only give them my compliments,” said Peter Braendle, who helps manage 50 billion Swiss francs ($53 billion)
in assets, including Vodafone shares, at Swisscanto Asset
Management in Zurich. “I appreciate very much that they were
stubborn enough to wait.”  Swisscanto has held Vodafone  shares  since before the
Verizon Wireless venture existed, Braendle said.  Deal Speculation  In 2004, the last time Vodafone and Verizon publicly got
close to a deal, Bear Stearns Cos. valued the venture at $56.4
billion, making Vodafone’s 45 percent stake worth about $25
billion.  Since then, speculation has been rampant about an eventual
deal as Verizon reiterated its interest in acquiring full
ownership. Meanwhile, the value of Vodafone’s stake ballooned as
Verizon Wireless became the biggest provider in the U.S., with
more than 100 million  subscribers .  Vodafone spokesman Ben Padovan and Verizon spokesman  Bob Varettoni  declined to comment on the return that Newbury,
England-based Vodafone secured by selling now.  In March,  Bloomberg News  reported that Verizon was eager to
take full control of the wireless unit this year after having
weighed options including a full merger.  Wireless Investment  The British company resisted those advances until mid-summer when Verizon said it would pay as much as $125 billion in
cash, or a mix of cash and stock valued at $130 billion, a
person familiar with the matter said this week.  “We think of Verizon Wireless as an investment,” Vodafone
Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said on a call with
analysts yesterday. “We have been happy to hold until or unless
Verizon made us an offer that exceeded our view of its value to
Vodafone.”  Verizon agreed to pay more as the financing markets allowed
it to borrow $61 billion from banks. U.S. investment-grade
corporate bond yields of 3.5 percent are still hovering near the
record low of 2.65 percent reached in May, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “The conditions for funding this transaction are probably
not going to be as good as they are now 12 months from now, 24
months from now, 36 months from now,” Paul Marsch, a London-based telecommunications analyst at Berenberg, said in a phone
interview. “It makes a lot of sense to do this transaction
now.”  ‘Opportune Time’  By holding onto its stake in Verizon Wireless, the most
profitable U.S. mobile-phone operator, Vodafone benefited from
an almost quadrupling of  revenue  in the last decade.  A deal was reached at an ideal time because growth may be
challenged as the wireless unit faces tougher competition for
subscribers in a saturated market, said Guy Peddy, a London-based analyst at Macquarie.  In addition to SoftBank’s investment in Sprint,  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  merged with MetroPCS
Communications Inc. this year. Mobile penetration in the U.S.
has exceeded 102 percent, according to 2012  data  from CTIA-The
Wireless Association.  “The competitive intensity in the U.S. market is getting
more uncertain,” Peddy said in a phone interview. Vodafone has
“exited at an opportune time at a very good price.”  New York-based Verizon is paying $58.9 billion in cash, of
which $23.9 billion will be distributed to Vodafone
shareholders.  ‘Fantasy’ Price  Vodafone shareholders have been waiting on this payday as
their  stock  increased only 28 percent in the nine years through
Aug. 28, before reports of an imminent deal. Meanwhile, the
Bloomberg World Telecommunications Index rose 50 percent.
Including dividends, Vodafone shareholders had a total return of
about 140 percent in that period.  Today, Vodafone shares rose 2.2 percent to 207 pence.  To afford the biggest deal of the last decade though,
Verizon also had to offer $60.2 billion in its stock.  The number of shares to be distributed will depend on
Verizon’s average stock price until the deal’s estimated close
in the first quarter. Verizon shares fell 2.9 percent yesterday
to $46.01.  That means Vodafone’s strategy to sell at the top of the
market could backfire for investors if Verizon’s share price
continues to fall,  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based analyst at
Bernstein, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Vodafone is keeping a $30 billion cash windfall for network
investments, paying down  debt  and potentially funding future
acquisitions, said CFO Halford.  The $130 billion price tag for Vodafone’s wireless stake
would have been a “fantasy” until recently, said Marsch of
Berenberg. “In value accretion terms, it’s been very
significant for Vodafone shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  