-- Vodafone’s Surfer CEO Colao Dismantles Global Empire
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-09-04T20:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/vodafone-s-surfer-ceo-colao-dismantles-global-empire.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  Chief Executive
Officer  Vittorio Colao  has cemented his legacy as the man who
shrank the world’s biggest mobile-phone company and cleansed it
of past excesses.  In November 2009, just over a year after taking the helm,
the former McKinsey & Co. partner said that his mission was to
“solve” Verizon Wireless. While the venture with  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  -- now the biggest U.S. mobile-phone company
-- was a source of billions in profits, it was out of his
control because Vodafone held just 45 percent. This week, he did
it, getting $130 billion in the biggest deal in a decade.  “It’s a great asset; it’s an asset with a fantastic team
managing it,” Colao said in an interview with Bloomberg TV.
“We got the value that a good asset deserves.”  The stake’s sale fits with the 51-year-old surfer’s mantra,
according to a person close to him, who asked not to be
identified recounting private conversations: “Ride the wave,
don’t try to dominate it. Otherwise, it’ll kill you.”  It took Colao five years in office to clinch the Verizon
Wireless deal, a wait that paid off as Vodafone held out for
$130 billion, $30 billion more than the New York-based company
was said to have proposed at the start of this year by people
familiar with Verizon’s plans.  Scaling Back  “Colao has deep strategic perspective, and he’s also very
energetic when it’s time to execute, make decisions and push for
deals to get done,” Francisco Roman, chairman of Vodafone’s
Spanish unit, said hours before the deal was announced.  In his five years as CEO, Colao has unwound the globe-spanning empire his predecessors built, emphasizing
profitability over maintaining Vodafone’s size. As he cut
holdings in  France ,  Japan ,  Poland  and  China  and focused on
getting out of what Vodafone didn’t control, China Mobile Ltd.
usurped it by revenue in 2010. Today Vodafone trails the Chinese
carrier by revenue and subscribers.  Under the Italian native’s tenure,  Vodafone stock  has risen
40 percent, adding about 20 billion pounds to the Newbury,
England-based company’s market value. The shares have gained
more than 20 percent since March 5, when Bloomberg News reported
that the two companies were seeking to resolve the partnership
this year.  Today, the stock added 2.2 percent to close at 207 pence in
London.  SFR Coup  Colao’s reputation as a shrewd dealmaker stems in part from
his disposal of Vodafone’s 44 percent stake in French mobile-phone company SFR to majority owner  Vivendi SA. (VIV)  He said jokingly
to Bloomberg News in October 2010 that he planned to send the
then-Vivendi CEO Jean-Bernard Levy a fountain pen for Christmas
to sign the check. Eight months later, he walked away with more
than $10 billion.  The 2011 sale came at the top of the market, just before a
price-war that gutted wireless rates in France. Levy estimated
that full control of the stake would add 600 million euros to
adjusted profit in 2012 and 2013.  A year later he told investors he’d lost 208,000
subscribers in the first two months of 2012 and earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization would drop as
much as 15 percent in 2012. Levy stepped down as CEO in June
that year after failing to revive the company’s stock from a
nine-year low and amid strategy differences with the board.  Policeman’s Son  Colao “struck the deal to sell SFR and what happened a
year later was the company started to collapse,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London.
Miscalculations were the major reasons why the board asked Levy
to go, a person familiar with the company’s decision said,
asking not to be named discussing confidential talks.  Colao grew up in Brescia in northern  Italy . His father, a
member of Italy’s Carabinieri military police, died when he was
a teenager. He was close to his mother and would spend weekends
near her in Desenzano del Garda, in Lombardy, according to the
person close to him.  Colao attended Milan’s Bocconi University and Harvard
Business School. After a stint at McKinsey’s Milan office, he
got into telecommunications in 1996, joining Omnitel Pronto.
Three years later, it became Vodafone Italy and he was named CEO
of the unit. Another three years passed and he was promoted to
lead Vodafone’s operations in southern Europe. In 2003, he
joined the board and added Middle East and  Africa  operations to
his remit.  Media Sojourn  In 2004, Colao left Vodafone for  RCS MediaGroup SpA (RCS) , an
Italian media group that runs a daily newspaper and magazine,
book publisher, radio and television broadcasters and websites.
Colao described it as a call of duty from his home country, the
person close to him said.  Colao approached RCS like a consultant. Profits more than
doubled in the first year and he adopted a strategy for
international expansion. Meanwhile his shareholders wanted a CEO
who’d use the media assets for political pronouncements, said
the person. He resigned in 2006 and returned to Vodafone.  The surfing fan -- he posted a photo on Facebook in his
wetsuit with his board -- is a keen cyclist as well. He attends
the “Maratona delle Dolomiti,” an annual bike race through the
Dolomites mountains, and whenever he has spare time at home in
 London , he jumps on his bicycle, the person said.  Bike Race  Colao even participated in a 50 kilometer (31 miles) bike
ride with Verizon CEO Lowell McAdam. Their relationship -- they
worked together when McAdam was with Vodafone AirTouch in the
1990s -- helped pave the way for the Verizon Wireless sale.
AirTouch was one of the four companies that formed what would
become Verizon Wireless in 1999.  Colao cited McAdam in particular on a Sept. 2 conference
call following the sale’s announcement, saying he’s one of the
people “who should feel very proud” of the deal’s success. “I
feel grateful that these people trusted me,” he added.  “We have had very positive, very consistent conversations
for years with Lowell and Verizon about this asset, and at some
point, the right value materialized,” Colao said in an
interview with Bloomberg TV. “When the right value is there,
you have the transaction.”  It was a warmer relationship than Colao’s predecessor, Arun Sarin, had with McAdam’s, according to a person familiar with
their exchanges, who asked not to be identified because they
were private. Ivan Seidenberg was a New Yorker who worked his
way up from cable splicer to CEO of the second-largest phone
company in the U.S. over a 45-year career there.  M&A Wave  Riding a wave of consolidation in the U.S. this year --
SoftBank Corp. took control of Sprint Nextel Corp. and Deutsche
Telekom AG’s merged its T-Mobile USA unit with MetroPCS
Communications Inc. -- the Verizon Wireless sale also caps
Colao’s efforts to trim back Vodafone, leaving it with assets in
Europe, Africa and  India  and about $10 billion in cash to
fortify them. The company has earmarked the other $20 billion
left over for cutting debt.  Vodafone will offer more “unified services” packages that
combine Internet, phone and TV services for businesses and
consumers that can increase revenue and customer loyalty, he
said.  In its biggest bet on fixed-line services, Vodafone in June
agreed to buy Kabel Deutschland Holding AG,  Germany ’s largest
cable-television company. Last year, it acquired U.K. fixed-line
operator Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc. Vodafone has also eyed
Italy’s Fastweb SpA, people familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg News in June.  Next Deal?  Alternatively, Colao could orchestrate a second mega-deal.
During the negotiations over the Verizon Wireless stake, merging
the parents was an option under consideration. Colao could sell
post-Verizon Vodafone to AT&T Inc., which is looking for mobile
assets in Europe, analyst Bienenstock said, setting the price
tag at about 80 billion pounds.  “He’s still a young man,” Bienenstock said. “I don’t
think he’s going to ride off into the sunset just yet.”  Colao says as much himself.  “As long as the board and my shareholders support me and
have trust in me, I am super committed to the next chapter of
Vodafone: Chapter 3,” he said during a conference call this
week to announce the deal of the decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  