-- Vodafone’s Project Spring Puts $10 Billion in High-Speed Network
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-09-03T13:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/vodafone-s-project-spring-puts-10-billion-in-high-speed-network.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s sale of its
 Verizon Wireless  stake will usher in what Chief Executive
Officer  Vittorio Colao  called a new chapter focused on expanding
services and strengthening the company’s presence where it
already exists.  Vodafone, the world’s second-biggest mobile-phone carrier,
dubbed it Project Spring, and said it’ll use about $10 billion
from the sale for upgrades, giving it faster, fourth-generation
wireless coverage across 90 percent of its five biggest markets
in  Europe  by 2017, Colao said in a conference call today.  “Now is the time for Vodafone to step up its investment
and move ahead of the pack,” Colao said. “We expect the number
of people using video on their smartphones to double over the
next three years. We see average data consumption on 4G, where
we have 4G working, running at twice the level of 3G.”  Vodafone’s $130 billion sale of its 45 percent stake in
Verizon Wireless to partner  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  will
leave it with about $30 billion in cash. The deal caps Colao’s
efforts to streamline the Newbury, England-based company,
getting it out of partnerships where it doesn’t have a
controlling interest to focus on growth in  emerging markets  and
boosting data and unified services -- which he called chapters
one and two of Vodafone’s evolution in a call yesterday.  Speeded Deployment  Project Spring’s goal is to add fiber-optic cables, 3G and
4G infrastructure in Europe and select, high-density markets in
places like India and Africa over three years. About half of the
investment will go to speed up 4G deployment, add backhaul to
boost wireless network capacity, and increase the capacity of 3G
coverage, Vodafone said today.  “This is definitely a positive development for Vodacom and
will further enhance our competitive positioning,”  Vodacom
Group Ltd. (VOD)  CEO Shameel Joosub said in an e-mail. Vodafone owns
65 percent of the Johannesburg-based wireless company.  The rest will go to adding fiber for broadband  Internet
access , services for corporate customers, and improving retail
operations and  customer service .  Revenue from Vodafone’s service plans has declined for the
past four quarters as customers in strained European economies
cut spending and high penetration rates in countries where
mobile devices outnumber people make new sales difficult.  Vodafone has cut jobs and expenses on the continent to
support profit and wrote down 7.7 billion pounds ($12 billion)
on operations in Spain and Italy last fiscal year as southern
Europe’s outlook worsened and competition rose.  In yesterday’s statement on the deal, Vodafone restated its
adjusted operating profit forecast for 2014 to 5 billion pounds
and said it sees free cash flow of 4.5 billion pounds to 5
billion pounds after the transaction.  Colao has been adding Internet and television services to
his mobile packages to add customers and increase bills. He
bought  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , Germany’s biggest cable
television provider, in June.  Vodafone fell 7.6 pence, or 3.5 percent, to 205.7 pence in
London trading. The shares have gained 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  