-- Wal-Mart Targets B2W Dominance in Brazilian Online Push
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-09-03T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/wal-mart-targets-b2w-dominance-in-brazilian-online-push.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is doubling e-commerce staff in Brazil as it seeks to displace B2W Cia Digital
as the top online retailer in  Latin America ’s largest economy.  The world’s largest retailer is setting up headquarters for
its Latin American online business in suburban Sao Paulo with
perks such as a nap room and video-game center more typical of
Silicon Valley. By the end of the year, about 900 employees will
be working at the unit, and there are plans to boost headcount
to 2,000 next year, according to Flavio Dias, the vice president
for Wal-Mart’s Brazilian online sales.  Wal-Mart’s Web-based sales are growing twice as fast as the
industry average in the country as online competitors struggle
to meet guarantees for on-time deliveries. The retailer, based
in Bentonville, Arkansas, is planning to build additional
distribution centers to get products to customers faster and
will start importing items unavailable in  Brazil  such as Graco
Inc. baby strollers and coolers from Newell Rubbermaid Inc.  “We can create a portfolio of exclusive new products that
will be unique in the Brazilian market,” Dias said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “The potential for growth
in e-commerce in Brazil is very big.”  Online sales in Brazil rose 24 percent in the first half to
12.7 billion reais ($5.3 billion), and this year’s total will
probably be 28 billion reais, according to E-bit, a Sao Paulo-based research company. Wal-Mart’s Web sales in Brazil, one of
four priority e-commerce markets for the U.S. retailer globally,
are growing at a rate of more than 50 percent, Dias said.  He declined to say how much Wal-Mart is investing as it
ramps up online operations in Brazil or discuss whether the
company is currently making a profit in the country. Wal-Mart
doesn’t disclose how much revenue it gets from Brazil.  Growing Competition  In the U.S., Wal-Mart faces competition from Amazon.com
Inc. More than 12 years after opening its Web store, Wal-Mart
generates about $5.15 billion, or 2 percent, of its total annual
sales online, according to research and consulting firm Kantar
Retail, which is based in  London . Amazon’s North American sales
last year totaled $34.8 billion.  B2W is Brazil’s biggest online retailer, followed by Cia
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar’s Nova Pontocom
unit, said Alan Cardoso, an analyst at Banco Safra de
Investimento SA in  Sao Paulo  who covers the companies.
Amazon.com, the world’s largest online retailer, only sells e-books in Brazil. Because of different calculation methods, it
isn’t possible to say how much of the online market the
companies control, he said.  B2W declined to comment through a press official at In
Press Porter Novelli, an outside agency that represents the
company.  Delivery Delays  Wal-Mart will open its first distribution center in Sao
Paulo this year after relying on warehouses owned by third
parties, Dias said.  “We can deliver faster and at a lower cost by being closer
to consumers,” Dias said. Brazil’s southeast region, which
includes Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, generates 65 percent of
Brazil’s online sales, according to E-bit.  Logistics and on-time delivery have been challenges for
online retailers in Brazil and Wal-Mart is working to overcome
the obstacles, Dias said. Rio de Janeiro-based B2W, which was
2011’s worst performer on the  Ibovespa (IBOV)  index after failing to
deliver goods during the Christmas season in 2010, is investing
1 billion reais in 10 distribution centers.  Profit Sacrifice  E-commerce companies are sacrificing profit margins to win
market share by offering free delivery and charging low prices,
and competition is increasing, according to Vitor Paschoal, an
analyst at Itau BBA SA in Sao Paulo.  “It’s hard to know when this market will become
rational,” Paschoal said in a telephone interview. “That why
it’s so hard to bet on B2W.”  B2W shares have fallen 14 percent this year, compared to a
15 percent drop in the Ibovespa benchmark index. The company has
been  losing money  since 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “If Wal-Mart begins to invest in its site and technology
and offers more aggressive prices to gain market share, without
a doubt it will become a bigger competitive problem for B2W to
ward off,” said Luiz Cesta, an equity analyst at Banco
Votorantim SA in Sao Paulo.  Currency Plunge  Nova Pontocom, which generated 1.1 billion reais in sales
in the second quarter compared to 5.9 billion reais at physical
stores, is increasing the number of products it offers to 1
million next year from the current 200,000, Chief Executive
Officer Eneas Pestana said in a June interview.  The company was profitable last year, according to an e-mailed statement from Pao de Acucar.  The real’s 10 percent plunge against the  U.S. dollar  since
the end of May could mean reduce profit margins at online
retailers, according to Thiago Gramari, an analyst at Banco do
Brasil SA.  “All stores sell a bunch of imported goods, so if they
aren’t able to raise prices on the products, profits may
suffer,” Gramari said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.
“But this would be a problem for every company.”  At Wal-Mart’s online offices in suburban Alphaville, about
14 miles from the center of Sao Paulo, workers eat lunch at
picnic tables in the cafeteria, play mini-golf outdoors and have
access to at least one  Trikke  three-wheeled scooter in the
office. Wal-Mart trimmed expenses by setting up outside Sao
Paulo’s main business districts and there’s none of the free
food typical for workers at U.S. startups in Silicon Valley.  “The environment is that of a digital company,” Dias
said, “But it’s done in line with the values of founder  Sam
Walton , at a low cost.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  