-- Wallabies Recall Cooper, Shift Folau for Springboks Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-04T04:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/wallabies-recall-cooper-to-face-springboks-in-rugby-championship.html
Australia  recalled Quade Cooper at
fly-half and shifted Israel Folau to full-back as the Wallabies
seek their first win in this year’s Rugby Championship against
South Africa this weekend.  Cooper will start in the No. 10 role for the first time in
nearly a year at Brisbane’s Suncorp Stadium, while Folau moved
off the right wing to replace Jesse Mogg at full-back. Nick
Cummins was picked on the wing and Sekope Kepu at tighthead prop
in the other starting changes to the team that lost 27-16 in New
Zealand on Aug. 24.  The selection of Cooper reunites his playmaking partnership
with scrum-half Will Genia at a venue where they pair up for the
Queensland Reds Super Rugby team. Cooper has won seven of his
nine Tests against South Africa, which lost all its previous
seven matches against Australia at Suncorp Stadium.  “Quade’s been contributing well playing off the bench for
us,” Wallabies coach Ewen McKenzie said in a televised news
conference. “We’ve had a good look at how we’re going to play
this game and think he’s ideally suited to starting.”  Australia is point-less at the bottom of the southern
hemisphere championship standings following back-to-back losses
to the All Blacks, who host Argentina in the other third round
game on Sept. 7. South Africa opened the tournament with
successive wins over the Pumas.  Folau at Full-Back  In a move that signals Australia’s attacking intent against
the Springboks, Folau will switch to full-back after scoring
three tries in his first five Tests on the wing. Folau was
called up to the national squad in May after playing just 14
professional rugby games following stints in rugby league and
Australian rules football.  “They’re a team that kicks a lot so hopefully I’ll get my
hands on the ball and also in general play,” Folau said. “It’s
a little bit easier to slot into the line playing at full-back.”  Back-row forward Jake Schatz, who was last week voted as
the Queensland Reds’ player of the year, is in line to make his
Test debut after replacing Liam Gill on the bench.  Springboks coach Heyneke Meyer made three personnel changes
to the team that won 22-17 in Argentina last month.  Bismarck du Plessis takes over at hooker from Adriaan
Strauss and Flip van der Merwe replaces Juandre Kruger in the
second row. In the backline, Willie le Roux shifts from full-back to right wing in place of Bjorn Basson, with Zane Kirchner
starting his first Test of the year at full-back.  “A few of these changes are purely rotational in order to
give guys with fresh legs a go,” Meyer said. “The most
important factor still remains consistency in selection. In our
squad, any player can slot in at any stage, and that is a good
position to be in.”  AUSTRALIA: Israel Folau, Nick Cummins, Adam Ashley-Cooper,
Christian Leali’ifano, James O’Connor, Quade Cooper, Will Genia,
Ben Mowen, Michael Hooper, Scott Fardy,  James Horwill  (captain),
Rob Simmons, Sekope Kepu, Stephen Moore, James Slipper.  Reserves: Saia Fainga’a, Scott Sio, Ben Alexander, Kane
Douglas, Jake Schatz, Nic White, Matt Toomua, Jesse Mogg.  SOUTH AFRICA: Zane Kirchner, Willie le Roux, JJ
Engelbrecht, Jean de Villiers (captain), Bryan Habana, Morne
Steyn, Ruan Pienaar, Duane Vermeulen, Willem Alberts, Francois
Louw, Flip van der Merwe, Eben Etzebeth, Jannie du Plessis,
Bismarck du Plessis, Tendai Mtawarira.  Reserves: Adriaan Strauss,  Gurthro Steenkamp , Coenie
Oosthuizen, Juandre Kruger, Siya Kolisi, Jano Vermaak, Pat
Lambie, Jan Serfontein.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  