-- Wison Says Founder Hua Bangsong Assists With China Probe
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-09-03T03:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/wison-says-founder-hua-bangsong-assists-with-china-probe.html
Wison Engineering Services Co. said
its controlling shareholder Hua Bangsong is helping  China ’s
authorities with their investigations, amid a corruption probe
into executives at its one-time largest client  PetroChina Co. (857)   Wison has been informed that Hua “is now assisting the
relevant authorities in the PRC in their investigations,” the
company said today in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing. Wison
fell 16 percent yesterday before its shares were halted.  The company said it noted recent press reports on its
business relationship with PetroChina, the country’s biggest oil
and gas producer whose former chairman  Jiang Jiemin  and four
other senior executives are being investigated by the
government. Wison provides consulting, engineering and
construction services to chemical factories and oil refineries.  Jiang, who left PetroChina in March to head the state
assets regulator, is the highest-profile official to be targeted
since President Xi Jinping came to power vowing to stamp out
graft. China’s State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission backed the Communist Party’s decision to place its
director under investigation, it said in a statement dated
yesterday and posted on its website,  PetroChina gained as much as 1.3 percent to HK$8.65 in Hong
Kong as of 10:59 a.m., having tumbled 22 percent this year.
Templeton Asset Management Ltd. said today it cut its holding in
the stock to 4.4 percent from 5.3 percent, according to a filing
to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  Largest Client  In its 2012 listing document, Wison said it had a nine-year
business relationship with PetroChina. In the three years ending
2011, Wison said its revenue from PetroChina and its
subsidiaries amounted to 63 percent, 80 percent and 58 percent
of its total, according to the document. In the six months ended
June 30, 2012, revenue from PetroChina was 14 percent.  “The group’s revenue recognized from contracts with
PetroChina and its subsidiaries for the six months ended June
30, 2013 was insignificant,” Wison said in the statement today,
adding that the company is operating normally.  PetroChina’s Beijing-based spokesman  Mao Zefeng  didn’t
answer two calls to his office seeking comment. Cui Ying, a
senior vice president at Wison, reiterated in an e-mail that its
business is running as normal, declining to comment further on
its relationship with PetroChina.  Sold Shares  Hua, also Wison’s founder, became a billionaire after the
company sold shares in Hong Kong in December. He and his wife
Huang Xing own 79 percent of the company, according to its
listing prospectus.  He began his career as a salesman at a metal screen factory
in Xinghua in eastern China’s Jiangsu province. He later started
a company that made petrochemical machinery and accessories, and
supplied raw materials for the oil industry. In 1997, he
established  Wison Engineering. (2236)   Hua’s net worth has fallen 29 percent to $811 million this
year, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Wison, which has more than 3,000 employees in China, Hong
Kong, Saudi Arabia and the U.S., saw revenue more than double in
the first half to 1.99 billion  yuan , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  