-- Crude Advances as Obama Seeks Support on Syria
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-09-03T19:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/wti-crude-fluctuates-after-israeli-missile-test.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
advanced as U.S. President  Barack Obama  sought support in
Congress for a military strike on Syria, bolstering concern that
oil shipments from the  Middle East  will be disrupted.  Futures gained 0.8 percent after House Speaker  John Boehner 
told reporters he will back the president’s call for action
against Syria in response to the alleged use of chemical
weapons. Obama stepped up lobbying today after requesting
authorization from Congress on Aug. 31. Prices spiked earlier as
 Israel  said it carried out a missile joint test launch with the
U.S. in the Mediterranean Sea.  “The market is processing what appears to be a slow grind
to military action against Syria,” said  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a  New York  hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “There’s headline risk ahead of us. The reaction to the
Israeli missile test is an example of what we will be seeing
until the Syria situation is resolved.”  WTI crude for October delivery rose 89 cents to settle at
$108.54 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Trading
was little changed from the 100-day average at 3:34 p.m. There
was no floor trading yesterday because of the U.S. Labor Day
holiday, and yesterday’s electronic transactions were booked
today for settlement purposes.  Brent oil for October settlement increased $1.35, or 1.2
percent, to end the session at $115.68 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Trading was 26 percent above the 100-day average. The European benchmark grade traded at a $7.14
premium to WTI at today’s close.  Missile Test  Backing from Republican Boehner brings Obama closer to
overcoming objections being raised by some House members who
have questioned the evidence presented by the administration
that the Syrian government was behind a sarin gas attack last
month or whether the U.S. has a vital interest in the region.
Republican Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  released a separate
statement of support. House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi , also
said she’ll back Obama, giving it a bipartisan cast.  Obama is scheduled to leave today for Sweden and the Sept.
5-6 Group of 20 summit in Russia, hosted by Russian President
 Vladimir Putin , who has used his United Nations Security Council
veto power to frustrate Western efforts to intervene in Syria.  “There’s been a lot of news, which the market is
digesting,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.6 billion. “Oil is reacting to every headline out there, and
we should expect to see a lot of volatility going ahead.”  Possible Signal  An Israeli Defense Ministry statement called the test of
its Arrow missile-interception system a success. The
demonstration was a possible signal to  Iran , Syria’s main
regional ally, and dramatized the potential regional spillover
of a U.S.-led assault.  “The Israeli test reminds people that the Syria issue
hasn’t been put on hold because of the president’s
announcement,” said  Michael Wittner , head of oil market
research at Societe Generale SA in New York. “It’s not Syria
itself that we are concerned about, but what would happen if the
violence spilled over into a major oil producer and exporter.”  The Middle East accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil output in the first quarter of this year, data from the
International Energy Agency show. Syria, which pumps limited
amounts of crude, borders Iraq, the biggest producer after Saudi
Arabia in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Iraqi Shipments  The pumping of crude from northern Iraq to the Turkish port
of Ceyhan was halted at 7 a.m. local time, according to Boutros
Maritime & Transport. Ceyhan is the major export location for
oil supplies from northern Iraq and Azerbaijan. The Kirkuk-Ceyhan line runs through Iraq and southern  Turkey  near the
Syrian border.  “Brent is stronger than WTI in large part because of the
shutdown of the pipeline from Iraq to Ceyhan,” Kilduff said.
“It’s more sensitive to supply issues in the Middle East.”  Libya  is pumping 240,000 barrels of crude a day, according
to the state-owned National Oil Corp.’s website. The OPEC member
produced an average 575,000 barrels a day last month and 1.4
million barrels a day in March, according to a Bloomberg survey
of analysts and producers.  “The market has already been all over the place today,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in Stamford, Connecticut. “We are comfortably above $100 and
should continue to move higher.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 28.2 percent, up from 26.7 percent on Aug. 30, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 542,535
contracts as of 3:34 p.m. It totaled 467,855 contracts Aug. 30,
27 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.86
million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  