-- Xi Says China Chose Slowdown to Allow Economic Adjustment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-04T04:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/xi-says-china-s-slower-economic-growth-is-result-of-adjustment.html
Chinese President Xi Jinping said
the government opted for slower growth this year to allow it to
adjust the structure of the nation’s economy.  China  would “rather bring down the growth rate to a
certain extent in order to solve the fundamental problems”
hindering long-run development, Xi said in a written interview
yesterday with media outlets from Russia, Turkmenistan,
Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, according to a transcript
distributed by the official Xinhua News Agency.  Xi and his leadership team, who took office in a transition
completed in March, are preparing for a Communist Party meeting
in November that may add clarity on how they will try to sustain
 growth  of 7 percent this decade. Data this week showed
manufacturing strengthened last month, adding to signs that
China will meet its 7.5 percent expansion target this year.  “The fundamentals of the Chinese economy are sound,” Xi
said, according to the Xinhua transcript. “The growth rate
could have been higher had we continued with the past
development model.”  The Shanghai Composite Index was little changed at the
11:30 a.m. local-time break following a 1.2 percent gain
yesterday.  Xi’s emphasis for the international audience is more on
“tolerance for a little slowing down,” while he’s stressing to
the domestic audience the “bottom line” that he won’t let the
economy decline in a noticeable and fast way, said Ding Shuang,
senior China economist at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong .  Growth Rate  “His message to the domestic audience, which is more
important, is a management of expectations,” Ding said. “He
still cares about the growth rate.”  The economy expanded 7.5 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, extending the longest streak of sub-8 percent
growth in at least two decades.  China is confronted with difficulties such as local
government debt and overcapacity in some industries, Xi said.
Still, “problems are well within control and could be handled
properly,” he said.  Premier  Li Keqiang  said yesterday that he’s confident that
the nation will achieve the year’s economic goals. Recent data
show employment and prices are stable and market expectations
have “apparently” improved, Li said in a speech at the China-ASEAN Expo in Nanning, China.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. researchers yesterday boosted
their 2013 growth estimate to 7.6 percent from 7.4 percent,
joining Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in raising projections.  The government signaled in July that it will defend its
economic-growth target for the year after expansion slowed for a
second quarter. China, the world’s second-largest economy, has
announced what Bank of America Corp. called a “small
stimulus,” consisting of measures including tax breaks for
small companies and accelerated railway construction.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  