-- Dollar Rises to 7-Week High on Fed Tapering Bet; Aussie Advances
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-09-03T21:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/yen-erases-decline-against-euro-after-russian-report-on-missiles.html
The dollar rose to a seven-week high
after a report showed U.S. manufacturing expanded in August to
the fastest pace since June 2011, fueling expectation the
 Federal Reserve  will start cutting bond purchases this month.  The greenback reached a one-month high versus the yen after
an Israeli missile test raised concern that conflict in the
 Middle East  was escalating amid the prospect of U.S.
intervention in  Syria , boosting demand for haven assets.
Australia’s dollar rose after the nation’s  Reserve Bank  held its
benchmark rate unchanged.  Indonesia ’s rupiah slipped to a more-than-four-year low.  “The ISM data was much better than expected, the
manufacturing sector continues to expand,” Sireen Harajli, a
foreign exchange strategist at Mizuho Bank in  New York , said in
a telephone interview. “But there’re still a lot of important
U.S. data coming out this week. The market is in a wait-and-see
mode ahead of the payroll numbers” to determine the Fed’s
tapering timing.  The Bloomberg  U.S. Dollar  Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, gained 0.1 percent to
1,036.58 at 5 p.m. in New York, after reaching its strongest
level since July 16.  The greenback rose 0.2 percent to 99.57 yen. Japan’s
currency added 0.1 percent to 131.14 per euro. The U.S. currency
appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.3170 per euro after climbing to
the highest level since July 22.  Pound Path  The pound climbed to the strongest level in 15 weeks
against the euro as  Markit Economics  and the  Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply  said a gauge of U.K. construction
increased. Sterling gained 0.3 percent to 84.65 pence per euro,
after touching the strongest level since May 21. It gained 0.1
percent to $1.5558.  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit said it favors buying
the euro against the pound as it may reverse higher to 88.16
pence,  MacNeil Curry , New York-based chief rates and currencies
technical strategist, wrote in a report today. He cited momentum
and reaching the lowest since May.  The  Bank of England  may be ready to respond to tightening
in monetary conditions, while the  European Central Bank  might
strengthen its forward guidance by releasing longer-term
inflation projections, limiting euro’s drop against the British
currency, according to Citigroup Inc.  The two central banks will announce interest rates
decisions on Sept. 5.  Central Banks  “With some negatives in the price of the cross and with
the BOE still ready to respond to tightening in monetary
conditions, we think that a dip from current levels need not
evolve into a downtrend,”  Valentin Marinov , the London-based
head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at Citigroup, the second-biggest foreign-exchange trader, wrote in a research note today.  Australia’s dollar rose after the nation’s Reserve Bank
held its benchmark rate unchanged at 2.5 percent and refrained
from signaling further monetary easing. The decision was in line
with estimates of all 32 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The Aussie gained 1 percent to 90.63 U.S. cents after
rising to the strongest in almost two weeks. It climbed 1.2
percent to 90.24 yen and touched 90.51, the highest since July
29.  The rupiah weakened beyond 11,000 per dollar for the first
time since 2009 on concern Indonesia will struggle to rein in a
record current-account gap. The rupiah slid 0.8 percent to
11,065 per dollar, the weakest level since April 2009, prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rupee Weakness  India’s rupee plunged on renewed concern about a credit-rating downgrade. The currency slid 2.6 percent to 67.7300 per
dollar after falling 8.1 percent last month, the worst loss
since March 1992, and touched an unprecedented 68.8450 on Aug.
28.  The ISM’s manufacturing index increased to 55.7 in August
from 55.4 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
today. The median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for the measure to rise to 52. Economists’
estimates ranged from 51 to 55.8. Construction spending
increased 5.2 percent in the 12 months ending July after
adjusting for seasonal variations, according to the Commerce
Department figures.  Mexico’s peso depreciated 0.4 percent to 13.3855 per U.S.
dollar, the weakest on a closing basis since July 2012, after
the U.S. manufacturing data.  The world’s biggest economy will release initial jobless
claims data on Sept. 5 and  unemployment rate  the day after.  Syria Strike  President  Barack Obama  is seeking congressional approval to
strike Syria for what his administration says was a sarin gas
attack last month by the government in Damascus. Republican
Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona  and South Carolina’s Lindsey
Graham urged fellow lawmakers to back use of military force,
while saying the president has yet to fully explain his
strategy. A missile launch detected by Russia’s tracking system
was a test, the Israeli Defense Ministry said.  “Dollar strength is definitely a combination of concerns
over Syria and expectations of tapering,” Christian Lawrence, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank International in  London ,
said in a telephone interview. “We’re still structurally
bullish on the dollar on the back of QE tapering.”  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $31 billion, from $9.8 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $6.1 billion, the largest share of
trades at 21 percent. Options on Australian-U.S. dollar rate
totaled $4.3 billion, or 14 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 13 percent less than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
and euro-Aussie trading was 1297 percent more, according to
Bloomberg analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  