-- Yudhoyono’s Bid for Outsiders at Bank Indonesia Faces Test
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-09-03T12:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-03/yudhoyono-bid-to-bring-outsiders-into-bank-indonesia-faces-test.html
Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono ’s bid to bring more outsiders into the central bank’s
top management team is being tested as lawmakers assess the two
candidates he proposed for senior deputy governor.  The president’s two nominees for the No. 2 job at Bank
 Indonesia  are Mirza Adityaswara, chairman of the agency that
guarantees bank deposits in Indonesia, and Anton Gunawan, PT
Bank Danamon Indonesia’s chief economist. Both gave
presentations to lawmakers today. Parliament’s Commission XI,
which oversees financial affairs, will decide on their
eligibility tomorrow, Harry Azhar Azis, the panel’s deputy
chairman, said in an interview yesterday.  Yudhoyono moved his finance minister  Agus Martowardojo  to
head the central bank this year as the Southeast Asian nation
grapples with accelerating inflation, slowing growth and a
sliding currency. The former president director of PT Bank
Mandiri, the nation’s largest lender by assets, has overseen a
combined 1.25 percentage-point increase in the benchmark
 interest rate  since early June.  “To reduce imports and the current-account deficit, the
central bank needs to raise the interest rate, but we can’t
raise the key rate too high,” Adityaswara said at parliament
today. “Bank Indonesia needs to focus on managing inflation,
the currency, without hurting the economy.”  The rupiah touched the weakest level since April 2009 today
on concern that the government will struggle to rein in a record
current-account deficit. The currency fell 0.8 percent to 11,065
per dollar at 5:47 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Under Pressure  The rupiah will remain under pressure as long as the
current-account gap and higher inflation persist, Adityaswara
said. Indonesia is depending on foreign capital to finance its
state budget and economy, and investors want to see stability,
he said.  Consumer prices rose 8.8 percent in August from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since January 2009, data showed
yesterday. Inflationary pressures are coming from the supply
side and a fuel price increase, Gunawan told parliament.  Bank Indonesia ’s combined 75 basis points of rate rises in
June and July were a sufficient response to inflation, said
Gunawan, who predicted the central bank would leave the rate on
hold in August. The monetary authority paused at its scheduled
meeting on Aug. 15 and then raised rates by 50 basis points at
an extraordinary meeting on Aug. 29.  “I think the latest rate increase by 50 basis points, it’s
not to guard inflation but to answer a perception of a gap
between the central bank and market,” said Gunawan. “I don’t
think the central bank needs to raise the rate again this
month.”  Policy Coordination  The central bank will need to anticipate the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s tapering of stimulus that has spurred capital outflows
from  emerging markets  and help coordinate for  crisis management ,
he said. The monetary authority needs to deepen the money market
and guard against currency volatility, he said.  Credit Suisse Group AG predicts Bank Indonesia will raise
the benchmark rate by at least another 0.5 percentage point this
year. Data yesterday showed the trade deficit widened to a
record in July. The government said on Aug. 23 it will allow
more mineral exports this year and increase a luxury-goods tax
to try to narrow the  trade gap .  “Bank Indonesia can’t solve these problems by itself; they
need to coordinate their policies,” Agustinus Prasetyantoko, a
Jakarta-based economist from Atma Jaya Catholic University of
Indonesia, said by phone today. “The two candidates have good
experience and expertise about the economy. I don’t doubt their
ability, but the senior deputy governor must have the ability to
coordinate, give advice and build up trust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  