-- Karl Rove Apologizes to Akin for Joke About Being ‘Murdered’
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-09-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/akin-accepts-rove-apology-for-comment-about-being-murdered-.html
Missouri U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin said he accepted an apology from Republican strategist  Karl
Rove  for a joke about the congressman being “found mysteriously
murdered.”  Akin said in a Facebook posting on his campaign website,
“I appreciate the call from Karl Rove, and accept the
apology.” Rove called Akin Aug. 31,  Rick Tyler , an Akin
campaign adviser, told the Associated Press. A message seeking
comment from Akin’s campaign wasn’t returned yesterday.  Rove and Republicans including Mitt Romney, the party’s
presidential nominee, have called on Akin to leave the race to
unseat Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill  after his Aug. 19
comments that “legitimate rape” rarely leads to pregnancy and
so abortion shouldn’t be allowed in rape cases.  Bloomberg Businessweek reported Aug. 31 that Rove, speaking
at an Aug. 30 breakfast for donors during the  Republican
National Convention , discussed plans for Senate and House races
and joked, “We should sink Todd Akin. If he’s found
mysteriously murdered, don’t look for my whereabouts!”  Jonathan Collegio, a spokesman for Crossroads GPS, a
nonprofit group founded with help from Rove, declined to comment
yesterday.  Akin is the biggest risk to Republican hopes of retaking
the Senate from Democrats, Rove said at the Tampa Club to an
exclusive breakfast briefing of about 70 of the Republican
Party’s highest-earning and most powerful donors, Bloomberg
Businessweek reported.  Seeking Pressure  Rove urged every attendee to apply pressure on Akin to
persuade him to leave the race. “We have five people who are
interested” in replacing Akin, Rove said. “We don’t care who
the nominee is, other than get Akin out.”  Akin, a six-term congressman from suburban  St. Louis , has
apologized for his remarks and has said he will continue his
campaign despite pressure from Republican leaders.  With Democrats controlling the Senate 53-47, Republicans
need a net gain of at least three seats in November’s election
for a majority. They will need a four-seat pickup if Obama wins
re-election, because the vice president casts the tie-breaking
vote in the chamber.  Editors: Don Frederick, Lawrence Roberts  To contact the reporter on this story: Mark Niquette in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  