-- Hal David, Burt Bacharach’s Lyric-Writing Partner, Dies at 91
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-09-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/hal-david-burt-bacharach-s-lyric-writing-partner-dies-at-91.html
Hal David, the lyricist who
collaborated with composer Burt Bacharach on “What the World
Needs Now Is Love,” “Raindrops Keep Fallin’ on My Head” and
dozens of other pop-music hits, has died, the  Associated Press 
said. He was 91.  David died yesterday of complications from a stroke, the
wire service said, citing Jim Steinblatt, a spokesman for the
American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers. E-mail
messages sent by  Bloomberg News  to ASCAP over the weekend were
not immediately returned.  David began writing with Bacharach after meeting him in
1956 at  New York ’s Brill Building, a hub for music publishers.
The biggest beneficiary of their work was singer Dionne Warwick,
who turned 20 of their songs into top-40 hits on the Billboard
magazine pop singles chart between 1962 and 1970.  The lyrics focused on “people and feelings, rather than
ideas and things,”  Robin Platts  wrote in the biography “Burt
Bacharach & Hal David: What the World Needs Now,” (2002). “The
events of the songs are imagined, but the feelings expressed in
the words come from his own experience.”  Their partnership ended in 1973 after the failure of “Lost
Horizon,” a movie musical. David’s biggest hit after the split
was “To All the Girls I’ve Loved Before,” written with Albert
Hammond. Recorded by  Willie Nelson  and Julio Iglesias as a duet,
the song topped Billboard’s pop charts in 1984.  David reunited with Bacharach in 1993 to write a song
called “Sunny Weather Lover” for Warwick. They teamed up in
2000 for the soundtrack of “Isn’t She Great,” a film about
author Jacqueline Susann.  Hawaiian Epiphany  “If we in truth do have a style it is because, in our
search for originality, we have not written to a particular
formula,” David once wrote on his website. “When we achieve
the freshness we are looking for, it’s a wonderful feeling.”  Harold Lane David was born on May 25, 1921, in  Brooklyn ,
New York, to Gedalier David, a delicatessen owner, and his wife,
Lina. As a child, he learned to play the violin and performed in
neighborhood bands.  While attending Thomas Jefferson High School, David worked
on the school newspaper. He then studied  journalism  at  New York
University  and wrote for the  New York Post .  His desire to be a reporter waned when he was drafted into
the U.S. Army during World War II. He was stationed in  Hawaii 
and worked in the Central Pacific Entertainment Section, where
he spent about three years writing lyrics and skits for shows.  Finding Warwick  After his military stint ended, he followed an older
brother, songwriter  Mack David , into the music business. Hal
David sold a song to bandleader Sammy Kaye in 1947 -- the same
year he married his first wife, Anne Rauschman, whose work as a
teacher helped support the couple. Another bandleader, Guy
Lombardo, had a hit two years later with a song David co-wrote.  David wrote for Famous Music, one of the Brill Building’s
largest publishers, when he met Bacharach. The duo scored its
first success with Marty Robbins’s “The Story of My Life” in
1957. Perry Como had a hit with “Magic Moments” the next year.  Initially, David and Bacharach also worked separately with
other songwriters. Their partnership became more exclusive when
Gene Pitney turned four of their songs into top-40 singles in
1962 and 1963. “(The Man Who Shot) Liberty Valance,” the
first, rose to No. 4 on Billboard’s pop charts. “Only Love Can
Break a Heart” then reached No. 2.  At about the same time, they teamed up with Warwick, a
studio singer they met at a recording session for the  Drifters 
vocal group. David wrote the lyrics for “Do You Know the Way to
 San Jose ,” “I Say a Little Prayer,” “I’ll Never Fall in Love
Again,” and “Walk on By,” all top-10 hits for her.  Award-Winning Year  “What the World Needs Now” was a top-10 single for Jackie
DeShannon in 1965, the same year that  Tom Jones  had a hit with
“What’s New Pussycat.” Dusty Springfield preceded them into
the top 10 with her version of “Wishin’ and Hopin’.”  “What’s New Pussycat,” the title song of a movie starring
Peter Sellers, earned Bacharach and David their first Academy
Award nomination in 1966. They were finalists the next year with
“Alfie” and in 1968 with “The Look of Love.”  The duo’s first No. 1 pop single arrived in 1968, when Herb
Albert’s version of “This Guy’s in Love With You” climbed to
the top of Billboard’s chart.  “Raindrops,” a song from the 1969 movie “ Butch Cassidy
and the Sundance Kid ” that was a No. 1 for B.J. Thomas, earned
David an Oscar. He also won a Grammy Award for that year for co-
writing the score of “Promises, Promises,” a Broadway musical,
whose title song was a top-20 hit for Warwick.  The Bacharach-David team produced another chart topper, the
Carpenters’ “(They Long to Be) Close to You,” in 1970. “One
Less Bell to Answer,” by the Fifth Dimension, peaked at No. 2
that year.  Death, Remarriage  Three years later, “ Lost Horizon ” split the team. David
and Bacharach filed lawsuits against each other. Warwick sued
both of them. All the cases eventually were settled, clearing
the way for them to work together again.  David served as president of the  American Society of
Composers, Authors and Publishers , which licenses songs and
distributes royalties, from 1980 to 1986. He also was chairman
of the  Songwriters Hall of Fame , which named an award after him,
and the National Academy of Popular Music, the hall’s sponsor.  The National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, the
sponsor of the  Grammy Awards , gave him and Bacharach a Trustees
Award in 1997. Two years later, he became the first American to
win the  Ivor Novello Award , the U.K. music industry’s top honor.  In May 2012, David and Bacharach received the Gershwin
Prize for Popular Song. David was too ill to attend the
ceremony, held at the Library of Congress, sponsor of the award.  Anne, his first wife, died in 1986. The couple had two
sons, James and Craig. In 1988, he married Eunice Forester, a
founder of the Los Angeles Music Center, who had two children
from a previous marriage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  