-- Hu Ally Sidelined as China’s Leaders Jockey Before Handover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-03T08:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/ally-of-china-s-hu-given-senior-role-ahead-of-leadership-change.html
China’s Communist Party replaced
Ling Jihua, an ally of  Hu Jintao , as head of the office that
oversees security for the country’s top leaders, signaling the
outgoing president may have fewer proteges on the ruling
Politburo after a leadership transition later this year.  Ling was replaced by former Guizhou Party Secretary Li
Zhanshu as head of the party’s general office, the official
Xinhua News Agency said Sept. 1. Ling takes over the United
Front Work Department, which handles relations with non-party
organizations and figures including the  Dalai Lama ,  Tibet ’s
exiled spiritual leader.  The personnel changes may be part of political jockeying
ahead of the party’s 18th Congress, where China’s leaders will
pick a new generation to rule the world’s most-populous nation
for the next decade. The appointments mean that Ling may not
secure a spot on the party’s Politburo at the congress, said
Joseph Fewsmith, director of the Center for the Study of  Asia  at
 Boston University .  “I think it was a swap, a Hu ally for a Hu ally, but not
an equal swap,” Fewsmith, who focuses on China’s elite
politics, said in an e-mail. “Ling was a very viable candidate
for the Politburo, Li is not.”  While the party has said that 2,270 delegates will attend
the congress, its date has not been announced. Ling had been
mentioned by analysts including  Li Cheng  of the  Brookings
Institution  as a possible candidate for the party’s elite
Politburo Standing Committee. Fewsmith said that it is now
“highly improbable” that Ling will win a post on the
Politburo, let alone its smaller standing committee.  Ferrari Crash  The  South China Morning Post , citing a Chinese official and
media sources that it did not identify, reported today that
Ling’s son, Ling Gu, was killed in a car crash in March when he
was driving a Ferrari in Beijing. The crash occurred three days
after Chongqing Party Secretary  Bo Xilai , whose son has been
reported driving luxury cars, was ousted as Chongqing Party
Secretary.  “To have two sons of high-ranking party leaders driving
around in very expensive cars was too much,” Fewsmith said,
commenting on why the news of the March crash was blocked on
many mainland websites.  Ling will replace Du Qinglin, who has reached  retirement
age , according to Xinhua. Ling remains a member of the
Secretariat of the Party’s central committee, which runs the
day-to-day affairs of the Politburo and its Standing Committee,
the highest ruling body.  82 Million Members  At the congress, Vice President  Xi Jinping , 59, is forecast
to take over from Hu and head the 82 million-member Communist
Party. Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , 57, is in line to replace  Wen
Jiabao  as premier early next year.  The General Office is responsible for security and
logistics for China’s top leaders. Former heads include Wen and
former Vice President Zeng Qinghong.  Li Zhanshu, 62, has been a provincial leader in provinces
including Hebei, Shaanxi, Heilongjiang and Guizhou, according to
his official biography. He was the leader of Wuji county in
Hebei from 1983 to 1985. Vice President Xi’s official resume
shows he was party secretary of neighboring Zhengding county
during that period.  Li served as head of the Communist Party’s Youth League in
Hebei from 1986 to 1990. Hu was head of the Youth League from
1984 to 1985, according to his official biography. Hu also
served as party secretary of Guizhou earlier in his career.  Poorest Province  Guizhou, in southwestern China, is the nation’s poorest
province, according to  National Bureau of Statistics  data.
Fixed-asset investment in the first half of the year rose 60
percent, Guizhou government data show, almost three times the
national growth rate. The province said in July it was
considering more than 2,300 projects involving total investment
of 3 trillion  yuan  ($472 billion) related to ecotourism.  Li “made great contributions” to Guizhou’s economic
development, Zhang Jinan, deputy director of the party’s
Organization Department, which decides on promotions and
personnel changes, was quoted as saying by the Guizhou Daily in
July.  Like Xi, Li comes from a revolutionary family, albeit
lower-profile. More than 20 members of Li’s family fought in
wars against Chiang Kai-Shek’s Nationalists and Japan, according
to a 2008 Xinhua  report . Li’s great uncle, Li Zaiwen, was deputy
governor of Shandong province during the 1960s.  Searches Empty  Searches for Li Zhanshu and Ling Jihua in Chinese on  Sina
Corp. (SINA) ’s Twitter-like Weibo microblogging service come up empty
and display a message saying that based on relevant laws,
regulations and policies, the results can’t be displayed.  Ling, still relatively young at 55, may be able to make a
mark in his new post overseeing relations with Tibet and other
areas with ethnic minorities, said Robert Barnett, director of
the Modern Tibet Studies Program at  Columbia University  in New
York.  “The  United Front  has been regarded increasingly as an
embarrassment by many Chinese officials over the last fifteen
years because it has completely bungled its handling of Tibetan
issues,” Barnett said in an e-mail. “Ling could turn that
around easily within a few weeks if given the authorization to
do that.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  