-- Angola Counts Votes as Dos Santos Seeks to Extend Rule
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-09-01T12:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/angola-counts-votes-as-dos-santos-seeks-to-extend-rule.html
Preliminary results from  Angola ’s
first election to help select a president in two decades are
expected today after voting that was seen as “credible” by the
 Southern African Development Community .  An initial count from yesterday’s ballot is to be announced
in Luanda, the capital of Africa’s second-biggest oil producer,
according to Andre Da Silva Neto, chairman of the national
election commission and John Billy Tendwa, chairman of SADC’s
Electoral Advisory Council.  “It was a credible election because there was no
hindrance, violence or intimidation of people trying to exercise
their right to vote,” Tendwa said by phone today. “Everything
was cool.”  President Jose Eduardo dos Santos’s Popular Movement for
the Liberation of Angola is expected to easily win the most
seats in the 220-member legislature and earn the right to name
the leader of the southwest African nation, according to
analysts at  Chatham House  and  Global Insight . The MPLA won 82
percent four years ago in the first election since a 27-year
civil war ended in 2002. The last vote for president was a
direct ballot in 1992.  Dos Santos  has led the country for 32
years.  Polls closed by 7:30 p.m. and the process was peaceful and
orderly, Neto told reporters late yesterday. Ballot counting was
completed at many stations within an hour after they closed,
said Tendwa, a political-party registrar from Tanzania.  Low Turnout  Voter turnout was low, with just over half of the
registered names counted at some polls in Luanda, Tendwa said.
Final results will be released by tomorrow or soon after, Tendwa
said. Challenges to the outcomes are expected, while violence is
unlikely, he said.  “It was peaceful in some places, but that doesn’t mean the
elections were credible and transparent because in some polling
stations there were no monitors from other political parties,”
Elias Isaac, country director for the Open Society Initiative, a
pro-democracy group funded by  George Soros  who visited the polls
unofficially, said by phone. His organization was not accredited
as monitors by the country’s electoral commission.  Potential voters in the Luanda suburb of Viana encountered
confusion and about 5,500 were unable to vote because there
weren’t enough officials to run 11 polls, Isaac said. Protests
may erupt if the results, when they’re released, show an
imbalance in the legislature toward the ruling party, he said.  Protests  Public discontent with Dos Santos and the government
spilled onto the streets of Luanda this year as mainly young
protesters pushed for democracy and an end to corruption.  During the campaign, the MPLA pledged to maintain the
stability it credits for spurring an economy that may expand 6.8
percent this year, according to the  International Monetary Fund ,
and promised to ease some of the world’s most severe poverty.  The main opposition party, the former rebel group National
Union for the Total Independence of Angola, campaigned about the
failure of Angola’s oil wealth, which increased foreign reserves
to a record $30.2 billion in June, to cut poverty and
unemployment.  Angola pumps about 1.8 million barrels of crude a day,
supplying 2.9 percent of U.S. imported oil in May and 16 percent
of  China ’s as of July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Oil producers operating in the country include  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA. (FP)   Unita leader Isaias Samakuva criticized the conduct of the
election and said he may seek court action after voting at a
university in Luanda’s south.  Party Organization  “We would like to have a better organized process,” he
told reporters yesterday. “The experiences of 1992 and 2008
convinced us that we can do an alternative to this confused
process.”  In Luanda province, the country’s most populous, 2,700
Unita vote monitors weren’t accredited, including at the polling
station where Samakuva cast his ballot, he said.  “All Unita party agents that were submitted were
accredited,” Tendwa said. “It’s probably more to do with the
internal organization of the party.”  SADC, the  African Union  and the Community of Portuguese
Language Countries were the only international organizations
with monitors. Groups such as Open Society and  Human Rights
Watch , which criticized the government for intimidation of the
opposition and crushing anti-government protests in the past
year, were barred from observer status, as were members of some
embassies, Isaac said.  Rights Record  Julia Ferreira, a spokeswoman for the national election
commission, attributed the lack of accreditations to late
submission of documents.  Angola’s oil wealth ensures that the government isn’t too
concerned about international criticism of its rights record,
said Sebastian Boe, an analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London .  “The government is comfortable in the calculation that
Angolan oil production precludes significant reprisals or
sanctions,” Boe said in an e-mail.  More than half the population of about 19 million is under
18, while 54 percent of the country lived on less than $1.25 a
day in 2009, according to  United Nations Children’s Fund .
 Transparency International  ranked Angola at 168 of 182 countries
in its 2011 corruption index.  Angola’s life expectancy is 47 years, according to the
 World Bank . The under-five  mortality rate  is the world’s eighth
highest at 161 deaths per 1,000 children, according to Unicef.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda via Johannesburg at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  