-- Angola’s Ruling MPLA Has 74% of Provisional Vote Count
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-09-01T16:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/angola-s-ruling-mpla-has-74-of-provisional-vote-count-1-.html
President Jose Eduardo dos Santos’s
ruling Popular Movement for the Liberation of  Angola  led a
preliminary ballot count with 74 percent of yesterday’s vote in
 Africa ’s second largest oil producer.  The opposition Union for the Total Independence of Angola
received 18 percent in the first election to help choose a
president in 20 years, Julia Ferreira, spokesman for the
national election commission, said in Luanda, the capital.  “The results are provisional, but extremely positive for
us,” Rui Falcao, a spokesman for the MPLA, said on Angolan
national radio. “We will have a qualified majority.”  A confirmed victory will give the MPLA control of the
southwest African country’s 220-member legislature and extend
the president’s 32-year rule as the party that dominates
parliament will choose the leader. The win will also allow the
party to revise the constitution because it earned more than
two-thirds of the vote. The MPLA won 82 percent four years ago
in the first election since a 27-year civil war ended in 2002.  About 57 percent of more than 9 million eligible voters
across the country went to the polls peacefully for a legitimate
outcome, John Billy Tendwa, chairman of the  Southern African
Development Community ’s Electoral Advisory Council, said by
phone today.  “It was a credible election because there was no
hindrance, violence or intimidation of people trying to exercise
their right to vote,” he said. “Everything was cool.”  Constitutional Court  During the campaign, the MPLA pledged to maintain the
stability it credits for spurring an economy that may expand 6.8
percent this year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
The party promised to ease some of the world’s most severe
poverty.  The opposition Unita campaigned on what it said was the
failure of Angola’s oil wealth, which increased foreign reserves
to a record $30.2 billion in June, to cut poverty and
unemployment in the country of 19 million people.  “We’re still working out our position,” Alcides Sakala,
spokesman for Unita leader Isaias Samakuva, said by phone. “We
have the right to use the tribunals of the  Constitutional
Court .” Yesterday, Samakuva criticized the conduct of the
election and said he may seek court action to challenge the
results.  Unita nearly doubled its results from the 2008 election, an
outcome that will temper any complaints, Markus Weimer, an
analyst at  Chatham House  in  London , said by phone. Any
challenges made may be a “long drawn-out affair.”  Casa-Ce, a party formed this year by former Unita leader
Abel Chivukuvuku, “did well running for the first time and
probably will be represented in parliament,” Weimer said. Casa-
Ce got 4.5 percent of the vote, according to Ferreira.  Angola pumps about 1.8 million barrels of crude a day,
supplying 2.9 percent of U.S. imported oil in May and 16 percent
of  China ’s in July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Oil
producers operating in the country include Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Chevron Corp., BP Plc and Total SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda via Johannesburg at   cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  