-- Bernanke Defends Bond Purchases in Signal of More Fed Easing
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-09-01T18:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/bernanke-defends-bond-purchases-in-signal-of-more-fed-easing.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , with a little more than a year left in his second
term, defended the effectiveness of unconventional monetary
policies such as bond purchases and signaled he would soon
deploy them again to attack  unemployment .  Bernanke’s remarks yesterday to central bankers and
economists gathered in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, described the
benefits of his signature activism and innovation. They served
as a rejoinder to critics outside and inside the Fed, including
Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker , who maintain that the
returns on his ultra-easy  monetary policy  are diminishing and
may even pose threats such as higher long-term inflation.  The 58-year-old Great Depression scholar, whose term ends
in January 2014, left little doubt about his own views on the
cost-benefit debate, saying the disadvantages “appear
manageable, implying that we should not rule out the further use
of such policies if economic conditions warrant.”  Stocks and Treasuries climbed yesterday and the dollar
weakened to a more than three-month low as investors speculated
steps to boost the economy may come as soon as this month.  “The one point he made is that these tools work,” said
Mark Spindel, founding partner of hedge fund Potomac River
Capital in Washington and the former chief investment officer
for $15 billion of assets at the International Finance Corp., a
member of the World Bank Group. “Given where the economy is,
his message was: I am damn well charged with using them.”  Dollar, Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5 percent to
1,406.58 at the close of trading in New York. The yield on the
10-year Treasury note slid seven basis points to 1.55 percent.
The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, declined 0.55 percent to 81.245 after touching 80.964,
the lowest level since May 14.  U.S. central bankers meet Sept. 12-13 and will work up a
fresh round of forecasts for the economy and consider what steps
are needed to reduce a jobless rate that has been stuck above 8
percent for more than three years. Yesterday, Bernanke said such
long periods of unemployment cause “enormous suffering and
waste of human talent” and risk wreaking “structural damage on
our economy that could last for many years.”  Minutes of the last Federal Open Market Committee meeting
show policy makers will consider an extension of a pledge to
keep rates low at least through late 2014. They may strengthen
the pledge with a description of how they would keep rates low
“even as the recovery progressed.” The minutes said “many
participants” voiced support for a new round of bond purchases.  ‘Far Above’  In his speech yesterday, the Fed chairman said “the
unemployment rate is likely to remain far above levels
consistent with maximum employment for some time” unless the
economy begins to grow rapidly.  The economy has expanded at an average annual rate of 2
percent over the past six quarters, and a survey of economists
by  Bloomberg News  indicates it’s unlikely to break out of that
range soon. Growth will average 2.1 percent next year, according
the median forecast in the Aug. 3-Aug. 8 survey, and
unemployment will average 7.9 percent.  Inflation is also slipping below the Fed’s goal for stable
prices, the second part of its dual mandate from Congress. The
measure targeted by central bankers, known as the personal
consumption expenditures price index, slowed to a 1.3 percent
annual increase in July, the least since October 2009 and below
the Fed’s 2 percent goal.  Timing of Move  “We are very close to more” large-scale asset purchases,
said Roberto Perli, managing director in charge of policy
research at International Strategy & Investment Group in
Washington and a former member of the Fed board’s Division of
Monetary Affairs. “The question is will they happen at the
September meeting, or will they prefer to wait to see if a
stronger case can be made later.”  Former Fed Vice Chairman  Alan Blinder  said in Jackson Hole
that he interpreted Bernanke’s speech as a flag for action in
September. That would repeat history, given Bernanke used the
Kansas City Fed’s annual symposium in 2010 to signal a second
round of bond purchases, which was announced the following
November.  Bernanke’s $2.3 trillion in bond purchases have left a
trail of critics and skeptics, including lawmakers such as House
Speaker  John Boehner , Republican of Ohio, and Fed historian
 Allan Meltzer  of Carnegie Mellon University.  Inflation is “surely coming down the road,” Meltzer said
in an interview last month.  Economic ‘Experiment’  William White , a former executive committee member at the
Bank for International Settlements, called today’s low interest
rates “one of the greatest economic experiments of all time.”
In a  paper  published on the Dallas Fed’s website, White said a
benchmark interest rate kept near zero since December 2008 risks
fomenting “malinvestments in the real economy.”  John Ryding , chief economist and co-founder of RDQ
Economics in New York, said there’s not much more the Fed can do
to boost growth.  “They’re maxed out in terms of tools that can have any
impact on the economy,” Ryding said in an interview in Jackson
Hole. “Now we’re in danger of doing more monetary stimulus with
no positive effect, but with longer-term risk on inflation. But
they feel they have to do something.”  Fierce Backlash  The political backlash has also been fierce. Republicans
wrote a monetary policy audit into their 2012 platform. Boehner
and three other leading Republicans wrote Bernanke last year
urging him to “resist further extraordinary intervention” in
the economy. Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee said in
a press release yesterday that an “unhealthy obsession” with
Fed policy is distracting the public from the need for fiscal
reform.  “I don’t think action would help the economy very much at
all,”  Glenn Hubbard , an adviser to Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , told Bloomberg Television in Jackson
Hole. “There are risks to doing quantitative easing in the
sense that it becomes harder at some point to unwind the Fed’s
position and it raises political risk by putting the Fed in the
crosshairs.”  Fed district bank presidents, including Richmond’s Lacker,
Philadelphia’s Charles Plosser and  Dennis Lockhart  of Atlanta,
have also raised concerns about inflation or whether more Fed
action would help fuel growth.  At  Jackson Hole  today, Lacker and St. Louis Fed President
 James Bullard  pushed back against Bernanke’s thesis that the
sluggish recovery and persistent unemployment stem more from
cyclical weaknesses such as a lackluster housing market than
from longer-term structural factors like inadequate worker
training.  ‘Quite Unhelpful’  “It’s quite unhelpful to equate structural and permanent
factors,” Lacker said during a discussion at the forum. The gap
will eventually close as “people are working on training
programs” to address the mismatch in skills.  “Over time these gaps will close but in the meantime these
are real costs, real impediments to clearing labor markets the
way we want and it’s not clear monetary policy can obviate these
costs,” Lacker said.  “The elephant in the room” is “whether the  U.S. economy 
went through a structural shift,” Bullard said. “It could mean
that the cyclical adjustment that can be attained in a normal
business cycle sense has already happened and that what goes on
from here is very different from the ordinary reaction to a
recession.”  Carve Out  Bernanke’s 24-page speech yesterday represented an effort
to carve out his own position in the debate among central
bankers around the world and on his own committee.  The crux of the debate: whether unconventional policies put
financial stability and hard-won gains on inflation at risk, or
whether they should be mandatory when central banks have pushed
rates to nearly zero and are falling short of a mandate to avoid
the destructive effects of deflation caused by high unemployment
and slow growth.  Bernanke’s audience yesterday included central bankers who
are immersed in the topic. They included Germany’s Jens Weidmann, Japan’s Masaaki Shirakawa, Israel’s  Stanley Fischer ,
 Charles Bean , deputy  Bank of England  governor, and Hu Xiaolian,
his counterpart in China.  Bernanke said the Fed’s bond purchases have eased credit
conditions by lowering yields on corporate debt and mortgage-
backed securities. Model-based studies at the Fed suggest the
programs increased employment by more than 2 million, he said.  Few Disruptions  What’s more, Bernanke said, the bond purchases have created
“few if any” disruptions to market functioning, and there are
no signs that the expanding balance sheet has “materially
affected inflation expectations.”  Bernanke found support from  Adam Posen , who led the charge
for monetary stimulus in the U.K. as a policy maker at the Bank
of England before his three-year term ended yesterday.  Posen called on the Fed to pursue more quantitative easing,
the  European Central Bank  to buy the bonds of Spain and Italy
and the Bank of England to broaden the assets it buys.  Central banks can also risk their credibility by doing too
little in a period of economic underperformance, he said.  “Credibility risk comes more from running a policy that
seems to willfully ignore your mandate,” Posen told reporters
in Jackson Hole. “When we stop, we should stop when we’ve made
enough progress, when we’re meeting our mandates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at
;
Joshua Zumbrun in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at +1-
   jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  