-- California Lawmakers Approve Private-Pension Management
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-09-01T02:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/california-lawmakers-approve-private-pension-management.html
California ’s Assembly passed a bill
that would permit as many as 6.3 million private workers without
a  pension plan  to set aside retirement money for management by
the state.  If approved by Governor  Jerry Brown , the first state-run
pension program for nongovernment employees would add as much as
$6.6 billion to funds managed by the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , the biggest U.S. pension. Calpers,
as the fund is known, ended fiscal 2012 with $233 billion in
assets.  The Assembly voted 44-24 for the  plan  aimed at businesses
with five or more employees that don’t offer pensions or 401(k)
savings programs. Companies would be required to contribute 3
percent of a worker’s salary to the retirement account. Workers
would be enrolled unless they choose to opt out.  The proposal by state Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg of  Sacramento  and Senator Kevin de Leon of  Los
Angeles , both Democrats, passed the upper chamber 23-13 in May.
The bill was returned to the Senate late today for concurrence
on amendments made in the Assembly before being sent to the
governor.  Brown, a Democrat, has until Sept. 30 to sign or veto the
legislation, or it becomes law without his signature.  About 6.3 million Californians, most of them making less
than $46,420 a year, aren’t covered by an employer-provided
retirement plan, according to a June 2012 study by the Labor
Center of the  University of California , Berkeley. De Leon cited
the research in promoting his legislation.  Prior Attempts  De Leon introduced bills in  2008  and  2009  that would have
put Calpers in charge of retirement accounts for private-sector
workers, including those at nonprofit organizations, without a
workplace  retirement plan . The measures were opposed by both
unions and financial firms, and neither came up for a vote.  The California Chamber of Commerce opposed de Leon’s
current bill. The state’s largest business organization said the
measure would subject employers to “significant cost” and also
deprive workers of income, in a statement on its website.  “The legislation could force low-wage workers to choose
between being forced to set aside money for retirement and
current pressing obligations, including paying the rent and
high-interest credit debt,” according to the statement.  Management Bids  The measure wouldn’t automatically entrust the new
retirement accounts to Calpers. Rather, the  fund , which manages
benefits for 1.6 million public employees, retirees and
beneficiaries, could bid for the asset-management business in a
process overseen by an investment board headed by the state
treasurer. Private firms could compete to manage all or part of
the money.  In analyzing the 2008 and 2009 proposals, Calpers estimated
that starting the program would cost about $1.69 million over
two years, according to an Assembly staff  analysis  of the
current bill. It said startup costs could exceed $10 million.  Once established, the program’s costs would be covered by
investment income, the analysis said. Calpers hasn’t taken a
position on the bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  