-- California Lawmakers Send Public-Pension Cutback to Brown
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-09-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/california-lawmakers-send-public-pension-cutback-to-brown.html
California lawmakers sent Governor
 Jerry Brown  the broadest rollback of public-employee pension
benefits in the state’s history, which may save taxpayers as
much as  $55 billion  over 30 years.  The overhaul would require new employees to pay half the
cost of their benefits and work longer before they can retire.
It also reduces formulas for calculating benefits and caps
pension payments.  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, pressed for the revamp to
show progress in curbing soaring retiree costs before he asks
voters for higher income and sales taxes in November. Public
resentment of government employees has grown as taxpayers saw
their own job prospects and benefits shrink in the longest
recession since the 1930s.  “This sweeping pension-reform package will save tens of
billions of taxpayer dollars and make the system more
sustainable for the long term,” the governor said in a
statement after passage.  The bill, which passed the Assembly 48-8, was approved 36-1
in the Senate yesterday, the last day of the legislative
session. The governor has until Sept. 30 to sign or veto the
legislation, or it becomes law without his signature.  The measure would require new state and local government
employees under the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , or Calpers, the largest public pension in the U.S., to
pay for half of their benefits. The same savings will be sought
from current employees through bargaining with their unions.  Smaller Checks  Retirement checks for new workers would be based on wages
capped at about $110,000 a year, or $132,000 for those not
covered by the federal Social Security system, adjusted for
inflation. For most new civil servants who aren’t police
officers or firefighters, the minimum  retirement age  for full
benefits would increase to 67 from 55.  The bill also takes aim at so-called pension spiking, a
practice that inflates future retirement payments by
manipulating overtime, unused vacation and special compensation.
It also would limit “double dipping,” involving retirees who
collect benefits and also take another government job. And it
would ban workers from buying service credit to boost their
payouts.  Charter counties or cities with their own pension plans,
such as  San Jose ,  Los Angeles  and  San Diego , would be exempt
from the new rules.  Republican Critics  Republican lawmakers panned the overhaul, saying it didn’t
go far enough.  “It doesn’t even scratch the surface of what’s needed in
this state before we ask to raise taxes,” said Assemblyman
Allan Mansoor, a Republican from  Costa Mesa .  Public-employee unions said the bill was overreaching and
undermined collective bargaining.  “Ripping billions of dollars of pension benefits from
public workers without collective bargaining is unfair and
wrong,” said Dave Low, chairman of Californians for Retirement
Security, a coalition of unions representing 1.5 million public
employees and retirees.  Calpers said the changes may save the state and local
governments $42 billion to $55 billion over the next 30 years.
It wouldn’t immediately improve the system’s unfunded liability,
its actuary said.  Unfunded Liability  Calpers, with assets of $237.3 billion, had 72 percent of
the assets needed to cover obligations to its 1.6 million
beneficiaries as of June 30, 2011, according to a report.  The fund earned 1 percent in the fiscal year that ended
June 30, below its target of 7.5 percent. When Calpers
underperforms, the state and municipalities must make up the
difference to meet its obligations.  Brown and Republicans last year called for a new type of
pension, combining elements of a 401(k) savings plan common
among nongovernment employers with conventional defined-benefit
systems that guarantee payments for life.  Such a so-called hybrid plan would have spread to workers
some of the market risk now borne by taxpayers, who must make up
for pension-investment shortfalls. The hybrid was opposed by
labor unions.  “This is not the end-all, be-all, but it brings us
considerably down the road to public-pension reform,” said
Assemblyman Warren Furutani, the Long Beach Democrat who headed
a conference committee that drafted the legislation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  