-- California Bid to End Business Tax Break Falls Short
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-09-01T08:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/california-bid-to-end-business-tax-break-falls-short.html
A  California  bill that would have
stripped out-of-state corporations of an option for lowering
their state income taxes was defeated in the closing hours of
the Legislature’s term.  The measure would have required all corporations to base
the tax solely on in-state sales, rather than a formula that let
some pay less by factoring in their property and workforce in
California. It failed in the Senate by a vote of 22-15.  Revenue from the bill, which would have raised $1.2 billion
next year and $950 million in each of the following two years,
was to have been earmarked for university scholarships to aid
students whose families earn less than $150,000 a year.  California taxpayers will get a chance to vote on the so-
called single sales factor in November in a ballot measure
financed by San Francisco hedge-fund executive Thomas Steyer.  Steyer, chairman of Farallon Capital Management LLC, has
put $21.9 million into an initiative to eliminate the tax break.
His proposal would earmark half of the revenue for the state’s
general fund and half for energy-efficiency programs.  Under current law, businesses engaged in agriculture,
mining and banking must base their corporate taxes equally on
payroll, property and sales in California, according to the
state Finance Department. Other companies may  choose  between a
formula in which 50 percent of taxes are based on California
sales and 25 percent are based on property and 25 percent on
other sales, and one in which 100 percent is based on sales.  The rule was put in place as part of a deal Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  struck with fellow Republicans in 2009 to get
them to agree to raise taxes to help erase a $35 billion
deficit.  Since then, Democrats have sought to reverse the agreement.
While the party holds a majority of legislative seats, Democrats
fall short of the two-thirds vote required for tax increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  