-- Canadian Dollar Posts Biggest Gain Since January on GDP Growth
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-01T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/canadian-dollar-posts-biggest-gain-since-january-on-gdp-growth.html
The Canadian currency posted its
biggest monthly gain since January against the  U.S. dollar  after
the nation’s economy expanded more than forecast in the second
quarter and demand for higher-yielding assets climbed.  Canada ’s dollar was supported as crude oil posted its
largest monthly advance since October and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reiterated that the U.S. central bank
is committed to additional monetary stimulus if needed for
Canada’s biggest trading partner. The  Bank of Canada  is forecast
to keep its benchmark lending rate unchanged at 1 percent when
policy makers meet Sept. 5.  “The Canadian GDP number was a surprise,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-
trading firm Oanda Corp. “Bernanke has shown his hand and
didn’t close the door on further easing.”  The so-called loonie rose 1.7 percent to 98.63 cents per
U.S. dollar in August, erasing a weekly loss yesterday after the
nation’s gross domestic product topped analyst estimates. It
touched 98.43 cents on Aug. 28, equaling the highest level since
May 3. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0139. The dollar rose 1.87
percent against its U.S. counterpart in January.  Canada’s currency gained 3.6 percent this year against the
greenback. It has strengthened against the majority of its most-
traded counterparts.  Futures Bets  The  difference  in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop, known as net longs, rose to
60,936 contracts in the five days ended on Aug. 28, up from net
longs of 50,867 a week earlier.  Yields on Canadian benchmarks rose the most last month
since March. The 10-year bond yield increased 10 basis points,
or 0.10 percentage point, to 1.77 percent. The 2.75 percent
security fell 98 cents to C$108.71. The two-year note yield rose
six basis points to 1.14 percent.  The Bank of Canada auctioned C$2.9 billion of three-year
bonds on Aug. 29 at a 1.278 percent average yield with a bid-to-
cover ratio of 2.73. The previous auction of similar-maturity
bonds on June 13 drew an average yield of 1.153 percent and a
coverage ratio of 2.47 times.  Oil, Canada’s largest export, posted its biggest monthly
advance in 10 months as Hurricane Isaac shut down oil rigs on
the Louisiana coast and amid a fire at  Venezuela ’s biggest
refinery. Crude oil futures advanced 9.6 percent in August to
$96.46 a barrel in New York.  Exports Rise  Gross domestic product grew, amid growth in business
investment and stockpiles, at a 1.8 percent annualized pace in
the three-month period, matching the revised January-March
figure. The median forecast was for the rate to fall to 1.6
percent.  Exports grew at a 0.8 percent pace, the slowest in a year,
even as imports accelerated to the fastest growth rate since the
second quarter of 2011. Net exports have acted as a drag on
growth for two consecutive quarters.  The report trumped negative sentiment from the Aug. 30
Statistics Canada release that the nation reported its widest
current-account  deficit  in almost two years. Central Bank
Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated Aug. 22 that an interest-rate
increase “may become appropriate” as Canada completes a
recovery from a recession that ended in mid-2009 with the lowest
borrowing costs of any country not directly affected by the
financial crisis.  “The Bank of Canada wants to continue to remain optimistic
and hawkish, and a lot of indicators are coming in showing that
disappointment is more likely,” said  David Watt , chief
economist at HSBC Bank Canada in Toronto. “People are uncertain
about how things are going to play out going forward.”  The loonie is the second-best performer, behind  Japan ’s yen,
in the past six months versus the currencies of nine developed-
nation counterparts, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The currency’s 2.9 percent advance compares to
a 6.5 percent surge by the yen and a 3.9 percent decline in the
euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  