-- China Manufacturing Unexpectedly Contracts as Orders Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/china-manufacturing-contracts-for-first-time-in-nine-months-1-.html
China ’s manufacturing unexpectedly
shrank for the first time in nine months as new orders
contracted and output rose at a slower pace, signaling the
slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy is deepening.  The Purchasing Managers Index fell to 49.2 in August from
50.1 in July, the  National Bureau of Statistics  and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday in Beijing.
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. cut its estimate for
China’s full-year growth after the report.  The data increase pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to reverse
the slowdown ahead of the transfer of power to a new Communist
Party leadership that begins later this year. Record
unemployment in the euro area and a jobless rate stuck at more
than 8 percent in the U.S. may crimp an export rebound while
slumping corporate earnings, bad debts at banks and property
curbs are restraining investment in China.  “The government won’t want to hand over an economy in a
hard landing to the next administration, so authorities are
likely to become bolder with policy easing, said Liu Li-Gang,
chief China economist at ANZ in Hong Kong. “They could continue
to use tax relief and faster approval of infrastructure
investment to instill confidence, but the most effective policy
tool in the short term is to aggressively ease the reserve-
requirement ratio.”  Support Lending  Liu lowered his 2012 growth estimate to 7.8 percent from
8.2 percent and said the risks to the forecast “are biased
towards the downside.” He didn’t give a projection for the
third quarter.  The People’s Bank of China cut  interest rates  in June and
July and lowered the reserve-requirement ratio for banks three
times starting in November as part of the government’s efforts
to support lending and boost growth. The ratio, which is now 20
percent for the biggest banks, hasn’t been reduced since May.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks fell 0.3
percent on Aug. 31 to the lowest level since February 2009,
capping a fourth month of losses, after declining earnings from
companies including Sany Heavy Industry Co. underscored the
impact of the nation’s economic slowdown.  The  yuan  strengthened for the fifth week, the longest
winning streak since April 2011, on bets policy makers will act
to revive the economy. The currency has lost about 0.9 against
the  U.S. dollar  this year after rising 4.7 percent in 2011.  Orders Slump  The August PMI reading was lower than the estimates of 24
of the 25 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  that had a
median forecast of 50.0, the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. The index is based on responses from purchasing
managers at 820 companies in 31 industries.  A gauge of export orders was unchanged from the previous
month at 46.6, marking the third straight contraction,
federation data showed. The decline in the new orders index
deepened to 48.7 and a measure of output fell to 50.9.  “The index reflects continuing difficulties for the
manufacturing sector and without strong supportive policies amid
weak global demand, the PMI may drop further,” said Hu Yifan, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Haitong International Securities
Group who previously worked for the  World Bank . A reduction in
banks’ reserve requirements “would send a positive signal to
the markets to boost confidence particularly now that the PMI
has broken the critical mark of 50.”  Stabilizing Growth  A separate purchasing managers index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics indicated that manufacturing
may have contracted for a 10th month in August, according to a
preliminary reading on Aug. 23. The final number for the survey,
which covers more than 420 companies and is weighted more toward
smaller businesses, is due tomorrow.  The employment gauge in yesterday’s survey was below 50 for
a third month and at the lowest level since January, while
HSBC’s preliminary reading showed the sixth straight contraction.  The deterioration in labor conditions “could push Beijing
to step up policy easing or stimulus in supporting growth,”
said Lu Ting, chief China economist at Bank of America Corp. in
 Hong Kong . “In this year of leadership transition, employment
and social stability should be of top concern to politicians,”
he said.  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in three
years. Estimates for growth this quarter ranged from 7.4 percent
to 8.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey last month.  Stabilizing Growth  The difficulties in stabilizing growth are “relatively
large,” the official Xinhua News Agency cited Wen as saying
during an inspection tour to  Guangdong province  on Aug. 24 and
25. Wen called for extra measures to promote exports to meet the
economic expansion target, according to Xinhua. The premier in
March set a 7.5 percent growth goal for this year.  In a report late yesterday, Xinhua cited Wen as saying the
country needs to resolutely curb speculative property investment
and that controls on the real-estate industry are still in a
“critical period,” indicating loosening policies won’t include
easing home-purchase limits.  Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief China economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. said he expects a cut in banks’ reserve-
requirement ratio in early September, probably before the
release of the monthly data that will start on Sept. 9 with
inflation and industrial output. The government’s concern that
property prices will rebound means interest rates won’t be
lowered, he said.  UBS AG economist  Wang Tao  estimates industrial output
growth eased to 8.9 percent from a year earlier in August, which
would be the first reading below 9 percent since May 2009.  Profits Decline  Manufacturers’ earnings are falling as the slowing economy
curbs demand. Chinese industrial companies’ profits declined in
July by the most this year, a government report showed Aug. 27.  Sany Heavy, China’s biggest construction-equipment maker,
on Aug. 30 posted a 13 percent decline in first-half profit on
slumping demand for excavators. Eastern China-based Weichai
Power Co., the world’s No. 1 maker of heavy-duty engines,
reported a 26 percent drop in first-half sales and a 46 percent
decline in net income.  “The government doesn’t want to be too aggressive with
easing for fear of reigniting asset bubbles,” said Song Seng Wun, an economist with CIMB Research Pte. in  Singapore . “But
with the whole economy losing steam, they may need to switch
from a gradual acupuncture-treatment-style approach to a western
medicine-based approach of taking a Panadol and hoping for the
best.”  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in Singapore and
Penny Peng in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, John McCluskey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  