-- Clinton Travels to South Pacific to Show U.S. Interests
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-01T06:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/clinton-travels-to-south-pacific-to-show-u-s-interests.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
journeyed to a palm-fringed South Seas island to underscore U.S.
commitment to Pacific security and development, while
downplaying tensions with  China  over its increasingly assertive
sea and resource claims.  “The 21st century will be ‘America’s Pacific century’ --
with an emphasis on ‘Pacific,’” Clinton said yesterday,
speaking at the Pacific Islands  Forum  in Rarotonga, one of the
remote Cook Islands that lies nearly 3,000 miles (4,827
kilometers) south of  Hawaii .  “The ‘Pacific’ half of ‘Asia-Pacific’ doesn’t always get
as much attention as it should, but the United States knows that
this region is strategically and economically vital, and
becoming more so,” she said.  The increasing U.S. attention to the region -- what Obama
administration officials have called a strategic “rebalancing”
or “pivot” to  Asia  -- was demonstrated by Clinton’s decision
to attend the annual meeting of the 16-nation  forum  that
includes  Australia ,  New Zealand  and smaller island nations --
the first U.S. secretary of state to do so.  “All of us have an interest in maintaining peace and
security in the Pacific,” she said. “Hundreds of U.S. vessels
-- from the Navy and Coast Guard as well as our fishing vessels
-- sail these waters.”      While the U.S. tilt to Asia has been driven in part by an
interest in protecting U.S. and allied interests as China has
extended its regional reach, Clinton -- who is due to visit
Beijing on Sept. 4 -- took pains to say the U.S. wants to
partner with other nations in aiding the Pacific, including
Japan and China.  ‘Big Enough’  “We all share an interest in advancing security,
prosperity and opportunity,” she said. “After all, the Pacific
is big enough for all of us.”      Clinton said the U.S. spends $330 million a year to assist
the Pacific Islands with marine conservation and women’s
economic empowerment, among other initiatives.  The U.S. Export-Import Bank is also active in the region,
providing $3 billion for investment in Papua New Guinea and
helping to finance U.S. trade with Tonga, Tuvalu, Fiji and
Micronesia, she said.      Clinton announced plans for new programs totaling more than
$32 million as part of the Asia-Pacific Strategic Engagement
Initiative announced in July. Those programs will support
priorities such as sustainable economic development that
protects bio-diversity, she said.  Regional Investment  While much has been made of China’s economic inroads in the
region, particularly after China recently announced several
hundred million dollars in soft loans to the region, Derek Scissors, a  China economy  specialist at the  Heritage Foundation 
in  Washington , said China’s total investment in the region is
minuscule compared with its global commitments. China spent $257
in the Pacific Islands in 2010, the last year for which official
figures are available.  “Looking at Chinese investment in global context, these
figures are incidental,” Scissors said in a phone interview.
“By themselves, they don’t look like an effort to win
influence, more a byproduct of China’s international
expansion.”  Total official Chinese investment in 2010 was $68.8
billion, according to China’s Ministry of Commerce.  The U.S. Export-Import Bank financed $7 billion dollars for
projects in the Pacific over the last three years, including new
liquid natural gas project developments and commercial aircraft
purchases, according to the State Department.  Six-Nation Tour  The forum is the first stop for Clinton on an 11-day, six-
nation  tour  that will take her next to  Indonesia , followed by
China, East Timor, Brunei and  Russia .  The Cook Islands, a self-governing democracy associated
with New Zealand -- which is responsible for the islands’
foreign relations and defense, according to the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency’s  World Factbook  -- were a unique venue for
an international gathering.  Cook Islands Prime Minister Henry Puna, also the country’s
attorney general, environmental chief, head of police and a
pearl farmer by trade, hosted the international gathering in a
multi-purpose auditorium with bleacher seats and a sports
scoreboard, his remarks punctuated by the calls of roosters.  The forum overwhelmed the islands’ supply of rental cars
and accommodation, leaving organizers to borrow vehicles for
motorcades and rent homes from residents, and forcing many U.S.
delegates to double-up in rooms. Clinton’s plane was greeted by
dozens of traditional performers wearing colorful flower-printed
costumes and fragrant garlands and dancing to celebratory drum
music.  Falling Coconuts  The crush of visitors overloaded the island’s satellite
hotspots and mobile phone network, making Internet access
patchy. Traveling reporters were assured that the crime rate is
low, but were warned to “beware of falling coconuts.”      Clinton, the first U.S. secretary of state to attend in the
forum’s 41-year history, was joined by Admiral Samuel Locklear,
commander of the U.S. Pacific Command.      Her trek across the Pacific has been hailed by many
countries in the region and criticized in China’s state-run
media. Rival territorial claims among half a dozen Asian nations
and concerns over China’s establishment of a new garrison in the
 South China Sea  have fueled tensions in recent months.  Following a lunch with New Zealand Prime Minister John Key
of Pacific crayfish, tuna sashimi and New Zealand lamb, Clinton
was asked by reporters about the perception that China is making
inroads in the Pacific, to the detriment of U.S. interests.      Pacific Partners  The top American diplomat sought to dispel the notion of a
competition for influence.      “It is important for the Pacific Island nations to have
good relations with as many partners as possible,” including
China, Clinton said. The U.S. wants to see China “pursue
economic development that will benefit the people” of the
region.      Critics of China’s investment in the Pacific say it focused
on costly and poor quality “white elephant” projects, such as
sports stadiums, most often built by Chinese firms employing
Chinese laborers.                Clinton also attended separate events yesterday in seaside
cafes with spectacular views of a turquoise ocean highlighting
U.S. commitment to marine security, sustainable fisheries,
efforts to combat  climate change , and the advancement of women.  Gender Equality  At a table with more than a dozen female activists from
Pacific Islands, Clinton said that “progress toward  gender
equality  in the Pacific has not kept pace with the rest of the
world,” noting that the region has the lowest rate of women’s
participation in legislative and executive politics in the
world, and one of the higher rates of gender-based violence.  Four of the Pacific states have no women represented in
parliament. When women are excluded from the commercial and
political life, she said, it “holds back the entire society”
because “economic growth is undermined, development is
stymied.”  Ernie Bower, a senior adviser on Southeast Asia at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, a
policy group, said that Clinton’s willingness to “go to the
Pacific Islands Forum shows a very granular understanding of
what it takes to refocus or ‘pivot’ to Asia. It’s about being
there.”      Bower said that, while freedom of navigation and peaceful
resolution of South China Sea disputes will be “an important
motif” of the trip, U.S.-Asia trade and larger security
concerns aren’t “all about China. We have really good economic
and strategic reasons to be engaging” with the rest of Asia
“aside from ‘balancing’ China,” he said.  Territorial Disputes  In Southeast Asia and in Beijing next week, Clinton will
urge the peaceful resolution of territorial disputes in the
South and East China Seas and will discuss a range of bilateral
issues with Chinese President  Hu Jintao , Vice President  Xi Jinping  and other leaders.  In comments directed to Key and to Australian Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard , who left the Pacific forum early because
of the deaths of five Australian soldiers in  Afghanistan ,
Clinton expressed gratitude to New Zealand and Australia for the
sacrifices of their soldiers and civilians who have served in
the NATO-led coalition in Afghanistan.  While the loss of life is dispiriting, she said, the U.S.
and its partners are “determined to see this through,” because
“we cannot afford to see Afghanistan turn back into a haven
that threatens us all.”  She also said that the work done to train Afghan security
forces, some of whom have turned on their trainers in recent
attacks, “is a much greater positive than negative story.”  Clinton will conclude her trip at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit on Sept. 8-9 on Russky Island off the coast
of Vladivostok, Russia. She will attend in place of President
 Barack Obama , who will be at the Democratic National Convention
in  Charlotte , North Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  