-- Dollar Drops as Bernanke Makes Case for More Monetary Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/dollar-drops-as-bernanke-makes-case-for-more-monetary-stimulus.html
The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell for a second
week as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended his
unprecedented actions and made the case for further monetary
stimulus to counter unemployment of more than 8 percent.  The euro rose versus the greenback for a third week, the
longest stretch since March, as Bernanke said at an annual forum
in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that joblessness was a “grave
concern” and that further bond purchases under quantitative
easing shouldn’t be ruled out. The dollar declined versus the
yen as reports showed U.S. business activity expanded more
slowly this month. A Labor Department report Sept. 7 is forecast
to show the U.S. added fewer jobs in August.  “Earlier in the week, there were more expectations that
there could be further hinting at QE3 in September,”  David Mann , regional head of research for the Americas at  Standard
Chartered  in  New York , said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“By the time we got to the speech today, expectations were
swinging back more in line with what we ended up with. The
belief that further stimulus can help is still keeping the
quantitative-easing view alive.”  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and the yen, fell 0.5 percent
to 81.204 this week. It dropped to more than a three-month low
yesterday, touching to 80.964.  The dollar fell 0.5 percent to $1.2579 per euro this week
in New York, after losing 1.4 percent in the five days ended
Aug. 24. The yen was little changed at 98.46 per euro. The
Japanese currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 78.28 to the
dollar.  Net Shorts  The Canadian dollar was the biggest winner among its 16
most-traded peers this week, climbing 0.6 percent to 98.63 U.S.
cents. New Zealand’s dollar was the worst performer, declining 1
percent to 80.31 U.S. cents.  Futures traders decreased bets the euro will fall against
the dollar, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 101,561 on Aug. 28,
compared with 123,932 a week earlier. Net shorts reached a
record 214,418 on June 8.  The greenback fell 1.5 percent this month, according to the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The euro gained 0.9 percent, while
Norway’s krone was the best performer, rising 3 percent.  Aussie, Kiwi  The Australian dollar touched its lowest point against its
U.S. peer since July 25 as  China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
slipped on Aug. 30 to its lowest level since February 2009.
China is Australia’s largest export market.  The so-called Aussie lost 1.3 percent to A$1.2183 per euro.
The currency dropped 0.8 percent to $1.0322 after decreasing to
$1.0277, its lowest level in August.  New Zealand’s dollar also fell to its lowest point in
August versus the greenback, touching 79.70 U.S. cents on Aug.
30, before trading down 1 percent at 80.34. The so-called kiwi
decreased 1.4 percent to 62.93 yen.  “We have more and more signs coming out of  Asia ,
especially China, that growth may not be that strong,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in New York, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “This
raises some concerns over where things are going. The concern
now is that you need better signs of growth.”  Norwegian Krone  Norway’s krone was the week’s second-biggest gainer against
the euro even after Norges Bank Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad
warned speculators on Aug. 30 against testing the central bank’s
resolve following the currency’s appreciation to a nine-year
high in August.  “They can talk about whatever they want, but unless
they’re acting or doing something significant to change the
trajectory of it, it’s really hard to see why the markets would
listen a vice finance minister,”  Andrew Busch , a global
currency strategist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in Chicago, said in an
Aug. 30 telephone interview.  The Norwegian currency advanced against most of its major
peers on Aug. 28 amid speculation the Oslo-based Norges Bank,
which has cut its main rate by 75 basis points, or 0.75
percentage point, since December, would leave its key policy
rate at 1.50 percent, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The bank left the rate unchanged.  The krone gained 0.6 percent to 5.7979 per dollar after
appreciating to 5.7683 yesterday, the strongest level since May
4.  ‘Nontraditional Policies’  Bernanke told central bankers and economists at the Kansas
City Fed’s annual economics symposium that “nontraditional
policies” shouldn’t be ruled out if economic conditions
warrant them. He emphasized that a new round of bond purchases
is an option, and repeated the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
last statement that the central bank “will provide additional
policy accommodation as needed” to spur growth.  The Fed chief’s speech came two weeks before the next
meeting of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee.
Many policy makers at the committee’s previous meeting said
additional stimulus probably will be needed soon unless the
economy showed a “substantial and sustainable strengthening,”
according to minutes of their July 31-Aug. 1 meeting.  The U.S.  unemployment rate  has stayed at or above 8 percent
since February 2009. It was 4.4 percent in October 2006.  U.S. employers added 125,000 jobs in August, fewer than the
163,000-position increase in July, economists in a Bloomberg
News survey forecast before the Labor Department reports the
data on Sept. 7. The  unemployment rate  will remain at 8.3
percent, they projected.  Spanish Aid  The euro rose for a third week against the yen amid
comments on Aug. 28 from European Union President  Herman Van
Rompuy  that the region’s rescue fund is ready for rapid action
to aid Spanish banks. Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
on Aug. 30 that his government would delay deciding whether to
seek a sovereign bailout until the aid conditions are clear.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged that same day to
consider European bond purchases while urging Spain, Italy and
Greece to take steps to prevent a worsening of the euro-region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  The European Central Bank’s Governing Council meets on
Sept. 6 in Frankfurt and central-bank President  Mario Draghi  is
expected to announce details of the bank’s new bond-buying
program, a proposal that has been criticized by Germany’s
Bundesbank.  “It’s quite clear at this point that a bond-purchase
program will materialize,”  Jens Nordvig , managing director of
currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in
an Aug. 28 interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money”
with Sara Eisen. “That is enough to underpin the market for
now. It doesn’t mean that the euro crisis has been solved, but
it means that global markets can trade better for the time
being.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  