-- Groupon’s Eric Lefkofsky Transfers 18.7 Million Shares
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-09-01T01:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/groupon-s-chairman-lefkofsky-transfers-18-7-million-shares-1-.html
(Corrects number of shares in second paragraph.)  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  Chairman Eric Lefkofsky
transferred 18.7 million of his company’s shares to early
investors, consultants and advisers, according to regulatory
filings and a spokesman for the executive.  Of the total, 15.4 million of the shares were transferred
from a company called 600 West Groupon LLC, which is managed by
a firm owned equally by Lefkofsky and his wife, according to the
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Based
on today’s closing price, the total is worth $77.6 million.  The shares are being distributed from a company that was
probably set up to pool early investments in Groupon, according
to  Erik Gordon , professor of law and business at the  University
of Michigan . The move comes after shares of Groupon have
declined 79 percent since the company’s initial public offering
to a record $4.15 at today’s close, amid pressure from investors
who are concerned about slowing growth and the prospect of
insider selling.  “What appears to be happening is this group vehicle, which
is a holding company for Groupon’s stock, is being opened up and
the stock is being distributed out to the folks who were
investors one way or another,” Gordon said.  One of the transfers involves 2.76 million shares, which
were distributed to the Lefkofsky Family Foundation, a
charitable organization, according to the filing.  Early Investor  Most shares held by 600 West Groupon are being distributed
to its beneficiaries “and Eric is distributing the stock he
personally owns in that LLC to his family’s charitable
foundation,”  Charles Sipkins , a spokesman for Lefkofsky, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Lefkofksy, who is also Groupon’s co-founder and earliest
investor, is still the  largest  single shareholder, with 109.4
million shares, or about 17 percent of the company, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  According to the IPO prospectus, 600 West Groupon received
$73.4 million through dividends and stock sales during the past
three years. Of that, the entity sold $61.6 million worth of
stock to new investors in December 2010 and January 2011, which
it had originally purchased for $65, according to the filing. In
that same round, Groupon Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason 
sold $10 million worth of shares and Green Media LLC, an entity
owned by Lefkofksy, sold $257.5 million worth.  From late 2009 to early 2011, Lefkofsky’s Green Media
received $324.8 million for dividends and stock sales, according
to the filing.  The Lefkofsky Family Foundation  funds programs  focused on
education, human rights, medical research and the arts,
according to its website. Supported groups include Teach for
America,  Human Rights Watch ,  Planned Parenthood  of Illinois, the
 Mayo Clinic  and the Art Institute of Chicago.  -- With assistance from Cory Johnson in  San Francisco . Editors:
Tom Giles, Reed Stevenson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  