-- India Tax Panel Sees Rule Delay, Ending Capital Gains Tax
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-09-01T18:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/india-tax-panel-sees-rule-delay-ending-capital-gains-tax.html
A panel set up by  India ’s prime
minister recommended abolishing taxes on gains from share
transfers and deferring a proposal to crack down on  tax
avoidance  that had spooked foreign investors.  The implementation of the General Anti-Avoidance Rules, or
GAAR, should be deferred by three years on administrative
grounds, according to a draft report released yesterday by the
four-member panel led by Parthasarthi Shome, a former adviser to
the finance minister. The panel also suggested abolishing taxes
on proceeds from the transfer of listed securities, whether they
are from  capital gains  or business income, for both Indians and
non-residents.  “Both of these are very significant recommendations,”
said Satya Poddar, a Gurgaon-based tax partner at Ernst and
Young. “Essentially what they’re saying is that, India is not
ready for GAAR and if it is applied, it should be severely
constrained.”  Palaniappan Chidambaram, appointed finance minister on July
31, has pledged to clarify tax laws and unveil a plan to contain
India’s fiscal deficit as he tries to assuage concerns the
nation’s economic outlook is deteriorating. The rupee has
slumped 17 percent against the dollar in the past 12 months as
slow growth and elevated inflation have hurt investment.  Former Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , who resigned in
June and is now the country’s president, proposed the
introduction of GAAR in March to stop companies from improperly
avoiding taxes. GAAR should apply for the assessment year 2017-
18, the report said.  Vodafone Ruling  Mukherjee also said in the March 16 annual budget he would
seek to change the law to allow the taxation of overseas deals
in which an Indian asset is transferred. The announcement
followed a ruling in January by India’s  Supreme Court  that
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  doesn’t have to pay $2.2 billion in tax on
its purchase, conducted offshore, of the local business of
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. in 2007.  Shome told CNBC yesterday that Chidambaram asked him to
“look at” the Vodafone tax deal.  The chances the draft suggestions won’t be implemented in
the final report are “fairly” remote, Poddar said. The panel
will finalize the GAAR guidelines and an implementation plan by
Sept. 30, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s office said on July 13
via Twitter Inc.’s microblogging service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  