-- New York Giants Cut Ware, Jones as NFL Teams Trim Rosters to 53
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-01T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/new-york-giants-cut-ware-jones-as-nfl-teams-trim-rosters-to-53.html
The  New York  Giants cut veteran
running back D.J. Ware, who won two Super Bowl rings with the
reigning champions, and linebacker  Greg Jones  just before last
night’s roster deadline.  National Football League teams were mandated to reduce
their rosters to 53 players by 9 p.m. Eastern time. The season
opens Sept. 5 with the Giants hosting the  Dallas Cowboys  at
MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  The Giants, who went 2-2 in the preseason, opted to keep
Da’Rel Scott and Andre Brown and let go of Ware, who was signed
off the New York Jets’ practice squad in 2007.  “There was good competition at that running back spot,”
coach  Tom Coughlin  said on the team’s website. “Andre Brown and
Da’Rel Scott have both earned the right and they’ve both proven
that they can be special teams contributors as well, which is
what we were looking for.”  Jones, a sixth-round draft pick in 2011, played in every
game as a rookie with five starts. He finished the regular
season with 25 defensive tackles and six special teams tackles.
In the postseason, he led the Giants with seven special teams
tackles.  “There were a lot of numbers issues and you can’t keep
everybody,” Coughlin said. “You don’t like to let a guy go
that has played and contributed and done the things that Greg
has done. However, the unfortunate part about it is you only
have so many spots.”  The New York Jets released on waivers quarterback Matt Simms, defensive end Jay Richardson and rookie offensive lineman
Robert Griffin. The Jets host the Buffalo Bills in their season
opener Sept. 9.  Quarterbacks Cut  Simms joined a group of backup quarterbacks who lost their
jobs, including Cleveland’s nine-year veteran Seneca Wallace,
Mike Kafka of the  Philadelphia Eagles ,  New England ’s Brian Hoyer
who was  Tom Brady ’s backup for three years and Chicago’s Josh McCown.  “There was great competition at the quarterback
position,” Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said. “That’s what football
and training camp is all about. In the end, we had to make the
difficult decision to let Mike Kafka go.”  The Patriots also cut receiver Deion Branch, who earned two
Super Bowl rings with the team and tied a Super Bowl record with
11 catches for 133 yards against Philadelphia when he was voted
Most Valuable Player in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  