-- Noh Has 1-Stroke Lead at PGA’s Deutsche Bank; Woods Shares Third
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/noh-has-1-stroke-lead-at-pga-s-deutsche-bank-woods-shares-third.html
Seung-Yul Noh had a bogey-free first
round to take a one-stroke lead into the second day of the PGA’s
Deutsche Bank Championship in the FedExCup playoff series.  The South Korean golfer, who has one win on the European
Tour, fired a 9-under 62 yesterday at the TPC Boston in Norton,
 Massachusetts . Chris Kirk holds second place at 8-under and
Tiger Woods shares third at 7-under 64 with  Ryan Moore  and  Jeff Overton .  “Everything good today, swing, putting, everything great
today,” the 21-year-old Noh told reporters yesterday. “So
happy for today.”  Defending champion  Webb Simpson  opened with a 2-under 69 and
is tied for 27th going into the second round.  Woods, who started on the back nine, ended the round with
eight birdies and a bogey.  “I played really well today,” Woods, 36, said. “I hit a
lot of good shots, and on top of that, I putted well at the same
time. It was a nice little combination.”  A two-time winner of the PGA Tour’s season-long FedExCup
points title, Woods tied for 38th at last week’s Barclays event,
the first of four playoff tournaments to decide the season’s
overall champion. He entered this week third in the standings
behind Barclays winner  Nick Watney  and Brandt Snedeker.  After this Labor Day weekend tournament, which includes the
top 100 players in the standings, the field will be reduced to
70 for the BMW Championship at Crooked Stick Golf Club next week.
The Carmel, Indiana, course will host a PGA Tour event for the
first time since  John Daly  won the 1991 PGA Championship at
Crooked Stick.  After a one-week break, the top 30 players on the points
list will contend for the FedExCup title at the Tour
Championship at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  