-- Thousands Rally in Hong Kong Against National Education
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2012-09-01T10:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/thousands-rally-in-hong-kong-against-national-education.html
More than 3,000 Hong Kong residents
braved the rain to protest the government’s plan to begin a
 national education  program, which they say is biased toward
Beijing.  Parents, students and teachers were among those gathering
outside the government’s new headquarters on Tim Mei Avenue
today, the first of the school semester, demanding the
curriculum be scrapped. Demonstrators said they fear the
material is biased towards the Chinese Communist Party and may
stifle independent thinking.  “The national education program is aimed at fostering
blind patriotism among students,” said Joshua Wong, a spokesman
for  Scholarism , an organizer of the rally. “We fear that many
students will be brainwashed.”  The authorities intend to extend national education
classes, which aim to foster Chinese identity, to secondary
schools from 2013 and phase in the lessons over three years.  Today’s rally comes after tens of thousands of parents and
students marched against the program on July 29, many clad in
black and white to symbolize the contrast between right and
wrong. More than 90,000 people attended the July 29 protests,
according to Andrew Shum of the  Hong Kong  Christian Institute,
which helped arrange the demonstrations. Police estimated that,
at most, about 32,000 protesters were in the procession.  Police estimated about 3,400 people were gathered for
today’s rally at 5 p.m. local time. Three members of Scholarism,
a student group, have been on a hunger strike outside the
building for more than two days.  Not Brainwashing  Leung Chun-ying, Hong Kong’s leader who was inaugurated on
July 1, said in a July 30 statement that his government won’t
force the introduction of the lessons in September. The
government isn’t in a rush to start national education and
labeling it as brainwashing would be wrong, Carrie Lam, the
city’s chief secretary of administration, said today.  There’s no plan to forcibly push ahead with the program in
September, Lam said, according to a TV report.  “We want our kids to know more about  China , but such
curriculums may teach them to confuse a country with its ruling
party,” said Eva Chan, of  Parents’ Concern Group on National
Education , which helped organize the rally today. “If taught
like this at young ages, they may not be able to criticize the
government.”  Textbooks in the program may give a pro-Communist Party
account of China’s history and political system, according to
Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese
University  of Hong Kong.  Progressive, United  One textbook explains how the Communist Party is a
progressive, united and effective ruler, comparing it with the
U.S. where a two-party system leads to eternal debates and
gridlock, Lam said in a July 29 interview.  “The level of crudity is even worse than that of the
textbooks you find in China,” he said.  Hong Kong, a former British colony that in July marked 15
years since its return to Chinese rule, is officially autonomous
except for matters of national defense and diplomatic relations.  Voters head to the polls on Sept. 9 to elect members of the
city’s Legislative Council.  Lawmakers have challenged Leung’s credibility as the
financial center’s leader after his home was found to have
illegally built structures and his development secretary stepped
down to address corruption allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  