-- Penn State Loses to Ohio in Football Return After Abuse Scandal
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-02T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/penn-state-loses-to-ohio-in-football-return-after-abuse-scandal.html
As the final seconds ticked off the
game clock of  Pennsylvania State University ’s 24-14 loss to Ohio
University, many fans chanted the refrain that’s been a show of
school pride throughout the past year’s campus ordeal.  “We are -- Penn State,” they shouted in the Nittany
Lions’ return to the field 10 months after the child sex-abuse
cover-up scandal that rocked the school and its football
program.  Both teams wore light blue ribbons on their helmets in
support of child-abuse victims. The matchup in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania , opened a season that followed the criminal
conviction of former assistant coach Jerry Sandusky, the firing
of head coach  Joe Paterno  and sanctions that will keep the team
out of bowl games for the next four years.  Paterno’s widow, Sue, and daughter, Mary Kay, attended the
game and watched from a suite, ESPN reported. The game attracted
97,186 fans to 106,537-seat Beaver Stadium.  “It was a great day to play college football,” Penn State
quarterback Matthew McGloin told reporters. “We’re definitely
upset we got beat today, but at the same time it shows you how
much support we truly have.”  Ohio quarterback Tyler Tettleton threw two touchdown passes
and ran for another, completing 31 of 41 pass attempts for 324
yards as the Bobcats (1-0) rallied from a 14-3 halftime deficit.  Ohio’s first touchdown came on a third-quarter pass that
was tipped by a  Penn State  defensive back before being grabbed
by Landon Smith, who ran it into the end zone for a 43-yard
score.  Final Touchdown  Tettleton ran in another from one yard out and then capped
a 14-play, 93-yard drive with a five-yard touchdown pass to
Donte Foster.  McGloin was 27-of-48 passing for 260 yards and two
touchdowns for the Nittany Lions (0-1), who allowed 499 yards on
defense.  “I’ve got to coach better, we’ve got to play better and
we’ve got a long way to go,” new Penn State coach Bill O’Brien
said in a televised interview.  O’Brien was hired in January following the Nov. 6 firing of
Paterno after a 46-year tenure as Penn State’s head coach.
Paterno died of  lung cancer  at 85 on Jan. 23.  Sandusky was convicted in June of 45 criminal counts tied
to the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year period starting in 1994.
University President  Graham Spanier  also was fired.  In July, Penn State was hit with a $60 million fine by the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association , which stripped the
school of 112 wins from 1998-2007, banned it from bowl games for
four years and took away 20 scholarships annually for four
seasons.  New Jerseys  The team debuted jerseys yesterday that featured the
players’ names on the back for the first time, a tradition-
breaking effort by O’Brien to recognize those who committed to
staying at the school after the sanctions were handed down.  Given the opportunity to switch schools without having to
sit out a season, nine players did transfer after the sanctions,
including running back Silas Redd, who moved to the University
of  Southern California  after leading Penn State with 1,241 yards
rushing last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  