-- Princeton Economists Say Debt Can Impair Monetary Policy Rule
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-09-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/princeton-economists-say-debt-can-impair-monetary-policy-rule.html
Excessive federal debt can weaken
guidelines for the conduct of monetary policy, Princeton
University economists said in a paper released today at a
symposium held by the  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City .  “Unsustainable fiscal debt levels can also undermine the
credibility of monetary policy rules,” Markus K. Brunnermeier
and Yuliy Sannikov said at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. “The central
bank is forced to choose between inflation and government
default” and can lose credibility or confront financial
instability, they said.  Some Fed presidents, including  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia, have proposed the central bank consider a clearer
guideline in setting policy to achieve  price stability  and
maximum employment. Fed officials discussed the use of a
monetary policy rule at their July 31-Aug. 1 meeting.  Policy makers have said they won’t monetize the growing
federal debt and have urged Congress to restore fiscal balance.
The U.S. deficit will reach $1.1 trillion in 2012, according to
the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  U.S. debt  will
total 73 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product this
year, the highest level since 1950, the CBO said.  The Princeton professors’ paper, “Redistributive Monetary
Policy,” said periods of deflation can influence the
distribution of wealth in a society and monetary policy can work
to stabilize an economy and stimulate growth.  Recessions such as the U.S. downturn from December 2007 to
June 2009, which follow a financial crisis and are in part
prompted by a buildup of debt, can lead to persistent weakness,
they said.  “Recovery from financial recessions can be sluggish and
protracted,” Brunnermeier and Sannikov said. In the U.S.,
“households are scaling back consumption to accumulate savings.
In addition, the financial sector is slowly recapitalizing
itself.”  The authors disagreed with the view that financial excesses
should be addressed only through regulation, saying that
stability and monetary policy are “interlinked.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  