-- Treasuries Climb as Bernanke Keeps Further Bond-Buying on Table
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-09-01T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/treasuries-climb-as-bernanke-keeps-further-bond-buying-on-table.html
Treasury 10-year  yields  capped the
biggest two-week drop in a year as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  signaled the central bank may buy more bonds under
quantitative easing to lower unemployment.  U.S. government securities climbed, pushing 10-year yields
to almost a four-week low, as Bernanke said in a speech
yesterday in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that joblessness is a
“grave concern.” A Labor Department report Sept. 7 may show
U.S. employment growth slowed in August.  “There’s been a bid to safer assets on concern about
whether or not the Fed was going to do QE,” said  Dan Greenhaus ,
chief global strategist at the broker-dealer BTIG LLC in  New
York . “The jobs number is the most important thing next week.
In gauging the odds of QE, the August jobs report becomes
crucial. If you get a surprise to the upside and a drop in the
 unemployment rate , the situation gets much more complicated.”  Ten-year yields slid 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage
point, over the past  two weeks  amid speculation the Fed will buy
more assets. That’s the biggest drop since the period ended
Sept. 9, 2011.  The benchmark yield decreased 14 basis points to 1.55
percent this week in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. It reached past its 50-day moving average of 1.59
percent yesterday and touched 1.54 percent, the lowest level
since Aug. 6. The price of the 1.625 percent security maturing
in August 2022 climbed 1 1/4, or $12.50 per $1,000 face amount,
to 100 22/32.  Thirty-year bond  yields fell 13 basis points to 2.67
percent and touched 2.66 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 7.  August Loss  Treasuries still lost 0.4 percent in August, paring their
2012 return to 2.3 percent, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch bond
index shows.  U.S. government bonds jumped to the most expensive level in
a month yesterday. The 10-year term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation, was negative 0.96 percent, the most
costly since July 31. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The
average for the year is negative 0.73 percent.  Bernanke told central bankers and economists at the Kansas
City Fed’s annual economics symposium that “nontraditional
policies” should not be ruled out if economic conditions
warrant them. He emphasized that a new round of bond buying is
an option, and repeated the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s last
statement that the central bank “will provide additional policy
accommodation as needed” to spur growth.  More Purchases  “The sentiment is that the Fed will be doing more security
purchases and expanding the balance sheet yet another time,”
said Mark MacQueen, partner and  money manager  in Austin,  Texas ,
at Sage Advisory Services Ltd., which oversees $10 billion. “He
somewhat reassured the market that he’s willing to do more.”  The Fed chief’s speech came two weeks before the next
meeting of the policy-setting FOMC. Many officials at the
committee’s previous meeting said additional stimulus probably
will be needed soon unless the economy showed a “substantial
and sustainable strengthening,” according to minutes of their
July 31-Aug. 1 discussions.  The U.S.  unemployment rate  has stayed above 8 percent since
February 2009. It was 4.4 percent in October 2006.  U.S. employers added 125,000 jobs in August, fewer than the
163,000-position increase in July, economists in a Bloomberg
News survey forecast before the Labor Department reports the
data on Sept. 7. The unemployment rate will remain at 8.3
percent, they projected.  Balance Sheet  The Fed has expanded its  balance sheet  with two rounds of
quantitative easing. In the first, which ran from 2008 to 2010,
the central bank bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed
securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt and $300 billion
of Treasuries. In the second round, from 2010 to 2011, the Fed
purchased $600 billion of Treasuries.  Policy makers have held their benchmark overnight  target
rate  at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and have said
it will remain there until at least late 2014.  Treasuries also gained this week as inflation indicators
spurred speculation the central bank has room to add stimulus.
The Fed’s favored bond-market  gauge  of inflation expectations
was at 2.54 percent on Aug. 28, down from a 2012 high of 2.78
percent on March 19. The five-year, five-year forward break-even
rate shows how much traders anticipate consumer prices will rise
during a period of five years starting in 2017. The average for
the past decade is 2.75 percent.  ‘Near Certainty’  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer and founder of
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a Twitter
post yesterday more stimulus is a “near certainty,” CNBC
reported. “It will be open-ended, but increasingly impotent,”
Gross wrote.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reduced
their net-long position in 10-year note futures in the week
ended Aug. 28, according to data from the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  Speculative  long positions , or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 50,692 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-long positions fell by 46,848 contracts, or
48 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Note Auctions  The U.S. sold $99 billion in notes this week, including $35
billion in two-year debt, an equal amount of five-year
securities and $29 billion in  seven-year notes .  The securities drew greater demand than at the government’s
auctions of the same amounts of the notes a month earlier. The
average bid-to-cover ratio, a gauge of demand that compares the
amount bid with the amount offered, was 3.22 at this week’s
sales. The average ratio at the July offerings, when each note
drew a record low sale yield, was 3.12.  Treasuries also gained this week amid concern European
leaders are struggling to contain the euro bloc’s debt crisis.
The  European Central Bank  meets next week amid speculation that
its president,  Mario Draghi , may unveil details of an effort to
lower borrowing costs of Spain and  Italy , which may include the
central bank buying sovereign debt. Bond buying is opposed by
 Germany ’s Bundesbank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  