-- Roddick Prolongs Career at U.S. Open; Azarenka, Djokovic Advance
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-01T04:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/roddick-prolongs-career-at-u-s-open-azarenka-djokovic-advance.html
Andy Roddick  brought a crowd of
24,674 to its feet for two standing ovations at the National
Tennis Center in New York, prolonging his career with a 6-3,
6-4, 6-0 defeat of Australia’s  Bernard Tomic  at the U.S. Open.  Under the lights at Arthur Ashe Stadium, where he has
played more night matches than anyone else in the past 16 years,
the 30-year-old American fired 13 aces and 33 winners last night
without facing a break point.  Roddick, playing in what he has said will be his final
tournament, wore red, white and blue shoes featuring stars and
stripes, a tribute to the country whose men’s tennis success
rested largely on his shoulders for the past 10 years. He
received a standing ovation from the crowd before and after the
match.  “I had no idea what was going to happen out there,
honestly,” Roddick told reporters after the victory. “An
outpouring of support from inside the tennis world and outside
the tennis world in the past 24 hours is certainly not something
that I expected.”  Top women’s seed  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus and defending
men’s champion Novak Djokovic of Serbia also won yesterday.
Djokovic, seeded second, defeated Rogerio Dutra Silva of Brazil
6-2, 6-1, 6-2 to advance to the third round, winning 90 percent
of his first serve points.  Azarenka advanced to the fourth round with a 6-0, 6-1
victory against Zheng Jie of China. Winner of the Australian
Open this year, her first and only Grand Slam title, Azarenka
never has advanced past the fourth round of the U.S. Open.  Stosur Advances  Defending woman’s champion Samantha Stosur of Australia
defeated American Varvara Lepchenko 7-6 (7-5), 6-2. Third-seeded
Maria Sharapova of Russia won 6-1, 6-1 against 21-year-old
Mallory Burdette, an American amateur who plays for  Stanford
University .  Winner of the  French Open  earlier this year, Sharapova has
won all six sets she has played so far in the tournament by a
combined 36-7 in games.  Five U.S. men 22 or younger had won first-round matches
this year, providing what might be a glimpse into the future of
American tennis without Roddick. Three of those players lost
yesterday in the second round, with 22-year-old Bradley Klahn
losing to France’s  Richard Gasquet ; 20-year Ryan Harrison
falling to seventh-seeded Juan Martin Del Potro of  Argentina ,
and 18-year-old Dennis Novikov losing to France’s Julien Benneteau.  American Winner  The lone young American to advance yesterday was  Steve
Johnson , the two-time defending National Collegiate Athletic
Association champion at the  University of Southern California .
Johnson, 22, defeated Ernests Gulbis of Latvia becoming the
first reigning NCAA singles champion to advance to the third
round in New York since Sargis Sargsian in 1995.  “There’s a ton of Americans that are going to come up and
do big things,” Johnson said in a news conference. “Shouldn’t
fall on any one person’s shoulders. Andy had to deal with it for
so long, this is too bad this is going to be his last week.”  Johnson is joined in the third round by 19-year-old
American Jack Sock, who today plays Nicolas Almagro of Spain.
 Serena Williams , a three-time champion, plays Russia’s Ekaterina Makarova this afternoon in Arthur Ashe Stadium, followed by top-
seeded  Roger Federer  of Switzerland against Spain’s  Fernando Verdasco .  Roddick announced two nights ago that he was retiring from
tennis after the tournament. Roddick won the U.S. Open in 2003,
the last Grand Slam title by an American man. He was the face of
American men’s tennis after eight-time Grand Slam champion  Andre Agassi  retired in 2006, winning more than $20.5 million and 32
tournament titles.  Roddick’s Highlights  Roddick said he became nervous about 15 minutes before the
match against Tomic when he walked past a television showing a
montage of his  U.S. Open  highlights.  “I assume it was set to an 80s ballad,” said Roddick, who
will face Italy’s Fabio Fognini in the third round. “It got me
a little bit.”  In keeping with the theme of the night, he walked off the
court to Journey’s 1981 hit “Don’t Stop Believin’” blasting
through the stadium speakers.  -- Editor: Rob Gloster  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at the National Tennis Center   enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  