-- Saudi Arabia’s Stocks Decline on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-09-01T13:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/saudi-arabia-s-stocks-climb-as-oil-rises.html
Saudi Arabia (SASEIDX) ’s stocks fell as
concern about the global economy overshadowed speculation that
the Federal Reserve will introduce new stimulus for the U.S.  Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC) , a Saudi Arabian telecommunications
provider, declined the most in a month. Banque Saudi Fransi,
which is partly owned by Credit Agricole SA, dropped the most in
more than six weeks.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co. (SAFCO) , a unit of
 Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  known as Safco, slipped to its
lowest price since July 23.  The Tadawul All Share Index retreated 0.1 percent to
7,134.24 at the close in Riyadh, its lowest level since Aug. 26.
The biggest stock market in the Middle East and North Africa has
 rallied 11 percent this year .  “The stimulus is looking a lot more likely than it did,
but it is not a done deal yet,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , the chief
economist of National Commercial Bank in Jeddah, said by phone.
“The stimulus is on the cards because the economic situation is
very messy.”  Global equities declined earlier in the week as reports
showed economic confidence in the euro area and retail sales in
Japan fell more than estimated. The  U.S. economy  climbed at a
1.7 percent annual rate from April through June, up from an
initial estimate of 1.5 percent. Separate reports showed more
Americans than forecast filed for  unemployment benefits , a sign
that progress in the labor market is faltering.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31
that the Fed will “provide additional policy accommodation as
needed to promote a stronger economic recovery.” The Fed
chairman spoke at the Kansas City Fed’s annual economic-policy
symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. The Federal Open Market
Committee’s next meeting comes in two weeks.  Etihad Etisalat declined 1.1 percent to 69.25 riyals, while
 Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR)  slid 1.5 percent to 32.40 riyals. Safco
dropped 0.9 percent to 185.25 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse that opens on Saturday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  