-- South Korea Exports Fall for Second Month on Europe, Won
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-09-01T00:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/south-korea-exports-fall-for-second-month-on-europe-won.html
South Korea ’s exports fell for a
second month as  Europe ’s debt crisis and gains in the won damped
demand.  Overseas  shipments  fell 6.2 percent in August from a year
earlier, after an 8.8 percent decline in July, the Ministry of
 Knowledge Economy  said in a statement today. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists was for a 6.8
percent decline.  Europe’s debt crisis, a U.S. jobless rate stuck above 8
percent and a slowdown in  China  are damping demand for Asian
exports. The  Bank of Korea  may lower its 2012 economic growth
forecast in October and the government will probably unveil more
stimulus measures to help counter weaker overseas sales,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “We expect  Korea ’s exports to remain subdued in the third
quarter as the won has been appreciating while external demand,
especially from Europe and emerging economies, remains weak,”
Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura, said
before the release. “The near-term growth outlook doesn’t look
good.”  He estimates the central bank will lower its forecast for
2012 economic expansion to 2.7 percent from 3 percent and says
there is an increasing risk of an interest-rate cut in September.  The won gained about 4 percent over the past three months,
the best performer among the 11 most-used Asian currencies. It
fell 0.05 percent to 1,134.63 per dollar in Seoul yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slower Growth  Imports dropped 9.8 percent from a year earlier in August,
the ministry said today. That compared with the 7.6 percent
projected decline in a Bloomberg survey. The  trade surplus  was
$2.04 billion after a $2.76 billion excess in July.  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy expanded 2.4 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in almost
three years, according to a preliminary estimate by the central
bank on July 26. Exports account for about half of the economy.  Industrial output fell 1.6 percent in July from the
previous month, Statistics Korea said yesterday, the second
monthly drop.  Posco, Asia’s third-biggest steelmaker by output, is among
South Korean companies facing weakness in demand.  The second half “will be worse than expected early this
year because of weak demand from construction and
shipbuilders,” Chief Financial Officer Park Ki Hong told
investors in  Seoul  in July.  Moody’s Investors Service this week raised South Korea’s
sovereign debt rating to a par with Japan and China, citing the
nation’s fiscal and economic strength.  “Korea’s strong fiscal fundamentals enable a relatively
large degree of policy space to cope with contingent domestic
risks and external shocks,” Moody’s said on Aug. 27. The
company elevated South Korea one step to Aa3, the fourth-highest
ranking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  