-- Spanish Bonds Decline After Catalonia Applies for Financial Aid
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-09-01T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/spanish-bonds-decline-after-catalonia-applies-for-financial-aid.html
Spanish government bonds  fell for
the first time in three weeks on speculation the nation will
struggle to fund itself after its largest region applied for
financial aid.  Ten-year yields  climbed the most in six weeks after
Catalonia’s  credit rating  was cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s 
after the region said it would seek 5 billion euros ($6.27
billion) from a domestic rescue fund. Moody’s Investors Service
said a review of  Spain ’s finances would be extended. Italian
bonds also declined. German bunds gained for a second week as
investors sought safer assets.  “Spain is moving closer to a request for a full-scale
bailout,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a fixed-income strategist
at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “Moody’s comments highlighted the
risk for Spain to be downgraded to junk status,” he said.  The Spanish 10-year yield rose 44 basis points, or 0.44
percentage point, this week to 6.86 percent at 5 p.m. in  London 
yesterday, the most since the period ended July 20. The 5.85
percent bond due in January 2022 fell 2.88, or 28.80 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,256) face amount, to 93.14.  Catalonia said on Aug. 28 it would seek almost a third of
the 18 billion-euro fund created in July by the government of
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy . Valencia was the first to tap the
fund with a request on July 20.  Catalonia Rating  S&P lowered Catalonia’s long-term credit rating to BB, or
two levels below junk, from BBB-, and said it maintained a
negative outlook due to the risk the region’s credit profile
would deteriorate if political tensions with the central
government escalate.  Moody’s said its review of Spain’s debt rating for a
possible downgrade will probably continue through September and
that a possible Spanish call for further European aid may tip
its credit rating to junk.  Italian 10-year bonds snapped three weeks of gains, with
the yield climbing 13 basis points to 5.85 percent.  German 10-
year bond yields  declined two basis points to 1.33 percent.  The  European Central Bank  meets Sept. 6 amid speculation
President  Mario Draghi  will come up with a comprehensive plan to
buy Spanish and Italian bonds to cap their borrowing costs.  Spain’s bonds dropped 3 percent this year through Aug. 30,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian bonds gained
11 percent, and Germany’s gained 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  