-- Syrian Fighting Rages as Rebels Seek to Weaken Air Power
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-09-02T08:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/syrian-forces-clash-with-rebels-near-airbases-as-fighting-rages.html
Syrian rebels turned their attacks
against airbases as they try to reduce the strength of the
government’s air power being deployed against them.  Rebels detained more than 16 members of Syrian armed forces
after storming a building in the city of Bukmal in Deir Ezzour
province near  Iraq ’s border, the Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights  said on its Facebook page. Those captured included
officers and regular conscripts, the U.K.-based group said.  Syrian forces have targeted helicopters and fighter jets in
their 17-month battle as rebels try to oust President Bashar al- Assad from power. More than 23,000 people have died since the
uprising against Assad began in March last year, according to
the observatory.  Syrian government forces killed 156 people yesterday,
including 53 in Damascus and its suburbs, the opposition Local
Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed statement. They
shelled areas of Homs and Aleppo in the neighborhoods of Tadamon
and al-Hajar al-Aswad in the capital of Damascus, the group
said. A car bomb explosion in the Damascus suburb of Sabina
killed at least 15 civilians in a Palestinian refugee camp,
Middle East  News Agency  reported early today.  Rebels won control of parts of the Abu Zhuhoor military
airport in the northern province of Idlib, the U.K.-based
observatory said. They also attacked Kwers military airport in
Aleppo and destroyed three war planes,  Al Jazeera  reported,
citing activists.  Regional Divisions  Divisions between the majority  Sunni Muslims  and Assad’s
Alawite leadership have spilled across the country’s borders,
with clashes between Sunnis and Alawites in Lebanon during the
past few months. The strains are also showing at regional
forums.  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi last week told a gathering
of non-aligned nations hosted by Syrian ally  Iran  that Assad’s
regime was “oppressive” and had “lost its legitimacy.” The
Syrian delegation, which included Foreign Minister Walid Al-
Muallem, left the hall following his comments.  Iran substituted  Syria ’s name for Bahrain in a translation
of Mursi’s speech into Farsi, according to Hamad Ahmed Al Amer,
an undersecretary at the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs . He said
he’s lodged an official protest and is seeking an apology.  Airport Control  The rebel Free Syrian Army warned it is going to target
civilian flights using the airports in Damascus and Aleppo
starting Sept. 3 because it suspects the government is using
flights to get weapons from  Russia , Iraq, Iran and Lebanon. The
warning was posted yesterday on the group’s Facebook page.  The London-based Asharq al-Awsat newspaper reported that
rebel officials said they would direct attacks against the
civilian airports because they are being used to support Syrian
military operations.  In recent days, the rebels have reported downing several
helicopters and at least two fighter aircraft involved in
attacks against opposition fighters and civilians. While videos
have been posted online and broadcast, the details have not been
independently verified.  Ammar Qurabi, head of the Syrian National Congress for
Change, told  Al Arabiya  in interview that rebels targeting the
regime’s air bases had reduced the air strikes by about 50
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  