-- Weak Growth Main Cause for High Unemployment, Lazear Say
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-09-01T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/weak-growth-main-cause-for-high-unemployment-lazear-say.html
Weak economic growth is the main
cause of high U.S. unemployment rather than fundamental labor
market weaknesses such as inadequate worker training, according
to former  Council of Economic Advisers  Chairman Edward Lazear.  Labor market data don’t offer “any compelling evidence
that there have been changes in the structure of the labor
market that are capable of explaining the pattern of
persistently high unemployment rates,” Lazear said in a paper
presented today at the  Federal Reserve ’s annual meeting of
global central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . He co-wrote the
paper with James Spletzer of the Census Bureau.  With  5.2 million  Americans out of work for at least six
months, policy makers are monitoring labor markets to gauge the
proportion of workers who face declining odds of ever finding a
job because of eroding skills. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , lamenting the suffering caused by unemployment of more
than 8 percent, yesterday made the case for further monetary
easing.  “The stagnation of the labor market in particular is a
grave concern not only because of the enormous suffering and
waste of human talent it entails, but also because persistently
high levels of unemployment will wreak structural damage on our
economy that could last for many years,” Bernanke said at
Jackson Hole. “The rate of improvement in the labor market has
been painfully slow.”  Lazear, an economics professor at  Stanford University ’s
Graduate School of Business in Stanford,  California , led the
Council of Economic Advisers for President  George W. Bush  from
2006 to 2009. Spletzer is principal economist at the Census
Bureau’s Center for Economic Studies in Suitland,  Maryland .  More Pronounced  Unemployment, which has persisted above  8 percent  since
February 2009, stems mostly from “cyclic phenomena” that are
more pronounced after the last recession than in prior
contractions, Lazear and Spletzer said in the paper presented at
the Kansas City Fed’s annual economic policy symposium.  The joblessness isn’t structural because data show that
industries such as construction, manufacturing and retailing
that had the biggest losses during the recession have gained the
most jobs since the recovery began in 2009, the economists
wrote. The 18-month recession that ended in June 2009 was the
longest contraction since the Great Depression.  The labor-market gains during the recovery mirrored the
losses as the economy shrank, the economists said. The same was
true for mismatches between job vacancies and those unemployed
in an industry or occupation, they said.  Industrial Mismatch  “Industrial mismatch rose substantially during the recent
recession, but retreated just as quickly even as unemployment
rates have remained high,” the economists wrote. “What
happened on the way up happened symmetrically on the way down.”  Unemployment rose to 8.3 percent in July, the same level as
January, even as companies added 163,000 workers during the
month. The pace of payroll growth slowed to an average of 73,000
a month in the second quarter from 226,000 in the first quarter.  The average duration of unemployment increased to a record
41 weeks in November and remains at  39 weeks , according to
Bureau of Labor Statistics data. Those jobless for six months or
longer made up  41 percent  of the total.  “The ratio of long-term unemployed to total unemployed is
higher than it was in prior recessions, including recessions
with comparable unemployment rates,” the economists wrote.
“This is not due to any observed structural change, but rather
to the depth of the current recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  