-- West Brom Beats Everton to Stay Unbeaten in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-01T18:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-01/west-brom-beats-everton-to-stay-unbeaten-in-premier-league-1-.html
West Bromwich Albion defeated
Everton 2-0 to stay unbeaten in English soccer’s Premier League,
as Tottenham remained winless after a 1-1 tie with Norwich.  Shane Long  and Gareth McAuley scored in the second half to
give West Brom the home win, and Robert Snodgrass’s goal with
five minutes remaining earned Norwich the away draw.  Defending champion Manchester City beat Queens Park Rangers
3-1, West Ham routed Fulham 3-0, Swansea and Sunderland tied 2-
2, and Wigan and Stoke also drew 2-2.  West Brom continued its fine start under new manager Steve Clarke, moving into a tie with Swansea and Manchester City for
second place on seven points, two behind Chelsea.  Long put West Brom in front in the 65th minute and McAuley
clinched the win with an 82nd-minute header. Everton had won its
first two games of the season and was unbeaten in 11 league
matches going back to last season.  The early season struggles continued for new Tottenham
manager Andre Villas-Boas after his club allowed a late goal at
White Hart Lane. Spurs have two points from three games, the
same as newly promoted Norwich.  Moussa Dembele, making his debut after signing from Fulham
three days ago, gave Spurs the lead in the 65th minute, before
Snodgrass drove a low left-footed drive past  Brad Friedel .
Tottenham midfielder  Tom Huddlestone  was then shown a red card
in the 90th minute for a challenge on Jonathan Howson.  Yaya Toure, Edin Dzeko and  Carlos Tevez  scored in
Manchester City’s home win over QPR, which got a goal from  Bobby Zamora . It was a rematch of the final game of last season, where
City scored twice in injury time for a 3-2 win that clinched its
first league title since 1968.  Swansea Draws  Swansea’s perfect start to the season ended as it rallied
for a 2-2 home tie with Sunderland. Miguel Michu’s league-
leading fourth goal of the season gave Swansea, who won their
first two games by a combined 8-0 score, the draw.  Steven Fletcher  scored twice for Sunderland and Wayne Routledge had a goal for Swansea, which finished with 10 men
after Chico Flores received a red card for a foul on  Louis Saha 
in the 70th minute.  Kevin Nolan , Winston Reid and Matt Taylor scored first-half
goals to lead West Ham past Fulham at Upton Park.  Both teams debuted their new strikers as Andy Carroll
started for West Ham in his first game since his loan move from
Liverpool this week. Dimitar Berbatov came on as a halftime
substitute for Fulham after his signing from Manchester United
yesterday at the transfer deadline.  Stoke drew for the third straight game on  Peter Crouch ’s
goal in the 76th minute. Stoke’s Jon Walters and Wigan’s Shaun Maloney both scored with penalty kicks, while Franco Di Santo
also found the back of the net for the Latics.  Arsenal visits Liverpool, Newcastle hosts Aston Villa and
Manchester United is at Southampton in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 