-- A Monetary Innovation That Changed the Civil War’s Course
-- B y   F r a n k l i n   N o l l
-- 2012-08-29T15:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/a-monetary-innovation-that-changed-the-civil-war-s-course.html
In the summer of 1861, shortly after
the start of the Civil War, U.S. Treasury Secretary Salmon P. Chase negotiated a loan of gold from northeastern banks.  Until that gold arrived in  Washington , the government
planned to issue $50 million in demand notes, a currency payable
on demand in gold at any Treasury office, to fund the military
effort. Because the Treasury Department had no facility for the
production of  paper money , a private business in  New York , the
American Bank Note Company, produced the notes in sheets of
four. These sheets were then sent to the Treasury, where scores
of workers cut them and trimmed the almost 7 million notes with
scissors.  This unwieldy system would lead to a technological
development that laid the foundation for the  U.S. Bureau of
Engraving and Printing  -- the agency that now produces the
billions of dollars in U.S. currency notes that are trusted
worldwide. And 150 years ago today, the bureau’s humble
beginnings helped change the course of the Civil War.  20 Million Notes  In early 1862, as the war dragged on and costs skyrocketed,
it became clear that the government would soon need more money.
On Feb. 25, 1862, with the Treasury facing bankruptcy, Congress
authorized the issue of $150 million in a new currency: the U.S.
note, also known as the greenback.  This issuance would require workers to process 20 million
individual notes -- all by hand.  Working on the problem was an engineer named Spencer M.
Clark. Born to an iron merchant in 1811 in Brattleboro,  Vermont ,
Clark had spent his younger years pursuing a variety of careers,
from mathematical-instrument manufacturer to grain merchant.  In the 1850s, Clark took his family to Washington and was
appointed a clerk in the Treasury Department’s Bureau of
Construction, which at the time oversaw all federal building
programs. Clark rose through the ranks to become its acting head
in 1860.  He soon faced a critical challenge: helping the cash-
starved Treasury speed up the process of separating notes, so it
could quickly pay its bills and the troops.  Clark’s great innovation was to mechanize the process. By
March 1862, he had invented a hand-powered machine that
separated and trimmed the notes. He soon modified the machines
to run on steam power, greatly increasing their speed and
productivity. In August of that year, Chase gave Clark
permission to set up steam-powered operations on an experimental
basis in the Treasury’s basement. This area became known as the
“small-note room,” as Clark’s operations were devoted to the
processing of small-denomination ($1 and $2) U.S. notes.  On Aug. 29, 1862, after a week of tinkering with the new
equipment in the dim light of the southwest corner of the
basement, Clark started up a steam engine that powered the
machines. While the  Second Battle of Manassas  was raging some 30
miles away, Clark and his team took sheets bearing four
greenbacks and fed them into the clattering machines, which
divided the sheets into individual notes.  It was a success, and Clark was entrusted with ever-
expanding tasks -- eventually creating a full-fledged Treasury-
run banknote company. This new operation was soon producing
fractional currency to replace the silver fractional coins that
had been hoarded at the start of the war. Clark also produced
many of the “Five-Twenty” bonds that raised $500 million for the
war effort when private banknote companies proved unable to meet
the Treasury’s demand.  A New Monopoly  By the end of the war, Clark and his operations had become
a fixture in the Treasury, providing a dependable and low-cost
source of currency notes and securities.  In 1877, Treasury Secretary John Sherman gave the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing a monopoly on government currency and
security production, which it holds to this day.  Clark’s innovation marked a new way of viewing the role of
the government in the nation’s finances. With a new general
currency printed by the Treasury, the federal government was now
a part of everyday economic life in a new and enduring way.
Today, the bureau prints billions of dollars of Federal Reserve
notes. It delivers them to the  Federal Reserve System  -- and,
ultimately, to pockets around the world.  (Franklin Noll is president of Noll Historical Consulting
and serves as the historian for the U.S. Bureau of Engraving and
Printing. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Franklin Noll at
 Franklin.Noll@bep.gov   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  