-- Abramovich’s U.K. Trial Ruling Hinges on Credibility, ‘Krysha’
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-08-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/abramovich-s-u-k-trial-ruling-hinges-on-credibility-krysha-.html
Roman Abramovich  and  Boris Berezovsky , Russian oligarchs with ties to the U.K., will learn
tomorrow who swayed a London judge during the three-month trial
in which both men accused each other of corruption, dishonesty
and greed.  On top of settling a personal feud worth as much as $6.8
billion, Judge Elizabeth Gloster’s verdict will provide the
first real guidance for British courts on dealing with large,
undocumented payments by Russian businessmen for political or
physical protection, a practice known as krysha.  “It will be the first judgment that really prizes open the
inner workings of Russian commercial life,” said Louis Flannery, a London-based litigator at Stephenson Harwood LLP who
isn’t involved in the suit. “It could have huge ramifications
for future disputes in this country.”  During the trial that ended in January, Berezovsky said he
lost billions of dollars when Abramovich intimidated him into
selling stakes in Russian oil and metals businesses too cheaply.
Abramovich, now owner of Chelsea Football Club, said Berezovsky
never had stakes in the companies and payments he received were
for political protection. The trial involved hundreds of hours
of court time, millions of pounds in legal fees and witnesses
ranging from kitchen staff to billionaires.  “It’s a standard-bearer case in terms of looking at
Russian business dealings in the late 90s and early 2000s,”
said  Philippa Charles , a lawyer at Mayer Brown LLP. Krysha
hasn’t yet been comprehensively addressed in the U.K., she said.  Credible Witnesses  The disputed agreements were made orally in a series of
meetings at luxury hotels and ski resorts. Berezovsky, who now
lives in London, received hundreds of millions of dollars from
Abramovich before a final payment of $1.3 billion in 2002.  Gloster’s ruling will hinge on which of the two oligarchs
was the more credible witness, as well as how she interprets the
practice of krysha, Charles said.  Berezovsky spokeswoman Georgie Gibbs and Abramovich lawyer
Karyl Nairn declined to comment.  A win for Berezovsky could lead to even more Russian
lawsuits being filed in  London , which already attracts a large
number of litigants from outside the country because of its
reputation for fairness and freedom from political interference.  “If, on the basis of no written agreement, Berezovsky can
succeed, there will be others who will think it’s worth a try,”
Charles said.  Deripaska Claims  Gloster will hand down a summary of her judgment tomorrow
while copies of the full judgment won’t be released until at
least Sept. 17, according to a court statement.  Another Russian who made his fortune buying state assets
after the fall of the communist regime, United Co. Rusal Chief
Executive Oleg Deripaska, is fighting a claim in London that he
broke a partnership agreement.  Michael Cherney  claims he was
partners with Deripaska, while the Rusal co-founder said Cherney
is a criminal who extorted krysha payments from his aluminum
business. That trial will resume in September.  “It would be inappropriate to speculate on the outcome of
these proceedings, but either way it will have no direct bearing
on Mr. Cherney’s case against Mr. Deripaska,” Paul Slinger, a
Deripaska spokesman, said of the Berezovsky lawsuit.  Deripaska appeared as a witness for Abramovich during his
trial, accusing Berezovsky of not paying his debts and coming to
business meetings dressed in a bathrobe.  Berezovsky denies taking protection payments and maintains
he helped Abramovich build up stakes in oil company OAO Sibneft
and aluminum assets, which eventually became part of Rusal, in
return for a share of the companies. He claims he lost about
$6.8 billion when Abramovich told him to sell or face having his
stakes confiscated by the Russian government.  The case is: Berezovsky v. Abramovich,  High Court  of
Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division , Commercial Court Case No. 09-
1080.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  