-- Achillion Deal Looming as Hepatitis Drugs Fail: Real M&A
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-08-29T20:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/achillion-takeover-looms-as-hepatitis-treatments-fail-real-m-a.html
Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN) , the
developer of hepatitis C treatments that was passed over by
potential acquirers in the last year, is poised to draw renewed
interest after setbacks by rival drugmakers.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  last week said it was abandoning
an experimental hepatitis C pill it obtained through its
February purchase of Inhibitex Inc. after one patient died and
others were hospitalized while taking the drug in a study. This
week, Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. said U.S. regulators halted
its study of a similar therapy, marking the second hold on
clinical trials for the company this month.  With the market for new hepatitis C treatments projected to
reach $20 billion by 2020 and Achillion facing no delays in two
drugs under development, Piper Jaffray Cos. and William Blair &
Co. say the $481 million company could gain fresh attention as a
takeover candidate for  Merck & Co. (MRK) , Roche Holding AG and  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  A suitor could pay a premium of as much as
79 percent to Achillion’s stock price and still acquire the New
Haven, Connecticut-based company for less than its peak market
value earlier this year, when takeovers and merger speculation
spurred a surge in hepatitis C drugmakers’ shares.  “The frenzy has been taken out of the space, but I still
think Achillion is very attractive” because its therapies have
the potential to be the best of their type, Ted Tenthoff, a New
York-based analyst for Piper Jaffray, said in a telephone
interview. “We expect the wave of consolidation to continue.
Achillion is clearly a target.”  Drug Development  Joe Truitt, Achillion’s chief commercial officer, said it
wasn’t appropriate to comment on the company’s development
plans, including the possibility of a takeover.  “We’ll make the best strategic options as they come to us,
but for right now, we’re developing our drugs and getting them
into combinations and making them available to patients,”
Truitt said in a phone interview.  Today, shares of Achillion rose 1.8 percent to $6.75, after
earlier reaching the highest since July 5.  Hepatitis C  is a viral infection that can cause liver
damage and is estimated to affect 180 million people worldwide,
according to the National Institutes of Health. Rising deaths
among so-called baby boomers from the infection prompted U.S.
health officials to declare in May that all of those born from
1946 to 1964 are at risk and should be tested.  Achillion is among several companies racing to develop
hepatitis C cures that would replace the standard year-long
injectable treatment that can cause flu-like symptoms.  Four Classes  There are four new classes of drugs under development to
cure hepatitis C. Each work in different ways to stop the virus
from replicating, and can be effective against one or several
subtypes of the disease.  Drugmakers such as  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , Achillion, Bristol-
Myers,  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , Merck and Vertex have been testing
these therapies, either alone or together, with varying degrees
of success. The promise of a market that Achillion Chief
Executive Officer Michael Kishbauch estimates will grow to $20
billion by 2020 spurred at least three acquisitions since
October.  The biggest deal was Gilead’s $10.8 billion acquisition of
Pharmasset Inc., announced in November, which came a month after
Roche agreed to buy Anadys Pharmaceuticals Inc. for about $230
million. Bristol-Myers followed in January by announcing its
$2.5 billion purchase of Inhibitex.  Fresh Look  Achillion’s Kishbauch said in November that the company was
in “advanced discussions” with potential partners or
acquirers. Its shares then reached a five-year high of $12.38 in
February on takeover speculation before  falling  46 percent since
then as no deal materialized.  Now, with Bristol-Myers stopping development of the drug it
bought from Inhibitex, and  Idenix (IDIX)  halting testing of a similar
therapy, Achillion could attract a fresh look from companies
seeking hepatitis treatments to use on their own or in
combination with their existing therapies, said Liisa Bayko, a
Chicago-based analyst with JMP Securities LLC.  Achillion is testing two types of drugs. By combining
several classes of these new hepatitis C drugs, doctors may be
able to limit the virus’ ability to infect, mimicking the
strategy that a decade earlier helped turn HIV from a killer
disease to a controlled one.  During the first quarter, Achillion will be reporting on
how effective its two therapies work in combination. Good data
could entice competitors to bid, Bayko said.  ‘Well-Positioned’  “By the first quarter of next year, we could be a very
different company,” Achillion’s Truitt said. “If that
combination data comes through, then we really have a
commercially viable, competitive combination that will put
everybody on notice.”  “We’re pretty optimistic for Achillion,” Bayko said in a
phone interview. “They’ll be well-positioned to be a candidate
to be taken out, because right now, there are very few options
if you want to get involved in hep C, in terms of combinations
that are more advanced that are still in clinical development.”  Bayko said that while she expects a suitor to wait for the
data on the drugs before making an offer, Achillion still could
fetch as much as $10 a share if a company bid for it now, 51
percent more than its closing price yesterday.  Piper Jaffray’s Tenthoff said Achillion could lure suitors
such as Merck,  Roche (ROG)  and Vertex as they seek to compete against
Gilead, which is seen by analysts as having the most promising
hepatitis C drug.  Gilead  is poised to start testing two of its
therapies together in a single pill this year, putting it on
track to request U.S. regulatory approval for the drug in 2014.  Gilead Bid  Ronald Rogers, a spokesman for Merck, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation when asked whether the Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey-based drugmaker was interested in Achillion.
Silvia Dobry, a spokeswoman for Basel, Switzerland-based Roche,
also declined to comment, as did Megan Pace, a spokeswoman for
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Vertex.  Even Gilead could seek to acquire Achillion as a way to
remove a potential competitor and bolster its position, said
Peter Kolchinsky, co-founder and general partner at RA Capital
Management LLC, which oversees $300 million, including Achillion
shares.  “Gilead could solidify its supremacy if it had Achillion’s
drugs, each best in its respective class based on what we know
so far,” Kolchinsky said in an interview. “Acquiring Achillion
would also be a wise defensive move for Gilead, keeping it from
falling into a competitor’s hands or from becoming an
independent low-cost competitor.”  Safety Concerns  Cara Miller, a spokeswoman for Foster City, California-
based Gilead, said the  company  doesn’t comment on market
speculation.  Brian Skorney, an analyst with Brean Murray Carret & Co. in
New York, says Achillion won’t be a takeover target soon because
it has “a lot more to prove” with clinical data next year.
Other companies that developed hepatitis C treatments like
Pharmasset and Inhibitex proved their drugs were effective
before they were bought, and the only remaining question about
their products was safety, he said.  The safety problems that challenged the drug Bristol-Myers
bought from Inhibitex and the regulatory holds that Idenix faces
show how much risk is still left in the market for hepatitis C
treatments, said Les Funtleyder, a fund manager focused on the
health-care industry at New York-based Poliwogg.  “What’s that phrase, ‘Once burned, twice shy?’”
Funtleyder said in a phone call. “If someone was to repeat what
happened to Bristol, shareholders would start to ask questions
about management’s judgment.”  Cheaper Now  Still, after the drop in Achillion’s stock this year, a
buyer would be taking on the risk of the therapies potentially
failing at a lower price tag.  During the past 12 months, acquirers that announced deals
for biomedical companies paid 65 percent more than the target’s
average 20-day stock price in transactions greater than $500
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A bidder for
Achillion could offer a premium of as much 79 percent to
yesterday’s stock price and still get the drugmaker for less
than its record market value of $863 million in February.  The market for treating the viral infection is too big to
be dominated by Gilead alone, so large drugmakers may have the
appetite to acquire a company such as Idenix or Achillion once
they produce sufficient data on the safety and effectiveness of
their drugs, said Y. Katherine Xu, a New York-based analyst at
William Blair. Kelly Barry, a spokeswoman for Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Idenix, didn’t return a voicemail message
and e-mail sent after business hours about whether the company
has been approached by suitors.  “Both Idenix and Achillion, their strategy is to sell
themselves,” Xu said. “Timeline-wise, these two used to be
similar, but now Achillion may be a little bit ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 