-- Africa Gas Rush Imperils $100 Billion in Australian LNG
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-08-30T15:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/africa-gas-rush-imperils-100-billion-in-australian-lng.html
The discovery along Africa’s east
coast of the world’s biggest gas finds in a decade threatens to
undo investment plans on the other side of the  Indian Ocean .  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  of the U.K. and
France’s  Total SA (FP)  may scale back projects to build liquefied
natural gas export plants in Australia and switch to  Tanzania 
and  Mozambique , where the new prospects lie and will cost about
half as much, according to Jefferies International Ltd.  The LNG boom in Australia, where $180 billion of planned
investment was set to make gas the country’s fastest-growing
export over the next five years, risks losing strength as labor
and material shortages force up building costs. As energy
companies consider the next $100 billion of projects, a switch
to  East Africa  would hold back Australia’s market share in China
and India, where energy consumption is forecast to rise more
than 60 percent by 2030.  “Because of the volume that’s been discovered in East
Africa, the economics look to be able to challenge Australian
LNG projects, given the cost inflation they have experienced,”
said  Peter Hutton , an RBC Capital Markets analyst in London.
“All companies will have that on their radar.”  The Asian market for LNG, gas that’s chilled to a liquid
for shipment by tanker, accounts for about two-thirds of global
demand and will grow by 6 percent a year this decade, according
to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Among six Australian projects
scheduled to reach investment decisions in 2013, few will be
approved because of climbing costs,  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Bernstein, said in a report this month.  ‘Real Competition’  “There is real competition in the 2020 time frame,” said
David Knox, the chief executive officer at  Santos Ltd. (STO) , which is
developing Australia’s $18.5 billion Gladstone LNG venture
together with Total, Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and Korea Gas Corp.
“But we can compete, provided we keep our productivity up, our
cost base under reasonable control and we can unlock the
resources.”  Dale Nijoka , an analyst at Ernst & Young LLP, said this
month in a report that LNG from East Africa “could become more
competitive than unsanctioned Australian LNG projects, causing
them to be delayed, re-worked or possibly canceled” over the
long term.  One such Australian project is a third processing plant, or
train, at BG’s  Curtis Island  project. Reading, England-based BG
said in May that spending on the first two trains would rise 36
percent to about $20 billion because of higher costs and a more
expensive Australian dollar. BG is considering investing in East
Africa’s first LNG project in Tanzania.  Tanzania LNG  “The ability for Tanzania to compete for capital in BG’s
portfolio is growing,” said Theepan Jothilingam, an oil analyst
at Nomura Holdings Inc. It can “prioritize Tanzania LNG” over
expansion of its venture on Queensland’s  Curtis Island .  Kim Blomley, a spokesman at BG, declined to comment on
payments to East African nations for the fuel, saying that the
company is “only in the exploratory phase right now” and
“it’s a little early to say any more.”  Explorers in Tanzania and Mozambique may build at least two
trains in each country with combined costs of about $32 billion
and ship the first LNG as soon as 2018, according to Jefferies.
The cost per unit of capacity will be about 44 percent lower in
Tanzania than at Pluto LNG in Australia, the most expensive
plant built, the bank said. Mozambique, ranked 213 of 227
countries for per capita income, may be even cheaper.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , operator of the Pluto project in
Western Australia, acknowledged that East Africa is an
“extraordinary gas province.”  Anadarko Talks  Still, “as I look at East Africa, I look at the maturity
of oil and gas regulations, the lack of infrastructure, and my
view is some of those projects probably won’t come on as quickly
as people think they will,” Woodside Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Coleman  said in an Aug. 23 interview in Sydney.  Shell and Total have been in talks with  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  about buying into gas fields discovered off
Mozambique with more than 100 trillion cubic feet (2.8 trillion
cubic meters) of gas resources, enough to meet Asian demand for
almost five years.  There are still 95 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves yet
to be discovered in Mozambique and Tanzania, Wood Mackenzie Ltd.
said Aug. 22. “There is clearly plenty of gas to supply the
likely commercialization route of LNG -- theoretically enough to
support up to 16 LNG trains.”  There will be risks to developing LNG projects in East
Africa, where there’s no history of large-scale oil and gas
production and roads and airports are often relatively poor.  Regulatory ‘Gaps’  “East Africa’s regulatory and infrastructure gaps could
hinder the transition from gas exploration to production in the
medium term,” said Clare Allenson and Anne Fruhauf, analysts at
Eurasia Group in London. “Now that investors are confident of
the existence of commercial natural gas reserves in the region,
the focus will shift to the evolving operating environment.”  For some smaller investors involved in the gas fields,
financing their share “will certainly prove challenging and
could delay development,” said Giles Farrer, an LNG analyst at
Woodmac.  BG is developing plans for an LNG project in Tanzania after
discovering about 7 trillion cubic feet of gas together with
partner Ophir Energy Plc. At the same time, it’s trying to find
a partner for Curtis Island to cut Australian costs.  Tanzanian LNG  “While it’s going very well in Tanzania, when the result
of six in a row discoveries are very encouraging, we are not in
the place to take discussions further” on the LNG project, said
 Neil Burrows , a spokesman for BG. He declined to comment on
whether BG would opt to develop Tanzania LNG before making an
investment decision for the third train in Queensland.  Kentz Corp. (KENZ) , an Irish oil and gas engineering company
working on the BG project, said awarding activity hasn’t
declined “significantly” in Australia.  Contractors “just have to wait and see” if it slows down,
Edward Power, the chief financial officer at Kentz, said today
in a phone interview. “You often see some level of delay, but
we are not seeing any slowdown of project coming out today,”
where Kentz is involved.  Australia’s LNG industry faces a shortage of skilled
workers and has to pay higher wages in the world’s fastest
growing developed economy. The strong Australian dollar has also
boosted costs for the developments in U.S. dollar terms after
the currency rose 23 percent since 2008.  Competition for Australia  “East Africa has got potential to be a bigger LNG supplier
than for example Australia or Qatar on a much lower cost base,”
said Barry Rushworth, the CEO at Australia’s Pancontinental Oil
& Gas NL, which is drilling now a well off Kenya. “People are
just not actually realizing how much potential East Africa has
yet.”  Planned North American exports are set to add to the
competition for Australia after a boom in production from shale
reduced U.S. natural gas prices to a 10-year low. Shell has
already started talks with Freeport LNG Development LP in Texas,
which is aiming to become the second venture to win U.S.
approval to export the fuel from the  Gulf of Mexico  coast after
Cheniere Energy Inc.  $30 Billion Shell Investment  Shell, which plans to invest $30 billion in Australia over
the next five years, is looking at opportunities in Africa. The
Hague-based company has drilled in Tanzania and last month
dropped its $1.8 billion bid for Cove Energy Plc, a U.K.
explorer with assets in Mozambique, because Thailand’s state oil
company made a higher offer. The decisions to walk away was
described by the Anglo-Dutch company’s CEO  Peter Voser  as an
“example of capital discipline.”  “The bid for Cove highlighted the potential need to rotate
exposure from Australian LNG projects to the new East Africa
frontier,” RBC’s Hutton said. “We believe Shell was right to
withdraw, but the shift in portfolio still needs to be
addressed.”  Shell spokesman Jonathan French referred  Bloomberg News  to
Voser’s comments made July 26 when the CEO described East Africa
as “an interesting province” and “a big resource.”  $34 Billion Ichthys Project  Total, based in Paris, has increased its stake in the $34
billion Ichthys LNG project in northern Australia, where costs
may beat Pluto’s record, according to the Australian Bureau of
Resources and Energy Economics.  The French company CEO Christophe De Margerie plans to
expand in East Africa after joining a $10 billion oil project in
Uganda. In June, Total secured the latest permit to explore for
oil and gas off Kenya.  “East Africa is a strategic oil and gas province for
Total, where the group seeks to build a stronger presence and
currently pursues exploration activities,” said Anastasia
Zhivulina, a spokeswoman at the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  