-- Thai Bourse Chief Wants Firms to Follow ThaiBev Abroad
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-08-30T08:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/thai-bourse-wants-firms-to-follow-thaibev-abroad-southeast-asia.html
The Stock Exchange of  Thailand  is
pushing companies to invest in less developed neighboring
countries to benefit from higher growth rates, bourse President
Charamporn Jotikasthira said in an interview.  Thailand’s annual economic growth rates of 4 percent to 5
percent are “not as exciting as the countries surrounding us,”
he said in Bangkok yesterday. “I’d rather see all of them going
abroad more.”  The exchange on Sept. 1 will ease rules for listing joint
ventures that are often used in cross-border transactions. It
will also soon establish trading links with  Singapore  and
 Malaysia  that will make it cheaper for retail investors to buy
shares in those countries, Charamporn said.  Bangkok-based  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV)  and  PTT Exploration (PTTEP)  &
Production Pcl are leading an overseas push as Thai companies
look for new markets. Thailand’s economy is about twice the
combined size of  Cambodia , Laos, Myanmar and  Vietnam , countries
with 176 million people that the International Monetary Fund
estimates will grow 6.4 percent on average next year.  “Thailand is playing a very important role in that
regional growth,” Jason Cox, co-Head of  Asia  Pacific Global
Capital Markets at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in an
interview yesterday. “The country is well positioned to take
advantage” of higher growth rates in Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar
and Vietnam, he said.  Thai companies have spent more than $21 billion buying
overseas assets from the beginning of 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with about $1.5 billion
from 2003 to 2007.  Thai Deals  Thai Beverage, Thailand’s biggest beer maker, agreed last
month to pay S$2.78 billion ($2.2 billion) for a 22 percent
stake in Singapore-based Fraser & Neave Ltd. The move prompted
Heineken NV, the world’s third-biggest brewer, to bid S$5.6
billion this month for a controlling stake in  Asia Pacific
Breweries Ltd. (APB) , which is partly owned by Fraser & Neave. Thai
Beverage, which is listed in Singapore, has since raised its
stake to 29 percent, spending a total of S$3.6 billion.  PTT Exploration, Thailand’s only listed oil and gas
explorer, offered 240 pence a share for  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  in May.
The bid, which valued Cove at 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion),
had acceptances from 97.8 percent of Cove holders as of Aug. 24.  PTT Pcl (PTT) , Thailand’s biggest company, offered S$1.2 billion
three days ago for the rest of Singapore’s  Sakari Resources Ltd. (SAR) 
to add coal assets in  Indonesia .  “In the past Thai companies were staying here,” said
Charamporn, a graduate of  Harvard Business School  who previously
worked at Siam Commercial Bank Pcl. “ I’d rather see them be
ready to operate in many, many countries.”  Economy Gains  Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy expanded 4.2
percent in the three months through June from a year earlier,
after growing a revised 0.4 percent in the previous quarter. The
state forecasting agency said this month that gross domestic
product may increase 5.5 percent to 6 percent in 2012 from a
previous range of 5.5 percent to 6.5 percent.  Thailand has room to cut  interest rates  to protect its
economy as the worst of the effect from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis is yet to come, central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said in an interview yesterday. Thai businesses
are also getting used to investing more abroad, he said.  “For the past year, including this year, although we had
inflows of capital, we have outflows to rebalance it,” Prasarn
said. “You don’t observe any significant increase in our
official reserves at the moment.”  Trading Links  The stock exchange will soon help retail investors benefit
from increased regional links with a trading platform as early
as October that will allow them to buy shares in Malaysia and
Singapore as if they were Thai stocks, Charamporn said.
Investors who use the platform will be exempt from paying
capital-gains tax, he said.  The 491-member  SET Index (SET)  has gained 18 percent this year,
second in Asia only to the Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark’s $325
billion market capitalization is about 10 times bigger than the
indexes in Vietnam.  Cambodia’s only stock began trading in April, while Laos
opened a bourse with two stocks last year. Myanmar plans to open
a stock exchange by 2015.  The SET has moved to help Thai companies with subsidiaries
in those countries to raise funds by reducing the minimum stake
a holding company must invest in its main business to facilitate
ventures with foreign firms. The measure, which will take effect
in two days, will immediately help Ch. Karnchang Pcl raise money
for a power plant in  Laos .  ‘Cash Rich’  Under the new rule, the construction company will list CK
Power Ltd. as a holding company for hydropower projects in Laos.
Ch. Karnchang, PTT and Electricity Generating Pcl are among
major shareholders in the $3.6 billion project.  “The success of CK Power would jump-start a lot of
ventures like this for sure,” Charamporn said, declining to
mention other companies that are considering similar proposals.  With Europe’s economy floundering, he expects more assets
to be up for sale soon, and said Thai companies are well
positioned to buy.  “Most Thai entities which have an ability to acquire or
have acquired something in the past are fairly cash rich.”
Charamporn said. “We hope they succeed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  