-- Thai Baht Drops as Data Show Export Slump Deepened; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-29T08:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/thai-baht-drops-as-data-show-export-slump-deepened-bonds-rise.html
Thailand’s baht weakened for a
fourth day, the longest losing stretch in two months, as a
government report showed exports fell faster than economists
estimated on cooling global demand.  Government bonds  rose.  Shipments, which account for about two-thirds of Thai
economy, dropped 4.5 percent in July from a year earlier, more
than the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey for a 3.8 percent
decline, official figures showed today. Overseas sales shrank
2.3 percent in June. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
will speak Aug. 31 at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where he may
clarify views on further monetary easing to spur growth in the
 U.S. economy , Thailand’s third-biggest export market.  “With weak external conditions hurting exports in general,
we are not in a situation where we expect aggressive fund
inflows into Asia,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a Bangkok-based
currency trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “The baht may
not see a big move before Bernanke’s speech.”  The baht declined 0.1 percent to 31.34 per dollar as of
3:22 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, was unchanged at 4.51 percent.  Government bonds rose for the first time this week after
global funds raised holdings of the nation’s debt for a fourth
straight day. The yield on the 3.625 percent bonds due May 2015
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.11 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  International investors  purchased  $846 million more of
government debt than they sold in the last four days through
yesterday, according to data from the Thai Bond Market
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 