-- AirAsia May Sign 100-Jet Airbus Order After Profit Surge
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-08-29T04:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/airasia-may-sign-100-jet-airbus-order-after-profit-surge.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest
discount carrier, may sign an order for as many as 100 Airbus
SAS aircraft at next month’s Berlin airshow after reporting an
11-fold jump in quarterly profit.  Negotiations with Airbus are going “quite well,” Chief
Executive Officer Aireen Omar said in a Bloomberg TV interview
today. The carrier would like to sign the deal in Berlin, she
said. The  show  starts Sept. 11.  AirAsia already has outstanding orders for 272 single-aisle
A320s as it adds new ventures across the region and wins
travelers with low-cost fares. The carrier’s passenger numbers
jumped 10 percent in the quarter through June and forward
bookings remain “strong,” Aireen said.  “The outlook for AirAsia remains positive,” Annuar Aziz
and Timothy Ross, analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
report today. They reiterated an overweight rating on the
airline’s stock and more than doubled their full-year earnings
per share forecast.  The carrier’s second-quarter  profit  jumped to 1.19 billion
ringgit ($381 million) from 104.3 million ringgit helped by a
1.04 billion ringgit one-time gain related to its stake in a
Thai affiliate. Net operating profit fell 3 percent to 130.9
million ringgit. The carrier lowered fees for check-in baggage
during the quarter, a move it has now reversed, Credit Suisse
said.  The  company  rose 0.6 percent to 3.57 ringgit as of 12:05
a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  trading after earlier advancing as much as
2.5 percent. The  benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index
advanced 0.1 percent.  ‘Good Demand’  The airline is in talks on an order for 50 A320s with 50
options, now-Group Chief Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes  said
in May. It plans to start new destinations while boosting
frequencies on several routes within Southeast Asia in the
second half, according to a statement yesterday.  “We’ve seen really strong, good demand,” Aireen said.
“We definitely need more new aircraft.”  The carrier has grown from its Malaysian roots to establish
budget spin-offs in countries including Indonesia,  Thailand  and
most recently the  Philippines  and Japan. It is also looking at
getting an operator’s license in Singapore, Aireen said.  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , the country’s largest long-
haul carrier, this month reported net loss that narrowed to
349.2 million ringgit in the quarter, from 526.7 million ringgit
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  