-- AMR Says Creditors May Provide Financing for Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-08-29T21:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/amr-says-creditors-may-provide-financing-for-plan.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
said a group of “substantial creditors” is interested in
providing financing for the company’s bankruptcy reorganization.  The creditors are prepared to take part in developing AMR’s
restructuring plan, the company said today in a filing in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. AMR filed for court protection on
Nov. 29.  “The negotiations with the group are an integral part of
American’s efforts to move forward to achieve the objectives of
Chapter 11,” Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR said in the filing.
“The commitments, if obtained, will facilitate the proposal and
confirmation of a chapter 11 plan.”  The ad hoc group of bondholders does not hold a seat on
American’s unsecured creditors committee, which has a voice in
decisions made by the company in bankruptcy. Organizing together
gives those debt owners more leverage.  “The UCC has hundreds of people it has to represent,”
 Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst, said in an interview.
“Their decisions are, by simple fact, not going to represent
the voice of a large number of AMR bondholders. It’s not
surprising to see ad hoc committees get a little more vocal” if
they don’t agree with all the panel’s actions.  Previous Case  In 2007, an ad hoc group of Delta Air Lines Inc.
bondholders pressed that carrier to review a hostile  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  takeover bid that later failed.  The 10-member AMR creditor group includes J.P. Morgan
Securities,  Claren Road Asset Management LLC  and King Street
Capital Management LP, according to a letter filed with the
court. AMR agreed to pay fees of the group’s advisers and is
seeking court approval to do so.  Gerard Uzzi, an attorney for the creditor group, didn’t
respond to an e-mail or phone call seeking comment.  “It is not at all unusual for large debt holders to
express an interest in participating in the formulation of a
plan of reorganization and to potentially provide equity or
other financing as part of a plan,” said  Sean Collins , an
American spokesman. “These debt holders have a direct interest
in ensuring that AMR emerges as a healthy company.”  Largest Holder  OppenheimerFunds Inc., the largest holder of AMR municipal
debt, is part of another ad hoc bondholder group that also has
hired financial and legal advisers, people familiar with the
matter have said. The group wanted to assess American’s plan to
emerge from bankruptcy on a stand-alone basis before examining
other options, those people said in May.  Members of the ad hoc groups also have met with  US Airways ,
which has been pressing for a merger with American. Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways has secured contract agreements with
American’s  unions  that are conditioned on a combination of the
carriers.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas 
at   maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Farr  at   sfarr@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 