-- Manchester United May Sell Wayne Rooney, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-29T10:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/manchester-united-may-sell-wayne-rooney-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Rooney Out?  Manchester United striker  Wayne Rooney  fears the club is
preparing to sell him for 40 million pounds ($63.3 million), the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Rooney, who will miss about a month of action after
receiving stitches in a gash on his thigh, may be sold because
his relationship with manager  Alex Ferguson  has broken down, the
newspaper said.  The coach believes he has enough strength in attack
following the signing of  Robin van Persie  to cope without 26-
year-old Rooney, the Mirror said.  Chelsea Raid  Turkey’s Fenerbahce is planning to bid 8 million pounds for
Chelsea midfielder  Michael Essien  and is also interested in his
teammate  Raul Meireles , the  Daily Mail  reported.  Chelsea may sell because it’s trying to balance its books,
the newspaper said.  Right Price  Newcastle will only consider selling first-team players
like Cheick Tiote, Fabricio Coloccini or Yohan Cabaye if it
receives huge offers, the  Independent  reported.  The three have been linked with moves away from St. James’s
Park and manager  Alan Pardew  would only consider a sale if he’s
offered more than 20 million pounds for one of his top players,
the newspaper said.  Spurs Plans  Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas is planning a revamp of
his squad following the sale of Luka Modric to Real Madrid, the
 Mirror reported .  Villas-Boas will use the funds raise from Modric’s exit to
fund moves for Joao Moutinho and Alan Dzagoev as well as
Fulham’s Moussa Dembele, for whom a fee was agreed yesterday,
the Mirror said.  The arrivals of the new players could see Rafael van der
Vaart and Jermain Defoe follow Modric out of north London, the
newspaper said.  Downing Change  Liverpool winger  Stewart Downing  may be converted into a
left-back by manager  Brendan Rodgers ,  the Guardian  reported.  Downing has struggled since moving to Liverpool for 20
million pounds last year and the new coach believes the England
national team player may benefit from a change of role, the
Guardian said.  “I don’t like to just give up on players,” Rodgers said,
according to the Guardian. “I always look at different ways you
can play them. Stewart has a future as an attacking player but I
have had a good chat with him on the role and he is excited
about it. That is the biggest thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  