-- Angola’s Dos Santos Heads for Vote Win as Economy Expands
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-08-30T09:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/angola-s-dos-santos-heads-for-vote-win-as-economy-expands.html
Angolan President Jose Eduardo  dos Santos  is set to extend his 32-year rule tomorrow, bolstered by
an economic boom fueled by  Africa ’s second-biggest oil industry
and a divided opposition.  In the second vote since the end of a 27-year civil war in
2002, Dos Santos’s Popular Movement for the Liberation of  Angola 
will easily win the most seats in the 220-member legislature and
earn the right to name the president, according to analysts at
 Chatham House  and  Global Insight . Four years ago, the MPLA won
82 percent.  The MPLA, under the slogan “Angola, growing more and
distributing better,” pledged to maintain the stability it
credits for spurring an economy that may expand 6.8 percent this
year, according to the  International Monetary Fund , and promised
to ease some of the world’s most severe poverty levels. A major
election debate centered on Dos Santos’s choice of Manuel Domingos Vicente, former chairman of the national  oil company ,
Sonangol EP, as his running mate over more senior MPLA members.  “The real challenge is within the party and not with the
opposition parties,” Markus Weimer, coordinator of the Angola
Forum at Chatham House, a London-based research group, said Aug.
27 by phone. “It’s more about the internal party dynamics.”  Oil producers operating in Angola, including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
 BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA (FP) , probably won’t be affected by the vote.
Angola pumps about 1.8 million barrels of crude a day, supplying
2.9 percent of U.S. imported oil in May and 16 percent of
 China ’s as of July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The election is not going to have any impact on all our
operational activities,” said Fernando Pegado, a Luanda-based
spokesman for  Exxonmobil Corp. (XOM)   Street Protests  Public discontent with the rule of Dos Santos, who turned
70 two days ago, spilled onto the streets of Luanda, the
capital, this year as mainly young protesters push for democracy
and an end to corruption.  More than half the population of about 19 million is under
18, while 54 percent of the country lived on less than $1.25 in
2009, according to  United Nations Children’s Fund .  Transparency
International  ranked Angola at 168 of 182 countries in its 2011
corruption index.  “The government has responded to those protests -– despite
their relatively small scale -– with excessive use of force,
arbitrary arrests, unfair trials, obstruction and intimidation
of journalists and other observers,” New York-based  Human
Rights Watch  said in a report last month. “Increasingly the
security forces have used unnecessary lethal force against
protesters and organizers.”  Housing Projects  While Kundi Paihama, the Minister of War Veterans,
threatened to “wipe out” those who don’t vote for the MPLA,
party members and government officials have taken a softer line,
rolling out new housing projects and a dam to increase
electricity production in recent weeks.  “We don’t hide the problems the country is facing,” Dos
Santos told thousands of supporters at a rally yesterday in
Luanda. “The MPLA studies problems, chooses the way to solve
them and explains that to the people.”  The biggest opposition party, the former rebel Union for
the Total Independence of Angola, has been campaigning about the
failure of Angola’s oil wealth, which increased foreign reserves
to a record $30.2 billion in June, to cut poverty and
unemployment.  Unita’s ability to get that message out has suffered from
the defection of Abel Chivukuvuku, a former leader who formed a
rival group, Casa-Ce, and is seeking the youth vote.  Offshore Economy  “Angola is very much a two-tiered system where you have,
on the one hand, the offshore economy with oil revenue coming in
and financial services in a sort of boom town, and on the other
side there’s poverty,” Weimer said. “It’s obvious there’s a
massive difference between rich and poor.”  The wealth gap is evident in Luanda, the world’s second-
most expensive city for expatriates, according to the  Mercer LCC
Cost of Living Index . The city has about five million residents,
many living in slums of concrete blocks, dirt floors and open
sewage drains. Angola’s life expectancy is 47 years, according
to the  World Bank . The under-5  mortality rate  is the world’s
eighth highest at 161 deaths per 1,000 children, according to
Unicef.  Unemployment is estimated around 26 percent, with the oil
sector employing about 1 percent of Angolans, according to the
 African Development Bank . While the capital bristles with
construction cranes and the government has re-opened the China-
repaired Benguela railway that runs through the central
highlands, many Angolans struggle to get an education and find
work.  ‘Increasing Restrictions’  “Jobs are for the favorites of the family of Jose Eduardo
dos Santos,” Carduso Flores, 20, who’s studying to be an
electrician, said at an Aug. 26 Unita rally in Luanda. “If you
aren’t close to the family, you might as well not be Angolan.”  Human Rights Watch described the atmosphere around the vote
as “one of increasing restrictions on the rights to freedom of
expression, association, and assembly and media freedom.”  Angola’s oil wealth ensures that the government isn’t too
concerned about international criticism of its rights record,
said Sebastian Boe, an analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London .  “The government is comfortable in the calculation that
Angolan oil production precludes significant reprisals or
sanctions,” Boe said in an e-mail.  Observer Status  The  African Union , the Southern Africa Development
Community and the Community of Portuguese Language Countries are
the only international groups with election monitors, Elias
Isaac, country director for the Open Society Initiative of
Southern Africa, a pro-democracy group funded by  George Soros ,
said by phone in Luanda.  “It’s not enough, it’s just a drop in the ocean,” he
said.  Groups such as Human Rights Watch and Open Society haven’t
been allowed to send monitors, Isaac said, while accreditation
for several embassies has been delayed.  “Some foreign missions submitted requests later than the
deadline or had insufficient documents,” Julia Ferreira, a
spokeswoman for the commission, said by telephone yesterday. The
organizing process has had “imperfections here and there,”
Andre da Silva Neto, the commission chairman, told Radio
Ecclesia in Luanda.  Dos Santos is Africa’s longest-serving ruler after
Equatorial Guinea’s president, Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo.
Both came to power in 1979. Offshore oil discoveries began to
heat up for Angola in the 1990s, fueling its coffers and
shielding Dos Santos from outside scrutiny as he shifted the
former Marxist state to a stable investment partner.  “All the external powers investing in Angola seem to want
and really value is stability and that has been provided by one
person for the last three decades,” Weimer said. “The oil
drives the boom and everyone wants to be part of that, so
they’re not going to criticize you too much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda via Johannesburg at   cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  