-- Hanwha of South Korea Wins Creditors’ Backing to Buy Q-Cells
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-08-29T16:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/hanwha-group-wins-q-cells-creditor-backing-to-buy-solar-company.html
Hanwha Group, a South Korean
industrial group, won backing from  Q-Cells SE (QCE) ’s creditors to buy
what was once the world’s biggest maker of solar cells.  Hanwha will take over most of Q-Cells under an agreement
signed Aug. 26 that won backing at a creditor meeting today in
Dessau-Rosslau, Germany, according to a Q-Cells statement.  Hanwha will pay as much as 40 million euros ($50 million)
in cash for the Thalheim-based company’s plants in Germany and
Malaysia, and sales units in the U.S., Australia and Japan, the
Korean group said Aug. 27. It will assume 850 million ringgit
($272 million) of debt guaranteed by Q-Cells Malaysia.  In April, Q-Cells filed for protection from creditors, who
chose Hanwha over Isofoton SA, a Spanish power plant developer
that offered to invest 300 million euros with the Rocket Venture
Fund.  The cash part of the sale will depend “on the volume of
additional liabilities that will have to be taken over,” Q-
Cells said in the statement. Hanwha will take on 1,250 employees
of the company’s 1,550 global workforce, Q-Cells said.  Q-Cells’s shareholders will receive neither dividends nor
other benefits from the proceeds of the sale, the company said.
Q-Cells dropped 26 percent, the most in almost five months, to
11.2 euro cents a share at the close in  Frankfurt  today, giving
it a market value of 20 million euros.  Buying Q-Cells would give Hanwha the world’s third-largest
output capacity for cells and panels, the company said Aug. 27.
It said it plans to sign a final deal in October.  German solar companies are facing lower government aid and
rising competition from  China  that has created a global glut of
panels. Q-Cells and German peers  Solon SE (SOO1) ,  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) 
and  Solarhybrid AG (SHL)  are among at least 15 producers that have
filed for protection from creditors in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  