-- Tanzania to Levy Capital Gains Tax on Proposed Barrick Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-08-30T08:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/tanzania-will-levy-capital-gains-tax-on-proposed-barrick-sale.html
Tanzania’s revenue authority said it
will require  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  to pay a 20 percent tax on any
capital gain resulting from its proposed sale of  African Barrick
Gold Plc (ABG)  to China National Gold Group Corp.  “As the tax authority, we are keenly following the
developments,” Harry Kitilya, commissioner general of the
Tanzania Revenue Authority, said in an interview on Aug. 23 in
Dar es Salaam, the country’s commercial capital. “At an
appropriate time, we shall require African Barrick to submit all
the details of the transaction to determine the amount of
capital gains to be paid.”  Barrick, the world’s biggest producer of the metal, said
Aug. 16 it’s in talks with the state-owned Chinese company about
its 73.9 percent stake in African Barrick, the largest gold
miner in Tanzania. U.K. takeover and merger regulations restrict
London-listed Barrick from making any comment,  Andy Lloyd , the
company’s spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  Tanzanian lawmakers on Aug. 23 amended the country’s Income
Tax Act to include the sale of shares and securities among items
on which a capital gains tax can be imposed. Previously, the tax
was levied on land and buildings at a rate of 10 percent for
residents and 20 percent for non-residents.  Laws Amended  The East African nation’s government is currently in court
seeking $196 million in capital gains tax following Moscow-based
ARMZ Uranium Holding Co.’s acquisition last year of Perth,
Australia-based Mantra Resources Ltd., whose Tanzanian unit owns
the Mkuju River uranium project. The tax was imposed based on
the fact the mine is sited on land in Tanzania, according to the
revenue authority.  Tanzania changed the tax laws to include gains made from
selling shares or securities in a local company “to counteract
the current tax avoidance practice of selling local companies
through overseas holding companies,” according to the Finance
Act 2012, signed by Finance Minister William Mgimwa on June 13.  African Barrick, whose shares trade on the Dar es Salaam
Stock Exchange, has its primary listing on the London Stock
Exchange. Barrick, its parent company, is based in Toronto.  Tanzania, which vies with  Mali  to be  Africa ’s third-biggest
producer of gold after  South Africa  and  Ghana , is seeking to
benefit more from its resources. Mines Minister Sospeter Muhongo
has urged companies to target breaking even in at most five
years and then start paying tax.  ‘Government Interests’  Lloyd referred a question about why Barrick may withdraw
from Tanzania to the company’s Aug. 16 statement.  “Barrick has adopted a renewed focus on maximizing
 shareholder value  through a disciplined capital allocation
program which includes optimizing Barrick’s portfolio of assets
and maximizing returns on investment and free  cash flow ,” the
company said. “The preliminary discussions relating to ABG form
part of this program.”  Ally Samaje, the acting mines commissioner in the Mines
Ministry, said the government’s consent for any takeover by
China National would hinge on whether the tax is paid.  “The discussions are still at a preliminary stage, but we
shall ensure that government interests are protected, and that
government gets what it is supposed to get from the deal,” he
said by phone from  Dar es Salaam  today. “The good thing is that
the law has now been amended to clearly state shares too.”  Taxes Paid  Tanzania’s registrar of titles or companies will only allow
a transfer upon notice of payment of the tax, or that no tax is
to be paid, according to the Income Act.  African Barrick has paid taxes and royalties of 256 billion
Tanzanian shillings ($163 million) from its Bulyanhulu mine
between 1998 and 2011, according to information from the Mines
Ministry. The company has paid 18 billion shillings from
Buzwagi, 125.6 billion shillings from North Mara and 105 billion
shillings from Tulawaka over the same period, the information
shows.  Barrick shares fell 1.7 percent to C$37.08 in Toronto
yesterday. African Barrick dropped 0.2 percent to 453.1 pence in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 