-- Apple Request for Samsung Injunction Set for Dec. 6
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-29T05:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/apple-request-for-samsung-injunction-set-for-dec-6.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s request for a permanent
ban on U.S. sales of some  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  mobile devices
will be considered at a Dec. 6 court hearing.  Apple is seeking a U.S. sales ban on eight models of
Samsung smartphones and a tablet computer after a federal court
jury found on Aug. 24 that Samsung infringed six of seven
patents at stake at a trial in  San Jose , California, and awarded
Apple damages of $1.05 billion. Seven of the eight smartphones
that Apple seeks to ban are part of Samsung’s Galaxy line.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh yesterday also scheduled a
hearing on Samsung’s request to lift a preliminary sales ban on
the Galaxy Tab 10.1 Tab computer for Sept. 20 if she deems it
necessary.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , won a ban on U.S.
sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in June that the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said wouldn’t significantly affect its
business. Apple, which seeks to make that prohibition permanent,
said in an Aug. 27 court filing that Koh should also bar U.S.
sales of a version of the tablet that runs on mobile networks,
even though that product wasn’t covered by the Aug. 24 verdict.  Samsung Requests  Samsung sought to have the ban on the Tab 10.1 lifted on
Aug. 26 after the jury found the device didn’t infringe the
Apple design patent on which the June 26 court-ordered sales ban
was based. The jury instead found that the Galaxy Tab 10.1
infringed three of Apple’s software patents.  Samsung asked Koh on Aug. 27 to delay the implementation of
the jury judgment until the issues of the sales bans are
resolved and the company files an appeal. Samsung isn’t required
to file a notice of appeal until 14 days after the post-trial
issues, including the sales bans, are resolved.  “Apple will suffer no prejudice from this limited stay,”
Samsung’s lawyers wrote in the filing.  Samsung said it’s prepared to post a bond for the $1.05
billion judgment, if the court requires.  No hearing has been scheduled on the delay request.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, and  Adam Yates , a
spokesman for Samsung, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment yesterday on the hearing dates.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  