-- Apple, Qualcomm Bids Spurned for Exclusive TSMC Supplies
-- B y   I a n   K i n g ,   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-29T22:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/apple-qualcomm-spurned-in-bids-for-exclusive-tsmc-chip-supply.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  were
rebuffed in separate attempts to invest cash with  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  in a bid to secure exclusive
access to smartphone chips, people with knowledge of the matter
said.  Both proposals included investments, each of more than $1
billion, for the world’s largest custom maker of chips to set
aside production dedicated to making chips exclusively for them,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
details are not public.  The two companies are trying to satisfy booming demand for
smartphones, a market estimated by to be worth $219.1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Any deal
would give Apple an alternate supplier to  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , which builds the main chip used in the iPhone and iPad and
is also its biggest rival in smartphones. Qualcomm needs to
boost supply, since shortages are starting to limit earnings.  As a supplier to Qualcomm,  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) ,  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and
other companies that no longer operate their own factories, TSMC
wants to keep the flexibility to switch its production between
customers and products. TSMC Chairman  Morris Chang  told
investors last month that he was willing to devote one or even
two factories to a single customer.  “Currently we believe we still can fund it,” Chief
Financial Officer Lora Ho said in an interview on July 19.  TSMC wants to retain control of its plants, doesn’t want to
sell part of itself and doesn’t need cash for investments, Ho
said in the interview.  Dedicated Fabrication  Qualcomm Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said in June
that he was willing to write ‘big checks’ to improve supply
shortages that have held back earnings growth this year. The San
Diego-based company is working with multiple suppliers to
improve output, he said.  TSMC doesn’t comment on negotiations with customers or
potential customers, spokeswoman Elizabeth Sun said. Apple
spokesman Steve Dowling declined to comment on whether the
company had offered cash. Clare Conley, a Qualcomm spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Apple and Qualcomm are trying to improve their position in
a supply chain where a shrinking number of companies are capable
of churning out the millions of parts needed to meet surging
smartphone demand. As they become more like computers, the
advanced mobile phones need more sophisticated processors made
with the latest production technology.  While TSMC is Qualcomm’s  biggest supplier , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, it has been successful because it
has worked with multiple customers. Dedicating one facility to a
single product or customer creates the risk of a fabrication
plant becoming a burden if the product, client or technology
changes, said Ho.  “You have to be careful. Once that product migrates, what
are going to do with that dedicated fab?” said Ho. “We would
like to keep the flexibility.”  Apple’s shares fell 0.2 percent to $673.47 at the close in
 New York , while Qualcomm gained 0.2 percent to $62.11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  