-- Argentina, Indonesia Threatened With EU Biodiesel Tariffs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-08-29T09:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/argentina-indonesia-threatened-with-eu-biodiesel-tariffs.html
The European Union threatened to
impose tariffs on biodiesel from Argentina and  Indonesia , a step
that would expand renewable-energy trade barriers following EU
import levies against the U.S.  The bloc opened a probe into whether Argentinian and
Indonesian exporters of biodiesel, a type of biofuel made from
vegetable oils and animal fats for use in  diesel engines , sell
it in the 27-nation EU below cost, a practice known as  dumping .  The investigation will determine whether biodiesel from the
two countries “is being dumped and whether the dumped imports
have caused injury to the union industry,” the European
Commission, the EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in
the  Official Journal . The commission has nine months to decide
whether to impose provisional anti-dumping duties for half a
year and EU governments have 15 months to decide whether to
apply “definitive” levies for five years.  The inquiry highlights tensions accompanying EU efforts to
increase the use of biofuels, a renewable energy from crops such
as rapeseed, corn, wheat and sugar, amid a crackdown on fossil
fuels blamed for global warming. Ethanol is another kind of
biofuel.  The EU decided in 2008 to require at least 10 percent of
land-transport energy in each member country to come from
renewable sources led by biofuels beginning in 2020. This is
part of a goal of more than doubling the total share of
renewable energy in the EU to an average 20 percent.  ADM, Cargill  In 2009, the EU hit the U.S. with five-year anti-dumping
duties on biodiesel. The bloc also applied separate anti-subsidy
levies on American manufacturers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland
Co. (ADM) , the world’s largest grain processor, and Cargill Inc., the
biggest U.S. agricultural company. The  import taxes  brought $1
billion a year of trade to a halt.  Last year, the EU raised the threat of anti-dumping and
anti-subsidy duties against bioethanol from the U.S. by opening
two probes that have yet to be completed. The subsidy inquiry
must end by Dec. 25 and the dumping investigation by Feb. 25.  The new dumping inquiry covering Argentina and Indonesia
stems from a July 17 complaint by the  European Biodiesel Board 
on behalf of manufacturers that account for more than 25 percent
of EU production of biodiesel, according to the commission,
which didn’t identify any producers. The European Biodiesel
Board represents about 50 companies including  Biopetrol
Industries AG (B2I)  in  Germany  and Diester Industrie in  France .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  