-- Arizona’s Sheriff Arpaio Must Face Lawsuit, Court Says
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-29T19:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/arizona-s-sheriff-arpaio-must-face-lawsuit-court-says.html
Joe Arpaio, the sheriff of  Arizona ’s
Maricopa County, must face claims he violated the constitutional
rights of the owners of the Phoenix New Times, a newspaper that
has been critical of him, when they were arrested by his office
in 2007.  The owners, Michael Lacey and Jim Larkin, sued in 2008
claiming, based on free speech arguments, that their due process
rights were violated. They also argued they were falsely
arrested and targeted for selective prosecution.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  today rejected a
lower court’s decision granting Arpaio qualified immunity on
those claims, sending it back for reconsideration. The appeals
court agreed with the dismissal of malicious-prosecution and
racketeering claims.  “No warrant for Lacey’s or Larkin’s arrest had been
issued, and we cannot fathom what exigent circumstances
compelled either arrest,” the appeals court wrote.  Lisa Allen, a spokeswoman for Arpaio’s office, said in an
e-mail today that the sheriff “is in Tampa at the Republican
Convention and is unavailable for comment on this at this time.
Upon his return, I’m certain he will review the court’s
decision.”  A trial that concluded this month against Arpaio focused on
claims by Latinos that their civil rights were violated when
they were stopped, detained, questioned or searched by sheriff’s
office agents in Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix. No
verdict has been issued yet.  Latino Residents  The five named plaintiffs in that case claim Arpaio’s
deputies discriminated against Latino residents, particularly in
traffic stops. The case is backed by the  American Civil
Liberties Union  and the Mexican Legal Defense and Education
Fund.  The closing arguments in that case were made Aug. 9
following a seven-day trial in federal court in Phoenix that was
heard without a jury. Arpaio’s attorneys said there was “no
evidence of discriminatory intent” in any of the traffic stops
highlighted in trial testimony.  The appeals case is Lacey v. Arpaio, 09-15703, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The civil
rights case is Melendres v. Arpaio, 07-02513, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  