-- Harman’s JBL, Nokia Plan Mobile Speakers for New Lumias
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-08-29T14:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/harman-s-jbl-nokia-plan-mobile-speakers-for-new-lumias.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , set on Sept. 5 to unveil
smartphones that use  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 8 software,
is teaming up with audio-electronics maker JBL on a wireless
speaker to tap into the lucrative accessories market.  JBL, a unit of  Harman International Industries Inc. (HAR) , and
Nokia will develop speakers equipped with Bluetooth and near
field communication, or NFC, wireless technologies, Hans Henrik
Lund, head of accessories at the mobile-phone maker, said in an
interview. Speakers will come in a variety of colors, including
“bold” yellow, as Nokia sticks to coordinating device and
accessory design, Lund said.  Nokia isn’t revealing details about the next generation of
its Lumia smartphones before introducing them next month in
competition with new versions of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. Nokia has
offered NFC, which lets devices at short distances transmit data
such as so-called mobile wallet electronic payments or music and
games, on some phones since 2006, including the current Lumia
610 model.  “One of the areas growing really fast is headphones,”
Lund said in a phone interview from Nokia headquarters in Espoo,
 Finland . “With Apple, they became a fashion element for
consumers. The next category for fans is portable speakers
because you want to bring the music with you.”  Sales Targets  Items such as headsets and speakers are profitable for both
manufactures and retailers, Lund said. U.S. mobile-network
 operators  set revenue targets for sales employees to push the
products to each phone buyer, and “that tells you about the
importance of accessories in general,” he said.  “Our channel partners make a bundle of profit from
accessories,” Lund said. “I’m not here to sell accessories,
I’m here to differentiate Lumia and the Lumia experience at
retail.” He declined to specify the price of the JBL speakers,
which will be rolled out when the new smartphones go on sale.  Mobile accessories are typically “very high margin”
products, said Michael Morgan, a New York-based analyst at  ABI
Research . The global market for mobile speakers is expected to
soar to $1.2 billion by 2017 from $459 million in 2010, boosted
by the rapid growth of smartphones, he said.  New Lifestyle  “The age of the three-foot speaker in the living room is
fading away,” Morgan said. “Today’s products are smaller and
targeted for the emerging mobile-urban lifestyle.”  Harman  rose  as much as 0.5 percent to $45.94 and was
trading up 0.2 percent at 10:38 a.m. in  New York . Shares of the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based audio-equipment maker have gained 20
percent this year. Nokia  dropped  7.6 percent in Helsinki, paring
a decline of as much as 8.4 percent earlier in the day.  Nokia already offers a speaker set equipped with NFC, which
can be activated by tapping devices together, as well as
Bluetooth, which allows data communication at as much as 10
meters.  “NFC technology will be supported by Windows Phone 8 and
is of growing importance due to future wallet, e-commerce and
other transactional applications,” Sami Sarkamies, a Nordea
Bank AB analyst in Helsinki. “I expect Nokia’s new Lumias to
include it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  