-- Australian Dollar Near One-Month Low Amid Growth Concerns
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-08-29T06:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/australian-dollar-near-one-month-low-amid-growth-concerns.html
Australia’s dollar traded 0.3
percent from a one-month low amid concern slowing global growth
is weighing on the country’s economy.  The so-called Aussie remained lower versus the yen
following a five-day slide before data this week that analysts
predict will show a drop in building approvals. A report today
showed construction work completed fell in the second quarter.
The Australian and New Zealand dollars were supported after
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said yesterday the
region’s rescue fund is ready to aid Spanish banks, increasing
demand for higher-yielding assets.  “Downward pressure on the Aussie can probably continue
today,” said Peter Dragicevich, a currency economist in Sydney
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “If the domestic numbers are
weaker than expected that would weigh on the Aussie.”  Australia’s dollar was at $1.0378 as of 4:33 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0377 yesterday, when it reached $1.0345, the lowest
since July 26. It was little changed at 81.50 yen, after falling
2 percent over the past five days.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, traded at 80.53
U.S. cents from 80.46. It touched 80.34 yesterday, the weakest
since July 27. The currency fetched 63.25 yen from 63.17.  Building Permits  Australian  building approvals  probably dropped 5 percent in
July from a month earlier after falling 2.5 percent in June,
according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . A separate
report may show  business investment  growth slowed to 3 percent
in the second quarter, following a 6.1 percent increase in the
first three months of the year.  Data published today by the statistics bureau showed
construction work completed fell 0.2 percent in the three months
through June, compared with a revised 7.8 percent increase in
the first quarter.  A purchasing managers’ index of manufacturing activity in
China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, probably  fell  to 50
in August from 50.1 the previous month, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the data are
published on Sept. 1. The 50 level is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  Renewed China concern has also reduced the attractiveness
of the Aussie dollar given the increasing dependency of
Australia on the world’s second-largest economy, Mitul Kotecha,
head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB
in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note to clients today. The currency is
“vulnerable to higher  risk aversion ,” he wrote.  Monthly Performance  The Australian currency has fallen 2.5 percent in the past
month, the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The New
Zealand dollar weakened 2 percent over the same period, the
second-biggest loser.  Australia’s government bonds  were  little changed, with the
yield on the 10-year security at 3.19 percent. The rate touched
3.17 percent yesterday, the lowest since Aug. 3.  The South Pacific currencies were supported amid
speculation the  European Central Bank  may be preparing a bond-
buying program. ECB President  Mario Draghi  canceled his trip
this week to the  Federal Reserve ’s annual symposium in Jackson
Hole,  Wyoming , to prepare for the central bank’s next meeting in
 Frankfurt  on Sept. 6.  “Market reaction seems to suggest that people think Draghi
is preparing for next week’s ECB meeting and he’s looking to
announce something major,” Commonwealth Bank’s Dragicevich
said.  Van Rompuy  damped speculation that Spain will need a full
rescue at a joint news conference with Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  in Madrid yesterday.  “Spain already has a large program to restructure its
financial sector, which deals with the most acute economic
challenge,” he said. Spain could tap other types of aid “if
financial markets’ defiance persists.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net 
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  