-- Australian Winnebago to Appeal Ban of Use of Trademark
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-08-29T02:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/australian-winnebago-to-appeal-ban-of-use-of-trademark.html
A Knott Investments Pty unit said it
will appeal an Australian court ruling last month barring the
company from using the Winnebago name associated with the U.S.
maker of motor homes.  “Ours is a family-owned business that has been trading as
Winnebago since we first acquired the business name in  Australia 
in 1978,” Ben Binns, director of Knott’s Winnebago (Australia)
unit, said in an e-mail today. “We truly believed we were able
to use the Winnebago name in Australia given the written
agreement we had.”  Winnebago Industries Inc., (WGO)  the U.S. maker of motor homes,
won a July 30 court order prohibiting Knott from using the
Winnebago name in Australia, as it has been doing for at least
30 years. Federal Court of Australia Justice Lindsay Foster  said
 at the time that Knott founder Bruce Binns “intentionally
hijacked” the Winnebago name to prevent the U.S. company from
entering the Australian market.  Binns founded Emu Plains, New South Wales-based Knott in
1967 as a holding company that acquired properties for
recreational vehicle factories in Australia. The manufacturing
company, Freeway Camper Co., failed and was liquidated in 1977,
Foster wrote.  Knott then began manufacturing recreational vehicles and
selling them under the Winnebago name, either in 1978 according
to Binns, or 1982, according to Winnebago, Foster said.  Knott applied for, and received,  registration  of the
Winnebago name as a trademark in Australia in 1997. Foster
ordered the registration to be canceled.  The case is Winnebago Industries Inc. v. Knott Investments
Pty. NSD1355/2010. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  