-- Australia EU Link Makes Carbon-Market Theory Real, Marcu Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-08-29T12:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/australia-eu-link-makes-carbon-market-theory-real-marcu-says.html
The proposed linking of the European
Union and Australian greenhouse-gas-reduction programs will
demonstrate to policy makers across the world that carbon
markets can help address  climate change , said  Andrei Marcu .  “Those who say there is no urgency are being contradicted
on the ground,” Marcu, head of the Centre for European Policy
Studies’ Carbon Market Forum in Brussels, said today in an
interview from United Nations climate talks in Bangkok. “This
is a very good signal. This is not theory any more.”  Australia  said yesterday it will allow its emitters to use
international credits including EU permits and United Nations
Certified Emission Reductions for as much as half of their
compliance needs, tightening the specific limit on UN offsets to
12.5 percent from 50 percent. The nation would scrap a floor
price of A$15 ($15.57) a metric ton set to take effect in 2015.  The two regions will start a partial link of their carbon
markets by July 2015, allowing Australian companies to purchase
European allowances immediately for future compliance, hedging
the risk that carbon permits will rise, Martijn Wilder, a
partner at the law firm Baker & McKenzie LLP in Sydney, said
yesterday by phone.  “The timing of the government’s announcement is
particularly opportunistic,” given low EU carbon prices and the
high Australian dollar, Wilder said.  EU allowances for December have dropped 43 percent in the
past year on surging supply and muted demand. They declined 0.9
percent today to 7.91 euros ($9.92) a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London as of 12:23 p.m.  United Nations Rules  Australia may link with carbon programs in  China ,  South
Korea  and  New Zealand , which could also provide the nation with
supply, Wilder said.  The EU-Australia linkage is being proposed as the UN
considers establishing rules that seek to oversee carbon markets
around the world, where at least 29 programs have started or are
being considered, according to  World Bank  figures from May.  The UN framework will attempt to prevent countries from
counting emission reductions for themselves while selling
credits in international markets, for instance, according to a
technical paper published Aug. 24 on the website of the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change.  Such so-called double counting could exceed 1 billion
metric tons of carbon dioxide by 2020 unless new rules are
introduced, according to the paper, which cited the UN
Environment Programme. The EU market’s cap this year will be 2.4
billion tons, according to an estimate by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  ‘Cookie Crumble’ Risk  The UN rules, alongside the linking proposed by Australia
and the EU are needed to help keep carbon markets from becoming
too disconnected from each other, Marcu said.  “Once the cookie crumbles, it’s very hard to put it back
together,” he said.  “Given the recent turmoil around markets, you want to
reassure that it will function well,” he said.  The 1997  Kyoto Protocol , the world’s biggest cap-and-trade
market measured by emissions covered, has targets for 37
developed nations for the five years through this year. That
market, which the U.S. didn’t ratify, is oversupplied by more
than 10 billion tons, the World Bank estimated in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  