-- Baidu Drops as Slower Growth Outlook Damps ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-29T20:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/baidu-drops-as-slower-growth-outlook-damps-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities fell in New York,
driving the benchmark index to the lowest level in three weeks,
on concern weaker sales growth at the nation’s retailers will
further drag down the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. retreated 0.6 percent to 88.90 at
the close of trading in New York.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s
largest online search engine, slid 6.2 percent after competitor
 Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  said its new search engine uses the
company’s own research. Solar maker  Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co. (YGE)  lost 5.1 percent after cutting shipment forecasts for this
year while  Tal Education Group (XRS)  tumbled to a record low.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (GMELY)  forecast a loss for
the first half before the results are due tomorrow. Chinese
sportswear seller  Li Ning Co. (LNNGF)  said Aug. 22 it shut a net total
of 952 stores in the first half to cut costs, and  Parkson Retail
Group Ltd. (PKSGY)  was cut to underweight at Barclays Plc. on slower
same-store sales growth. China’s  export  growth almost stalled in
July and factory output missed forecasts.  “There’s further downside risk for Chinese equities,”
Michael Ding, lead portfolio manager of the China Regional Fund
at U.S. Global Investors, which oversees about $2 billion, said
in a phone interview from San Antonio. “Other than banks,
earnings have been going down, retailers are the latest. It’s
very possible we’re going to see further downside revisions from
analysts.”  China ETF Slips  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 0.3 percent to $33.50.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the biggest U.S. shares rose
0.1 percent to 1,410.49, as the economy grew more than first
estimated and investors awaited Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s speech on the economy later this week.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts dropped to $113.10,
the lowest level since July 23. Qihoo, which develops computer
security and desktop software, rebounded 2 percent to $21.99
after a four-day slump.  Qihoo said its search engine, begun Aug. 16, was developed
over seven years and is based on technology for which it holds
intellectual property rights, according to a  statement  posted on
its website yesterday. Baidu, in an effort to preserve its 80
percent share in China’s online search market, started earlier
this week to redirect all search queries made through its search
engine, including those originated from other platforms such as
Qihoo’s, to its home page.  Yingli, Trina  Yingli, the world’s sixth-largest silicon-based solar
module producer, dropped to $1.85, extending its losses this
week to 4.1 percent.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the fourth-largest maker,
fell 3.5 percent to $4.75.  Yingli, based in Baoding of China’s northern Hebei
province, estimated shipments of photovoltaic panels this year
to be between 2,100 megawatts and 2,200 megawatts, down from a
May forecast of 2,400 megawatts to 2,500 megawatts, according to
its statement yesterday. The company had a loss of 573 million
yuan ($90.2 million), or 3.66 yuan an ADR, in the second
quarter, compared with net income of 375.6 million yuan, or 2.34
yuan an ADR a year earlier.  Shanghai-based  JA Solar Holdings Co. (JASO)  also cut its shipments
forecast this year to as much as 1,800 megawatts, from the
previous 2,000 megawatts. The company’s net loss doubled to
457.8 million  yuan  in the second quarter, it said in a statement
yesterday.  JA Solar’s ADRs tumbled 10 percent, the most since May 18,
to 96 cents in New York.  Stimulus Measures  “We’ve seen some pretty bad numbers recently,” Binqi Liu,
who helps manage more than $134 billion in emerging market
assets at HSBC Global Asset Management, said in a phone
interview in New York. “We’re expecting more stimulus measures.
For the next two or three quarters, markets will depend on
whether a new round of infrastructure investments and stimulus
can be effective.”  Government stimulus in the form of increased infrastructure
spending is unlikely to provide a spark for Chinese equities at
a time when Europe is in a recession and the  U.S. economy 
remains sluggish, U.S. Global Investors’ Ding said.  TAL Education, a Beijing-based after-school tutoring
services provider, plunged 13 percent to $7.30, the lowest level
since its initial public offering in October 2010.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 1 percent yesterday to
2,053.24, the lowest level since February 2009. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies dropped 0.5 percent
to a one-month low of 9,470.46.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  