-- Banker Bonuses at Risk as EU Lawmakers Fight Barnier Plans
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-08-29T16:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/banker-bonuses-at-risk-as-eu-lawmakers-fight-barnier-compromise.html
European Union lawmakers said they
will fight proposals from EU Financial Services Commissioner
 Michel Barnier  that would water down legislation capping banker
bonuses.  European Parliament members have until the end of the week
to respond to Barnier’s compromises, which would weaken a ban
they approved in May on bonuses larger than  bankers (SX7P) ’ fixed pay,
 Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the assembly’s economic and
monetary affairs committee, said in an interview.  “I’m not expecting there has been a big change of views”
on the need for the curbs, Bowles said. Philippe Lamberts, the
lawmaker leading the work on the measures for the parliament’s
Green group, said in an Aug. 27 interview that he would be
“amazed” if the assembly backed down.  Bankers are facing a backlash from EU lawmakers determined
to cut variable pay as part of a quest to reshape lenders as
utilities rather than money-making machines. The regulatory push
comes as public outrage and shareholder rebellions this year
forced some banks, including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , to
retreat from their initial pay plans.  The cap, part of draft legislation implementing capital
levels called for by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
has become a sticking point in the assembly’s negotiations with
national governments ahead of global regulators’ deadline of
Jan. 1, 2013, to implement the rules.  Way Forward  As an alternative to Parliament’s plan for a bonus cap,
Barnier said in June that shareholders should have to vote on
the ratio between fixed and variable pay.  “The commission thinks that making shareholders
responsible for remuneration is a way forward in the current
negotiations,” Stefaan De Rynck, Barnier’s spokesman, said in
an e-mail today.  Barnier “is personally not against a cap but has proposed
empowering shareholders in a spirit of compromise,” De Rynck
said. “We now need to decide rapidly on the outstanding
questions” in the draft law.  Commission officials and representatives of Cyprus, which
holds the rotating presidency of the EU, are scheduled to meet
with lawmakers to discuss the proposals Sept. 5.  Lawmakers are still likely to give ground on the bonus
curbs in the final version of the Basel law,  Richard Reid ,
research director for the London-based International Centre for
Financial Regulation, said in an e-mail.  Experience with other regulation shows that imposing “a
single or simple solution to very complex and varied situations
is very difficult and of course may ultimately prove almost
impossible to enforce,” Reid said.  “This problem will have to be recognized with regards to
bankers’ bonuses,” Reid said. “Some kind of compromise will
have to be found.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  