-- Bank of Japan Out of Ammunition for Deflation Fight, Motani Says
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-08-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/bank-of-japan-out-of-ammunition-for-deflation-fight-motani-says.html
More easing by the  Bank of Japan 
would do little to counter falling prices and spur growth,
according to economist Kosuke Motani, the author of a best-
selling book on the nation’s deflation woes.  The theory that monetary policy can overcome deflation is
“just like a religion” for neoclassical economists, Motani,
48, of the Japan Research Institute, a private think-tank, said
in an interview in Tokyo this week. “They insist if money is
supplied sufficiently, deflation won’t occur. But that’s not the
case for Japan.”  Ruling and opposition lawmakers are urging the central bank
to do more to help the nation overcome more than a decade of
falling prices. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa argues that
monetary policy alone cannot solve the problem of weak demand in
the world’s third-largest economy.  Japan  is in “non-monetary deflation,” says Motani, who
wrote “The Real Face of Deflation,” which has sold more than
500,000 copies since publication in 2010, according to publisher
Kadokawa Shoten Co.  Demand for goods is declining due to a shrinking working-
age population, while the level of supply is maintained because
automation helps productivity and keeps production levels high,
resulting in falling prices, he said. Companies are hesitant to
pass on higher fuel costs by charging more for their goods, and
consumers aren’t spending money from their savings, he said.  “The BOJ has exhausted its ammunition,” Motani said.
“So, no matter what the BOJ does from now, it will have little
effect on non-monetary deflation.”  Asset Purchases  Japan’s central bank deployed so-called quantitative easing
a decade ago, buying bonds and other assets to support market
prices and stimulating the economy through low  interest rates .
Now, with benchmark borrowing costs near zero, the primary
policy tool is an asset-purchase fund.  Takeshi Miyazaki, a  Democratic Party  of Japan lawmaker and
a leader of the ruling party’s anti-deflation group, said in
April that the central bank should pursue “bold and large-scale
monetary easing.”  Instead of monetary stimulus, Japan should raise the
minimum wage and tackle the aging population problem, including
by increasing incentives for people to have babies, Motani said.  “Foolish companies, which cannot innovate and swallow
monetarists’ assertion that deflation is caused by the BOJ, will
disappear and will die,” Motani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in  Tokyo  at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  