-- Barclays Faces U.K. Criminal Probe Over Qatar Payments
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-08-29T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/barclays-said-to-face-possible-u-k-sfo-probe-over-qatar-fees.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  faces a criminal probe
into fees it paid in 2008 to Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund as
the bank sought to raise money to avoid a government bailout.  The  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecutes bribery and
white-collar crime, told the London-based bank it has
“commenced an investigation into payments under certain
commercial agreements between Barclays and Qatar Holding LLC,”
the lender said yesterday in a statement.  The investigation is another legal pitfall for Britain’s
second-biggest lender by assets after it paid U.S. and U.K.
authorities a record 290 million pounds ($459 million) in June
for manipulating the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
and related interest benchmarks. The case led to the
resignations of three top Barclays executives, including Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond .  “It’s an uncomfortable regulatory environment right now,”
Sara George, a financial regulation lawyer at Stephenson Harwood
LLP in London, said yesterday in a phone interview. “The public
appetite for these kind of actions has never been stronger.”  Prosecutors are working with the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, Britain’s finance regulator, which is conducting a
civil investigation into whether the bank adequately disclosed
fees it agreed to pay the Qatar Investment Authority, according
to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified because the discussions between the agencies are
confidential.  David Jones , an SFO spokesman, and a spokesman for the QIA
declined to comment. Shares of the bank fell 1.4 percent to
186.35 pence in London trading yesterday.  FSA Probe  Barclays disclosed the FSA probe into the payments last
month and said that four current and former senior employees,
including Finance Director Chris Lucas, were being investigated
by the regulator.  Barclays raised 7 billion pounds of capital from investors
including the Abu Dhabi and Qatar sovereign wealth funds after
the financial crisis began in 2007. The move allowed the bank to
avoid a government bailout, unlike  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   “The FSA is investigating the sufficiency of disclosure in
relation to fees payable under certain commercial agreements and
whether these may have related to Barclays capital raisings in
June and November 2008,” the lender said in a statement on July
27.  On the same day, Barclays Chairman Marcus Agius said on a
call with journalists that Lucas’s name was deliberately
disclosed by the bank as the information was potentially market-
moving, and that investigations such as this occur
“routinely.” He said the board retained “full confidence” in
Lucas.  ‘Difficult Time’  “It’s perfectly normal to pay fees to internal bankers,
lawyers and external bankers to look at fairness. This was a
difficult time in the market,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based analyst at  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)  “The concern is if some
third party was paid a fee for an introduction which was not
adding genuine value.”  The FSA is reviewing whether disclosure statements made in
June 2008 about the capital raising was adequate.  The Qatar payments probe follows a series of global
investigations into wrongdoing at some of the U.K.’s largest
banks.  Standard Chartered  agreed on Aug. 14 to pay $340 million to
settle allegations by  New York ’s banking superintendent that it
laundered $250 billion for  Iran .  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , which is
under investigation by U.S. regulators for laundering funds of
sanctioned nations including Iran and  Sudan , is in talks to
settle the matter, people familiar with the case have said. The
bank made a $700 million provision in July for any U.S. fines.  Libor Probes  At least seven banks are under civil investigation by the
FSA for attempts to manipulate Libor and the SFO opened a
criminal probe into the matter in July. Barclays admitted to
attempting to rig rates to benefit its own derivatives trades
and to appear healthier during the financial crisis.  Regulators, including the FSA, and prosecutors are still
investigating former Barclays employees in the Libor case.  At least seven authorities, including the  U.S. Department
of Justice , European Commission and Canadian Competition Bureau,
are investigating whether banks manipulated  interest rates  after
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission first opened the
probe in late 2008.  The U.S. has a separate investigation into whether
financial firms used improper payments to sovereign wealth funds
to win investments during the financial crisis.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission opened a broad
investigation in January 2011 involving several financial firms
to determine whether they made improper payments to secure
investments from sovereign wealth funds, four people familiar
with the matter said at the time. That probe focuses in part on
whether banks,  hedge funds  and private-equity firms paid
placement agents to win access to the state-owned money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  