-- Battle for Yuan Supremacy Fuels Hong Kong Banker Rivalry
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-08-30T07:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/battle-for-yuan-supremacy-fuels-hong-kong-banker-battle.html
Leo Lo, co-founder of a  Hong Kong 
apparel maker whose customers have included  Baby Dior , said he
was surprised when five senior bankers visited his office this
year in an industrial district of Kowloon offering to buy lunch.  Last year, companies such as his had to chase after the
banks, only got access to lower-level executives, and meals
usually went on clients’ tabs, Lo said. Now, lenders are
pursuing him to offer loans, trade-settlement, hedging and
investment opportunities in the Chinese currency as they vie for
a bigger piece of Hong Kong’s expanding market for the yuan,
also known as  renminbi .  “Banks are under pressure to compete,” said the chief
executive officer of  Wenlo’s Apparel Manufacturer Ltd ., who
rejected entreaties from  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11)  and
 Standard Chartered (2888)  Plc in favor of his three usual banks, which
he declined to name. “They’re getting ready for the race. They
know that renminbi is their future.”  As the world’s second-largest economy uses Hong Kong as a
testing ground for currency convertibility by allowing banks to
offer limited services in yuan, lenders are stepping up
competition for that business. Apart from courting companies,
they’re raising  interest rates  to draw depositors, hiring staff,
holding investor roadshows, boosting underwriting of bonds,
increasing lending and creating investment products.  Their increasingly fierce rivalry, coupled with a low
interest-rate environment, has meant slowing profit expansion at
banks operating in Hong Kong. That makes finding new revenue
streams critical to maintaining growth.  Growing Business  “This is a growing business,” said Alex Cheung, managing
director of institutional banking for Singapore-based  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  in Hong Kong, whose  yuan  business contributed to
24 percent of the local unit’s revenue in the three months to
March, up from a quarterly average of 17 percent last year. “If
you don’t do this, you will definitely lose out.”  Sales of so-called Dim Sum bonds, or yuan-denominated notes
issued in Hong Kong by companies to fund expenses and expansion
in  China , is forecast to more than double to 300 billion yuan
($47.2 billion) this year. Last year’s 152 billion yuan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, compares with HK$230
billion ($29.7 billion) in Hong Kong-dollar debt  issued  by
private companies in the same period.  Dim Sum loans may also jump twofold to 60 billion yuan as
firms seek to tap lower borrowing costs in Hong Kong to pay for
manufacturing expenses in the mainland, where interest rates are
higher.  Top Three  The renminbi may become one of the world’s top three
global-trade currencies in the next five years, according to
 HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  As much as 50 percent of China’s trade is
expected to be settled in the currency by 2015, up from 10
percent in the first quarter of this year, the lender said.  Banks operating in Hong Kong are vying for a larger piece
of that business. They managed 571.2 billion yuan in offshore-
renminbi trade in the first quarter, up from less than 50
billion yuan two years ago, according to the  Hong Kong Monetary
Authority .  “When the market first emerged, banks were testing the
water only, but they are more aggressive now,” said Ivan Li,
deputy head of research at Kim Eng Securities Hong Kong Ltd.,
citing the “huge potential” of the market. “Their business
size has become much bigger, and they are keen to expand that
further.”  Banks’ net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, has shrunk for the last five years, the Monetary
Authority said in its  annual reports . The margin narrowed to an
average of 1.25 percent last year from 1.87 percent in 2007.  Crowded Field  In the same period, 16  foreign lenders  won approval to
operate in Hong Kong, according to the city’s de facto central
bank. The number of banks competing to underwrite yuan bonds in
Hong Kong almost tripled to 38 in 2011, from 14 the previous
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  First-half  profit growth  of the local unit of DBS slowed to
20 percent from 40 percent a year earlier, while Hong Kong-based
Hang Seng Bank’s  profit expansion  slowed to 14 percent from 17
percent a year earlier.  Banks have been holding investor roadshows and education
seminars to promote yuan use for trading or raising capital
through Dim Sum bonds.  Standard Chartered , which earned 23
percent of its pretax profit last year from Hong Kong and
doesn’t break out earnings from renminbi operations, in June
completed a five-month roadshow in Japan, China, South Korea and
Taiwan for about 800 companies and investors. It was the bank’s
biggest, said Joyce Li, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman.  Competitive Edge  The goal is to keep clients current on trends, regulatory
changes and new products and services, according to John Tan,
head of global markets at Standard Chartered’s Hong Kong unit.  “We are not extremely concerned about competition, but we
are keen to maintain our competitive edge in the long run,” Tan
said. “It’s like car racing. One needs to be aware of the road
condition and positions of other racers, but getting his own
wheels in control is more important.”  Banks have been adding staff and creating teams for yuan
operations. A “large number” have hired or relocated employees
to Hong Kong in the past three years, as well as to  London ,
which has also emerged as an offshore renminbi center and is
setting up banking services in the currency, said Louisa Wong,
founder and executive chairman of executive-search firm  Bo Le
Associates . She didn’t provide specifics.  HSBC this year appointed Paul Gooding to head its European
renminbi business from its London headquarters after hiring
Candy Ho as its Hong Kong-based head of Asia’s renminbi business
development last year.  ‘Massive Growth’  “We’ve seen a massive growth in the renminbi offshore
business and the hiring of professionals,” said Pallavi Anand,
director of recruiting firm  Robert Half International Inc. (RHI)  in
Hong Kong. “The hiring outlook is looking fantastic because the
renminbi business is hiring, and the activity here in Hong Kong
is really looking very positive.”  HSBC, Standard Chartered, and  Australia  & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. have been strengthening renminbi operations
in  Shanghai  and London, Anand said. The banks declined to
disclose related hiring figures. The “maximum demand” for
bankers is from Chinese lenders, which are moving staff from
Shanghai and Beijing to Hong Kong, she said.  “We expect to see a rising trend of Chinese banks hiring
more aggressively as compared to their foreign and international
counterparts,” she said.  Shares of HSBC dropped 1 percent in Hong Kong trading as of
3 p.m. local time while Standard Chartered fell 1.4 percent.
The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  declined 1.3 percent.  Deposit Battle  Deposits are another battle arena in the renminbi market,
as the funds underpin lending in the currency. Savings in yuan
made up 9 percent of the city’s total as of June, according to
Hong Kong Monetary Authority  data .  Savings in yuan surged in Hong Kong after China began
allowing companies in July 2009 to settle transactions in its
currency instead of U.S. dollars, and climbed more than 27-fold
in five years to a record 627.3 billion yuan last November,
Monetary Authority data show.  Those  funds  have since shrunk to about 558 billion yuan at
the end of June as expectations of the currency’s appreciation
receded and discouraged individuals from tapping the 20,000
yuan-a-day purchase limit allowed in the city.  Andy Ji, a Singapore-based foreign-exchange strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , cut his yuan-gain projection in
July to 6.30 per dollar by the end of the year from 6.07. Ji’s
estimates were the most accurate over the last six quarters,
according to Bloomberg Rankings. Its current value of 6.35 to
the U.S. dollar is down almost 1 percent this year, the most
since the currency was allowed to fluctuate within a narrow
range in July 2005. It appreciated 4.7 percent last year.  Raising Rates  To attract yuan savings, HSBC raised the cap of its
preferential interest rate on three-month renminbi deposits four
times in the first half of the year to 3 percent from 1.1
percent, according to Yvonne Chuang, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman. Standard Chartered increased the three-month rate
three times to 2.5 percent, Li said.  Banks in Hong Kong won approval on July 25 to allow  non-
residents  to buy an unlimited amount of yuan. They’re also
issuing certificates of deposit: issuance jumped almost 21-fold
to 118.1 billion yuan in the first quarter from 5.7 billion yuan
at the end of 2010, Monetary Authority data show.  “Without deposits, banks won’t have the firepower to
lend,” Li at Kim Eng Securities said. “This is why competition
for yuan deposits is obvious and intense.”  Yuan deposits are expected to continue to grow. They may
reach 1.5 trillion yuan by 2015, ANZ estimated in June.  Pursuing Businesses  Banks also have been pursuing businesses more aggressively
for their yuan holdings. Sitoy Group Holdings Ltd. of Hong Kong,
which makes handbags for Coach Inc. and Prada SpA in China, was
approached for its renminbi deposits by more than five banks
over the past year, said Chief Financial Officer Yu Chun-kau,
39. DBS, Hong Kong-based Wing Hang Bank Ltd. and Wing Lung Bank
Ltd. were among them.  “Most of them didn’t have a relationship with us before,”
he said, adding that they sought to sell tailor-made yuan trade-
settlement services and better rates for corporate deposits.
“We didn’t take the offer, though. We’ve been banking with HSBC
and Hang Seng Bank for more than 20 years, and they also have
this service.”  Some businesses are taking the bait.  Elite Sino Holdings
Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based denim-jean and dress manufacturer for
Topshop, Mango and  French Connection UK  with $10 million in
annual revenue, recently closed its account at Hang Seng Bank
and switched to  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  (Asia)
Ltd., the local unit of China’s largest lender.  Chinese Advantages  “ ICBC Asia ’s Chinese connections are very important,”
said Raymond Kam, 35, director of Elite Sino, which also has
accounts at DBS and Standard Chartered. “While HSBC and
Standard Chartered have many branches here in Hong Kong, if we
need any support in China, mainland banks can help us faster.”  DBS had 3 percent of Hong Kong’s market for yuan deposits,
or 15 billion yuan, as of the end of 2011, according to Hong
Kong CEO Sebastian Paredes. Standard Chartered, HSBC and ICBC
(Asia) don’t report similar figures.  Bank of China  (Hong Kong)
Ltd., which has been the city’s sole  yuan-clearing bank  since
2003, is estimated to hold the majority of yuan deposits,
according to Kim Eng’s Li.  “I think Chinese banks have advantages over foreign banks
in the offshore-yuan market,” said Li, citing their
relationships with mainland firms looking to do transactions
outside of China. “Foreign banks need to put in extra effort to
get the business.”  Overseas Presence  Standard Chartered’s Tan said the London-based bank is
well-positioned against Chinese competitors.  “Many Chinese companies want to follow the ‘going out’
strategy and expand outside of China in the next few years, and
their destinations fall into our  footprints ,” he said.
“Chinese banks are still establishing their overseas presence,
and it takes time to build such presence.”  Bank of China Ltd., based in Beijing, was the top-ranked
underwriter of Dim Sum bonds from 2008 to 2010 before it was
edged out of the top two positions by HSBC and Standard
Chartered last year. HSBC accounted for almost a quarter of the
market in 2011, followed by Standard Chartered’s 12 percent and
BOC’s 10 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Competition to manage those sales has escalated, with the
number of underwriters from outside China and Hong Kong climbing
to 26 last year, from two in 2009, the data show.  Higher Premiums  Sales of Dim Sum bonds, which began in 2007, surged four-
fold last year, the data show. That growth has slowed this year
-- with first-half sales climbing 22 percent from a year earlier
to 98.2 billion yuan -- as investors demanded higher premiums
from companies to compensate for the yuan depreciation.  Still, outstanding Dim Sum bonds may more than double to
500 billion yuan this year and climb to 1.3 trillion yuan in
2015, Deutsche Bank AG, the third-biggest underwriter for such
debt last year, estimated in June.  “The FX market and Dim Sum bonds have developed a lot in
the past two years,” said Ho of HSBC. “The next step will be
the lending market.”  China’s Ministry of Commerce in October formalized rules
for foreign direct investment using yuan raised offshore,
accelerating demand for loans in the Chinese currency and
opening a new arena for banks.  Yuan Loans  Yuan loans  in Hong Kong increased to 30.8 billion yuan last
year from 1.8 billion yuan in 2010, according to the Monetary
Authority. They rose to 42 billion yuan at the end of the first
quarter. Bank of Communications Co., China’s fifth-biggest
lender, forecasts a rise to almost 60 billion yuan this year,
said Xu Chengfa, deputy general manager of the Hong Kong branch.  China is relaxing rules that could allow Hong Kong banks to
invest in stocks and bonds on the mainland using renminbi. It’s
also granting more licenses to Hong Kong banks to get them to
invest yuan in the mainland interbank-bond market.  Hong Kong, described by the city’s central banker  Norman Chan  as “the most comprehensive and competitive platform for
offshore yuan business,” may face challenges from emerging yuan
financial centers including London and Singapore, as well as
Shanghai.  A plan published in January by China’s National Development
and Reform Commission and the government of Shanghai in January
said the Chinese city would become a global center for yuan
trading by 2015, open markets wider to foreign investors and
almost triple non-currency financial transactions.  Hong Kong is also taking steps to maintain its position as
a hub for processing offshore-yuan payments. In June, policy
makers extended operating hours for the yuan-related Real Time
Gross Settlement system to 11:30 p.m. to make it more attractive
for financial institutions around the world to settle payments
through the city.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. plans to start listing securities
denominated in the Chinese currency, it said in a statement on
July 6. Meanwhile, London is pursuing more Chinese-currency
trade and investment. HSBC in April managed the sale of 2
billion yuan of Dim Sum bonds in London, the city’s first.  “The next three years are crucial,” Standard Chartered’s
Tan said. “If Hong Kong can make good use of this opportunity
by ensuring a smooth sail, that will strengthen our position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  