-- QPR Signs Brazil Goalkeeper Julio Cesar; Martinez Joins Bayern
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/bayern-signs-martinez-from-bilbao-dembele-completes-spurs-move.html
Queens Park Rangers signed Brazil
national team goalkeeper Julio Cesar, as defensive midfielder
Javier Martinez joined  Bayern Munich  from Athletic Bilbao.  Cesar, 32, received a four-year contract at QPR after seven
seasons with  Inter Milan , the Premier League soccer club said on
its  website . The deal is subject to Cesar receiving
international clearance and being granted a visa, the club said.  “When the opportunity to sign a player of his quality
presents itself, you have to act quickly and we’ve managed to
get the deal done,” QPR manager  Mark Hughes  said. “Not only
will we benefit from his ability, but we’ll also benefit from
his experience and winning mentality.”  Cesar helped Inter win the  Champions League  and five Serie
A titles after joining from Chievo in 2005. He’s also played 64
times for Brazil and started all five of the team’s games at the
2010  World Cup .  The transfer window for teams to buy and sell players
closes at midnight in most European countries, 11 p.m. in the
U.K., on Aug. 31. Another period is scheduled for the month of
January.  Martinez, 23, signed a five-year contract with Bayern
through 2017 after canceling his Bilbao deal, which had a 40
million-euro ($50 million) buyout clause, the German club said
on its  website  without disclosing a transfer fee.  Deutsche
Presse-Agentur  said it was a record for the Bundesliga.  Forgoing Pay  “It’s a very large sum,” Bayern Chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge said on his club’s website. “But the player has made
an indirect contribution by forgoing a large sum of his
salary.”  Martinez made more than 200 appearances for Bilbao, helping
the club reach the Europa League final last season. He also
played for the victorious Spanish national team at the 2010
World Cup and 2012 European Championship.  Tottenham completed the signing of midfielder Moussa
Dembele from Fulham after having a bid accepted two days ago.  Dembele, 25, made 74 appearances in two seasons at Fulham
after joining from Dutch club  AZ Alkmaar . Spurs didn’t disclose
terms of the transfer, with the  Daily Mail  reporting it’s worth
15 million pounds ($24 million.)  The signing ends Spurs’ yearlong pursuit of the Belgian
international, who scored five goals in 62 Premier League games.
Spurs, who sold playmaker Luka Modric to Real Madrid three days
ago, failed with a 10 million-pound bid for Dembele last year,
the Daily Telegraph reported.  “The club has plans to do lots of good things and that’s
why I want to be a part of it,” Dembele told Spurs’s website.  Goalkeeper Mark Bunn joined Norwich from Blackburn on a
two-year contract and Middlesbrough defender Joe Bennett signed
a four-year deal with Aston Villa. Stoke City made a 5 million-
pound bid for Liverpool midfielder  Charlie Adam , the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported.  AS Roma said it sent forward Bojan Krkic to AC Milan on a
season-long loan in return for 250,000 euros. Roma acquired
Bojan, 22, for 12 million euros from Barcelona in July 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 