-- Best Buy Poison Put Elusive in Schulze Offer: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-29T17:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/best-buy-poison-put-elusive-in-schulze-offer-corporate-finance.html
Best Buy (BBY)  Co. founder Richard Schulze
says his takeover offer gives the world’s largest electronics
retailer its best shot at competing with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Bondholders aren’t convinced.  Best Buy has $1.5 billion of  securities  that have a so-
called poison put, which requires the company to purchase the
notes at 101 cents on the dollar in the event of an acquisition
combined with a ratings downgrade. A total of $1 billion of that
debt is trading as much as 11 cents below that repurchase price,
indicating bondholders believe a buyout isn’t imminent.  Talks between Schulze, 71, and Richfield, Minnesota-based
Best Buy broke down on Aug. 19 and resumed two days later after
the company posted quarterly  earnings  that trailed analysts’
estimates. The retailer has been closing big-box stores and
paring jobs to generate savings for promotions and training
store employees as it struggles to convince investors that its
strategy is still relevant.  “We don’t think the credit market is putting much stock in
the transaction,” Joscelyn MacKay, a credit analyst at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.
“There are just a lot of outside issues that we think are
hurdles to get this deal done.”  Online retailers like Amazon are willing to accept lower
margins than its brick and mortar counterparts, putting pressure
on companies like Best Buy to defend market share and reduce
costs through closing stores, MacKay said.  Bruce Hight, a Best Buy spokesman, and David Reno, a
spokesman for Schulze, both declined to comment.  ‘Further Downgrades’  Best Buy’s $650 million of 5.5 percent senior unsecured
bonds due in March 2021 traded at 90 cents on the dollar to
yield 7.08 percent yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Its $350 million of 3.75 percent notes due March 2016 are at 93
cents, yielding 5.978 percent.  “Any Schulze-led buyout would require incurring a large
amount of debt that would require further ratings downgrades,”
Alexander Diaz-Matos, an analyst at the credit research firm
Covenant Review LLC, said in a telephone interview. “Even if
the bonds are rated below investment-grade by all three  ratings
agencies  prior to a buyout, it’s extremely likely given the
leverage required, a further downgrade would take place.”  Without the buyout, “you’re left without a 101 percent
change of control right and a deteriorating business,” he said.  Bond Coupons  Best Buy’s $500 million of 6.75 percent bonds due in July
2013 compensate investors for downgrades, with the  interest rate 
increasing 25 basis points for every level below junk the rating
falls until it reaches B, according to a Dec. 15, 2008,
prospectus. Those bonds are trading at 103.1 cents, from as high
as 107.3 cents on Oct. 11, Trace data show. Investors in that
debt are less concerned with buyout speculation as the maturity
date ticks closer, according to Diaz-Matos.  Once a $29 billion company, Best Buy has wiped out almost
80 percent of its market value as it lost sales to Internet-
based retailers such as Amazon.com and  discount stores  like Wal-
Mart. It posted a net loss of $1.23 billion on revenue of $50.7
billion for the year that ended in March, its first annual loss
since 1991, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Best Buy and Schulze reached an agreement Aug. 27 allowing
him to conduct due diligence and bring a fully financed,
definitive proposal to the company within 60 days. If that offer
is rejected, he must wait until January to pursue an acquisition
through other means, the company said in a statement.  Private Equity  “The board probably was frightened by the falling stock
price and felt that to cover itself it had to agree to allow Mr.
Schulze to make an offer,” Carol Levenson, an analyst at debt-
research firm Gimme Credit LLC in Chicago, said in an e-mail.
“Perhaps they are calling his bluff about his ability to raise
the cash.”  The agreement gave Schulze access to financial data that
may help him line up  private-equity  firms he needs to fund a
takeover of the company he founded more than four decades ago
and left in June.  Best Buy fell to $17.72 as of 11:09 a.m. in  New York . The
 shares  have declined 24 percent this year and trade below
Schulze’s Aug. 6 offer of as much as $26 a share, or about $9
billion. That “tells you folks don’t think it’s likely,” Noel
Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-
based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, said in an e-mail.  Like Junk  Traders already are treating some Best Buy debt like junk.
At 7.08 percent, the yield on the 5.5 percent notes due March
2021 was higher than the average yield on BB rated bonds at 5.63
percent on Aug. 28, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered Best Buy’s  credit rating  to BB+
from BBB- on Aug. 6, as a result of Schulze’s pitch. Moody’s
Investors Services gives the company a Baa2 grade, two steps
above high-yield.  “The transaction, if completed, would materially weaken
Best Buy’s credit protection metrics because we believe it will
add a significant amount of debt,” S&P analysts Jayne Ross and
Charles Pinson-Rose wrote in the note.  Even without the buyout, “management still hasn’t been
able to keep the leverage in line,” MacKay said. “This is a
company that is going south. Yes, this company is investment-
grade right now, but in 2016, this paper might be more like a
single B.”  New CEO  The average yield on single B bonds was 7.196 percent Aug.
28, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Best Buy named Hubert Joly as its new chief executive
officer on Aug. 20 to oversee a turnaround plan that entails
shifting to smaller locations in a bid to fend off rivals.  The next day, the company reported second-quarter profit
that trailed analysts’ estimates and will no longer provide an
earnings forecast as sales of computers and televisions dropped.
Excluding restructuring charges and other items, profit was 20
cents a share, the company said, missing analysts’ average
estimate of 31 cents. Revenue of $10.5 billion last quarter is
down from $11.3 billion in the same period last year.  The company’s leverage, or adjusted total debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, was 1.9
times May 5, according to the S&P rating report. That will
increase to 3.8 times after a $9 billion transaction, the rating
company wrote.  Credit Swaps  Credit swaps protecting against the company’s default for
five years have climbed to 14.3 percent upfront yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year,
meaning it would cost $1.43 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of Best Buy’s debt.  The credit-swap prices have climbed to levels implying the
debt is rated B3, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets
research group, seven steps below its actual rating. Credit
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  “It’s a very, very tough deal, especially given where the
CDS are trading,” Melissa Weiler, a  money manager  who helps
oversee $10 billion at Crescent Capital Group LP, said in a
telephone interview. “Consumers still like to go to a store to
look at and touch electronics. But the size of Best Buy stores
needs to shrink and it needs to significantly improve its
business online. It is a business that can survive, it is just
going to have to dramatically change how it operates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  