-- Blackstone Moves Market Making in Some Shares Away From Knight
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-29T20:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/blackstone-moves-market-making-in-some-shares-away-from-knight.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Genpact Ltd. (G) 
are among companies that moved eight securities listed on the
New York Stock Exchange away from market-maker  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  after the broker-dealer’s rescue earlier this month.  The  Asia Tigers Fund Inc. (GRR) , Blackstone/GSO Senior Floating
Rate Term Fund, and  DDR Corp. (DDR)  are  among  securities that were
transferred from Knight to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according
to data compiled by  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)  The changes are in keeping
with NYSE rules about avoiding conflicts of interest in the
relationship between public companies and their designated
market maker at the exchange.  Knight received a $400 million cash infusion this month by
selling convertible securities to a group of investors including
Jefferies Group Inc., Blackstone and Getco LLC after a $440
million trading loss depleted its capital. The six investors
bought preferred stock that convert to 73 percent of Knight.  “Designated market makers do not trade stocks of their
companies or their owners to avoid conflicts of interest and
potential securities law issues,” NYSE Euronext said in an e-
mailed statement. “This is a standard and common practice, and
nothing is being done differently in this case.”  Jonathan Mairs, a spokesman for  Jersey City , New Jersey-
based Knight, declined to comment on the changes.  Credit Fund  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm,
shifted market making in the  Blackstone/GSO Senior Floating Rate
Term Fund (BSL)  and Blackstone/GSO Long-Short Credit Income Fund from
Knight to Goldman Sachs on Aug. 7, according to the NYSE
Euronext website. The funds each traded less than 50,000 shares
a day on average this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, declined to
comment.  The Asia Tigers Fund Inc., a closed-end fund, switched to
Goldman Sachs from Knight on Aug. 22. The fund changed
management from Blackstone to Aberdeen Asset Management Plc last
year and has an average daily volume of less than 8,000 shares
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  DDR Corp., a real-estate investment trust based in
Beachwood, Ohio, moved its stock and three preferred securities
to Goldman Sachs on Aug. 13. DDR and Blackstone announced a
partnership earlier this year to buy 46 U.S. shopping centers
for $1.43 billion. DDR traded 3.2 million shares a day this year
on average.  Genpact Ltd., which helps companies manage business
processes, switched to Goldman Sachs on Aug. 13. General
Atlantic LLC, a private equity firm with a stake in Getco, owned
20.1 percent of Genpact, according to a July 1 government
filing. General Atlantic named a director to Knight’s board
yesterday. The stock traded a daily average of about 640,000
shares, data tracked by Bloomberg show.  Gail Marold, a spokeswoman for Genpact, confirmed in an e-
mail that the reason for the switch in market makers was NYSE’s
rule about conflicts of interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 