-- Bollywood Erotic Film is Hindi ’Body Heat’ Without Sizzle
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-08-29T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/bollywood-erotic-film-is-hindi-body-heat-without-sizzle.html
The self-appointed guardians of
 India ’s moral timber who burned porn-star Sunny Leone’s effigies
before her Bollywood debut needn’t have gone to the trouble.  The film, billed as Bollywood’s most erotic thriller yet,
is more benign than its poster that was banned from Mumbai’s
buses. The kicker? The woman in the poster isn’t even Leone.  The movie, starring Leone playing Izna, an X-rated actress,
is called “Jism 2” (jism means body in Hindi). It was meant to
open up the portrayal of sex in mainstream Indian cinema.  All “Jism 2” ends up exposing is the banality of its
makers, director-producer Pooja Bhatt and her writer-father
Mahesh Bhatt. The Bhatts, who made “Jism” in 2003, have built
a reputation as pioneers of erotica in Bollywood with a slew of
raunch-fests over the past decade.  Their failure is unfortunate because they squander a chance
to confront the hypocrisy that pervades India’s attitude toward
carnality -- though with a population of 1.2 billion, the nation
can hardly be considered frigid.  The movie begins with Izna proclaiming in a grave voice-
over: “I am a porn star.” She lets us know she is dying, which
may be a hint that it’s pointless to hope for any cinematic
illustration of her declared profession.  The inconsequential plot involves an intelligence agency
that seems to consist of just two operatives (Arunoday Singh and
Arif Zakaria), and an honest-cop-turned-terrorist played by
Randeep Hooda (Monsoon Wedding) who happens to be Izna’s former
lover.  Illicit Passion  The makers might have done well to watch Lawrence Kasdan’s
1981 classic “Body Heat”, in which Kathleen Turner and William Hurt take us on a smoldering ride through illicit passion.
Instead, we get to see Leone’s constantly heaving bosom and some
somber petting between clothed actors that isn’t a lot more
risque than a promotional video for a high-end spa.  This isn’t to say that nudity is essential for a film to be
sensual. The real problem is that the Bhatts don’t know how to
film erotica that could challenge repressive cultural mores.  Leone looks uncomfortable throughout, and displays the
emotive range of, well, an adult-movie actress.  The Indo-Canadian became famous when she became a
participant in the local version of the reality-television show
Big Brother.  When children began Googling Leone after the show, the
search results made them grow up much faster than they or their
parents may have bargained for.  Devoid of a coherent plot, gripping dialog, charismatic
actors, genuine thrills or eroticism, the movie fails to satisfy
any craving.  For that, Indians know indulging in one’s erotic fantasies
is just a few Internet clicks away.  Rating: *.  “Jism 2” is playing in India and in select theaters
worldwide.  (Pratish Narayanan writes about Indian cinema for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art,  Jason Harper 
on autos,  Richard Vines  on food and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on
technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 