-- Bourbon Swings to Profit in First Half on Higher Vessel Rates
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-08-29T06:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/bourbon-swings-to-profit-in-first-half-on-higher-vessel-rates.html
Bourbon SA (GBB) , owner of the biggest
fleet of supply and crew ships for the oil industry, swung to a
profit in the first half and said an increase in vessel rental
rates was supporting growth.  Net income of 17 million euros ($21 million) compared with
a loss of 21.4 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said today in a statement.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization climbed 27 percent to 180.8 million euros with the
addition of 22 new vessels, higher prices and a stronger dollar.  “The positive impact of the increase in average daily
rates applies to an expanding fleet,” Chief Executive Officer
Christian Lefevre said in the statement. The company has slowed
commissioning of new vessels and is cutting costs, he said.  Bourbon had forecast demand for vessels and rental rates
would improve this year to service a growing number of rigs,
platforms and wellheads. The company bolstered its ship-building
program last year in anticipation that explorers would choose
new vessels.  Under a $2 billion expansion plan, Bourbon plans to own 600
ships by 2015, up from 437 at the end of last year.  The company reported today average daily rates for vessels,
excluding crewboats, of $18,352 during the first half compared
with $17,451 a year ago and $18,000 in the last six months of
2011.  “Orders for drilling rigs due to be commissioned in the
next few years and the order books of offshore construction
companies are set to stimulate demand for vessels,” according
to today’s statement. “Demand for offshore service vessels is
predicted to increase over the next two years.”  Typhoon Haikui, which hit  China  earlier this month, delayed
the delivery schedule of 15 vessels at Sinopacific’s shipyards
in Zhejiang by five to six months, Bourbon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  