-- Brazil Arabica Coffee Crop to End in September’s 2nd Half
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-29T09:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/brazil-arabica-coffee-crop-to-end-in-september-s-2nd-half.html
The arabica coffee harvest in
 Brazil , the world’s biggest producer, will end in the second
half of September as dry weather favors pickings, according to
Cepea, a University of  Sao Paulo  research group.  Brazil is harvesting its 2012-13 crop and production will
be a record 50.4 million bags of 60 kilograms (132 pounds), the
government estimates. While the robusta crop has been completed,
rains in June delayed pickings of the arabica variety. Coffee-
growing areas will get mostly dry weather in the first days of
September, Sao Paulo-based weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia
said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  “The harvesting of the 2012-13 arabica crop is advancing
smoothly in main producing regions in Brazil,” Margarete Boteon, an analyst at Cepea, said yesterday. “The dry weather
since mid-July has been favoring field activities.”  About 80 percent of the crop has already been picked in
Cerrado Mineiro, an area of  Minas Gerais , the biggest arabica-
producing state, according to Cepea. In the Mogiana region in
the state of Sao Paulo and the southern part of Minas Gerais,
gathering is 70 percent to 80 percent done, Cepea said, citing
its own survey of growers. The quality of beans may be reduced
because of the rains, according to the report.  “Players say that lower quality may be registered in a
higher volume,” she wrote. “This scenario creates expectations
that high-quality beans might be more valued during the
season.”  Fine-Cup Beans  Fine-cup arabica beans were trading at a discount of 8
cents a pound to the price of the December contract on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York  on Aug. 23, compared with 10 cents a
week earlier, according to Flavour Coffee. Good-cup quality
beans were at a discount of 16 cents a pound on the same day,
compared with 15 cents a week earlier, data from the Rio de
Janeiro-based broker showed. Fine-cup beans are usually more
expensive because of their taste profile.  Arabica coffee is grown mainly in  Latin America  and is
favored for specialty drinks such as those made by  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  Robusta beans are harvested mainly in Asia and parts of
 Africa  and are used in instant coffee and espresso.  Robusta coffee for November delivery slid 0.2 percent to
$2,067 a metric ton by 10:02 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in  London .
Arabica coffee for December delivery was down 0.3 percent to
$1.6745 a pound on ICE in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 