-- Brazil Signals Biggest G-20 Rate Cut Near End on Recovery
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-08-30T12:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/brazil-cuts-rate-to-record-low-7-5-on-slow-economic-rebound-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank signaled a
yearlong easing of  interest rates  may have come to an end as
record low  borrowing costs  start to revive the economy. Swap
rates rose in  Sao Paulo .  Led by bank President Alexandre Tombini, policy makers
reduced the Selic rate yesterday by a half-point to 7.5 percent,
as forecast by all 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
eight-member board, in a statement accompanying its unanimous
decision, said that if there is room for an additional
adjustment, it “should be carried out with maximum parsimony.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the statement, coming as the
inflation outlook worsens and tax breaks spur “strong” demand
for durable goods, indicate that policy makers will probably
leave the benchmark rate unchanged going forward. Over the past
year, Brazil has reduced borrowing costs by 500 basis points,
more than any other Group of 20 nation.  “The door to further interest rate cuts has basically been
closed,” Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Banco Espirito
Santo de Investimento SA, said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo. “The central bank is more confident the economy is
recovering and can’t be careless about inflation.”  Since last August, Brazil has lowered borrowing costs nine
times to revive economic growth that was half the annualized
pace of the U.S. in the first quarter and is trailing Russia,
India and  China  -- its peers in the BRIC group of major  emerging
markets .  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014 rose 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 7.85 percent at 9:12
a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened 0.1 percent at 2.0528 per
 U.S. dollar .  Stimulus Working  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has also cut
taxes to spur the sale of cars and home appliances, incentives
that were extended yesterday by as much as four months.  The stimulus may be taking hold. Retail sales jumped 1.5
percent in June, surprising analysts who underestimated the pace
of buying by the most since 2008, and the central bank’s
 economic activity index  rose that month at the fastest pace
since March 2011. Vehicle sales surged to 364,196 units in July,
the most since December 2010.  ’Additional Deterioration’  While the bank hasn’t closed the door to an additional
quarter-point cut in October, as traders are betting in the rate
futures market, only an “additional deterioration” in the
global economy will prompt further action, Goldman Sachs
economist  Alberto Ramos  wrote in a report yesterday.  That’s because the  inflation  outlook is deteriorating. The
pace of consumer price increases quickened for a second month in
mid-August to 5.37 percent, as bad weather hurt crops in the
U.S. and Brazil. The IGP-M, the broadest inflation index, rose
1.43 percent in August from the month before, the biggest
increase since November 2010, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said
today.  Economists surveyed weekly by the central bank have
increased their forecast for year-end inflation for seven weeks
in a row, to 5.19 percent. They expect inflation to quicken to
5.5 percent next year.  The central bank has blamed a supply shock stemming from
the crop losses for the price increases. Tombini reiterated Aug.
17 that inflation will slow toward the bank’s 4.5 percent target
by the end of the year even as growth picks up, adding that the
convergence won’t be linear.  Future Cuts  The statement “raises the bar in terms of the scenario
required for future rate cuts,” Alvaro Vivanco, a Latin
American strategist in  New York  for  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , wrote in an e-mail response to questions. “The
debate will now shift towards the timing of a potential
initiation of hikes.”  Brazil will begin raising borrowing costs in March,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  To be sure, a slowdown in China, the No. 1 market for
Brazil’s exports, and  Europe ’s debt crisis continue to weigh on
the economy. Industrial  output  in June fell 5.5 percent from a
year ago, indicating that the tax breaks are failing to spur
sufficient demand by indebted consumers. Capital goods
production, a barometer of investment, fell 15.3 percent in June
from a year ago, further straining a sector of the economy that
has lost 10,000 jobs since October.  Growth Outlook  Economists surveyed weekly by the central bank have cut
their 2012 growth forecasts to 1.73 percent from 3.23 percent in
May. After expanding 0.2 percent in the first quarter, gross
domestic product probably expanded 0.5 percent in the April-June
period and 0.7 percent from a year ago, according to the median
estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of an Aug.
31 report. Last year  Latin America ’s biggest economy expanded
2.7 percent.  Among the companies being hurt is Sao Paulo-based  Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) , the country’s third-biggest steelmaker,
which posted its first quarterly loss in 10 years in the second
quarter on a fall in sales and a writedown in the value of its
stake in  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA .  “The economy is starting to show the first signs of
recovery,” Fernando Fix, chief economist at Votorantim Asset
Management in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview before
the central bank decision. “But it’s still fragile.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  