-- Bulgaria Signs Black Sea Exploration Contract With Total
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-08-29T12:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/bulgaria-signs-black-sea-exploration-contract-with-total.html
Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-biggest oil
company, signed a five-year contract with Bulgaria to explore
for natural gas and oil in the deep waters of the Black Sea off
the Bulgarian coast.  Total will explore for gas and oil deposits in the Khan
Asparuh block spreading over 14,400 square kilometers (5,560
square miles) near the border with Romania, Patrick Pluen,
Total’s vice president for exploration and production, told
reporters in Sofia today. Austria’s  OMV AG (OMV)  and Spain’s  Repsol
SA (REP) , as venture partners, each hold 30 percent while Total holds
40 percent, Pluen said.  “Today’s agreement is a huge step toward Bulgaria’s
diversification of energy sources,” Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  said after the signing. “It will ensure that future
generations will have access to cheaper fuel.”  Bulgaria imports all its gas from  Russia  and is seeking to
diversify supplies after they were cut for two weeks in 2009
following a price dispute between Ukraine and Russia. The
European Union’s poorest state spends as much as 1.4 billion
euros ($1.75 billion) a year on gas imports.  The Total-led venture will immediately pay a 40 million-
euro bonus to the government as part of the agreement plus
annual concession fees, Borissov said. Investments may reach as
much as 1 billion euros to fund development if gas or oil
deposits are found, Borissov said.  Exploration Costs  Total estimates exploration costs over the five years at
around 100 million euros, Pluen said. Work will include drilling
of two wells at 5,000 meters (16,405 feet) below  sea level  and
6,000 meters, Pluen said.  “It is a high-risk exploration,” Pluen said. “In our
estimates, we can find either oil or gas. There is a probability
that we’ll find significant accumulations. In the next year
we’ll acquire a seismic image of the area and then we will drill
wells and will have a better view and understanding.”  Pluen declined to give an estimate for potential deposits.
Bulgarian Energy and Economy Minister Delyan Dobrev said he
expects the natural-gas deposits to be no less than the
accumulations found in the Romanian block earlier this year.
OMV, which is exploring with a unit of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , said
in February it discovered what may be its biggest gas find in
the  Black Sea , estimated at as much as 84 billion cubic meters
in accumulations.  “The Bulgarian block is three times bigger, so we hope
these will be the minimal quantities,” Dobrev said at the same
briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  