-- Canadian Dollar Gains as U.S. Economic Growth Beats Forecasts
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-08-29T21:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/canada-dollar-appreciates-as-u-s-economic-growth-beats-forecast.html
Canada ’s dollar advanced against the
majority of its 16 most-traded counterparts after the economy of
the U.S., its largest trading partner, grew more than originally
forecast in the second quarter.  The Canadian currency traded at almost a four-month high
against the U.S. currency as riskier assets advanced after
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she’s convinced that
Italy’s “reforms” will help reduce the  interest rates  that the
nation pays for its bonds. Canada’s dollar was also supported as
the  Federal Reserve  said the  U.S. economy  continued to expand
“gradually” in July.  The growth in U.S. gross domestic product “reinforces the
view that Canada is likely to be the main beneficiary,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “The foreign-exchange market is
running ahead and buying the solid platinum loonie.”  Canada’s currency fell 0.1 percent to 98.94 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. Earlier it gained as much as 0.2
percent after touching 98.43 cents yesterday, equal to the
strongest since May 3. One Canadian dollar buys $1.01071.  Gains in the currency were limited as crude-oil futures
fell. Oil decreased 1.2 percent to $95.18 per barrel in New
York, as Hurricane Isaac made landfall in the U.S. and Group of
Seven nations said prices may threaten the global economic
recovery.  Debt Auction  The  Bank of Canada  auctioned C$2.9 billion of three-year
bonds at a 1.278 percent average yield with a bid-to-cover ratio
of 2.73. The previous auction of similar-maturity bonds on June
13 drew an average yield of 1.153 percent and a coverage ratio
of 2.47 times, compared with an average over the past five
three-year auctions of 2.46 times.  Yields on Canada’s two-year benchmark bond fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.14 percent. The 2.25
percent security rose 3 cent to C$102.09.  The Fed said in its Beige Book business survey based on
reports from its 12 districts that improvement in housing and
retail sales helped outweigh weakness in manufacturing.  U.S. GDP climbed at a 1.7 percent annual rate from April
through June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5 percent,
revised Commerce Department figures showed in Washington,
reflecting an improvement in the trade deficit and a pickup in
household spending on utilities. The revised data showed
companies invested in new equipment at the slowest pace in
almost three years.  Canadian  home-resale prices  rose 4.8 percent in July from a
year earlier, according to the Teranet-National Bank Composite
House  Price Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  