-- Canada July Industrial Product and Raw Materials Prices (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-08-29T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/canada-july-industrial-product-and-raw-materials-prices-text-.html
The following is the text of the
industrial product and raw material prices report as reported
by  Statistics Canada .  The Industrial Product Price Index (IPPI) was down 0.5% in
July compared with June. The decline was mainly attributable to
chemical products and motor vehicles and other transportation
equipment.  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) rose 0.9%, largely
because of higher prices for mineral fuels and vegetable
products.  Industrial Product Price Index, monthly change  The IPPI posted a third consecutive decrease in July,
following declines of 0.3% in June and 0.2% in May. Of the 21
major commodity groups, 3 were up while 14 were down.  Chemical products made the largest contribution to the
decline in the IPPI, mostly as a result of lower prices for
industrial chemical products (-2.5%) and fertilizers (-13.5%).
The decrease in fertilizers was led by urea.  The motor vehicles and other transportation equipment group
was pushed down by motor vehicles (-1.3%). The increase in the
value of the Canadian dollar against the US dollar in July was
partly responsible for the decline.  Some Canadian producers who export their products are
generally paid on the basis of prices set in US dollars.
Consequently, the 1.4% increase in the value of the Canadian
dollar relative to the US dollar in July had the effect of
reducing the corresponding prices in Canadian dollars. Without
the impact of the exchange rate, the IPPI would have fallen 0.2%
instead of 0.5%.  Downward pressure on the IPPI also came from primary metal
products, especially other non-ferrous metal products, aluminum
products and nickel products. In the other non-ferrous metal
products group, gold and gold alloys in primary forms and silver
and platinum were down.  Conversely, the group with the largest increase in July was
fruit, vegetable, feeds and other food products, specifically
feeds.  In July, petroleum and coal products had a negligible
impact on the IPPI.  Industrial Product Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with July 2011, the IPPI edged up 0.3%. Therefore,
the index continued its year-over-year advance, though the
growth rate has slowed in recent months.  The main contributor to the increase in the IPPI was the
motor vehicles and other transportation equipment group,
specifically motor vehicles (+5.6%). This commodity group has
not experienced a year-over-year decline since September 2011.  The 5.8% year-over-year decline in the value of the
Canadian dollar against the US dollar contributed to the index’s
advance. Without the impact of the exchange rate, the IPPI would
have fallen 1.2% instead of increasing 0.3%.  Relative to July 2011, the growth in the IPPI was moderated
mainly by primary metal products, especially other non-ferrous
metal products, aluminum products and nickel products.  Petroleum and coal products (-3.7%) were also down compared
with July 2011. The IPPI excluding petroleum and coal products
was up 0.8% during the same period.  Raw Materials Price Index, monthly change  The RMPI rose 0.9% in July, which marks a change in the
trend observed over the last five months. Of the seven major
commodity groups, three were down.  The increase in the RMPI was mainly a result of mineral
fuels (+1.1%), specifically crude oil (+1.2%) as well as
vegetable products (+5.1%). The RMPI excluding mineral fuels was
up 0.8% in July.  Vegetable products were driven upward primarily by grains,
particularly corn and wheat, which posted substantial increases
in July. These price increases can be attributed partly to
reduced supply in  North America , where drought conditions
disrupted normal production.  The advance in the RMPI was moderated by lower prices for
non-ferrous metals, pushed downward mainly by precious metals,
particularly gold and alloys in primary form and silver and
platinum.  Raw Materials Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with July 2011, the RMPI fell 10.0%. This was the
fifth consecutive year-over-year decline.  Downward pressure on the index was exerted mainly by
mineral fuels, specifically crude oil (-17.3%). Compared with
July 2011, the RMPI excluding mineral fuels was down 3.3%.  Also contributing to the decline in the RMPI were non-
ferrous metals, particularly copper concentrates.  Animals and animal products (+4.3%) had a slight moderating
effect on the year-over-year decrease in the RMPI.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally unadjusted and
usually subject to revision for a period of six months (for
example, when the July index is released, the index for the
previous January becomes final).  The Industrial Product  Price Index  (IPPI) reflects the
prices that producers in  Canada  receive as the goods leave the
plant gate. It does not reflect what the consumer pays. Unlike
the  Consumer Price Index , the IPPI excludes indirect taxes and
all the costs that occur between the time a good leaves the
plant and the time the final user takes possession of it,
including transportation, wholesale and retail costs.  Canadian producers export many goods. They often indicate
their prices in foreign currencies, especially in US dollars,
which are then converted into Canadian dollars. In particular,
this is the case for motor vehicles, pulp, paper and wood
products. Therefore, a rise or fall in the value of the Canadian
dollar against its US counterpart affects the IPPI. But the
conversion into Canadian dollars only reflects how respondents
provide their prices. Moreover, this is not a measure that takes
into account the full effect of exchange rates, since that is a
more difficult analytical task.  The conversion of prices received in US dollars is based on
the average monthly exchange rate (noon spot rate) established
by the  Bank of Canada  and is available on CANSIM in table 176-
0064 (series v37426). Monthly and annual variations in the
exchange rate, as described in the text, are calculated
according to the indirect quotation of the exchange rate (for
example, CAN$1 = US$X).  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) reflects the prices
paid by Canadian manufacturers for key raw materials. Many of
those prices are set on the world market. However, as few prices
are denominated in foreign currencies, their conversion into
Canadian dollars has only a minor effect on the calculation of
the RMPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  