-- Carlyle to Cerberus Lead Private Equity Federal-Contracting Push
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-08-29T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/carlyle-to-cerberus-lead-private-equity-federal-contracting-push.html
After investments in food,
telecommunications and cleaning-product companies in the early
1990s, CM Equity Partners bet on a little-known U.S. government
contractor that would shape the firm’s future.  It bought Intermetrics Inc., which designed software for
 NASA , in 1995 and sold the company five years later after more
than quadrupling its revenue. Following that success, the New
York-based private equity firm in 2004 dropped its
“generalist” investment philosophy to concentrate exclusively
on federal contractors, said Peter Schulte, a founder and
managing partner.  CM Equity is now one of at least 38 private equity firms
backing companies that sell primarily services to the federal
government, an increase from fewer than 10 a decade ago,
according to investment firm Stifel Nicolaus Weisel.  Carlyle
Group LP (CG)  and Cerberus Capital Management LP, the two biggest
private equity firms in federal contracting, own or control
companies that had $8.9 billion in U.S. awards last fiscal year,
government procurement data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a sign of the maturity of the sector,” said Charles
Chappell, president of Chantilly, Virginia-based Caliber
Consulting LLC, which advises firms seeking to buy federal
contractors. “You’ve finally had some companies reach a size”
that commands the attention of private equity investors, he
said.  Heightened interest from private equity came as spending on
federal contracts more than doubled to $531 billion in the
fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 from $221 billion in fiscal
2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Tremendous’ Growth  “The budget was growing at a tremendous rate, and more of
it was being outsourced,” said Thomas Peltier, who leads the
government services investment banking group at Stifel Nicolaus
Weisel. It estimates that the services contractors controlled by
private equity firms receive about $16.8 billion in annual
revenue, said Peltier, who is based in Baltimore.  Recent acquisitions include Cerberus’ 2010 purchase of
DynCorp International Inc., a security contractor that has
trained Afghan police, for $1.47 billion, and Providence Equity
Partners Inc.’s $1.37 billion acquisition of technology
contractor SRA International Inc. last year.  Washington-based Carlyle, the world’s second-largest
private-equity firm, bought  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , a
consulting firm that’s the 16th biggest federal contractor
according to a Bloomberg ranking, for $2.54 billion in 2008. It
took the company public in 2010 and holds 70 percent of the
contractor’s shares, which have  returned 22 percent  since the
initial public offering.  Government Officials  Both Cerberus and Carlyle have counted on the expertise of
former top government officials. Dan Quayle, vice president
under  George H.W. Bush , is chairman of Cerberus Global
Investments LLC, and John Snow, a Treasury secretary under
 George W. Bush , is chairman of Cerberus Capital Management.
Frank Carlucci, a defense secretary under President  Ronald
Reagan , joined Carlyle in 1989 and stepped down as chairman in
2003. Both firms declined to comment for this article.  Profitable deals such as CI Capital Partners LLC’s 2006
sale of Anteon International Corp. to  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  for
$2.2 billion sparked broader interest in the federal contracting
sector, said Jean Stack, a McLean, Virginia-based managing
director at investment bank Houlihan Lokey.  “Once private equity saw the success, additional private
equity firms entered the industry in a big way,” she said in a
phone interview.  Spending Cuts  Deals for government contractors by private equity firms or
by contractors with private equity backing peaked in 2007 at 72,
compared with 16 in 2001, according to BB&T  Capital Markets .
There were 45 such transactions in 2010, the most recent year
for which complete data were available.  Federal spending on contracts reached an all-time high of
$551 billion in fiscal 2009, before declining 3.6 percent to
$531 billion in fiscal 2011. Contractors face the possibility of
additional cuts as Congress and the White House seek to reduce
the nation’s deficit.  National security and domestic programs would experience
$1.2 trillion in across-the-board reductions over a decade if
U.S. lawmakers and the president don’t reach a deficit-reduction
agreement before Jan. 2.  Even as the government reduces spending on contracts,
private equity “is going to be a mainstay of the industry,”
Stack said. “It’s just a question of at what price and at what
level of risk.”  Selling Divisions  Private equity ownership in the sector has risen in the
past several years as contractors such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
the world’s biggest defense company, and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
maker of the Global Hawk drone, have sold divisions to help
boost profit margins and avoid conflicts of interest.  Northrop in 2009 sold TASC Inc., its government consulting
unit, to a partnership of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and
General Atlantic LLC for $1.65 billion. The sale was made to
comply with rules intended to prevent companies from advising
government agencies on weapons systems while also bidding for
contracts to build them.  New York-based Lindsay Goldberg LLC last year bought
Pacific Architects and Engineers from Lockheed after the biggest
weapons maker decided it didn’t want to be in the business of
training judges in  Afghanistan . Terms of the deal weren’t
disclosed. Pacific Architects was awarded federal contracts
valued at $902 million last year.  Lower Prices  Low valuations for services contractors also may entice
private equity buyers, said William Loomis, a Baltimore-based
equity analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  For example, the price-earnings ratio of  SAIC Inc. (SAI) , the
biggest government contractor focused on services, fell to 8.8
times profit yesterday, from 10.4 times earnings a year earlier.
The price-earnings ratio for technology services contractor  CACI
International Inc. (CACI)  declined to 8.8 times profit, from 11.9 times
earnings a year ago.  “Private equity is willing to step in in front of
significant uncertainty like we have,” Loomis said in a phone
interview. “You could see a private equity deal close
anytime.”  Alex Hamilton, an EarlyBird Capital analyst in  New York ,
said the decline in the value of contractors that provide
services may prevent some deals.  “From what I’ve heard, nobody wants to sell at the
depressed valuations,” he said in a phone interview. “Nobody
knows what it’s going to look like in two years.”  CM Equity, after acquiring 37 federal contractors, is
sticking with its focus on the industry, said managing partner
Schulte.  “It’s what we know and understand,” he said. “It’s
better, we think, to be a specialist where there’s a lot of
opportunity than to be a generalist and to dissipate our
energies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  