-- CBS, Derided for Its Older Viewers, Calls 54 the New 49
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-29T22:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/cbs-derided-for-appeal-to-old-viewers-calls-54-the-new-49.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , derided by rivals for
attracting TV viewers too old for advertisers to care about,
says 54 is the new 49.  The last of the U.S. baby boomers turn 48 this year, moving
into the sweet spot for luxury cars, financial services and
pharmaceuticals, three of CBS’s largest ad categories.  The shift is forcing marketers to reconsider how they
target the $12.7 billion that researcher Kantar Media says they
spent on prime-time network TV ads last year. As boomers --
people born from 1946 through 1964 -- leave the 18-to-49-year-
old group that has long dominated  television advertising ,
companies are focusing more on older consumers.  “While we enjoy winning in all the categories, 18-to-49 is
not the end-all it’s made out to be,” Nina Tassler, CBS’s head
of entertainment, told TV critics last month in  Beverly Hills ,
 California .  With the  National Football League ’s Super Bowl and a key
NFL playoff game in the TV season starting next month, CBS will
probably lead in 18-to-49-year-old viewers for the first time in
20 years. Still, the most-watched network overall will generate
more sales from ads targeting 25-to-54-year-olds, Tassler said.  Though the groups mostly overlap and represent a large
chunk of the population, the younger skew of those 18 to 49 has
made them a desirable audience since the 1970s. That’s when
advertisers began to focus on the 75-million plus U.S. baby
boomers, who were reaching maturity and forming households,
seeing younger consumers as more open to new products and less
likely to have established loyalties.  Time, Economics  Time and economics are changing that. Most Americans don’t
set up households until after college, according to Pat McDonough, senior vice president of insights, analysis and
policy at Nielsen, which reports the audience ratings used to
set advertising rates. And more people in their 50s are willing
to try new products, she said.  “Realistically, most 18-year-olds aren’t determining what
laundry detergent they’ll use,” McDonough said.  With an average age of almost 57, CBS has the oldest
audience of the four largest broadcast networks, according to
Nielsen. Fox is youngest, with a median age of 45, while NBC’s
median is 50 and ABC’s is 52.  The perception that 50 is “ancient” is changing,
according to Peter Gardiner, national media buyer at Deutsch, a
unit of New York-based  Interpublic Group of Cos.  that lists
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  as clients. Most have
grown children, are in their peak earnings years and are still a
decade or more from retirement, he said.  “It’s not that the younger demographic is less
important,” said Gardiner, who notes half his clients have
begun to target 25-to-54-year-olds in recent years. “It’s that
the older audience is becoming more important.”  Buying Power  The buying power of older viewers has also grown, said
David Poltrack, CBS’s chief research officer, while 18-to-24-
year-olds have been hit hard by the slow recovery.  The 45-to-64-year-old age group was least affected by the
recession, according to Census data. The group’s 2010 median
annual income of $60,700 was 2.1 percent less than before the
recession. Those under age 25 suffered a 9.7 percent decline, to
$24,140.  In the TV season that ended in May, half of the 30 shows
most-watched among viewers ages 25 to 54 aired on CBS, including
“The Big Bang Theory” and “Two and Half Men,” according to
Nielsen data.  CBS says four of its top five advertising categories by
revenue target viewers ages 25 to 54, including luxury cars,
pharmaceuticals and financial services like banks, credit card
companies and insurers.  “This demo, when you look at 25 to 54, is the cornerstone
of what luxury marketers are looking for today,” said Loren
Angelo, general manager of Audi Brand Marketing.  Investors’ Take  Investors see a difference too. CBS, controlled by 89-year-
old billionaire  Sumner Redstone , has a 58 percent higher  price-
earnings  ratio than  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , Redstone’s other major media
holding, which targets younger viewers with networks such as
Nickelodeon and  MTV .  CBS, down 0.5 percent to $36.18 at the  New York  close, has
advanced 33 percent this year, compared with 11 percent for
Viacom and 17 percent for the S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary
Index.  CBS still sells a “substantial” number of commercials
targeted at younger viewers, said Jo Ann Ross, who oversees ad
sales. The network airs 11 of the most-watched programs in the
18-49 demographic, more than any other  broadcast network ,
according to Nielsen data.  Nonetheless, “we always end up with more being spent on
adults 25 to 54 in prime time,” Ross said.  Fox Advantage  With the youngest median audience of the big four networks,
Fox is still viewed by marketers as the best place to find
viewers 18 to 49, and its biggest categories include retail,
telecom, movie studios, automobiles and fast food, said  Toby
Byrne , who oversees the network’s ad sales.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , currently starting its biggest campaign since
2003, shifted to the younger demographic after long targeting
the older group, said Kevin Sellers, sales and marketing group
vice president.  “The younger demographic, even with the economic slowdown,
loves technology and will spend on technology, whereas an older
consumer may delay buying a new smartphone or laptop,” Sellers
said, citing a survey that found “to the younger demographic,
being connected is more important than eating, it’s more
important than sex.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  