-- Celtic Joins 11 Other Ex-Winners in Champions League Group Stage
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-29T23:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/celtic-joins-11-other-ex-winners-in-champions-league-group-stage.html
Celtic defeated Helsingborgs 2-0 to
reach the  Champions League  group stage, where it joins 11 other
former winners of European soccer’s elite club competition.  Gary Hooper  and Victor Wanyama scored last night in Glasgow
to give the Scottish champion a 4-0 victory in the two-game
qualifying playoff. Celtic, the 1967 European champion, reaches
the group stage for the first time since the 2008-09 season.  “It’s very special, we’ve been waiting for it for four
years,” Hooper told Sky Sports. “Just getting into the group
stage is massive. It’s going to be unreal.”  Lille, CFR Cluj,  Spartak Moscow  and  Dynamo Kiev  also
progressed to the 32-team group stage. The 10 playoff winners
join 22 automatic qualifiers in tonight’s draw in Monaco. Teams
in the group stage will receive a minimum of 8.6 million euros
($10.8 million) from tournament organizer UEFA.  Leading 2-0 from last week’s opener in Sweden, Hooper all
but ended the contest by scoring in the 30th minute, though he
appeared to be in an offside position. Wanyama added a second by
heading in Kris Commons’s cross with two minutes remaining.  “The pressure going into this game and, in particular the
last five or six weeks, has been enormous,” Celtic manager Neil Lennon told  Sky Sports . “It’s been four years in the waiting
and I’m just so happy and so proud of them.”  Lille Advances  Lille advanced 2-1 on aggregate over Copenhagen on Tulio De
Melo’s goal in the 105th minute. The French club forced extra
time last night with a first-half goal from Lucas Digne after
Copenhagen won the first leg 1-0 at home.  Pantelis Kapetanos scored as Cluj of  Romania  beat Basel 1-0
to complete a 3-1 win. Spartak Moscow, which played the final
nine minutes with 10 men after Demy de Zeeuw received his second
yellow card, held on for a 1-1 tie at Fenerbahce and a 3-2
aggregate victory.  Dynamo Kiev advanced by a 4-3 score following a 2-1 home
loss to Borussia Moenchengladbach. Ideye Brown’s 88th-minute
chip sent Dynamo through after Germany’s Moenchengladbach had
taken the series lead on the away goals rule.  Anderlecht,  Dinamo Zagreb , Braga, BATE Borisov and Malaga
advanced from their playoff series two days ago.  Celtic is the only former champion to go through the
playoffs to reach the group stage. Chelsea, which won its first
European Cup title in May, and former winners Barcelona,  Bayern
Munich ,  Manchester United , Real  Madrid , Porto, AC Milan, Ajax,
Benfica, Borussia Dortmund and Juventus qualified automatically.  The draw will be held tonight with the 32 teams split into
four seeding pots with one from each drawn into eight groups.
Teams from the same country can’t be grouped together.  The reigning champions of Europe’s four biggest leagues may
be pooled together with Spain’s Real Madrid in the first pot,
England’s Manchester City in the second, Italy’s Juventus in the
third and Germany’s  Borussia Dortmund  in the fourth.  French champion Montpellier, Denmark’s FC Nordsjaelland and
Malaga of Spain will be making their group-stage debuts.  The Champions League final will be played May 25 at Wembley
Stadium in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 