-- China Cosco, CSCL Tumble After Wider First-Half Losses
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-30T12:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/china-cosco-posts-wider-loss-as-shipping-glut-damp-freight-rates.html
China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)  and  China
Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866) , the nation’s two largest listed
ship operators by sales, fell in Hong Kong trading after
reporting wider first-half losses.  China  Cosco  declined  3.5 percent to HK$3.04, the lowest
price since Oct. 6, after yesterday saying its loss widened to
4.87 billion yuan ($767 million). Its dry-bulk and container-
shipping units both posted larger losses than a year earlier.
CSCL plunged 11 percent, the most since Oct. 18, to HK$1.57
after its first-half loss widened.  The two companies both said overcapacity in container-
shipping was likely to continue after a glut of vessels sapped
rates in the first half limiting their ability to pass on higher
fuel costs. China Cosco, based in Tianjin, also forecast
continued “excessive” supply in the commodities-shipping
sector after overcapacity caused rates to average 31 percent
lower than a year earlier, based on the Baltic Dry Index.  “Dry-bulk shipping remains in severe oversupply.”
Citigroup Inc. analysts Vivian Tao and Alan Wang wrote in a note
today. In the container sector, “capacity management needs to
be a lot more aggressive in order to restore the demand and
supply relation.”  They cut their target price for China Cosco to HK$2.59 from
HK$3.15, revised their full-year earnings forecast to a loss,
and reiterated a sell rating.  China Cosco’s dry-bulk shipping unit widened its loss to
3.42 billion  yuan  in the first half from 2.7 billion yuan a year
earlier. The container-shipping fleet, China’s biggest, had a
loss of 1.3 billion yuan, compared with 947 million yuan a year
earlier.  Dry-Bulk Shipping  The company’s dry-bulk shipping volume fell 18 percent from
a year earlier to 112 million tons. Revenue dropped 32 percent
to 8.26 billion yuan. The company pared the size of its
commodity-carrying fleet to 357 owned and leased ships at the
end of June from 376 three months earlier.  “Excessive shipping capacity will remain the primary
challenge” for the dry-bulk sector in the second half of the
year, China Cosco said in a statement. The company had booked 63
percent of 2012 revenue-days as of June 30 at an average rate 29
percent lower than for 2011.  The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a benchmark for commodity-shipping
rates, averaged 31 percent lower in the first six months of the
year than a year earlier.  Container Volumes  China Cosco’s container volumes on Asia-Europe routes rose
22 percent from a year earlier and by 15 percent on trans-
Pacific lanes. Average rates on both sectors were little changed
from a year earlier, according to Bloomberg calculations. The
company had 166  container ships  at the end of June, with another
22 on order.  Increasing competition may damp rates in the second half of
the year and an oversupply of capacity will “worsen,” China
Cosco said. The company, which also has a logistics business and
a stake in container-terminal operator  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) ,
forecast a net loss for the nine months through September.  The company is trying to avoid a second straight year of
losses so that the Shanghai stock exchange won’t include it in
the so-called special treatment list of stocks, China Cosco
Chairman Wei Jiafu said today. The special treatment stocks have
a 5 percent limit for daily gains and declines after being so
designated because of the consecutive annual losses.  “We’re thinking of ideas everyday to get out of this
dilemma,” Wei said.  Fuel Costs  China Shipping had a  first-half loss  of 1.28 billion yuan,
compared with a 630 million yuan loss a year earlier, because of
higher fuel costs and lower average rates on Asia-Europe routes.  The price of 380 Centistoke Bunker Fuel, used by ships,
averaged $695.58 per ton in Singapore trading in the first half,
compared with $628.30 a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Transpacific rates are expected to continue rising in the
second half of the year, while Asia-Europe rates may
“fluctuate,” Managing Director Zhao Hongzhou told reporters in
 Hong Kong . China Shipping aims to raise rates next month and in
October, he said.  The company has no plans to delay taking deliveries of the
ships on order, and will add three 47,000 ton vessels in the
second half, Zhao said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  