-- China Health-Care Spending May Hit $1 Trillion by 2020
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-29T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/china-health-care-spending-may-hit-1-trillion-by-2020.html
Health-care spending in  China  will
almost triple to $1 trillion annually by 2020 driven by an aging
population and government efforts to broaden insurance coverage,
according to a McKinsey & Co. report.  China will spend more on drugs, medical devices and
hospital treatments as it lifts spending to 7 percent of gross
domestic product, from 5.5 percent, or $350 billion, in 2010,
McKinsey said yesterday. This will make it the biggest market
globally by 2020 after the U.S., which in 2009 spent $2.5
trillion, or 17.6 percent of its GDP, on health care, said the
consulting company.  “This will be a key priority for China in the coming
years. The government is trying to promote social harmony, and
closing the gap on health care is a big part of this,” Franck
Le Deu, a Shanghai-based McKinsey partner, said in an interview.
“This is a market that is still extremely early in the stage of
development,” he said by telephone.  China’s government raised its own spending on health care
to  737.9 billion yuan  ($116 billion) in 2011, up from 359.4
billion  yuan  in 2008, the Ministry of Health said in an Aug. 17
statement. It raised medical insurance coverage to more than 95
percent of the population and added diseases including lung and
gastric cancer to an insured list, the ministry said.  Easy Days Over  Global drugmakers including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Novartis AG (NOVN) , and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  have hired more sales representatives and
expanded product lines in China, in search of growth to offset
losses of patent protection on best-selling drugs elsewhere.
Those ambitions are being curbed by Chinese government policies
aimed at reducing medical costs.  “Back in the early 2000s, it was pretty easy for
multinationals to grow 25 to 35 percent a year in China,” said
Le Deu, who heads McKinsey’s Greater China Healthcare practice.
“To some extent those easy days are over. The going is getting
tougher in terms of complexity and requirements for success.”  Multinational drugmakers that want to expand in China face
a more difficult environment amid policy changes such as how
drugs are priced and bought by the government, according to the
report. They will also need local partners in order to better
compete, according to McKinsey.  There will be “a string of major deals over the next few
years” as foreign drug companies rush to partner with Chinese
producers, McKinsey said. “The days of being able to do it
alone in China have ended,” the report’s authors wrote.  Major Deals  Companies that have announced deals include Pfizer, which
said in February it will own 49 percent of a $295 million
venture with  Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical Co. (600267)  to develop off-
patent drugs in China, while  Merck & Co. (MRK)  inked a deal with
Nanjing-based  Simcere Pharmaceutical Group (SCR)  last year to produce
cardiovascular medicines.  Multinational companies should also shift their focus
toward more innovative products that are partly researched and
developed in China, as these will be able to reach the market
sooner, and offset competition from locals offering low-priced
generics, Le Deu said.  “They’ve had success with mature products that are largely
off-patent in other markets. But over time those products will
come under increasing pressure, so it’s more important to have
innovative, patented drugs launched in China,” he said.  Economic Slowdown  While China risks posting its weakest expansion in 13 years
amid an economic slump, the government is unlikely to trim
health care spending, according to Le Deu. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
has urged extra measures to support exports and help meet
economic targets, as a decline in industrial companies’ profits
added to evidence the nation’s slowdown is deepening.  China aims by 2020 to raise  life expectancy  to 77 years,
from 74.8 years in 2010, and lower the infant mortality rate to
below 10 percent from 12 percent in 2011, according to a health-
care strategy report distributed at a conference in Beijing on
Aug. 17. It also wants to cut smoking rates among its men to 40
percent by 2020, from 53 percent in 2010.  China, the world’s biggest cigarette market, may suffer
slower economic growth because of cancer and other chronic
diseases that are hurting the  labor force , Health Minister Chen Zhu said in an interview in April.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  