-- Citigroup Settles Investors’ CDO Suit for $590 Million
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-08-29T20:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/citigroup-settles-investors-cdo-suit-for-590-million.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed to pay $590
million in cash to settle a lawsuit by shareholders alleging the
third-biggest  U.S. bank  hid risks tied to toxic assets, the
plaintiffs said.  U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  in  Manhattan , who is
presiding over the suit, today granted preliminary approval to
the unopposed accord, and ordered a hearing for Jan. 15.  Citigroup is among Wall Street firms still dealing with the
fallout from the financial crisis, when the bank almost
collapsed amid losses tied to subprime mortgages and took a $45
billion bailout. Investors accused the New York-based bank of
repackaging unmarketable financial instruments and reselling
them to itself to hide its exposure to the securities.  “Citi will be pleased to put this matter behind us,” the
bank said in a statement. “This settlement is a significant
step toward resolving our exposure to claims arising from the
period of the financial crisis.”  Citigroup began using the “CDO-related quasi-Ponzi
scheme” in 2006 to give the appearance that it had a healthy
asset base, investors alleged in court documents. The plaintiffs
alleged Citigroup, including some of its former senior officers
and directors, “materially misrepresented” its exposure to
CDOs and were both aware of the size of Citigroup’s holdings and
their impairment before they were disclosed to the public.  Common Stock  The class-action, or group, suit was brought on behalf of
investors who purchased Citigroup common stock during the period
Feb. 26, 2007, through April 18, 2008. Citigroup shares fell 55
percent during the period, according to Bloomberg data.  The original claims by the plaintiffs spanned an array of
Citigroup businesses, from the mortgages the bank sold to
consumers to the mortgage-backed securities it sold to
institutional investors such as CDOs, Structured Investment
Vehicles, Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities and Auction
Rate Securities.  Citigroup told investors it had sold billions of dollars
worth of CDOs and no longer faced a risk, the plaintiffs
alleged. The bank didn’t reveal that it had guaranteed the
securities if they suffered losses, according to the complaint.
Citigroup transferred the guarantees to entities it set up to
hide the risks, the investors alleged.  Amended Complaint  “This complaint arises because Citigroup responded to the
widely known financial crisis by concealing both the extent of
its ownership of toxic assets -- most prominently CDOs backed by
nonprime mortgages -- and the risks associated with them,” the
plaintiffs alleged in an amended complaint filed in December
2008.  “Defendants omitted to disclose the existence of
acknowledge the market value of our risks associated with tens
of billions of dollars of financial instruments.”  When CDO indexes showed steep declines in the value of the
securities, Citigroup didn’t adjust its valuations, relying
instead on better rating company evaluations or sales to itself,
according to the amended complaint.  Stein, in a November 2010 ruling, allowed claims for
alleged misstatements and omissions related to Citigroup’s CDO
exposure to proceed and he also narrowed the case by granting
Citigroup’s motion to dismiss the remainder of plaintiffs’
claims involving other securities.  ‘Adequate Settlement’  “We think this is a very good result for the class and
it’s a fair, reasonable and adequate settlement given the
allegations of the complaint.” Ira Press, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said today in a telephone interview. “We think it
compares favorably with prior securities fraud class-action
settlements,” he said.  “The settlement is imminently fair considering the
substantial recovery to the settlement class and the risks and
costs attendant to further, protracted litigation,” Press said
in memo today to Stein.  The plaintiffs had gathered almost 40 million pages of
documents from Citigroup and third parties, Press said. Layn Phillips, a retired federal judge who was acting as a mediator
in the case, proposed a $590 million settlement on April 25,
Press said in his memo to Stein. An accord was reached “shortly
thereafter,” he wrote the judge.  Denies Allegations  “Although plaintiffs believe that the defendants knowingly
or recklessly misrepresented Citigroup’s CDO exposure and
valuation, defendants have raised a host of factual and legal
challenges increasing the uncertainty of a favorable outcome
absent settlement,” Press said in his memo to the court.  Citigroup denies the allegations and said it is entering
into this settlement solely to eliminate the uncertainties,
burden and expense of further protracted litigation. The amount
to be paid under the proposed settlement is covered by
Citigroup’s existing litigation reserves, the bank said.  “Citi is fundamentally a different company today than at
the beginning of the financial crisis,” the bank said in the
statement. “Citi has overhauled risk management, reduced risk
exposures and through our core businesses in Citicorp, we are
focused on the basics of banking, leveraging our unique presence
throughout the emerging and developed markets to serve our
clients and the real economy.”  The lead plaintiffs in the case were former employees and
directors of Automated Trading Desk, an electronic trading firm
that the bank bought for about $680 million on Oct. 3, 2007.
About 80 percent of the purchase price was in Citigroup shares,
ATD founder and former Chairman David Whitcomb said in a phone
interview. The stock has plunged 94 percent since then.  ‘Grievously Mistreated’  “We’re very happy that it’s finally been resolved and that
there will be a settlement not just for ATD shareholders, who
were grievously mistreated, but perhaps up to a million other
Citigroup shareholders during that period,” Whitcomb said.
“Most of us ended up losing a lot of money when Citigroup stock
went south.”  Whitcomb, a former finance professor at  Rutgers University ,
said he and his wife owned about 20 percent of ATD and received
more than $100 million in cash and Citigroup shares from the
deal. Some of the shares were restricted, which made it
difficult to sell as the price declined, he said. Whitcomb said
he wasn’t sure of how much money he and his wife are going to
get from the settlement.  “We’re getting a small fraction of the total loss that a
reasonable person would ascribe to Citigroup’s actions,”
Whitcomb said. “But we’re getting something and that’s
pleasing.”  The case is In re Citigroup Inc. Securities Litigation, 07-
cv-9901, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  