-- Cnooc Applies for Approval of Nexen Takeover, Canada Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-08-29T15:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/cnooc-applies-for-approval-of-nexen-takeover-canada-says.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883)  has made a formal
application for government approval of its $15.1 billion bid to
purchase  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , Industry Minister Christian Paradis said.  “I can now confirm that Cnooc has filed an application for
review of its proposed acquisition of Nexen under the Investment
Canada Act and I am conducting a review of the proposed
investment,” Paradis said in a e-mailed statement.  The timing of the application, more than a month after the
offer was announced, means investors may have to wait until
November or longer for a decision.  Shares (NXY)  of Calgary-based Nexen
have remained below the $27.50 price in Cnooc’s bid as investors
weigh the chances of approval. They were little changed at
$25.43 at 11:42 a.m in  New York .  The government has 45 days to review foreign takeovers once
an application has been filed, and can extend the deadline by 30
days if it notifies Cnooc before the initial period expires.
Canadian officials can further extend the review if both Cnooc
and Paradis agree.  “Our government will take the time we have to properly
scrutinize this transaction and to assess that, if it is to go
ahead, that it will only go ahead if it is in the long-term
interests of the Canadian economy,” Prime Minister Stephen Harper said Aug. 23.  If the government takes the full 75 days available at its
discretion, the review would be completed by mid-November.  Takeover Threshold  Canadian law calls on the government to review foreign
takeovers with asset values greater than C$330 million ($334
million) to ensure they represent a “net benefit” to the
nation. Harper said the takeover would have “significant
implications for the Canadian economy” and must be judged to be
in the country’s long-term interests.  Harper’s Conservative government rejected Melbourne-based
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile takeover bid for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. in 2010, only the second such
rejection in 25 years, after Conservative lawmakers raised
objections.  Nexen’s  assets  include the Long Lake oil sands operations
in  Alberta , offshore oil production in Nigeria and the U.K.
 North Sea  as well as the  Gulf of Mexico . Those assets produced
207,000 barrels a day in the second quarter, which would boost
Cnooc’s output by about 20 percent.  In its July 23 announcement, Cnooc promised to keep Nexen
employees, keep a North American headquarters in Calgary,
maintain Nexen’s planned capital spending and list its shares on
the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  