-- Colombian Peso Weakens to Three-Month Low on More Intervention
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-08-29T16:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/colombian-peso-weakens-to-three-month-low-on-more-intervention.html
Colombia ’s peso fell to the weakest
in almost three months after the central bank stepped up its
daily dollar purchases to stem the local currency’s rally.  The peso depreciated 0.2 percent to 1,831.60 per  U.S.
dollar  at 11:41 a.m. in Bogota. Earlier it touched 1,838, the
weakest since June 1. Today’s drop pared this year’s rally to
5.7 percent, still the best performance after the Hungarian
forint and Chilean peso among all currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Colombia’s central bank yesterday bought $35 million in the
 spot market , up from the minimum of $20 million a day the bank
has said it will buy until at least Nov. 2. On Aug. 24 Banco de
la Republica said it will step up its dollar purchases to $700
million by the end of September, or an average of $28 million a
day. The Treasury began its own program of foreign currency
intervention this month to help exporters.  “The market is seeing coordinated efforts between the
central bank and the government to weaken the peso,” said
Francisco Chaves, a strategist at brokerage Corredores Asociados
in Bogota. “That should keep the peso trading around these
levels, at least while both parties continue to intervene.”  The Treasury will continue to buy dollars this week to
weaken the peso, outgoing Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry
said Aug. 23. While declining to specify the total amount the
Treasury would purchase, he said it would buy $200 million last
week on top of the $300 million bought earlier. Colombia’s bank
deposit-guarantee fund, known as Fogafin, bought $200 million
over the past few weeks, Echeverry also said last week.  ‘Complementary’ Dollar Purchases  Echeverry, who resigned last week citing personal reasons,
is being replaced by  Mauricio Cardenas , an economist trained at
the  University of California  at Berkeley who currently serves as
mines and energy minister.  The Treasury’s dollar purchases are “complementary” to
the central bank’s, bank chief Jose Dario Uribe told reporters
in Bogota yesterday. “These are precisely the type of actions
that are useful if there is concern over the  exchange rate ,” he
said.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 6.64 percent, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  