-- Comcast Said Near U.S. Approval to Encrypt Basic-Cable Signals
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/comcast-said-near-u-s-approval-to-encrypt-basic-cable-signals.html
Cable companies led by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
are close to winning U.S. permission to start encrypting basic-
tier signals, two regulatory officials said, in a move to fight
theft and reduce service calls.  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  has asked fellow commissioners to lift an encryption
prohibition in place since 1994, the agency officials said
yesterday. They asked not to be identified because the request
hasn’t been made public.  The agency last year proposed allowing encryption following
requests from companies, including New York-area provider
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  and closely held RCN Telecom Services
Inc.  Almost one-fifth of 134 households whose cable connections
were cut off by RCN during an audit in  Chicago  last year
subsequently contacted the company to subscribe, “clear
evidence that they had previously been viewing cable without
paying,” the company told the FCC in a filing last year.  Cablevision found that, when it encrypted basic service
under a waiver from the FCC, it almost eliminated the need to
send crews in trucks to disconnect service, the Bethpage, New
York-based company told the agency in a filing.  “Cablevision’s experience proves the environmental
benefits of eliminating the encryption prohibition,”
Cablevision told the agency.  Digital Signals  Encrypting the basic tier would let Comcast start and stop
service remotely, which customers prefer to scheduling an
appointment with a technician, Philadelphia-based Comcast said
in a filing at the FCC.  RCN, based in Herndon,  Virginia , said in a filing it was
seeing rising levels of theft as cable systems replace analog
service with digital signals that are easier to steal.  Television sets with modern tuners can receive the
unencrypted basic-service package which is sent in digital
format and includes local broadcast stations.  Cable companies already encrypt offerings on the more
expensive programming tiers that aren’t regulated by the FCC and
include a wider array of channels.  The FCC prohibited encryption at a time cable dominated the
pay-TV market, so customers wouldn’t need a set-top box to view
local stations. The requirement doesn’t hold for satellite
providers  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  or for cable
competitors such as TV services offered by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon
Communications Inc.  Free Service  The  National Cable & Telecommunications Association  in 2004
estimated that about 5 percent of homes near cable lines
accessed service without paying, resulting in almost $5 billion
in lost revenue. That was more than 8 percent of industry
revenues that year, according to a filing at the FCC by the
Washington-based trade group. The organization’s members include
the biggest U.S. cable operator, Comcast, No. 2 provider  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and Cablevision.  Genachowski’s proposal includes methods for third-party
equipment makers such as Boxee Inc. to relay unscrambled basic
programming to customers, the two officials said. Boxee had
expressed concern its customers wouldn’t be able to access
basic-cable TV channels.  Genachowski’s proposal faces a vote and no deadline for
action at the five-member agency where he is part of the 3-2
Democratic majority. Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, in an e-mail
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  