-- Corn Prices Set to Drop as South American Farmers Boost Planting
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-08-29T00:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/corn-prices-set-to-drop-as-south-american-farmers-boost-planting.html
Corn prices may decline as farmers
around the world increase acres to meet import demand after the
worst U.S. drought in half a century cut supply from the largest
grower, the U.S. Grains Council said.  “It will take one year, but it could decline from here if
they see  Brazil  having a big crop this winter and in  Argentina 
if they have good weather,” Julius Schaaf, an Iowa-based vice-
chairman of the council, said in an interview. “Then you’ll see
the market slowly descend into next fall.”  Futures surged to a record $8.49 a bushel on Aug. 10 as the
drought scorched crops in a nation that produced about 36
percent of the world harvest in 2011-2012. Rising prices pushed
up global  food costs  tracked by the  United Nations  in July by
the most since November 2009.  The rally is already rationing demand. Export sales for
delivery in the marketing year beginning Sept. 1 have slumped to
7.85 million metric tons as of Aug. 16, from 8.73 million tons a
year earlier, U.S. Department Agriculture data show.  “I think people are backing away and waiting to see what
this market is going to do,” said Schaaf, a fifth-generation
farmer who has been growing corn and soybeans in  Iowa , the top
U.S. grower, for the past 35 years. “In every marketing year,
there’s an opportunity to buy corn at a very reasonable price.”  About 22 percent of the U.S. corn crop was  rated  good-to-
excellent as of Aug. 26, down from 23 percent a week earlier,
and still in the worst shape since 1988, according to USDA data.  “I don’t know what other bad news you have to pile on corn
to drive the price up,” Schaaf, 59, said in Phuket yesterday.
“How much worse can it get.”  The Washington-based council, formed in 1960, develops
export markets for U.S. corn, barley and sorghum and related
products, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Phuket at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  