-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold at About Lowest in a Week
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-29T21:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-at-about-lowest-in-a-week.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk in
the U.S. held at about the lowest in a week after a report
showed the nation’s economy grew more than previously estimated
in the second quarter.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of
100.9 basis points at 5:35 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The index is up from 99.4 basis points on
Aug. 22.  The swaps measure was little changed after revised Commerce
Department figures showed gross domestic product climbed at a
1.7 percent annual rate from April through June, up from an
initial estimate of 1.5 percent and matching the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
may cast light on monetary policy in a speech to central bankers
on Aug. 31 in  Wyoming .  “Data is sparse with many investors holding tight until
Friday’s Jackson Hole speech,”  Adrian Miller , director of
global markets strategy at GMP Securities LLC in New York, wrote
in a note to clients today.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves, reached a 15-week low of 98.5 basis points
on Aug. 20. The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Low Volatility  A measure of price swings in the index is at the lowest
level since May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Volatility over a 30-day period fell to 34, the least since
reaching 33.2 on May 29, the data show. The measure is down from
40.5 on Aug. 7.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, widened for the first time in eight
days, increasing 0.16 basis point to 17.29 basis points. The
measure, which rises when investors seek the perceived safety of
 government securities  and falls when they favor assets such as
corporate bonds, is down from 54.7 in November, the highest
since May 2009.  Credit swaps tied to  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI)  climbed after
the  Orlando , Florida-based operator of the Red Lobster,  Olive
Garden  and LongHorn Steakhouse chains  entered  into a $300
million term loan agreement with Bank of America Corp.
yesterday.  The swaps climbed 12.6 basis points to 170.7 basis points
as of 4:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  