-- Daikin Buys Goodman for $3.7 Billion
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-29T11:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/daikin-falls-after-report-it-s-buying-goodman-tokyo-mover.html
Daikin Industries Ltd. (6367) , the world’s
largest air-conditioner maker, will buy Goodman Global Inc. for
$3.7 billion to expand its home heating and cooling business in
North America.  The companies and Goodman owner Hellman & Friedman LLC
signed an agreement today under which Osaka, Japan-based Daikin
will buy all of the closely held company’s stock, according to a
statement. Daikin will use  bonds and loans  to help finance the
purchase, and said it doesn’t plan to sell stock.  The  deal  gives Daikin more than 900 distribution points as
it tries to boost sales for home heating and air-conditioning
systems. Daikin  fell  the most in almost a month as Moody’s
Investors Service said the acquisition may prompt it to cut the
company’s credit rating.  “I’m a little worried about the size of the deal,”
Shoichi Arisawa, a senior analyst at Iwai Cosmo Securities Co.
in  Tokyo , said by phone. “It may be a little too big for
Daikin, especially in an uncertain time like this.”  Daikin shares fell 3.5 percent, the most since Aug. 1, to
close at 2,073 yen in Tokyo trading. Shares are down 1.7 percent
this year, compared with a 7.3 percent gain in the Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  ‘Emergency’ Fund  The transaction will be completed by Dec. 31, pending
regulatory approval, the companies said. Daikin plans to borrow
money for the purchase from the  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  to take advantage of the “emergency facility to
counter the strong yen,” it said in the statement.  The deal is an opportunity for Daikin to increase its
business “where we have little presence,” Noriyuki Inoue,
chief executive officer of Daikin, said at a press conference in
 Osaka . The deal will also help it expand in “emerging and high-
volume markets,” he said.  Daikin’s  credit rating  may be cut because the transaction
will have a “significant impact” on the company’s balance
sheet and negatively affect its financial leverage, Moody’s said
in a statement today. Daikin is currently rated A3 by Moody’s,
the fourth-lowest rank among 10 investment grades.  Negotiations for the acquisition date back to 2010, and the
talks broke off last year, with Daikin citing worsening economic
conditions in the aftermath of  Japan ’s March 2011 earthquake and
tsunami.  Texas, Tennessee  Daikin plans to invest further in Houston-based Goodman,
which will continue to be managed as an independent business and
keep its current management, according to today’s statement. The
U.S. company has more than 4,500 employees, mostly in Texas and
 Tennessee , and generated $2.1 billion in sales last year, a
majority of it in  North America , it said.  “This is an opportunity for Goodman to grow globally as
well as in the North American market by leveraging Daikin
Group’s technical expertise, environmental technologies, and
North American commercial expertise,” David Swift, chief
executive officer of Goodman, said in Osaka.  Daikin had 1.22 trillion yen of sales in the year ended
March and employs more than 44,000 people globally, with
manufacturing and sales in more than 90 countries, it said.  Daikin generates 10 percent of its revenue in the Americas,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Air conditioning
accounts for 85 percent of its global sales, according to the
data.  “U.S. housing starts have bottomed, so the deal makes
sense from a cyclical timing perspective,” Christopher Cintavey, an  analyst  at BNP Paribas, wrote in a report today.  Third-Largest  The deal would be the third-largest overseas acquisition by
a Japanese company this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The largest was Dentsu Inc.’s $4.5 billion purchase
of  Aegis Group Plc (AGS)  announced last month.  Japanese companies have spent about $50 billion on overseas
acquisitions this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Goodman is only strong in North America, so we can’t see
how it will lead Daikin to success in  emerging markets , where
big growth is expected,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $500 million in assets at Tokyo-based Ichiyoshi Investment
Management.  Founded in 1924, Daikin began as a manufacturer of aircraft
radiator tubes and fluorine refrigerants, entering the air-
conditioning business in 1951, according to the company’s
 website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  