-- Danish Economy Shrinks More Than Estimated as Spending Drops
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-29T09:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/danish-economy-shrinks-more-than-estimated-as-spending-drops-2-.html
Denmark ’s economy shrank more than
most economists estimated last quarter as household spending
declined and investments sank.  Gross domestic product  contracted 0.5 percent from the
first quarter and 0.9 percent from a year earlier, the
Copenhagen-based statistics office said in a statement on its
website today. Output was seen shrinking 0.2 percent, both on
the quarter and on the year, according to a  Bloomberg survey  of
five economists. Private spending shrank a quarterly 0.9 percent
while fixed investments dropped 4.2 percent, it said.  Denmark is struggling to emerge from twin housing and
banking crises that have killed jobs and quelled consumer
demand. The government estimates the economy will grow 0.9
percent this year, lagging behind growth rates in Sweden and
 Norway  as Denmark proves more vulnerable to  Europe ’s deepening
debt crisis than its Scandinavian neighbors.  “Many Danish consumers and companies held back on
spending, probably in particular because economic prospects are
so uncertain due to Europe’s debt crisis,” Jacob Graven, chief
economist at Sydbank A/S, said in a note. “These weak figures
suggest the government’s outlook for the year may be wishful
thinking.”  Negative Spread  The yield on Denmark’s benchmark 10-year note eased three
basis points to 1.053 percent as of 11:31 a.m. in Copenhagen,
bringing the spread to similar-maturity German bunds to minus 26
basis points. The two-year yield rose two basis points to minus
0.167 percent, bringing the spread to same-maturity bunds to
minus 14.5 basis points, the smallest negative difference since
July 3, according to Bloomberg data.  “Given today’s data and the sluggish start to the third
quarter, there’s no reason to expect that 2012 will be the year
that Denmark enjoys a successful return to economic growth,”
Helge Pedersen, chief economist in Copenhagen at Nordea Bank AB,
said in a note.  Exports grew 2.5 percent in the quarter after falling 0.6
percent in the three months through March.  Government spending 
grew 0.3 percent, the office said. The decline in household
spending was driven by a 1.8 percent drop in purchases of
vehicles and a 1.9 percent decline in services bought, it said.  Given the outlook in the rest of Europe, “it will be hard
for Denmark to deliver any growth in the coming quarters,”
 Steen Bocian , chief economist at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen,
said in a note. The bank will probably cut its 2012 estimate
“drastically” from the 0.9 percent GDP growth it had
predicted, he said.  “A somewhat optimistic outlook would be for zero growth
this year,” Bocian said. “A more realistic view is that the
economy will contract overall this year.”  Haven Status  Denmark’s government has focused on reining in its budget
deficit and debt will be less than 30 percent of GDP this year
and next. That’s won the nation a haven status as Europe’s debt
crisis rages on. Denmark, which is home to some of the world’s
biggest companies in their field including insulin maker Novo
Nordisk A/S and container shipping owner A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S, pays less than  Germany  to borrow for 10-years, while it has
charged investors to hold its two-year notes through most of
July and August.  The central bank last month cut its main rates to record
lows, bringing the deposit rate to an unprecedented minus 0.2
percent. The bank, which uses monetary policy to maintain the
krone’s peg to the euro, has battled a capital influx and said
last month there’s no limit to how high foreign currency
purchases can rise or how low rates can fall to uphold its
mandate.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  