-- Dar Petroleum’s Sun Says South Sudan Should Cut Domestic Stakes
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-08-29T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/dar-petroleum-s-sun-says-south-sudan-should-cut-domestic-stakes.html
South Sudan ’s requirement that oil
service providers give a minimum 25 percent stake to domestic
companies is deterring investment and should be reduced, the
head of the largest oil group operating there said.  Dar Petroleum President Sun Xiansheng said he recently
asked two European companies which he didn’t identify to
consider operating in South Sudan and both declined, saying they
couldn’t make a profit because of the domestic-investment
requirement. Sun recommended lowering it or eliminating it
entirely in the first phase of joint ventures.  “Maybe for the first three years they come here, then
start,” he said in an interview yesterday in South Sudan’s
capital, Juba. “And after three years, find the number step by
step.”  South  Sudan , which gained control of about 75 percent of
the formerly united Sudan’s 490,000 barrels a day of output at
independence in July 2011, shut down production in late January
this year after accusing Khartoum of stealing $815 million of
its oil. Sudan said it confiscated the oil to make up for fees
its owed from the use of its pipelines.  Sun is also a senior executive at the state-owned China
National Petroleum Co., which owns 41 percent of Dar Petroleum,
a pipeline operator in South Sudan. Malaysia’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. owns 40 percent.  China Petroleum and Chemical Co. 
and South Sudan’s state-owned Nilepet own the rest.  Peace Talks  Angelina Teny, who’s on Nilepet’s board of directors, said
the domestic requirement will save oil operators money.  “Deploying nationally is a lot cheaper than bringing most
of your workers from abroad,” she said at a forum in Juba
yesterday. “I don’t see any reason why there should be
apprehension about it.”  Talks since secession have failed to yield a signed
agreement on how much the landlocked South Sudan should pay to
use pipelines and processing facilities in Sudan. The countries
announced an agreement in principle at the last round of African
Union-sponsored negotiations in  Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian
capital.  Sudan said the deal is contingent upon reaching an
agreement on security along their border where clashes in April
brought the countries to the brink of war.  Sun said he expects the countries to sign the oil deal at
the next round of talks, regardless of whether they reach a
definitive agreement on border security.  “These issues are not so easy, maybe they will take some
time,” he said. “But otherwise maybe they find a road map of
how to solve these issues. Then they can sign this agreement.”  Government spokesman Barnaba Marial Benjamin said by phone
from Juba today that South Sudan’s negotiating team will travel
to Addis Ababa on Sept. 3.  On Aug. 21, South Sudan’s Deputy Finance Minister Arial
Awou Yol said output of Dar Blend crude would resume in December
at the earliest, if the deal is signed soon, while production of
Nile blend probably wouldn’t begin before June.  The  International Energy Agency  said Aug. 10 that
restarting output may take six months or longer, since the lines
have been filled with water and because some wells weren’t
closed properly when output was halted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  