-- Death Sentence for Mumbai Gunman Upheld by India’s Supreme Court
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2012-08-29T05:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/death-sentence-for-mumbai-gunman-upheld-by-india-s-supreme-court.html
India ’s  top court  upheld the death
sentence given to the Pakistani gunman convicted of waging war
during the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks that killed 166 people.  After 10 weeks of appeal hearings, a two-judge Supreme
Court panel led by Aftab Alam rejected defense arguments that
Mohammed Ajmal Kasab had been denied a free and fair trial,
ruling that the court had “no other option except to award the
death penalty.”  Pakistani militants armed with assault weapons and grenades
stormed two luxury hotels, the city’s main railway station, a
cafe and a Jewish center in a 60-hour siege four years ago.
Kasab, the only attacker caught alive, was sentenced to hang by
a Mumbai court in 2010. The other nine militants were killed by
Indian police.  The November 2008 strike shattered a five-year  peace
process  between the arch rivals, with talks resuming only in
February last year. Indian officials say the Pakistan-based
Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group plotted the attack.  After initial denials,  Pakistan  acknowledged the Mumbai
raid was planned on its soil and began a trial of some Lashkar
members. India has accused Pakistan of being half-hearted in its
pursuit of the perpetrators.  Advocate Raju Ramachandran, appointed by the court to
defend Kasab, argued his client was denied legal representation
after his arrest, contravening his rights under the Indian
constitution. If he had been advised, Kasab would not have
confessed to his role in the attack on India’s financial
capital, Ramachandran said.  Kasab, who is being held in Mumbai’s maximum-security
Arthur Road jail, was not present in court. Kasab can now seek a
top court review of the case and appeal to President  Pranab
Mukherjee  for clemency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  