-- Doctor Shortage May Swell to 130,000 With Cap
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-08-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/doctor-shortage-may-swell-to-130-000-with-u-s-cap.html
With a shortage of doctors in the
U.S. already and millions of new patients set to gain coverage
under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul, American
 medical schools  are struggling to close the gap.  One major reason: The residency programs to train new
doctors are largely paid for by the federal government, and the
number of students accepted into such programs has been capped
at the same level for 15 years. Medical schools are holding back
on further expansion because the number of applicants for
residencies already exceeds the available positions, according
to the  National Resident Matching Program , a 60-year-old
Washington-based nonprofit that oversees the program.  The bottleneck will likely affect efforts at health-care
reform, spreading doctor shortages that now largely affect rural
communities to all parts of the country in the next decade.
Patients will probably have to  wait  to see doctors if they can
find room at all, undermining the prospect of cutting health
costs through more preventative care.  “The training programs know that they are not now able to
train the numbers of physicians that are going be needed,” said
 Tom Price , a Republican congressman from  Georgia . “We need to
be proactive on this as opposed to reactive. We’re actually
already later than we should be in addressing the issue.”  The 2010 Affordable Care Act’s insurance expansion takes
effect at a time when the U.S. has 15,230 fewer primary-care
doctors than it needs, according to an  Aug. 28 assessment  by the
 Department of Health  and Human Services. The  Association of
American Medical Colleges  predicts the shortage, including
specialists, will climb to 130,000 by 2025.  Training Costs  The cost of training one new resident, meanwhile, has grown
to about $145,000 a year, said Atul Grover, chief public policy
officer for the Washington-based medical colleges group.  There’s no easy solution. Boosting the number of taxpayer-
financed training slots beyond 85,000 would require Congress to
allocate money at a time of contentious budget debates. Adding
private financing means tapping new sources of cash, such as
from health insurers. Importing doctors from overseas is
controversial. And training doctors is long-term work, taking as
many as 10 years.  Teaching hospitals quadrupled their lobbying budget last
year to $2.8 million, according to the nonprofit Center for
Responsive Politics in  Washington . They support bipartisan
legislation introduced this month that would add 3,000
residencies a year through 2017 at a cost to taxpayers of about
$9 billion. Deficit-watching Republicans, including Price, say
private funding needs to be identified instead.  ‘Fundamental Reform’  “The problem is the structure of the program is no longer
adequate,” said Price, who is also an orthopedic surgeon, in a
telephone interview. “What we need I believe is fundamental
reform of the funding stream.”  The influx of as many as 30 million new patients into
medical offices starting in 16 months with the health-care law
is igniting the debate over training doctors. Medicare now funds
more than 75 percent of doctor residencies, a level capped by
Congress in 1997.  In the U.S., medical students must undergo a residency at a
teaching hospital of three to seven years, depending on their
specialty, according to the  American Medical Association . During
this time, they train under the supervision of other doctors as
a prerequisite to board testing that certifies them to practice
on their own.  Teaching hospitals pick up the funding for about 10,000
positions annually, Grover said in a telephone interview.  Pressured Fees  Those residencies are paid for using fees from clinical
services that are increasingly under pressure, he said. Federal
Medicare payments have been cut by the health-care law while
hard-pressed states, facing deficits of their own, have been
trimming reimbursements for Medicaid, he said.  With private insurers following suit in a tough economy,
“our belief is we’re not going to have the clinical revenue
needed to invest in additional slots,” Grover said.  The bottom line, he said, is that “we’re going to have to
find ways to see more patients with fewer physicians” once the
health-law’s insurance expansion kicks in.  Representatives Allyson Schwartz of  Pennsylvania , a
Democrat, and Aaron Schock of  Illinois , a Republican, are co-
sponsoring the legislation to increase the residency cap.  “It is an expense that is necessary,” Schwartz said in an
interview. “We’ve seen an increase in the number of doctors
that medical schools are training in this country. There’s not
an adequate number of residencies” to handle that increase.  Radical Change  The existing shortage is based on an ideal of roughly one
primary-care physician for every 2,000 people, according to the
health department’s Health Resources and Services
Administration, which seeks to boost access to medical services.  Estimates of future shortages calculated before passage of
the Affordable Care Act “obviously couldn’t be aware of all the
changes that were put in play,” Ed Salsberg, who directs the
health department’s National Center for Health Workforce
Analysis, said in a phone interview. “There is a real need for
new estimates that take more recent developments into account.”  When Congress capped Medicare-funded residencies, policy
makers thought the U.S. had an excess of slots and wouldn’t need
more doctors in the future because “everyone believed the
health care system was going to change radically” with the
advent of managed care, Grover said. That never happened.  Medicare Payments  Medicare, the government-run health program for the elderly
and disabled, spent about $9.8 billion to support residents at
teaching hospitals in 2009, the most recent figure available
from Grover’s organization. While spending for residents has
increased 54 percent since 1998, total Medicare spending has
grown faster, making support for doctor training a smaller
fraction of the program.  Exacerbating matters is the budget-conscious climate in
Washington. The leaders of Obama’s fiscal commission, who issued
a debt-reduction plan in December 2010,  said  Medicare should cut
support for teaching hospitals by $6 billion in 2015, “bringing
these payments in line with the costs of medical education.”  The  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission , which monitors
the program’s spending,  said  in March that  extra Medicare
payments  to the hospitals are “substantially larger” than the
cost of training doctors and treating low-income patients.  Mike Rossi, director of government reimbursement for the
University of Pennsylvania Health System, said that assessment
is an oversimplification.  Medicare paid about $120 million in 2011 to support 855 of
the school’s resident doctors, Rossi said. The health system
spent about $96 million last year on residents’ direct expenses,
such as salaries, benefits and malpractice insurance. Indirect
costs, mainly “clinical inefficiencies,” such as performing
multiple tests on patients to instruct residents, added to the
tally, Rossi said.  ‘Dramatically Underfunded’  Medicare is “barely covering the cost at this point of
what it takes to train somebody,” said Lisa Bellini, director
of the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Office of Graduate Medical
Education, in a phone interview. Teaching hospitals that don’t
have as many Medicare patients as the University of Pennsylvania
are “being dramatically underfunded,” she said.  Representative Price said keeping the residency program
funded through Medicare is “no longer a feasible solution.” He
said legislation to address the issue hasn’t advanced yet in
Congress because of larger budget concerns and the “general
lack of knowledge” about the challenges the program faces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  