-- Euro Falls Versus Dollar as Spain Delays Bailout Request
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-30T21:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/dollar-stays-higher-versus-yen-before-u-s-spending-data.html
The euro declined for a second day
against the dollar after Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said his government would delay deciding whether to seek a
sovereign bailout until the aid conditions are clear.  Europe’s shared currency approached an eight-week high
earlier as Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to consider
European bond purchases and Italy’s borrowing costs fell at an
auction. The euro declined versus the yen as Rajoy and French
President  Francois Hollande  pressed the  European Central Bank  to
implement decisions from a June summit to reduce borrowing
costs. Norway’s krone rose versus most major peers even after a
policy maker signaled the central bank won’t accept persistent
currency strength.  “Spain has not requested help, which was something the
market had hoped they would do to put the country on a better
path to dealing with its debt crisis,”  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst in Washington at Western Union Business Solutions, a
unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) , said in a telephone interview. “This
does little to inspire investor confidence. As a result, they’re
starting to lighten up on some of their pro-euro bets.”  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.2506 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after rising as much as 0.3 percent. Europe’s shared
currency declined 0.3 percent to 98.33 yen. The dollar fell 0.1
percent to 78.63 yen.  The euro advanced 0.9 percent in the past month, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. Norway’s krone rose 3.2 percent to
lead the gainers. The dollar fell 0.9 percent and the yen slid
1.6 percent. The Australian dollar’s 3.2 percent loss paced
decliners.  Aussie Dollar  Australia’s dollar declined to a nearly two-month low
against the euro as China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped to
its lowest level since February 2009. China is Australia’s
largest export market.  The so-called Aussie lost 0.4 percent to A$1.2148 per euro
after falling as much as 0.5 percent. The currency also dropped
0.6 percent to $1.0289 after decreasing to $1.0277, its lowest
level in August.  Norway’s krone gained against the euro after Norges Bank
Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad warned speculators against
testing the central bank’s resolve following the currency’s
appreciation to a nine-year high this month.  “They can talk about whatever they want, but unless
they’re acting or doing something significant to change the
trajectory of it, it’s really hard to see why the markets would
listen a vice finance minister,”  Andrew Busch , a global
currency strategist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview.  Krone, Rand  The krone rose 0.2 percent to 7.2759 per euro after
reaching 7.2502 per euro on Aug. 10, the strongest level since
Jan. 2003. It gained 0.1 percent to 5.8179 per dollar.  The South African rand slumped to its weakest level in five
weeks as reports from Germany, Japan and  South Korea  deepened
concern the global economy is slowing, damping prospects for
South Africa’s exports.  The currency retreated as much as 1.1 percent to 8.4973 per
dollar, the weakest level since July 25. The rand is the worst
performer for both the month and quarter against the greenback.  Spain will delay a decision on whether to seek a sovereign
bailout until the aid conditions are clear, Rajoy said following
a meeting with Hollande. The discussions were part of a round-
robin of diplomacy intended to help contain the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  Wen Comments  “When it’s known exactly what’s on offer, I will take a
decision,” Rajoy told a joint briefing.  The two met after the Spanish region of Murcia became the
third to say it will need emergency loans and Valencia signaled
it needs funds, a day after Catalonia said it needed 5 billion
euros ($6.3 billion).  ECB President  Mario Draghi  took to the German media
yesterday to take on Bundesbank orthodoxy in pressing his case
for extraordinary market intervention. He has yet to spell the
details of a bond-purchasing plan announced Aug. 2 amid
opposition from Germany’s Bundesbank.  “China is willing, on condition of fully evaluating the
risks, to continue to invest in the euro-zone sovereign  debt
market ,” Wen said after meeting German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
in Beijing. He also urged Spain, Italy and Greece to take steps
to prevent a worsening of the euro region’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  Italy Auction  Italy sold 7.29 billion euros of five- and 10-year
securities, compared with a 7.5 billion-euro maximum target. The
average yield on the 10-year bond was 5.82 percent, down from
5.96 percent at a previous auction on July 30.  “The strength of the Italian auction was beneficial for
the euro,”  Greg Anderson , the North American head of Group of
10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “There was lots of participation at a
lower rate.”  The greenback strengthened against most major peers as
investors weighed whether Bernanke will signal a new round of
stimulus for the  U.S. economy  when he speaks in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , tomorrow.  Many policy makers at the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
last meeting said additional stimulus probably will be needed
soon unless the economy shows signs of a durable pickup,
according to minutes of the July 31-Aug. 1 policy discussions.  Bernanke said last month he’s ready to add stimulus as
needed, “but he’s been doing that for the last six months,”
 Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG in London, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with
Dominic Chu. “If we’re going into the meeting with this
mindset, the initial reaction will be a little disappointment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  