-- Draghi Hits Back at German Criticism of ECB Bond Plan
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-08-29T12:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/draghi-says-germany-needs-to-remain-strong-euro-anchor.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  hit back at German criticism of his plan to
intervene in bond markets and reminded Europe’s largest economy
of its responsibility to anchor the euro.  The ECB “will always act within the limits of its
mandate,” Draghi wrote in a commentary for German newspaper Die
Zeit provided by the Frankfurt-based ECB today. “Yet it should
be understood that fulfilling our mandate sometimes requires us
to go beyond standard monetary policy tools.”  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann and some German
politicians have lashed out at Draghi’s plan to resume
government bond purchases to lower borrowing costs in countries
such as Italy and  Spain . Draghi’s riposte comes as  Chancellor
Angela Merkel , who has signaled broad support for ECB bond
buying, hosts Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in Berlin
today.  “The ECB is not a political institution,” Draghi wrote.
“But it is committed to its responsibilities as an institution
of the European Union. As such, we never lose sight of our
mission to guarantee a strong and stable currency. The banknotes
that we issue bear the European flag and are a powerful symbol
of European identity.”  Weidmann has said he’s against ECB bond purchases because
they risk increasing governments’ reliance on the central bank
and won’t solve Europe’s debt crisis. “Such policy is too close
to state financing via the money press for me,” he told German
magazine  Der Spiegel  in an interview published on Aug. 26.  Draghi’s Plan  Draghi’s plan aims to win governments time to implement
fiscal reforms while also ensuring that any assistance is tied
to conditions. It requires distressed governments to request aid
from  Europe ’s bailout fund and sign up to a memorandum of
understanding before the ECB would act to reduce bond yields in
the secondary market if necessary. Draghi is due to present
details of the new program after a policy meeting on Sept. 6.  Italy doesn’t need to tap the rescue fund at the moment
because measures by the government are starting to offset market
concerns, Monti said in an interview with  Il Sole 24 Ore 
published today.  The country sold 9 billion euros ($11.3 billion) of
Treasury bills at the lowest rate since March today. Yesterday,
it priced a zero-coupon 2014 bond to yield 3.064 percent, down
almost 2 percentage points from the last sale a month ago.  Systemic Risk  Members of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its Free
Democratic Party coalition partner said the ECB could become a
risk to the financial system if it sticks to plans to resume
bond purchases, Handelsblatt reported today. The ECB’s attempts
to change the foundations of the euro are illegal,  Frank Schaeffler , the FDP’s parliamentary finance spokesman, told the
newspaper.  “The root of Germany’s success is its deep integration
into the European and world economies,” Draghi wrote. “To
continue to prosper, Germany needs to remain an anchor of a
strong currency, at the center of a zone of monetary stability
and in a dynamic and competitive euro-area economy.”  Only a stronger economic and monetary union can provide
this, Draghi said.  ‘Anti-European’  “Draghi seems to suggest here that his critics are somehow
anti-European,” said  Christian Schulz , senior economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London . “There has been a lot of deliberate
misleading by politicians in Germany about what the ECB is doing
and also about what the future of the euro is.”  European leaders are working on a revamp of the euro’s
institutional landscape in an attempt to form a fiscal and
banking union to complement the economic and monetary union.  “Those who want to go back to the past misunderstand the
significance of the euro,” Draghi wrote. “Those who claim only
a full federation can be sustainable set the bar too high. What
we need is a gradual and structured effort to complete EMU. This
would finally give the euro the stable foundations it
deserves.”  Draghi said the ultimate goals that the euro was founded on
were stability, prosperity and peace. “We know this is what the
people in Europe, and in  Germany , aspire to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  