-- Dust Bowl Kansas Farmers Set to Plant Winter Wheat: Commodities
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-08-30T19:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/dust-bowl-kansas-farmers-set-to-plant-winter-wheat-commodities.html
Kansas  farmers are preparing to
plant winter wheat into the driest soil since 1991 as three
seasons of drought causes Dust Bowl conditions in the biggest
growing state and global reserves fall to a four-year low.  About 97 percent of fields in the state had too little
moisture as of Aug. 19, U.S. Department of Agriculture data
show. Kansas is having its hottest year ever, leaving all 105
counties as federal disaster areas. The worst U.S. drought since
1956 spread to wheat-growing Great Plains states after damaging
corn and soybean yields in the Midwest and driving prices for
both crops to a record.  The International Grains Council cut its stockpile forecast
for the third time in as many months Aug. 23, and the  United
Nations  said in July that grain prices drove the biggest monthly
gain in food costs since 2009. Wheat reached a four-year high in
July, boosting costs for Panera Bread Co. and  Grupo Bimbo (BIMBOA)  SAB,
and may jump another 8.5 percent to $9.80 a bushel in three
months as droughts limit output from the U.S., Russia and
Ukraine, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “We just have no subsoil moisture at all,” said David
LeRoy, a 56-year-old who farms 3,000 acres about 10 miles west
of Great Bend, Kansas, and plans to start sowing winter wheat
next month for harvesting in June. “We’re going to have to have
a wet winter to raise any wheat at all. When you have a small
amount of rain, like we have, nothing wants to grow.”  Crop Rallies  Futures surged 38 percent this year to $9.03 a bushel on
the Chicago Board of Trade, second only to the 46 percent
advance in soybeans. Both overtook a 25 percent gain in corn
among the 24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index, which rose 3.4 percent. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities added 7.1 percent, and Treasuries returned 2.1
percent, a Bank of America Corp. Index shows.  The lack of any significant rain in Kansas through July
resulted in the driest three months for the state since at least
1890, according to the Western Regional Climate Center.
Temperatures from January through July averaged 59.4 degrees
Fahrenheit (15 degrees Celsius), a record for the period, said
Mary Knapp, the state climatologist in  Manhattan , Kansas.  Global wheat stockpiles will drop 10 percent before next
year’s harvest to 177.2 million metric tons, the lowest since
2009, the USDA said Aug. 10.  Russia ’s harvest may fall 24
percent,  Kazakhstan ’s is seen tumbling 52 percent, Ukraine may
reap 32 percent less, and Australian output is forecast to drop
12 percent, the USDA said. The last time supplies were that
tight, Russia imposed export restrictions that lasted 10 months.  Disaster Areas  About 70 percent of the U.S. harvest comes from winter
wheat planted in September and October. The rest is spring wheat
sown in June. The outlook dimmed after fields dried up from  Ohio 
to  Texas  to  Montana  and the government declared half of all
counties disaster areas. The USDA, after predicting record  corn
harvests  in June, said this month that output will plunge 13
percent this year after kernels withered.  “The really extreme drought has shifted westward,” said
Dan Manternach, a wheat economist at Doane Advisory Services in
 St. Louis . “They’re doing some field work, but some have
stopped field preparations because it’s too dry. That’s unusual
because usually if it’s this dry, they say: ‘Let’s at least make
a cloud of dust’.”  U.S. farmers may still plant winter wheat because most will
be guaranteed $8.60 to $8.80 a bushel from insurance policies
even if the crop fails, said Doug Etheridge, a senior vice
president in futures and options at RBC Wealth Management in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . Before the drought sparked a rally,
futures averaged about $7.16 this year through mid-June.  Export Sales  Surging prices may curb demand for U.S. grain and boost
sales from  Canada , the fourth-largest exporter, where production
is rising for a second consecutive year. U.S.  shipments  overseas
reached 5.69 million tons from June 1 to Aug. 16, 13 percent
less than a year earlier, USDA data show. The government’s
official forecast is for a 14 percent increase in sales in the
year that began June 1.  World wheat supplies are “sufficient” to meet global
demand even if Russia decides to limit exports, and prices may
decline by the end of the year, Capital Economics Ltd. said in a
report yesterday. In the year ended May 31, the top exporters
were the U.S.,  Australia , Russia and Canada, USDA data show.  U.S. farmers may be depending on an emerging El Nino
weather pattern to bring more water in the next several months.
That may boost rainfall in parts of Texas, the second-largest
winter-wheat grower, state climatologist John Nielsen-Gammon
wrote in a report on Aug. 21. Winter wheat is planted from
September through November, goes dormant when temperatures drop
and resumes growing in April or May.  Dust Bowl  Plants may not survive that long without more rain,
especially in Kansas. The southwest corner of the state has had
three consecutive years of drought, leaving an increased risk of
a return to the devastation of the Dust Bowl era in the late
1930s, according to Jim Shroyer, an agronomist at  Kansas State
University  in Manhattan. Lack of crop production in the region
means fewer plants and roots to keep the dirt in place.  “I’m worried about the dust starting to blow again,”
Shroyer said. “I’ve heard people say that with our current
farming techniques we’ll never have a Dust Bowl again. That’s a
bold statement.”  No one is pointing to a return to the  poverty  of the 1930s.
Along with crop insurance and emergency subsidies made available
because of the drought, U.S. farmers have been transformed from
subsistence growers to global suppliers. About 20 percent of the
 labor force  worked in farming then, compared with less than 2
percent today, according to U.S. Census data.  Stockpiles Shrinking  Global stockpiles may drop to a five-year low, Goldman
analysts led by New York-based Jeff Currie said in a report Aug.
7. If production in the former members of the  Soviet Union  falls
too low, Russia and Ukraine may impose export restrictions as
they did in 2010, they said.  Wheat rallied 47 percent that year, contributing to a jump
in food costs that reached a record in 2011 and helped spark
riots across the  Middle East  and North Africa. The IGC estimates
Russia will harvest 41 million tons this year, less than the
41.5 million it reaped in 2010. Rabobank expects prices to reach
$9.20 in the second quarter of 2013, still 32 percent below the
record of $13.495 reached in February 2008.  Rising prices boosted the cost of flour for St. Louis-based
 Panera Bread (PNRA)  during the second quarter and reduced margins,
President and Co-Chief Executive Officer William W. Moreton said
on a conference call with analysts July 25. A $1 gain in wheat
boosts Panera’s annual costs by about $3 million, and the
company expects to spend an extra $6 million on the commodity
this year.  Bread Prices  Grupo Bimbo SAB, the world’s largest bread maker, will have
to buy more costly wheat should current conditions persist, and
that may mean raising prices for its products, Mexico City-based
CEO Daniel Servitje Montull said on a conference call July 26.  “We’ve planted wheat into dry conditions in the past, but
I haven’t planted into conditions where we’ve had an extreme dry
period for this long,” said Justin Knopf, a 34-year-old farmer
near Salina, Kansas. “We’re planning on seeding as we normally
do and hoping for moisture in the next several months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  