-- The Republican Tent: Too Big to Succeed
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-08-29T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/the-republican-tent-too-big-to-succeed.html
In an interview on the eve of his
acceptance of the  Republican Party ’s nomination for president,
 Mitt Romney  sought to distance himself from his running mate and
criticized those who would, as he put it, “chain us together.”  “I mean, who is Paul Ryan?” Romney said, referring to the
member of the U.S. House of Representatives from  Wisconsin  who is
the party’s vice presidential nominee. “He’s just some
congressman who happens to be highly opinionated, as it turns
out. Why should that reflect on me, just because I picked him? I
had to pick somebody, you know, and he seemed like a pleasant
fellow. I didn’t know all of his views on abortion or what have
you. I still don’t. Why should I? After the election, if we win
or if we lose, I’ll probably never see him again. Or at least
that’s my intention.  “As for President  Barack Obama ,” he continued, “it’s just
sad, so sad, that he is wasting time trying to goad me into
taking a coherent position on the sanctity of human life when
there are so many more important issues being ignored. I believe
in the sanctity of human life, and I believe that life begins at
conception, except in cases of rape or incest when it doesn’t.
How does that work, exactly? I have no idea and no intention of
finding out.  Paul Ryan  may disagree, and that’s his privilege.
But I’m going to be the president, not him, and I’m in good
health and I am tired of talking about this, so let’s move on.”  Meanwhile, Ryan has been distancing himself from Todd Akin,
the Republican representative from  Missouri  whose advanced views
on rape have been the subject of much discussion in recent weeks.
Asked his opinion about Akin and his controversial theories, Ryan
had the same reaction as Romney: “Who?”  As recently as last year, Ryan co-sponsored a bill with Akin
that would require a full body scan each time any doctor wishes
to perform an abortion. In an interview, Akin clarified that he
meant a full body scan of the doctor. “Studies have shown that
doctors who have performed an abortion are more likely to develop
cancer than doctors who have never performed an abortion,” Akin
said. “Or at least that’s what someone told me. Or maybe I read
it somewhere. Anyway.”  Ryan said, “Where in the world does he get this stuff?” He
said he has “no memory” of co-sponsoring the bill. “I co-sponsor
a lot of bills, just to be polite. Everybody does. You can’t hold
me to the contents of any particular piece of legislation, just
because I co-sponsored it.  “The point is, though, that it’s just him and has nothing to
do with me, just as I have nothing to do with  Governor Romney ,
and Governor Romney has nothing to do with Representative Akin.
The Republican Party is a big tent, as you know. We believe in
individual rights, although we also have room for people who
don’t believe in individual rights -- as is their right.”  All three men, in interviews, took care to distance
themselves from the 2012 Republican platform. “Never even seen
it,” Romney said. “What’s it say?” Told that it calls for a ban
on abortion with no exceptions, Romney said: “You see? That is
just the kind of issue I want to distance myself from. Is that a
copy you’re holding? Well, get rid of it.”  Ryan conceded that some of the platform’s more controversial
passages might reflect his influence. Yet he added, “Just because
I agree with some of it is no reason to associate me with it.”  Reporters at the  Republican National Convention  in Tampa,
 Florida , were unable to find anyone who would admit to having
read the platform, let alone claim credit for authorship of it.
In fact, no one can remember where it came from.  “It just materialized one day. We glanced through it,” said
an RNC spokesman. “We thought, ‘Well, here’s something
interesting,’ so we posted it on our  Facebook page . But that
doesn’t mean we endorse any particular view expressed in it.”  Akin said, “I was talking to a guy in a bar, who told me
that space aliens had landed during the night and had left behind
copies of the platform before returning to Mars. Apparently, they
wanted to distance themselves from it.”  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Republicans’ racial bind ,
on  rethinking FAA rules for portable electronic devices  and on
 how central banks can avoid being politicized  and still be
effective;  Caroline Baum  on  falling off the fiscal cliff ;  Ezra
Klein  on the  merits of party platforms ; Daniel Wolff on how  New
Orleans  became  the do-it-yourself capital .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or @michaelkinsley on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 