-- Noda’s Job in Jeopardy After Sales Tax to Reduce Debt
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-08-30T08:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/leadership-credentials-no-boon-to-noda-as-japan-set-for-election.html
Yoshihiko Noda has accomplished more
than Japan’s five previous prime ministers in his first year in
office. He may still lose his job, after dividing his party,
outraging anti-nuclear activists and raising taxes.  Noda split the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan with
legislation doubling the  sales tax  to address record debt, a
measure policy makers had struggled to pass for a decade.
Responding to power shortages that threatened economic recovery,
he reactivated two atomic reactors, risking a backlash from a
public still traumatized from last year’s Fukushima disaster.  Now, Noda must convince a weakened DPJ to keep him as its
head in a party leadership contest next month. He also faces an
emboldened opposition seeking elections as soon as October amid
public sentiment toward both major parties that has soured and
left voters looking for alternatives to change a system that has
produced six premiers since 2006.  “No prime minister seems to satisfy the Japanese public
for long -- but the others lost popularity with bad or
incompetent policies,” said Ellis Krauss, a professor of
Japanese politics at the  University of California ,  San Diego .
“Noda deserves a lot of credit,” he said. “However, his party
is fractured, and if it loses power it may fracture further.”  Noda, 55, shelved measures in his party’s campaign platform
to forge a deal with the  Liberal Democratic Party  to approve the
tax bill, raising the risk of a challenge to his leadership at
the DPJ convention Sept. 21. The LDP, which governed for half a
century until losing in 2009, gave its support in exchange for
Noda’s pledge to call elections “soon.”  ‘Rapidly Abandoned’  The first increase in the sales levy since 1997, the
legislation doubles the tax to 10 percent by October 2015. One
price of the deal was setting aside DPJ promises for minimum
guaranteed pensions and revamped health-care funding for people
75 years and older.  “We have to prevent his re-election,” DPJ legislator
Yukio Ubukata said. “It’s unfortunate, but Mr. Noda has rapidly
abandoned the DPJ to make it more like the LDP.”  That sentiment already drove more than 50 DPJ lawmakers to
join power broker  Ichiro Ozawa  in leaving the party, and Ubukata
leads one of two groups seeking to replace Noda that met today
to discuss policy and selection of leadership candidates. His
59-member faction vowed to take the party back to its roots, and
“repair damage caused by neo-liberal policies,” according to a
statement given to reporters.  Public Sentiment  While no candidates have announced, five men vied last year
to replace  Naoto Kan  after he resigned under fire for his
leadership in coping with the March 2011 earthquake, tsunami and
nuclear crisis. Environment Minister Goshi Hosono, former
Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara , and ex-Transport Minister Sumio
Mabuchi are possible candidates,  Kyodo News  reported Aug. 25,
without citing anyone. Maehara and Mabuchi both ran last time.  Almost 65 percent of party supporters back Noda in the
leadership race, according to a Nikkei newspaper poll published
Aug. 27. The DPJ’s approval rating was at 21 percent, up three
percentage points from last month, while the LDP’s rating fell
two points to 25 percent, the paper said. The Nikkei surveyed
902 people and provided no margin of error.  Noda’s allies say he also deserves credit for the decision
to resume nuclear power generation after the Fukushima disaster
left the country without atomic energy for the first time in
more than four decades.  ‘Tremendous Constraints’  Businesses including  NEC Corp. (6701)  and  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  backed the
decision to re-start two reactors to avoid electricity shortages
and blackouts in western Japan. The move sparked the country’s
biggest protests in years, including weekly demonstrations
outside of the prime minister’s official residence. Noda last
week met with 11 protest organizers.  “He faced a tremendous amount of constraints from the
start,” said DPJ lawmaker Akihisa Nagashima. “So he decided to
start with fiscal and social security reform, while at the same
time tackling the nuclear issue. It’s a pity that the number of
DPJ lawmakers has fallen.”  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. on Aug. 13 called the
legislation an “important step” to avoid a surge in bond
yields that are now within eight basis points of a nine-year
low. The benchmark 10-year bond yield traded at 0.80 percent
late yesterday after reaching 0.72 percent on July 23, the
lowest since June 2003.  Japan ’s bond market is signaling concern that Noda may lose
power, ending his debt-reduction efforts. Yields on 30-year
securities exceeded two-year debt by 1.81 percentage points
yesterday, the widest since April 12. Longer bonds tend to move
on the fiscal outlook while shorter notes are more sensitive to
monetary policy expectations.  ‘Down-to-Earth’  Noda last Sept. 2 became the DPJ’s third premier in two
years, likening himself to a loach fish, a freshwater bottom
feeder. A second-degree black belt in judo and former finance
minister, he has the fewest assets of any premier since cabinet
ministers began disclosing their wealth in the mid-1980s.  “My approval ratings may not rise as prime minister,” he
said five days before taking office. “But I will work and sweat
to push down-to-earth politics.”  Should Noda retain his position as party head, he faces
increased pressure from the LDP to call elections ahead of an
August 2013 deadline. LDP chief  Sadakazu Tanigaki , whose party
holds its own leadership contest next month, is threatening to
block bills authorizing the sale of 38.3 trillion yen ($488
billion) in bonds to finance this fiscal year’s budget unless
Noda complies. The opposition-controlled upper house yesterday
passed a non-binding censure against the prime minister.  ‘Without Delay’  “The agreement was that if the tax bill passes, parliament
would be dissolved without delay,” Tanigaki said in a July 23
interview. Noda “has gone against the DPJ’s manifesto and is
now losing his footing. His ability to push things forward has
disappeared.”  Tanigaki is favored by 36 percent of LDP supporters,
according to the Nikkei poll. Former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,
whose resignation in 2007 after 12 months in office set off a
revolving door of yearly successors, will run against Tanigaki,
the Yomiuri newspaper said yesterday, without citing anyone.  Both parties are threatened by the rise of Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto, who has become the country’s most popular politician
with his attacks on bureaucracy and political feuding. His party
advocates scrapping the upper house and holding direct elections
for prime minister, both of which would require amending the 65-
year-old postwar  constitution  for the first time.  Hashimoto is seeking to win as many as 200 of the 480 seats
in the lower house of parliament, and smaller opposition groups
including Ozawa’s have reached out to him.  Hashimoto ‘Attractive’  “It is hardly surprising that in this context voters are
finding Hashimoto attractive,” said Ian Neary, a professor of
Japanese politics at Oxford University. “His group seems to
offer an alternative to the largely indistinguishable LDP-DPJ,
both now apparently short of new ideas.”  Re-energizing voters to support a DPJ that has jettisoned
its original pledges to reduce bureaucracy, boost subsidies to
families with children and cut wasteful spending may hurt Noda
as he runs on a record of higher taxes and the resumption of
nuclear power, said Jun Okumura, a senior adviser for the
Eurasia Group consulting firm in  Tokyo .  “He had very good intentions,” said Okumura. “He has
been able to show a consistency and sense of purpose that was
missing. Given the circumstances I’d give him pretty high marks
compared with his predecessors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  