-- Eletrobras Worst Utility With 313% Profit Gain
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-08-29T21:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/eletrobras-worst-utility-with-313-profit-gain.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  is
the Americas’ worst-performing utility stock, even after
quarterly profit quadrupled, on investor concern  Brazil  will
force the state-run company to reduce prices and rescue failing
distributors.  The stock’s 24 percent plunge this year is the biggest of
any electricity company with a market value of $1 billion or
more, while its price-to-earnings ratio of 4.3 makes it the
cheapest, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Eletrobras, as  South
America ’s No. 1 power utility by capacity is known, posted a 313
percent increase in second-quarter profit on Aug. 14 after a
weaker real boosted dollar revenue from Itaipu, the world’s
largest hydroelectric dam by output.  Eletrobras is being punished in equity markets on
speculation the  government  will demand lower electricity rates
when it renews generation contracts, which expire in 2015 and
account for 43 percent of the utility’s installed capacity.
President  Dilma Rousseff  has said she wants to reduce power
costs that are among the highest in the world.  “The government will need to cut the cost of electricity,
and that stirs questions about how it will be done,”  Pedro Galdi , chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW
Corretora SA, said in an Aug. 27 telephone interview. “This
affects everybody, not only Eletrobras, but Eletrobras is the
biggest generator in Brazil.”  Eletropaulo Plunges  Eletrobras dropped 3.8 percent to close at 19.70 reais in
Sao Paulo, the biggest slump since May 21.  Brazil’s government, which missed a deadline to rule on the
power concessions in June, probably will extend licenses for 20
years in exchange for lower electricity rates, Energy Minister
Edison Lobao told reporters on July 26. The drive to reduce
costs may include eliminating certain fees and cutting taxes, he
said in June.  AES Corp.’s Eletropaulo Metropolitana Eletricidade de  Sao
Paulo  SA, Brazil’s largest power distributor by market value,
plunged 24 percent last month after it was ordered to cut rates
9.3 percent on July 2 as part of a government review undertaken
every four years.  Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo, known as Cesp; Cia.
Energetica de  Minas Gerais , or Cemig; and Cia. Paranaense de
Energia, or Copel, are also awaiting concession renewals.  Eletrobras is also trading at a discount to peers because
of concern the government is pressuring the utility to take on
unprofitable projects that it considers strategic, including the
26 billion-real ($13 billion) Belo Monte hydroelectric dam in
the Amazon, Banco Safra SA analyst Sergio Tamashiro said.  ‘Heavy-Handed Intervention’  “Investors don’t like the government’s heavy-handed
intervention,” Tamashiro, who rates the company neutral, said
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “The company ends up
getting into projects with low rates of return.”  Eletrobras announced in December it would take a 51 percent
stake in Celg Distribuicao SA. The plan is one of several
“negatives” for Eletrobras because it increases exposure to
the electricity distribution industry, where profit margins are
smaller, Barclays Capital Plc analysts led by Francisco Navarrete said in an Aug. 13 report to clients.  Celg “has great potential,” Eletrobras’s press office
said.  “Like all controlling shareholders, the government is
concerned with increasing  profits , but it must also think about
the long-term wellbeing of the Brazilian people,” Eletrobras’s
press office said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Both
things need to be balanced -- a fact that the market, normally
focused on short-term returns, has a certain trouble
understanding.”  The Energy Ministry’s press office declined to comment.  Attractive Buy  To be sure, Eletrobras’s current value makes it an
attractive buy, said Mauricio Abadia, who helps manage Brandes
Investment Partners LP’s $2 billion emerging-market portfolio,
including $200 million of Eletrobras shares.  The company’s second-quarter profit surged after the
Brazilian real slumped 9.1 percent in the period, boosting the
local-currency value of dollar-denominated revenue from the
Itaipu dam, a joint venture with  Paraguay  that straddles the
border of the two countries. Rousseff’s government took measures
to weaken the real in the first half to boost exports amid an
economic slowdown.  “When you look at investments in  emerging markets ,
Eletrobras has several things in its favor,” Abadia said in a
telephone interview from  San Diego . It has a “solid  capital
structure , low leverage that could be increased, low exposure to
commodities, good balance between assets and debt in foreign
currency.”  Local-Market Expertise  Investor concern isn’t likely to abate anytime soon as the
utility pushes ahead with plans to increase its international
presence, said Safra’s Tamashiro.  Eletrobras this year agreed with China Three Gorges Corp.
and China State Grid Corp. to develop projects and also signed a
memorandum of understanding with the governments of Suriname,
 French Guiana  and Guyana to develop power projects in the three
countries. Eletrobras said in March it was also considering
building a hydroelectric dam in  Mozambique .  “Eletrobras’s expertise is in the local market and in that
case it’s better to concentrate investments in Brazil,”
Tamashiro said. “The less Eletrobras goes abroad, the better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  