-- Emerging Stocks Retreat for Fourth Day on Commodities, Earnings
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2012-08-29T15:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/emerging-stocks-retreat-for-fourth-day-on-commodities-earnings.html
Emerging-market  stocks  dropped for a
fourth day, sending the benchmark  index (VXEEM)  to the lowest in three
weeks, as falling commodities dragged down producers and Chinese
companies posted lower earnings.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.4 percent to 952.61
by 10:59 a.m. in  New York . Brazil’s Bovespa stock index sank 2
percent, led by losses for  oil company  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA and  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef producer.
The index was led lower by a gauge of raw-material  shares , which
fell for a sixth day, as Jiangxi Copper Co. dropped 5.1 percent.
Air China and Evergrande sank at least 2.9 percent on first-half
earnings.  The MSCI emerging-market index’s valuation slid to 1.6
times net assets today, a 10 percent discount versus the MSCI
World Index of developed-nation shares, the widest gap since
January 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The slide
extended even as U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.7
percent annual rate from April through June, up from an initial
estimate of 1.5 percent.  “Investors are taking a cautious stance as the threat of a
global slowdown hasn’t really disappeared,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , the chief market strategist at Manila-based BDO Unibank
Inc. “The sentiment for some investors is that it might be
better to stay on the sidelines and wait if the U.S. and Europe
will announce additional stimulus plans.”  EM ETF Declines  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.6
percent to 39.31. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, slid 0.2 percent.  The Bovespa tumbled 2 percent, the most this month, with
OGX, the oil company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista ,
dropping the most in two months. The shares slumped 9 percent
after the company announced the second top management
replacement since June. JBS lost 4.9 percent, the most since
July 23.  The U.S. GDP report from the Commerce Department released
today followed a 2 percent first-quarter pace. The revised data
also showed companies invested in new equipment at the weakest
pace in almost three years.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may shed light on
monetary policy in a speech to central bankers on Aug. 31 in
Wyoming, while European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who
pledged to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro, canceled
his trip to Wyoming.  The 21 countries in the MSCI emerging market index send
about 13 percent of their exports to the U.S. and 30 percent to
the European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show.  Earnings Drop  Evergrande, China’s biggest developer by sales volume,
dropped 3.1 percent after reporting a 21 percent decline in its
first-half underlying profit. Air China, the nation’s biggest
international carrier, said first-half profit slumped 77
percent. The shares sank 2.9 percent to the lowest level since
July 9.  Eurocash tumbled 9.1 percent in Warsaw. CEO Luis Amaral,
who owns 51 percent of the Polish company, is selling about 7
million shares, or 5 percent, according to terms of the
transaction. Amaral’s sale is aimed at increasing the stock’s
free float on the  Warsaw Stock Exchange , Jan Domanski, head of
investors relations at Eurocash, said in an e-mailed response to
questions from  Bloomberg News .  Micex, Sensex  Russia’s Micex Index dropped 1 percent, with OAO Severstal,
the country’s second largest steel producer by output, losing
1.9 percent. The company said second-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 18 percent
to $664 million from a quarter earlier, missing the average
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA)  tumbled 9.2 percent, the most
since September. The Indian conglomerate with businesses from
real estate to roads sold $150 million of convertible bonds, the
biggest offering by an issuer from the nation this year.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank 1 percent to the lowest
level since February 2009, while the BSE India Sensitive Index
retreated 0.8 percent.  Poland’s zloty weakened 1.8 percent against the dollar,
leading declines among emerging-market currencies, amid
speculation the central bank may cut  interest rates  as economic
growth slows. The forint depreciated 1.1 percent. Hungarian
policy makers unexpectedly reduced borrowing costs yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  declined 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage point to 313, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Materials Index dropped 1.5
percent, the most among 10 industry groups, while MSCI’s gauge
of energy stocks sank 0.7 percent. Jiangxi Copper, the biggest
Chinese producer of the metal, retreated the most in three
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  