-- Emerging Stocks Retreat for Fourth Day on Commodities, Earnings
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2012-08-29T11:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/emerging-stocks-advance-first-time-in-four-days-on-u-s-outlook.html
Emerging-market  stocks  dropped for a
fourth day, sending the benchmark index to a 3 1/2 week low, as
falling commodities dragged down producers and Chinese companies
from Air China Ltd. to Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. posted
lower earnings.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.1 percent to 955.71
at 12:55 p.m. in London. An MSCI Inc. gauge of raw-material
 shares  fell for a sixth day, set for the longest losing streak
since May, as Jiangxi Copper Co. dropped 5.1 percent. Air China
and Evergrande sank at least 2.9 percent.  Eurocash SA (EUR) , Poland’s
biggest seller of non-durable  consumer goods , tumbled the most
on record as its chief executive officer sought to sell a stake.  Metals retreated before a report on American economic
growth and a hurricane in the U.S. curbed demand for oil at
refineries. The MSCI emerging-market index’s valuation slid to
1.6 times net assets today, a 10 percent discount versus the
MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares, the widest gap
since January 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are taking a cautious stance as the threat of a
global slowdown hasn’t really disappeared,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , the chief market strategist at Manila-based BDO Unibank
Inc. “The sentiment for some investors is that it might be
better to stay on the sidelines and wait if the U.S. and Europe
will announce additional stimulus plans.”  U.S. Data  The  U.S. economy  probably grew at a faster pace than
initially estimated in the second quarter, economists said
before a Commerce Department report today. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may shed light on monetary policy in a
speech to central bankers on Aug. 31 in Wyoming, while European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who pledged to do whatever
it takes to preserve the euro, canceled his trip to Wyoming.  The 21 countries in the MSCI emerging market index send
about 13 percent of their exports to the U.S. and 30 percent to
the European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank 1 percent to the lowest
level since February 2009, while the BSE India Sensitive Index
retreated 0.8 percent. Russia’s Micex Index and Poland’s WIG20
both dropped 0.6 percent.  Vietnam’s VN Index (VNINDEX)  climbed 1.9
percent, rallying from the lowest level since January.  Poland’s zloty weakened 1.1 percent against the euro,
leading declines among emerging-market currencies, amid
speculation the central bank may cut  interest rates  as economic
growth slows. The forint depreciated 0.8 percent. Hungarian
policy makers unexpectedly reduced borrowing costs yesterday.
Russia’s ruble fell 0.6 percent against the dollar.  Default Risk  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of east European,
Middle Eastern and African credit-default  swaps  rose less than
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 238. The extra
yield investors demand to own emerging-market bonds over  U.S.
Treasuries  declined three basis points to 317, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Materials Index dropped 0.7
percent, the most among 10 industry groups, while MSCI’s gauge
of energy stocks sank 0.4 percent. Jiangxi Copper, the biggest
Chinese producer of the metal, retreated the most in three
months. OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil producer,
declined 0.5 percent.  Oil fell from a one-week high in New York after Hurricane
Isaac struck the coast of southeastern  Louisiana . A shutdown of
refineries because of the storm has curbed crude demand,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Copper dropped 0.7 percent
in London, while tin plunged 2.7 percent.  Earnings Drop  Evergrande, China’s biggest developer by sales volume,
dropped 3.1 percent after reporting a 21 percent decline in its
first-half underlying profit. Air  China , the nation’s biggest
international carrier, said first-half profit slumped 77
percent. The shares sank 2.9 percent to the lowest level since
July 9.  Eurocash tumbled 9 percent. CEO Luis Amaral, who owns 51
percent of the Polish company, is selling about 7 million
shares, or 5 percent, according to terms of the transaction.
Amaral’s sale is aimed at increasing the stock’s free float on
the  Warsaw Stock Exchange , Jan Domanski, head of investors
relations at Eurocash, said in an e-mailed response to questions
from  Bloomberg News .  OAO Severstal dropped 0.7 percent. Russia’s second-largest
steel producer by output said second-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 18 percent
to $664 million from a quarter earlier, missing the average
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA)  tumbled 9.2 percent, the most
since September. The Indian conglomerate with businesses from
real estate to roads sold $150 million of convertible bonds, the
biggest offering by an issuer from the nation this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  