-- England’s Strauss Quits Cricket; Cook Takes Test Captaincy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-29T13:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/england-s-strauss-quits-cricket-cook-takes-over-test-captaincy.html
Andrew Strauss  quit cricket after a
3 1/2-year stint as England Test captain in which the team
attained the No. 1 ranking and beat archrival  Australia  home and
away in Ashes series. He’s replaced by  Alastair Cook .  Strauss, 35, announced his retirement today after 14 years
in the professional game and 100 Tests for England, including 50
as captain. The left-handed opening batsman, who scored 21 Test
centuries, will also quit his county side, Middlesex.  “After much thought over the last few weeks, I have
decided to step down as England Test captain and announce my
retirement from all forms of cricket,” Strauss said at a news
conference at Lord’s in London. “It has clearly been a tough
decision to make, but I believe that it is both in the best
interests of the England cricket team and myself to step down at
this stage.”  He said it was a “hugely sad moment in many ways.”  Strauss had been non-committal about his future as captain
at the end of the 2-0 Test series defeat against  South Africa  on
Aug. 20, when England lost its No. 1 Test ranking. His best
score in the three-match contest was 37. His departure also
follows a breakdown in his relationship with batsman  Kevin Pietersen , whom he succeeded as captain in January 2009.  After taking over full time, Strauss has led England to
victory in eight of 13 series, including a 3-1 win in Australia
that was its first away Ashes triumph since 1986-87. Last year’s
4-0 sweep of  India  lifted England atop the  International Cricket
Council ’s Test rankings for the first time.  Drop in Form  Since then, Strauss’s team has lost six of 11 Tests and its
only series victory came against the West Indies at home.  He scored a century on his Test debut, against  New Zealand 
in 2004, and totaled 7,037 Test runs at an average of 40.91. He
made 4,205 runs in one-day internationals at an average of
35.63.  Strauss said his own recent batting form had played a big
part in his decision to retire.  “For me the driver to it all quite frankly was my form with
the bat,” he said. “In truth I haven’t batted well enough for
a long time now. I think for a captain to perform his role
properly, it’s important you’re not a passenger in the side, but
also that people aren’t speculating as to whether you should be
in the side or not.”  Strauss first captained England when he stood in for the
injured  Michael Vaughan  in 2006 and his  overall record  as
captain is 24 wins from 50 Tests.  ‘Calmness’  “Andrew’s calmness and authority when dealing with some of
the most difficult moments in our sport in recent times should
be applauded,” ECB Chief Executive Officer David Collier said.
“His legacy within the game will be felt for many years to come
and we now need to continue to build on the progress we have
made under his leadership.”  Fellow opener Cook, England’s one-day skipper, will take
over the Test captaincy, uniting the leadership of the Test and
50-over teams.  “Obviously I’ve got huge boots to fill,” said Cook, 27,
who faces Tests in India later this year before home and away
Ashes series in 2013-14. “It feels like I’ve spent all my
 England  career walking out to bat with him. You’ve got to throw
yourself into it and meet the challenge head-on and I hope I’ve
got the leadership qualities to be able to do that.”  ‘Fantastic Captain’  Strauss “has been a fantastic captain, has led from the
front for 3 1/2 years and is a true ambassador for the game,”
Cook said.  Strauss quits the elite five-day game one century short of
tying the  English record  of 22 Test hundreds shared by Wally
Hammond, Colin Cowdrey and Geoff Boycott. Pietersen, 32, also
has 21 centuries.  Pietersen has been left out of the national squad following
a home season in which he retired from limited-overs cricket
before changing his mind, questioned his own Test future at a
news conference, and apologized for sending “provocative”  text
messages  to South African players during the series that led to
him being dropped for the final match.  Newspapers including the  Daily Mail  reported that some of
the messages were critical of Strauss, who said that Pietersen
would need to resolve issues of “trust and mutual respect”
before he could return to the England squad.  Pietersen Row  Strauss said today the Pietersen controversy had played no
part in his resignation, a decision he’d discussed with team
director  Andy Flower  previously.  “No, not in anyway, I’ve been speaking about it for a
while,” he said. “I first spoke to Andy about it prior to the
Kevin Pietersen incident rearing its head. It just hasn’t been a
consideration at all.”  Yesterday, England also lost its No. 1 status in one-day
internationals. Hashim Amla hit 150 as South Africa won by 80
runs to take a 1-0 lead in the series and replace its opponent
atop the ICC world rankings. It’s the first team to hold the No.
1 spot in all three formats of the game at the same time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Elser in  London  
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  