-- Merkel Bloc Reaches Four-Year High, Wins Back FDP Voters
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-08-29T10:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/merkel-bloc-reaches-four-year-high-wins-back-fdp-voters.html
Support for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s governing Christian Democratic bloc rose to the highest
level in four years as voters who switched to her Free
Democratic coalition partner in 2009 returned, a poll showed.  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its Bavarian sister
party climbed three percentage points to 39 percent, the highest
since July 2008 and since the incumbent coalition was formed in
2009, according to the weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine and
broadcaster RTL published today. Opposition  Social Democrats ,
Greens and the Left Party each lost one percentage point.  Merkel, who other polls show is  Germany ’s most popular
politician, is gaining as European leaders’ crisis-fighting
efforts enter what the chancellor called a “decisive phase” in
an ARD television interview on Aug. 26. She meets today with
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who is struggling for
popular support of his debt-reduction agenda that aims to lower
government borrowing costs.  “Many voters who voted for the Free Democratic Party in
2009 are returning to the Christian Democratic bloc,” Manfred Guellner, Forsa’s managing director, said in a statement on the
OTS newswire. Merkel also benefits as the Social Democrats and
Greens, the two biggest opposition parties, squabble over who
will challenge her in next year’s German election, he said.  FDP’s Decline  While Merkel’s Free Democrat allies held steady at 5
percent, the Social Democrats declined to 26 percent, the Greens
to 12 percent and the anti-capitalist Left to 7 percent,
according to the poll. The FDP, which serves as Merkel’s junior
coalition partner, is down from its 14.6 percent win in the 2009
election.  The data indicate that neither Merkel’s current coalition
nor a possible Social Democrat-Green alliance would have enough
support to form a government if elections were held now.  The survey of 2,506 voting-age Germans was conducted from
Aug. 20-24 and has a margin of error of as much as 2.5
percentage points.  Merkel will brief Chinese leaders this week on European
efforts to combat the crisis and will ask  China  to keep backing
the euro, a government official told reporters in Berlin
yesterday. During her Aug. 30-31 China trip, she will also
discuss  interest rates  with Chinese leaders and raise the issue
of  market access , the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  