-- Dollar CEO Seen Making $82 Million Scoring 141-Fold Gain
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/hertz-2-to-87-50-dollar-thrifty-bid-makes-141-fold-gain.html
Six weeks in as chief executive
officer of  Dollar Thrifty  Automotive Group Inc.,  Scott Thompson 
was facing a roomful of bankers who had loaned the rental-car
company $2.5 billion and were having second thoughts.  “We’ve looked at it and we don’t think you deserve to
survive,” Thompson recalls one of them saying at that November
2008 meeting. “He said, ‘There’s no reason to have a  Dollar
Thrifty (DTG)  in the rental-car business.’ Those were pretty
complicated days.”  A month later,  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  offered to buy
the company for $2 a share, an early bid in what would lead to
an exponentially pricey, half-decade pursuit. Since then,
Thompson, who had come out of early retirement to fix Dollar
Thrifty, cut costs and reworked the car-buying strategy. Profits
returned in 2009 and have continued to grow. On Aug. 26, he
agreed to sell Dollar Thrifty to Hertz for $87.50 a share.  From a low in March 2009 of 62 cents, that’s a 141-fold
gain. Since that time, no stock in the  S&P 500  or Russell 2000
has gained more.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most valuable company,
rose sevenfold.  Thompson, 53, will benefit from Dollar Thrifty’s rise. He
holds stock and options worth $59.4 million at the takeover
price, after paying $2.52 million to exercise the options,
according to figures in an April  filing . If he loses his job
because of the deal, he’s entitled to $22.7 million more in
severance and performance shares.  “This guy came in when this thing was treading water and
now somebody is taking it out for $2.6 billion,” Fred Lowrance,
a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at Avondale Partners, said
in a telephone interview. “I don’t think anyone has a problem
with that. His interests were aligned with those of the
shareholders and it worked out for them.”  Unusual Path  Thompson took an unusual path to Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Dollar Thrifty.  In 2004, at age 45, he stepped down as a founder and chief
financial officer of  Group 1 Automotive Inc. (GPI) , an auto-dealership
group, to spend time with his ailing father. While he consulted
and joined a few boards, he didn’t return to full-time work
until he joined Dollar Thrifty as CFO in May 2008. When he was
named CEO five months later, he negotiated what he calls an
“eat-what-you-kill pay plan.”  “That was a conscious trade made at a time,” he said.
“And, in hindsight, obviously we have outperformed our
expectations. And because of that, the management team has done
really very well -- but so, quite frankly, have all the debtors
and shareholders.”  Dollar Thrifty’s closing share price the day Thompson took
over as CEO in October 2008 was 97 cents and lenders wanted to
liquidate the company that traces its roots to 1958, when it
rented  Volkswagen  Beetles for $6 a day plus 6 cents a mile.  Action Plan  Thompson cut costs, starting with 400 jobs, or 6 percent of
the workforce. The reductions skewed toward the  executive suite ,
with senior management reduced by 30 percent, headquarters staff
by 15 percent and workers in the airports and other local
offices by 5 percent. That saved $15 million.  Lenders agreed to amend loan terms, which helped avert a
delisting from the  New York  Stock Exchange after the company’s
market capitalization averaged less than $25 million for 30
straight days.  Another major cost was cars. Rental-car companies buy them,
rent them for a few months or a few years and then sell them,
either back to the automaker or on the open market.  Dollar Thrifty bought most of its cars from the predecessor
of Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker that spun it off into a
public company in 1997, with agreements to sell the vehicles
back at a predetermined price.  ‘Risk Fleet’  Thompson, with his background in car retailing,
renegotiated contracts with Chrysler so he could buy from other
automakers. He also took on the responsibility of selling the
used ones for whatever the market would bear, a strategy known
as a “risk fleet” because the company no longer had a
guaranteed buyer.  “They’d always looked at the risk side of the equation of
owning a used car,” Thompson said. “Since we were former
retailers, we were very comfortable with that risk and, in fact,
owning a used car, we saw that as an opportunity.”  In 2008, the year before Thompson took over, vehicle
depreciation costs were $539.4 million. By last year, that
expense had been cut almost in half to $271 million.  “It’s a more complicated business model to run a risk
fleet,” Thompson said. “But done well or even in an average
way, you end up with much higher returns over a cycle. You’re
not just playing a one-year uptick. Over time, it’s a much more
profitable venture.”  Highest Margins  Dollar Thrifty now has the highest operating margin of the
three public U.S. rental car companies, 21.7 percent of sales
last year compared with 13 for Hertz and 13.6 for  Avis Budget
Group Inc. (CAR)  Both Hertz and Avis have said they’re using more risk
cars in their fleet than they used to.  Dan Regan worked for Dollar Thrifty from 1995 through May,
leaving as Thompson’s head of western operations.  “When he came through the door, of course, he didn’t
understand car-rental operations,” Regan said in an interview.
“Who would? That part of the business was tough. But his
background in finance is extensive. Hand him a balance sheet and
financials and he’s going to crush the business model and figure
out its weaknesses.”  The acquisition of Dollar Thrifty may be the last
combination of major U.S. car-rental companies that regulators
will tolerate, said Lowrance, the analyst. Hertz, Enterprise
Holdings Inc. and Avis together control about 75 percent of the
market, with Dollar Thrifty at 5 percent, according to a
February report from IBISWorld. No other competitor has more
than 1 percent market share, IBISWorld said.  Solid Second  Hertz’s $87.50-a-share offer is more than double what Hertz
offered a little more than two years ago to secure the company’s
No. 2 position in the U.S. market. Enterprise is No. 1.  Hertz began its pursuit of Dollar Thrifty in April 2007 and
made a formal bid in 2010 of about $1.2 billion that  Dollar
Thrifty shareholders  rejected.  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based
Hertz made another offer last year that it later withdrew,
citing market conditions.  Since the 2010 offer, Dollar Thrifty’s shares have more
than doubled,  compared  with a 9.8 percent increase in the
 Russell 2000  Index. Dollar Thrifty has traded at a premium to
the index on a price-to-sales  ratio  since early last year.  Prompting Avis  That April 2010 offer of $41 a share prompted Avis, which
had also considered a bid, to join the pursuit. Avis made its
initial public bid for Dollar Thrifty on July 28 and sweetened
it twice.  While Dollar Thrifty’s board backed Hertz’s offer, deeming
it the one most likely to clear antitrust hurdles, the directors
and managers were eager to get a deal done with either bidder.  Dollar Thrifty was “actively expressing our
dissatisfaction with running a company in play for almost a
year,” Thompson said. “In September last year, we called out
Hertz and Avis and said, ‘You guys know what you need to do get
it done.”’  Avis ended its formal pursuit of Dollar Thrifty and in
October 2011 acquired Avis Europe Plc. Avis saw the bidding as
getting too expensive, according to a person familiar with the
situation.  Dollar Thrifty contacted Avis again last month to solicit a
new offer, a person with knowledge of the matter said at the
time. Avis declined, the person said.  Pushing Hertz  After Hertz reaffirmed in a July 31 statement that it still
was interested in an acquisition, Thompson said on an earnings
conference call the next day that it should make a “compelling
offer” or end the process. Thompson said in an interview he
heard from Hertz CEO Mark Frissora soon after.  “Things really got going pretty heavy after my earnings
call,” Thompson said.  The two sides began bidding about $10 apart, two people
with knowledge of the transaction said. Hertz offered in the low
$80s and Dollar Thrifty was holding out for the low $90s, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations were private.  The CEOs met in person only once during the negotiations,
at a hotel at  Chicago ’s O’Hare airport, the other person said.  The terms of the deal allow Dollar Thrifty to solicit a
higher offer for 30 days, the company said in  filing . Hertz said
Aug. 27 it expects the transaction to close in the fourth
quarter.  “These companies know each other very well,” Thompson
said. “This has been going on for five years. This is sixth
time they’ve done due diligence on us. It was a very smooth
process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  