-- Tessenderlo Chemie to Sell Building Profiles Operations
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-08-29T11:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/tessenderlo-chemie-to-sell-building-profiles-operations.html
Tessenderlo Chemie NV (TESB)  posted a
second-quarter loss on the pending disposal of part of its
building profiles unit and announced an agreement with  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX)  to expand its thiosulfates business in the U.S.  The  net loss  of 15.2 million euros ($19.1 million) included
a 35.9 million-euro impairment of the Profialis unit to be sold
to OpenGate Capital LLC and of a chlorine derivatives plant in
 China , the Brussels-based company said today in a statement.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and
one-time items of 55.7 million euros  beat  the 51.4 million-euro
average of three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale of Profialis, which includes two plants in  France 
and  Belgium  and distribution centers in Hungary and  Poland ,
follows the disposal of Tessenderlo’s PVC and chlor-alkali
assets to Ineos Group last year. The Belgian chemicals maker is
increasingly focusing on specialty products such as thiosulfate
fertilizers, its  most profitable  business, and gelatine. Its
U.S. subsidiary Kerley agreed to build a thiosulfates plant near
a Barrick Gold mine, which will supply the mining company with a
product substituting cyanide as a leaching agent by the end of
next year.  “Quite positive news as it demonstrates the commitment to
grow the mining business, which we understand is potentially
larger in the long term than the fertilizers,” said Filip De Pauw, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Brussels, who recommends
buying the shares. “A solid operational beat on second-quarter
numbers, driven again by Kerley.”  ‘Slightly’ High  Tessenderlo advanced as much as 3.7 percent on Euronext
Brussels and traded little changed at 22.56 euros by 12:43 p.m.
local time. The shares trimmed earlier gains after Chief
Executive Officer Frank Coenen said on a conference call that
analyst estimates for the full year are “slightly on the high
side.”  Analysts projected Ebitda would decrease about 7 percent to
174.1 million euros this year, according to the average of seven
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Ebitda from continuing
operations fell 15 percent in the first half.  The company got half of its Ebitda in the second quarter
from Phoenix, Arizona-based Kerley as higher raw-materials costs
almost wiped out profit in the businesses making potash
fertilizers and feed phosphates.  U.S. Drought  Kerley’s sales rose 22 percent in dollar terms as U.S.
farmers increased purchases of fertilizer anticipating higher
prices for their crops. A stronger dollar boosted revenue in
euros by 32 percent.  Demand weakened in the second half of June because of
drought and Tessenderlo said weather conditions may exacerbate
the usual seasonality effect in the second half.  The project for Barrick Gold will require  capital spending 
of about $25 million, with margins similar to the fertilizer
business, Coenen said on the call. Full capacity will be reached
in about three years and Tessenderlo doesn’t expect to announce
additional mining projects “in the next year or two,” he said.  Tessenderlo’s net debt fell to 244.5 million euros at the
end of June from 254.9 million euros at the end of March. The
figure doesn’t include 91.4 million euros receivables
Tessenderlo sold to a factoring company.  Net debt will increase in the second half even as capital
spending this year will be about 20 million euros lower than
initially planned, Chief Financial Officer Mel de Vogue told
analysts on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  