-- Metabolon, Google, Gilead: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-29T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/metabolon-google-gilead-intellectual-property.html
Metabolon Inc., a medical
diagnostics company, sued a Madison, Wisconsin-based competitor
for patent infringement.  Stemina Biomarker Discovery Inc. is accused of infringing
patents 7,550,258 and 7,910,301. The patents, which Metabolon
owns jointly with the  Cornell Research Foundation Inc. , cover
methods of drug discovery, disease treatment and diagnosis using
the study of the chemical processes of metabolites.  According to the complaint, Stemina offers services based
on identifying metabolites and biomarkers of biological
processes that infringe both patents. They include services that
use brain tumor  stem cells , human embryonic stem cells, and
human and animal tissue and fluid, according to court papers.  Metabolon, based in Durham,  North Carolina , claims it
offered Stemina a license with “reasonable financial terms.”
After almost five months of negotiations, Stemina refused to
take a license, Metabolon claimed.  Metabolon asked the court for an order barring further
infringement and for awards of money damages, litigation costs
and attorney fees. Alleging the infringement is deliberate,
Metabolon requested that the damages be tripled to punish
Stemina for its actions.  Stemina didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Metabolon Inc., v. Stemina Biomarker Discover
Inc., 3:12-cv-00618, U.S. District Court, Western District of
 Wisconsin  (Madison).  Google’s Motorola Mobility Sued Over Cloud-Data Patents  The Motorola Mobility unit of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s most
popular Internet search engine, was sued by a patent holder
claiming infringement of two U.S. patents for applications
allowing remote data access from handheld devices.  Clouding IP LLC contends Motorola Mobility, based in
Libertyville,  Illinois , is violating the patents awarded in 2005
and 2007 by marketing its ZumoCast and MotoCast products,
according to a complaint filed Aug. 27 in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  Clouding, based in Greensboro, North Carolina, said in
court papers that it should be paid “a reasonable royalty” to
compensate for damages. In dispute are patents 6,925,481 and
7,254,621.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , completed the
purchase of Motorola Mobility in May in its biggest takeover,
boosting its patent portfolio and stepping up competition with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , based in Cupertino, California.  Android software, which Google offers at no cost to mobile
device makers, leads the smartphone market. Google-powered
devices accounted for 56 percent of global sales in the first
three months of the year, compared with 23 percent for Apple’s
iPhone, according to Gartner Inc.  Christa Smith, a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the suit.  The case is Clouding IP LLC v. Motorola Mobility, 1:12-cv-
01078, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Gilead’s 4-in-1 Pill Wins U.S. Approval for New HIV Patients  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the world’s biggest maker of AIDS
drugs, won U.S. approval to sell a pill for new HIV patients
that combines four of the company’s drugs into one.  The therapy, called Stribild, was cleared as a medicine
that will help simplify patients’ treatment regimens, the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  said Aug. 27 in a statement.
Stribild contains two new drugs and two previously approved
compounds that make up Foster City, California-based Gilead’s
Truvada HIV medicine.  The new treatment, previously referred to as Quad, will
help make up for a potential $5 billion in lost sales when
Gilead’s other HIV drugs lose patent protection starting in 2018
and face generic competition, said Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst
with Deutsche Bank Securities in  New York . Stribild may generate
$4.7 billion in peak annual sales, she said.  “It’s a big deal for Gilead,” Karnauskas said in a
telephone interview before the FDA’s decision. “It offers
convenience for patients that never had it before and a better
side-effect profile.”  Karnauskas estimated that about 35 percent of new patients
will use the drug, at a cost of as much as $29,000 a year. About
1.2 million people in the U.S. have HIV, the virus that causes
AIDS, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. About 50,000 people become infected each year.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Collegiate Licensing Tells Bakery It Can’t Use  Alabama ’s ‘A’  Forstman Little & Co.’s Collegiate Licensing unit told a
bakery in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, to quit selling cookies decorated
with the letter “A,”  Associated Press   reported .  The licensing group told  Mary’s Cakes & Pastries  it must
not use trademarks associated with the  University of Alabama , to
which the group provides licensing services, according to AP.  The bakery was also told to send the licensing company a
list of infringing merchandise it had sold and to determine
damages and legal costs for unauthorized use of the trademarks,
the news service reported.  Mary Cesar, owner of the bakery, told AP that while she was
aware of licensing issues and wouldn’t use characters from
Disney on her cakes, she didn’t think putting a letter “A” on
a cookie should be such a problem.  Toys ‘R’ Us Accused of Infringing ‘Hunka-Ta-Bunk-Ta’ Trademark  Toys “R” Us Inc. (TOYS) , the Wayne, New Jersey-based retail
chain, was sued for trademark infringement by a Colorado-based
creator of children’s music and products.  According to the complaint filed Aug. 27 in federal court
in Denver, the retailer is accused of selling under its private
label stuffed animal toys that infringe  Katherine Dines ’s
“ Hunka-Ta-Bunk-Ta ” trademark. She registered the mark in July
1997 and has used it continually for children’s music and
related products, Dines said in her complaint.  Dines said she sent a cease-and-desist letter to the
company in May and in response Toys “R” Us told her it was
“unable to identify any products” it sold that used her mark.  Dines claims that Toys “R” Us continued to advertise and
sell infringing products on its website and in its stores.  She said after additional efforts on her part, the
offending items were taken down from the website. In the suit,
she claims the retailer still used the mark to identify its
product in keyword advertising and in website metadata.  Dines asked the court to find that Toys “R” Us infringed
her marks deliberately, and for awards of money damages, profits
the retailer derived from its alleged infringement and attorney
fees and litigation costs.  Toys R Us doesn’t comment on pending litigation, company
spokeswoman  Kathleen Waugh  said in an e-mail yesterday.  The case is Dines v. Toys “R” Us Inc., 12-cv-03379, U.S.
District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  BSH Says Thermador Ads Don’t Infringe Julia Child’s IP Rights  BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeraete GmbH’s BSH Home
Appliances unit asked a federal court in  Boston  to declare it’s
not infringing copyrights or trademarks related to the late
Julia Child.  The company, which makes  Thermador home appliances , said
Child’s preference for and use of Thermador products at home and
on the set of her “The French Chef” television program “is
well-known and widely documented.”  After Child died in 2004, a replica of her kitchen --
containing her Thermador oven -- was donated to the Smithsonian
Institution, where  it is presently on display , the company said
in its pleadings.  Images of Child and reference to “the well-known
historical fact of her use of Thermador products” has been used
on the Thermador website and on its social media pages, the
company said. BSH claims this use “reflects the long history,
significance and influence of Thermador products on American
society and culture” and Child’s use of them rather than any
endorsement by the late chef.  Thermador was sent a cease-and-desist letter in July by the
 Julia Child Foundation for Gastronomy and the Culinary Arts ,
accusing the company of copyright and trademark infringement,
according to the complaint. BSH asked the court to declare it
isn’t infringing and has the right to continue to make reference
to Julia Child in connection with its “historical
presentations.”  BSH also seeks litigation costs and attorney fees.  The foundation didn’t yet have a formal statement in
response to the suit, Todd Shulkin, its  intellectual-property 
manager, said in an e-mail.  The case is BSH Home Appliances Corp. v. The Julia Child
Foundation for Gastronomy and the Culinary Arts, 12-cv-11590,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  Bollywood Film Plagiarized Script, Indian Screenwriter Claims  The makers of the 2011 comedy film “ Desi Boyz ” were
targeted in a copyright-infringement complaint by Indian
screenwriter and director Shyam Devkatte, the Bollywood Life
website  reported .  Devkatte told police the film’s director plagiarized a
story he registered in 2008, according to the website.  He said that the script was copied after he submitted it to
producers, according to Bollywood Life.  The “Desi Boyz” director was sent a summons to appear in
connection with the case, Bollywood Life reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  