-- European Stocks Fall for Second Day; L’Oreal Leads Slide
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-08-29T16:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/europe-stock-futures-little-changed-before-u-s-gdp-data.html
European stocks  fell for a second
day as companies from L’Oreal SA to  Bouygues (EN)  SA retreated after
reporting earnings and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  clashed
with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  over whether to give the
euro area’s permanent bailout fund a bank license.  L’Oreal dropped the most in 2 1/2 years after the world’s
largest cosmetics maker reported profit margins that missed
estimates. Bouygues, the French building, television and
telecommunications company, tumbled 9 percent after trimming the
earnings forecast for its phone business. Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA plunged 8 percent after posting a loss.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.1 percent to 267.01 at
the close of trading, having swung between gains and losses at
least 12 times. The measure has still  risen 14 percent  from this
year’s low on June 4 as  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro and
the region’s political leaders agreed to ease repayment terms on
loans to Spain’s banks.  “Investors want Draghi to put the money where his mouth
is,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S
in Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $55 billion. “The
European Central Bank seems to have developed a strategy of
issuing a policy statement and letting it linger for a long time
before backing it up by action. People in the market are getting
annoyed with that.”  Jackson Hole  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 23 percent lower than the average of the last
30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed, as investors awaited
this week’s speech from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  “Jackson Hole is still the big event of the week,” said
Jakup Petur Baerentsen, a chief equity adviser at Nordea Private
Bank in Copenhagen. “Any market moves before that will only be
small, though they could be triggered by political events.”  The Stoxx 600 pared an earlier decline of as much as 0.5
percent after Monti told a joint press conference with Merkel
that European treaties can be modified to deal with the debt
crisis and a banking license for the European Stability
Mechanism should be an option. Merkel said she agrees with
Draghi that a bank license for the ESM “is not compatible”
with the European treaties.  Bernanke Address  Bernanke will deliver his annual speech at the Fed’s
 Jackson Hole  symposium on Aug. 31. His address in 2010 preceded
a second round of bond purchasing, or quantitative easing, to
help support the economic recovery.  Draghi canceled his trip to Jackson Hole yesterday,
reducing speculation ECB policy makers will unveil new measures
to support the economy before their Sept. 6 meeting. Draghi
announced on Aug. 2 that the central bank may resume bond
purchases if distressed governments ask for aid from the
region’s bailout funds.  National benchmark indexes retreated in 11 of the 18
western-European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid
0.6 percent and France’s CAC 40 Index declined 0.5 percent.
 Germany ’s DAX Index rose 0.1 percent.  In the U.S., the Commerce Department’s first revision to
second-quarter gross domestic product showed a gain of 1.7
percent compared with an initially reported 1.5 percent
increase, matching the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. In the first three months of the year, the economy
expanded at a 2 percent rate.  Data from the National Association of Realtors showed U.S.
 pending home sales  rose 2.4 percent in July from June, when they
declined 1.4 percent. That was higher than the 1 percent
increase forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The Fed
will release its Beige Book survey of economic conditions after
the close of European trading today.  L’Oreal Margins  L’Oreal (OR)  lost 4.4 percent to 96.58 euros, the biggest drop
since February 2010, as gross profit as a percentage of sales
narrowed to 71 percent in the six months ended June 30 from 71.5
percent a year earlier. That was less than the 71.9 percent
average estimate of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  L’Oreal attributed the decline to the weakening of the
euro, the consolidation of Clarisonic, a maker of sonic skincare
devices that it agreed to buy at the end of 2011, and an
increase in promotional offers.  Bouygues Drops  Bouygues sank 9 percent to 19.95 euros, the largest decline
since October 2008. The French building, television and
telecommunications company trimmed its 2012 earnings forecast
for its phone business as it cut prices and lost customers to
new entrant Iliad SA.  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Vivendi SA (VIV) , which also operate French
mobile-phone networks, slipped 2.5 percent to 11.03 euros and
2.5 percent to 15.11 euros, respectively.  Monte Paschi (BMPS)  retreated 8 percent to 22.4 euro cents in
Milan, the biggest decline since Aug. 2. Italy’s third-largest
bank posted a 1.67 billion-euro second-quarter loss after a
goodwill writedown.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , eastern  Europe ’s second-
biggest lender, slid 4.3 percent to 26.69 euros after net income
plummeted 54 percent in the second quarter as lending revenue
shrank and bad debt writedowns increased.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  dropped 5 percent to 38.18 kroner
after the world’s biggest wind-turbine maker was relegated from
the benchmark Stoxx 600, effective Sept. 24.  Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s biggest maker of enzymes, rose 3
percent to 165 kroner after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded
the stock to buy from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  