-- Ex-Motorola Worker Gets 4 Years for Trade Secret ‘Raid’
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-29T19:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/ex-motorola-worker-gets-four-years-for-trade-secret-theft-1-.html
Hanjuan Jin, a former  Motorola Inc. (MSI) 
software engineer, was sentenced to four years in prison for
stealing trade secrets from the company.  U.S. District Judge Ruben Castillo in  Chicago , who
convicted Jin, 41, on three counts following a nonjury trial
last year, today told her that she had conducted a “very
purposeful raid,” on her employer.  “You conducted this raid in the dead of night, in the
after-hours when you knew there was a lesser chance you would be
caught,” he said before passing sentence. She was also
sentenced to three years of supervised release and ordered to
pay a $20,000 fine.  Indicted in 2008, Jin was accused of working simultaneously
for Motorola and for Kai Sun News (Beijing) Technology Co., also
known as SunKaisens, which was affiliated with  China ’s military.
Motorola, now known as Motorola Solutions Inc., is a maker of
communications equipment based in Schaumburg, Illinois, about 28
miles (45 kilometers) from Chicago.  U.S. customs agents stopped Jin as she was about to board a
plane at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport on Feb. 28,
2007. In her possession were more than 1,000 Motorola documents,
$30,000 in cash and a one-way ticket to China.  She also had Chinese military documents with her, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Steve Dollear reminded the court today.  Economic Espionage  At trial Castillo rejected the prosecution claim that Jin
was engaged in economic espionage on behalf of the government of
China, for which she faced three counts, each punishable by as
long as 15 years in prison. Jin faced as long as 10 years in
prison on each trade-secret count.  While Jin “criminally betrayed” Motorola, prosecutors
failed to convince the judge beyond a reasonable doubt that she
was a Chinese agent.  Prosecutors sought a term of as long as eight years, while
defense attorneys requested probation.  “I am so sorry for what has happened,” Jin told Castillo
today before being sentenced. Wearing a dark gray pinstriped
jacket and black pants, she asked the judge for mercy.  Her defense attorney  John Murphy  told the court his client
had survived bouts of meningitis, tuberculosis and cancer.  Castillo said Jin’s health was a factor in her punishment,
and her sentence might otherwise have been longer.  Jin was ordered to report to prison on Oct. 25. Murphy
declined to comment after the sentencing.  Serious Crime  Dollear told reporters that prosecutors were satisfied with
the outcome. He said the four-year term conveyed the seriousness
of Jin’s crime.  “She did have classified Chinese documents on her,” he
said.  Jin worked for Motorola for nine years before she
“betrayed the trust Motorola placed in her,” according to the
prosecution’s sentencing memorandum.  Her lawyers, from the Federal Public Defender Program,
disputed that the information Jin took actually constituted
 trade secrets  as defined by law.  “Ms. Jin has overwhelming remorse and regret for those
actions,” her lawyers said in their presentence brief. “She
continues to suffer from the collateral consequences of her
admittedly poor choice.”  Prosecutors said Jin’s information was worth more than
$300 million. The defense said there was no actual loss because
Jin was arrested with the information still in her possession.  Customs Agents  Castillo assessed an intended loss of $10 million to
$15 million, saying that only Jin’s interdiction by the customs
agents prevented her from leaving the U.S. with stolen secrets.  Citing Jin’s master’s degree in physics from the University
of  Notre Dame , her paid-for home and her six-figure income,
Castillo said there was “no economic need to justify this
offense.”  “You are an enigma to this court,” he told Jin.  The case is  U.S. v. Jin, 08-cr-192, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  