-- Mexico Peso Bonds Fall as Speculation Fed Will Add Stimulus Ebbs
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-08-29T22:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/mexico-peso-bonds-fall-as-speculation-fed-will-add-stimulus-ebbs.html
Mexico ’s peso bonds dropped for the
first time in six days, following Treasuries lower, on
speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
refrain this week from signaling additional stimulus.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 increased three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.50 percent at 4 p.m. in
Mexico City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price
fell 0.39 centavo to 140.15 centavos per peso. The currency slid
0.9 percent to 13.3088 per dollar, the biggest decline against
the greenback among its 16 most-traded counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg. The peso earlier touched 13.3216, the weakest
intraday level since Aug. 3.  Mexico’s bonds followed Treasuries higher earlier this week
on speculation the U.S. central bank was considering a third
round of asset purchases known as quantitative easing, or QE, to
stimulate growth. Bernanke speaks at an annual symposium in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , on Aug. 31.  “Once expectations have been tempered, the yields go
higher in the U.S.,” Kenneth Lam, a Latin America currency and
rates strategist at Citigroup Inc., said by phone from  New York .
“So the Mbonos are just following.”  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.7 percent annual
rate from April through June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5
percent, revised Commerce Department figures showed today.
Mexico sends 80 percent of its exports to its northern neighbor.  Bond Correlation  The 30-day  correlation coefficient  between 10-year Mexican
 government bonds  and similar-maturity Treasuries rose today to
0.62, the highest closing level in more than a year. A reading
of 1 means the two securities move in lockstep while -1
indicates they move in opposite directions.  Bernanke may use the Aug. 31 speech to reaffirm the central
bank’s assessment of the U.S. economic expansion. Many policy
makers indicated additional stimulus will probably be needed
“fairly soon” unless the economy shows signs of a durable
pickup, minutes of the Fed’s July 31-Aug. 1 meeting released
last week said.  Better-than-expected U.S. economic data may also have
fueled the peso’s depreciation today, according to   Mario Copca ,
a Mexico City-based strategist at Metanalisis SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  