-- Exxon Joins Chevron in Weighing Argentina Shale Deals, YPF Says
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-08-30T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/exxon-apache-to-discuss-argentina-shale-partnerships-ypf-says.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Apache Corp. (APA) 
will hold talks with  YPF SA (YPFD)  next month as the Argentine company
nationalized in April seeks partners to step up shale oil
development, said a YPF official briefed on the matter.  YPF Chief Executive Officer Miguel Galuccio will meet with
Exxon and Apache executives during a conference in Houston on
Sept. 18-21, said the official, who asked not to be named,
citing company policy. Exxon, which is already exploring for
unconventional oil and natural gas with YPF in Argentina,
doesn’t comment on private meetings, said Patrick McGinn, an
Exxon spokesman.  John Roper , an Apache spokesman, declined to
comment.  Galuccio, who met with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  executives in Buenos
Aires on Aug. 24, is scheduled to unveil today a model for three
types of partnerships to tap the Vaca Muerta shale formation, a
Connecticut-size area in southern Argentina that contains at
least 23 billion barrels. Contracts will be for financial and
strategic partners and operators, Galuccio said Aug. 23.  “September will be the month in which YPF will show its
capacity to attract investors,” Francisco Perez, the governor
of Mendoza province, said in an interview in Buenos Aires.  Perez and Neuquen Governor Jorge Sapag said they will
accompany Galuccio to Houston. The two provinces own YPF shares.  The chief executive, appointed after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  seized control of YPF from Spain’s Repsol
SA in April, may also travel to China later next month to meet
with representatives of  CNOOC Ltd. (883)  and  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028) , the YPF official said.  ‘Fraught with Peril’  Galuccio described Vaca Muerta earlier this month as the
“tip of the iceberg” for YPF’s projects. The company, based in
Buenos Aires, has drilled 45 wells at the shale development.
Fernandez seized YPF on the grounds that Madrid-based Repsol
under-invested since it acquired the company in 1999.  YPF, Argentina’s biggest energy company, approved this
month the sale of as much as 5 billion pesos ($758 million) of
bonds. The company is seeking funds to invest $7 billion in 2013
as it plans to double exploration in five years and boost
refining, Galuccio said June 5.  Galuccio is scheduled to disclose at 12 p.m.  Buenos Aires 
time his proposals for attracting investors to develop Vaca
Muerta as part of a more than 1,000-page business plan.  Vaca Muerta is often considered to have “the greatest
potential as an oil shale outside of North America,” Roger Plank, chief corporate officer at Houston-based Apache, said at
an Aug. 15 energy conference. Having operations in Argentina
makes sense even as the country is “fraught with peril,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net 
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  