-- MF Global Holdings Objects to Cooperation on Class Claims
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-29T21:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/mf-global-holdings-objects-to-cooperation-on-class-claims.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s trustee,
 Louis Freeh , said the rights to any winnings from lawsuits
against the failed brokerage’s officers and directors including
 Jon Corzine  shouldn’t be given to customers, and should go to
the general estate instead.  Representatives for customers have already started class-
action, or group, lawsuits against former directors and officers
of the company, and a trustee for customers has said he plans to
cooperate, sharing documents in exchange for any recoveries.  Because the agreement calls for general estate creditors to
be paid only if the customers are paid in full first, the
customers “are clearly not properly incentivized to litigate
fully,” Freeh said in an objection filed in  Manhattan 
bankruptcy court today.  He said that while some lawsuit proceeds may belong to
customers, it is up to the general estate to manage them. Freeh
has been unwinding the parent company under Chapter 11 of the
U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  to repay creditors.  A separate trustee, James Giddens, is overseeing the
brokerage unit, MF Global Inc., which is liquidating under the
Securities Investor Protection Act to repay customers. Both
trustees have made their own probes into how the company failed
and have been at odds over whether certain sums belong to
creditors or customers.  ‘Not Incentivized’  “To assign general estate causes of action to a party
other than the Chapter 11 Trustee -- and worse yet to customer
representatives that are not incentivized to look out for the
interests of general estate creditors -- would appear not only
to be a poor exercise of business judgment but also could
jeopardize the Chapter 11 Trustee’s own causes of action,”
lawyers for Freeh wrote.  MF Global Holdings, run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Co-Chairman Corzine until his Nov. 4 resignation, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy in October after a $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations led to margin calls.  Separately, Corzine and other officers, a group of lenders
and a group of creditors also objected in court papers filed
today. Corzine and 23 other individuals at the company said that
as potential defendants, they object to Giddens’ plan to give
the plaintiffs whatever materials he wants.  Limit Rights  Giddens’ agreement with the class-action lawsuits would
also limit their right to get information and make them pay for
some of it, they added.  Creditors called Giddens’ attempt to manage the class-
action recoveries “simply another back-handed attempt” to
“allocate general estate assets to customers.” The lenders,
who say they are an ad-hoc group owning more than $1.4 billion
in customer claims, said there are no provisions that assure the
claims will be “fully prosecuted or fairly settled for the
benefit” of all creditors.  “We disagree with the objections” said  Kent Jarrell , a
spokesman for Giddens. Jarrell said in a statement that Freeh
has “some inherent conflicts in opposing this motion because
individuals currently employed” by him are defendants in the
litigation.  Giddens’ cooperation with the class-action plaintiffs is
the best way to recover assets and is “free from any possible
conflicts with employees or creditors,” Jarrell said, noting
that Freeh is tasked with returning funds to large banks such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  hedge funds .  Hearing Set  A hearing on Giddens’ request to cooperate with class-
action plaintiffs is scheduled for Sept. 5, according to court
records.  Freeh has predicted that MF Global’s customers, facing a
$1.6 billion gap in funds, will eventually recoup all of their
money, while Giddens has said distributions should be “in the
90 percent range.”  Giddens may also sue former Chief Financial Officer Henri Steenkamp and former assistant treasurer Edith O’Brien, among
others, as a way to recover more money, he has said.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  