-- Fed Says in Survey Economy Grew Gradually as Housing Rose
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-29T19:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/fed-beige-book-says-economy-grew-gradually-as-housing-improved.html
The  Federal Reserve  said the  U.S.
economy  continued to expand “gradually” in July and early
August as improvement in housing and retail sales helped
outweigh weakness in manufacturing.  Most regional reserve banks reported employment was
“holding steady or growing only slightly,” the Fed said today
in its Beige Book business survey based on reports from its 12
districts. The report reflects information collected on or
before Aug. 20 and summarized by the Boston Fed.  “Retail activity, including auto sales, had increased
since the last Beige Book report” in most districts, the Fed
said. “Many districts reported some softening in manufacturing,
either a slowdown in the rate of growth or a decline in the
level of sales.”  Today’s  Beige Book  gives policy makers anecdotal evidence
on the economy before they meet in Washington Sept. 12-13.
Policy makers said at their July 31-Aug. 1 gathering that
further action would probably be needed “fairly soon” without
evidence of “substantial and sustainable” improvement in the
recovery, minutes released last week showed.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will weigh whether more
accommodation is needed to spur an expansion that isn’t fast
enough to bring down a jobless rate stuck above 8 percent since
February 2009.  ‘Seesaw Pattern’  “The economy continues along this modest growth track that
it’s been in for a long time,” said Josh Feinman, the New York-
based global chief economist for DB Advisors, the Deutsche Bank
AG asset management unit that oversees $219 billion, and a
former Fed senior economist. “It’s a seesaw pattern of ups and
downs around a pretty mediocre trend.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  advanced 0.2 percent to
1,411.66 at 3:10 p.m. in New York as seven of 10 main industry
 groups rose . The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note
increased 0.02 percentage point to 1.66 percent.  Six districts indicated the local economy “continued to
expand at a modest pace” and another three, including  Chicago ,
cited “moderate” growth, today’s report showed. Philadelphia
and Richmond reported “slow growth in most sectors and declines
in manufacturing,” while Boston cited “mixed reports” and
some slowdown since the previous report.  The economy will probably expand 1.8 percent in the third
quarter and 2.1 percent in the fourth, according to the median
of 75 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Gross domestic
product grew 2 percent in the first quarter of this year before
slowing to 1.7 percent in the following three months.  Consumer Spending  A Commerce Department report today showed that the economy
expanded faster than its initial estimate of a 1.5 percent rate,
reflecting gains in  consumer spending  and exports.  Most districts said housing “exhibited signs of
improvement” as sales and construction continued to increase,
the report said.  Dallas  saw “significant levels of buyer
traffic” while Richmond reported “strong pending sales.”
 Minneapolis  and  St. Louis  cited increases in building permits.  Americans signed more contracts to purchase previously
owned homes in July, a sign housing will keep strengthening in
the second half, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today.  The  index  of pending home resales climbed 2.4 percent,
exceeding the 1 percent gain median forecast of 39 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The gauge rose to 101.7, the highest
since April 2010.  Jobless Rate  The jobless rate climbed to 8.3 percent in July even as
employers added 163,000 workers for the month. The pace of
payroll growth slowed to an average of 73,000 a month in the
second quarter from 226,000 in the first.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has an opportunity to describe his
outlook on policy and the U.S. economy in a speech to central
bankers and economists Aug. 31 at a Fed symposium in  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming.  The Fed has expanded its balance sheet with two rounds of
bond purchases, known as quantitative easing. In the first,
starting in 2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-
backed securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt and $300
billion of Treasuries. In the second round, announced in
November 2010, the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  The  S&P 500  has rallied 12 percent this year as European
leaders worked to stem contagion from the region’s debt crisis
and the Fed pledged to safeguard the U.S. economy. The benchmark
is  outpacing  the 8 percent gain in 2012 for global stocks in the
MSCI All-Country World Index.  ‘Open-Ended’  Fed presidents  Charles Evans  of Chicago, San Francisco’s
 John Williams  and Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  have said that they
favor “open-ended” purchases of securities. Evans said in a
Aug. 27 speech in Hong Kong that the central bank should begin a
third round of bond purchases and continue buying until
unemployment falls for at least six months.  Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto  said Aug. 27 that
the recovery remains “frustratingly slow” and that additional
“large-scale asset purchases can be effective” if the risks
are managed. Pianalto and Williams vote on the FOMC this year,
while Evans and Rosengren don’t.  Best Buy Co., the world’s largest electronics retailer,
said the sluggish economy and depressed  consumer confidence  are
hurting business. The Richfield, Minnesota-based company
reported second-quarter  profit  Aug. 21 that trailed analysts’
estimates after sales of computers and televisions dropped.  “Economic conditions are soft and will probably remain so
for the indefinite future,” interim Chief Executive Officer
 Mike Mikan  said on a conference call after the report.
“Consumers remain very cautious.”  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell in August by the most
in 10 months as households grew more pessimistic about the
economic outlook. The Conference Board’s  index  decreased to 60.6
from a revised 65.4 in July, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  