-- Fidelity Succession Clear as Abigail Johnson Promoted
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-08-29T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/fidelity-succession-clear-as-abigail-johnson-promoted.html
Fidelity Investments  resolved the
long-running question over its  succession plan  by naming Abigail P. Johnson president, putting the daughter of Chairman Edward C.
“Ned” Johnson III in charge of the key businesses at the
second-largest mutual-fund company in the U.S.  Abigail Johnson, 50, will oversee asset management, retail
and institutional brokerage, retirement and benefits services,
the Boston-based firm said yesterday in a statement. While she
will report to her father, who remains Fidelity’s chief
executive officer, the appointment makes her arguably the most
powerful woman in the $12.2 trillion fund industry.  Johnson is now the clear successor to 82-year-old Ned Johnson as the company founded by her grandfather in 1946
struggles with the move by an increasing number of investors
away from actively managed funds. The younger Johnson has
outlasted several senior executives who were seen as candidates
to lead the family-controlled firm run by her father for 35
years.  “It really does suggest she’s not simply adding more reins
but about to take the reins of Fidelity itself,” James Lowell,
editor of Fidelity Investor, an independent newsletter in
Needham,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview.  Ned Johnson, known for avoiding the public spotlight, had
kept investors, employees and the media guessing as to who would
take over in the event of his retirement or death. At various
times, Robert L. Reynolds, a former chief operating officer, and
Ellyn McColgan, a former head of mutual-fund sales, had been
considered possible leaders at the firm.  “I had the top job at Fidelity, but not the top job,”
Reynolds said in a 2008 interview. “And when I asked my
parents, they wouldn’t let me change my name to Johnson.”  Reynolds, now president and chief executive officer of
Boston-based Putnam Investments LLC, today said  Abigail
Johnson ’s appointment was “well deserved and about time.”  2010 Split  Ned Johnson split control of the firm in May 2010, naming
his daughter head of all client-focused businesses and hiring
Ronald O’Hanley from  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  as head of
asset management. O’Hanley, who continues to oversee asset
management, will report to Abigail Johnson, Fidelity said today.  Johnson, who started her career at Fidelity in 1988 as a
mutual-fund manager, has worked in almost every major division
at the company. She was named head of the firm’s mutual-fund
unit in 2001 and put in charge of Fidelity’s retirement business
in 2005. In 2007, the company also gave her oversight of
corporate-retirement services and fund sales to individuals.  ‘She’s Ready’  “She’s been exposed to everything she could be exposed to
at Fidelity,” John Bonnanzio, editor of Fidelity Insight, a
independent newsletter based in Wellesley, Massachusetts, said
in a telephone interview. “I’d have to say, yes, she’s ready
for this job.”  Employees control 51 percent of the voting shares in
Fidelity, and the Johnson family owns the other 49 percent. Ned
and Abigail Johnson each hold at least 10 percent, according to
regulatory filings.  Abigail Johnson ranked ninth in March on Forbes’s list of
billionaires whose fortunes came from private U.S. companies,
with an estimated net worth of $10.3 billion.  “Abby will oversee all these corporate groups and will be
involved in day-to-day activities,” spokeswoman Anne Crowley
said in a telephone interview. “Ned continues to be actively
involved in running the company and doesn’t have any plans to
step aside from those roles.”  All Businesses  Abigail Johnson’s responsibilities will cover every major
Fidelity business except Devonshire Investors, Crowley said.
Devonshire, named for the Boston street where the firm is
headquartered, manages investments for FMR LLC, Fidelity’s
corporate holding company, and its shareholders.  “I honestly think Ned will be more and more a listener,
and not a dictator of his own demands,” said Lowell, who is
also chief strategist at Adviser Investment Management Inc. in
Newton, Massachusetts.  Abigail Johnson first interned at Fidelity in 1980, the
summer before she enrolled at Hobart and William Smith Colleges
in Geneva,  New York , where she majored in art history. Like her
father she has long guarded her privacy.  “We’ve been asked by her not to talk about her time
here,” art history professor Elena Ciletti said in 2004 when
contacted by  Bloomberg News .  After graduation, Johnson spent two years at Booz Allen
Hamilton Inc., the consulting firm where she met her future
husband, Christopher McKown. She earned an MBA from  Harvard
Business School  in 1988.  Vanguard, Pimco  She was mentored in her early career at Fidelity by fund
manager Harry Lange. In April 1993, she was named to head her
first diversified stock fund, the  Dividend Growth Fund (FDGFX) , which
she ran for almost a year, beating the  S&P 500  by 11.6
percentage points.  Johnson’s promotion comes as Fidelity has trailed money-
management rivals such as  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
Vanguard Group Inc., known for its index-based funds, and
Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
home of famed bond-picker  Bill Gross .  Vanguard, which in 2010 unseated Fidelity as the largest
mutual-fund firm, has gathered $80 billion in new client money
in the year ended July 31, the most in the industry, followed by
Pimco’s $31.6 billion, according to research firm Morningstar
Inc. Investors withdrew $16.2 billion from Fidelity funds during
the same period. Morningstar’s numbers include only long-term
stock and bond assets and not money-market funds.  Investor Withdrawals  Fidelity’s mutual funds have attracted net deposits of $2.6
billion this year through July 31 compared with deposits of $65
billion into Vanguard funds, according to Morningstar. Over the
past five years, Fidelity funds have had withdrawals of $45
billion, compared with deposits of $318 billion over the past
five years in Vanguard funds, Morningstar said.  Unlike  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager,
Fidelity hasn’t built a leading presence in alternative
investments such as private equity, hedge funds commodities and
real estate. The company’s institutional unit, Pyramis Global
Advisors, has $3.5 billion in alternative assets, compared to
BlackRock’s $110 billion.  Expecting Changes  “I’m expecting to see changes from Fidelity,” Bonnanzio
said. “Maybe we’ll start to see Fidelity do more than talk
about changes and get into markets it has utterly failed to
participate in.”  Fidelity is currently planning its entry into exchange-
traded funds, a product that has grown to about $1.7 trillion as
of July 31, according to BlackRock, which became the world’s
biggest provider of ETFs after acquiring the investment unit
from Barclays Plc in 2009.  Fidelity is seeking to be the first major mutual-fund
company to introduce ETFs run by active stock pickers by opening
a series of products based on its “Select” line of industry-
focused equity funds, a person familiar with the plans said last
month.  Outside  money management , Fidelity is the largest provider
of 401(k)  retirement plans , offering defined contribution and
defined benefit plans to more than 19,000 employers. That unit
had $25.2 billion in sales in the first half, a 36 percent
increase over last year, according to the firm.  Fidelity’s operating income rose 13 percent to $3.33
billion in 2011, and revenue rose by 3.3 percent to $12.8
billion. Investors pulled $36.3 billion from Fidelity funds and
other products in the year, down from $49.4 billion in 2010.  Fidelity manages $1.6 trillion in assets and provides
record-keeping and administering services on an additional $2
trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  