-- FIFA Gets New Information on Latin American Soccer Player Trades
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-29T22:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/fifa-gets-new-information-on-latin-american-soccer-player-trades.html
FIFA  received new information about
player transfers in  South America  as soccer’s ruling body looks
into the 19 million euro ($23.8 million) trade of the Brazilian
striker known as “Hulk” to Porto.  Argentina ’s federal tax agency wrote to the soccer
authority last week to say the country’s players are being
traded through seven of the smaller professional clubs in
Uruguay and two in  Chile  to avoid paying tax, and that sometimes
transfer fees pass through offshore companies.  FIFA, which is trying to improve regulation of the $3
billion transfer market, said in an e-mail yesterday it received
a letter from Argentine authorities about the matter. Since
February, FIFA has looked at an arrangement that allows Hulk,
whose real name is Givanildo Vieira de Sousa, and other
Brazilian players to move to European teams via Club Atletico
Rentistas, a Montevideo-based club for which they never play a
game.  FIFA said in an Aug. 17 e-mail that it was doing “pre-
analysis” of that case. In another e-mail yesterday, the
Zurich-based soccer authority declined to comment further on the
Argentine tax agency’s findings.  The agency said in an Aug. 24 news release that the nine
teams include  Uruguay ’s Club Atletico Fenix and Chile’s  Club
Deportivo Union San Felipe . The transfer fees of players who are
traded through the teams are split between the athlete, his
agent and investors who own his transfer rights, the agency
said, without identifying any players.  Transfer Fees  FIFA rules prohibit third parties from interfering in
player trades between clubs, and don’t allow agents to take a
portion of transfer fees. Fenix official Gaston Alegari declined
to comment. San Felipe official Claudia Tapia said in an e-mail
that the club had no immediate comment.  The tax agency said in a news release that it had suspended
146 player agents for having an irregular financial situation,
or not declaring commissions.  Club Atletico Rentistas got 19 million euros ($23.8
million) from trading 90 percent of the rights of Hulk to Porto
in two tranches in 2008 and 2011, according to stock-market
filings by the Portuguese team at the time.  Rentistas President Mario Bursztyn said in a Feb. 8
interview the transfer fee when a Brazilian player is traded
through his club is redirected to a company owned by player
agent Juan Figer called Lamico.  Bursztyn said the club gets a monthly retainer fee from
Figer in return and the arrangement is legal. Figer follows all
the rules of his profession, his spokesman Jose Aparecida Miguel
said in an e-mail at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff through the London sports desk or at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  