-- Fiscal Cliff Doesn’t Look So Bad After the Fall
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-08-29T22:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/fiscal-cliff-doesn-t-look-so-bad-after-the-fall.html
Just when you thought you could
forget about the fiscal cliff and focus on the Republican and
Democratic conventions instead, along comes the  Congressional
Budget Office  to remind us of the impending threat.  In its midyear  budget and economic outlook  last week, the
CBO tweaked its forecast in the event Congress fails to prevent
an array of tax increases and automatic spending cuts -- $1.2
trillion over 10 years -- from kicking in at the start of 2013.
Such “fiscal tightening” would cut gross domestic product by
0.5 percent next year, with the hit concentrated in the first
half, and increase the  unemployment rate  to 9 percent.  It will also provide a short-term budget fix. If Congress
does nothing -- that’s what a do-nothing Congress does, right?
-- the 2013  federal deficit , under the CBO’s baseline scenario
(the policies dictated by current law), will be $641 billion,  or
4 percent of GDP , following four years of annual deficits in
excess of $1 trillion.  Yes, there will be pain. But there’s plenty of that
already. At the current pace of job growth, it will take as long
-- seven years -- to return to the pre-recession employment peak
as it did following the Great Depression, according to Steven Wieting, head of economic and market analysis at Citigroup Inc.
in  New York . Viewed in that context, the  Federal Reserve ’s
pledge to hold  interest rates  near zero until late 2014 doesn’t
seem so odd, he says.  So far, only 46 percent of the 8.8 million jobs lost have
been recouped.  Better Off  Beyond the headlines in the CBO report, there are good
arguments for letting the fiscal cliff pass without creating an
escape hatch.  “The CBO  report says  that in 2022 we will be better off if
we go over the fiscal cliff,” says  James Kwak , associate
professor of law at the University of Connecticut School of Law
in Hartford. Things will get worse in the short term, but 10
years from now GDP will be higher, and interest rates, the
 budget deficit  and government  debt  will be much lower. The
 unemployment rate  is  projected  to be the same.  The improvement in the deficit is largely the result of an
increase in revenue from expiring tax cuts, a reduction in
Medicare payments to doctors and an expansion in the number of
households subject to the alternative minimum tax. Such a static
estimate, which doesn’t account for behavioral changes, will irk
the supply-siders and may end up producing less revenue than
advertised. No one ever said long-term projections were
reliable.  Still, the CBO is forecasting a jump in  revenue  to 20.3
percent of GDP by 2015 from 15.7 percent this year. Outlays, on
the other hand, remain well above the historical norm, averaging
21.7 percent of GDP over the next decade compared with 22.9
percent in 2012. Even with the automatic spending cuts,
“spending grows,” says Sean West, a director at the Eurasia
Group, a political-risk advisory firm. “Spending shifts down,
then it grows again at a rate below inflation.”  Only in 2013 will there be an outright cut in discretionary
outlays. After that, the cuts are in the growth rate of
spending.  The combined effect will reduce the  federal deficit ,
projected to be 7.7 percent of GDP in the fiscal year that ends
Sept. 30, to 1 percent by 2016, where it will remain, the CBO
says. That should please even the staunchest deficit hawk, no?  Hardly. The problem lies with mandatory spending on health
care and retirement programs, which by the end of the decade
will be growing faster than the economy and account for 14.4
percent of GDP in 2022 compared with 13.2 percent now.  Permanently Temporary  Fixing the short-term deficit would give lawmakers time to
solve the problem of entitlement spending. That’s no guarantee
that they will. Time to craft serious solutions is also time to
ignore the problem altogether. But it can’t be ignored forever.
Mandatory spending, including Medicare, Medicaid and Social
Security, accounted for about one-quarter of federal outlays in
1962. Last year, it was 56 percent. And the direction is up.  Another reason to rappel down the cliff is to teach
Congress a lesson. Yes, we suffer the consequences of their
actions, but voters need to understand how we got into this
mess. Lawmakers use sleight-of-hand accounting to make laws
appear affordable when in reality they aren’t. They craft tax
breaks for favored constituencies.  I have written previously 
that “targeted, temporary and timely” should be eliminated as
fiscal-policy options and replaced with the three F’s for tax
rates: flatten ’em, fix ’em and forget ’em.  There’s one final reason to allow policies to continue as
written. It is said (by whom is unclear) that we get the
government we deserve. Look at what we got. It wasn’t that long
ago that Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives,
found ways to work together. A president ( Ronald Reagan ) and a
speaker of the House ( Tip O’Neill ) collaborated to enact major
 tax reform . Senators with diametrically opposing views --  Utah ’s
 Orrin Hatch  and  Ted Kennedy  of  Massachusetts  -- were willing to
compromise.  Nowadays, Republicans sign a pledge never to raise taxes,
and Democrats pretend that “saving Medicare as we know it” is
an option.  We deserve better. Vote on Nov. 6.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Republicans’ racial bind ,
on  rethinking FAA rules for portable electronic devices  and on
 how central banks can avoid being politicized  and still be
effective;  Michael Kinsley  on  whether the Republicans’ tent is
big enough ;  Ezra Klein  on the  merits of party platforms ; Daniel
Wolff on how  New Orleans  became  the do-it-yourself capital .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  