-- For Republicans, It’s Diversity Now or Obscurity Later
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-29T22:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/for-republicans-it-s-diversity-now-or-obscurity-later.html
Florida Senator Marco Rubio takes
the stage Thursday night at the  Republican National Convention ,
following in the footsteps of previous convention speakers with
names such as Sandoval, Valenzuela, Cruz and Fortuno. On Tuesday
night, South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, an Indian American,
briefly held center stage.  This portrait gallery of 21st-century American diversity is
a welcome sight -- not because it’s a convincing picture of the
 Republican Party  in 2012, but because it’s an acknowledgment
that the party’s future depends on making it one.  We have been here before. At the 2000 Republican National
Convention in Philadelphia, it sometimes seemed the only
requirement for a cameo on stage was a black, brown or Asian
face and a willingness to associate with Republicans. When
 George W. Bush  won the presidency, however, he proved there had
been more than stagecraft at work. He appointed General  Colin Powell  and  Condoleezza Rice  to powerful positions and
aggressively courted Hispanic voters. Bush moved his party
forward on race, earning more than 4 in 10 Hispanic votes in
2004 and even increasing his share of the black vote, from 8
percent in 2000 to 11 percent in 2004.  That progress has unraveled. An NBC-Wall Street Journal
 poll  released last week pegged the share of the black vote for
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  at an eye-popping
zero percent. In polls of Hispanics, Romney consistently falls
short of the share of the vote won by Arizona Senator  John McCain  in 2008, when the Republican candidate lost Hispanics by
more than 2-to-1 to  Barack Obama . Asians, the nation’s highest-
earning ethnic group, also  lean strongly  Democratic.  Although the U.S. is 63 percent non-Hispanic white, in most
presidential primaries this year the Republican electorate was
more than 90 percent white. Given demographic trends -- about  2
million  more Hispanics will be eligible to vote in this
presidential election than in the last -- something’s got to
give.  The party desperately needs to heed the advice of former
Florida Governor Jeb Bush and “reach out to a much broader
audience.” Instead, it has been working overtime to alienate
nonwhite voters with harsh anti-immigrant legislation in
 Arizona ,  Alabama  and other states, and with political gambits
(mostly combating the nonexistent threat of voter fraud) to
restrict voting access to suppress minority votes.  Republican leaders have shown no inclination to restrain
Tea Party rhetoric about “taking back” the country (from whom?),
and in his primary campaign Romney assured nativists that the
way to deal with illegal immigration is to make immigrants so
miserable that they “self-deport.” In a danger sign for the
fall, the Romney campaign is now running an ad falsely accusing
President Obama of gutting work requirements for welfare and
extending handouts to the undeserving.  It’s possible that Romney and his running mate, Wisconsin
Representative  Paul Ryan , will succeed one last time with
appeals to racial resentment and what amounts to an all-white
electoral strategy. But partisan voter laws and symbolic rebel
yells promise a  toxic legacy  that could threaten the party for
years to come.  At some point very soon, Republicans will have to acclimate
themselves to the multiracial reality of the 21st century. To
win national elections, they must be able to win nonwhite votes.
That will require leaders who look like Rubio and Haley and New
Mexico Governor  Susana Martinez . More important, it will require
more expansive attitudes about race and a less cramped and
archaic definition of who is an American. Supporting more visas
for highly skilled immigrants, for example, would show a welcome
openness and help the economy besides.  There are plenty of conservative fish in the electoral sea,
and far from all are white. But it’s hard to win the votes of
people who think you are at best  indifferent  to their well-
being. Rubio understands that for his party, demography is
destiny. In his own speech to the convention, Romney would do
well to underscore that message.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  rethinking FAA rules for
portable electronic devices  and on  how central banks can avoid
being politicized  and still be effective;  Caroline Baum  on
 falling off the fiscal cliff ;  Michael Kinsley  on  whether the
Republicans’ tent is big enough ;  Ezra Klein  on the  merits of
party platforms ; Daniel Wolff on how New Orleans became  the do-
it-yourself capital .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 