-- Forint Set for Biggest Two-Day Drop in Three Months on Rate Cut
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-08-29T08:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/forint-set-for-biggest-two-day-drop-in-three-months-on-rate-cut.html
The forint headed for the biggest
two-day decline in more than three months after  Hungary ’s
central bank unexpectedly lowered the European Union’s highest
benchmark interest rate yesterday to support the economy.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 282.84 per
euro by 10:06 a.m. in Budapest, extending its two-day decline to
1.8 percent, the steepest drop on a closing basis since the two
days through May 23. The government’s benchmark three-year bonds
slumped, lifting yields three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 6.805 percent.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered the two-week deposit rate
by 25 basis points to 6.75 percent. Of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg survey, 17 projected the bank would leave rates
unchanged while Lars Christensen from  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  forecast
the cut. The Monetary Council voted to ease monetary policy by a
“tight” margin even as Hungary faces delays in meeting its
inflation goal, MNB President  Andras Simor  told reporters
yesterday.  “The move erodes the central bank’s credibility and puts
its anti-inflation commitment into question,” Zsolt Kondrat, a
Budapest-based economist at Bayerische Landesbank’s MKB Bank
unit, wrote in a research report today. “The Monetary Council
started a risky game.”  Inflation, the fastest in the EU, accelerated to 5.8
percent in July from 5.6 percent in June, drifting further from
the central bank’s 3 percent target. The pace of consumer-price
increases may slow to the goal in 2014, Simor said last month.  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on  interest rates  in
three months dropped for a second day to 6.445 percent, the
lowest since September. The FRAs traded 70 basis points below
the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, the biggest spread in
almost three years and signaling expectations for at least a
half-point rate cut. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  