-- Former Obama Champion Davis Now in Republican Romney’s Camp
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/former-obama-champion-davis-now-in-republican-romney-s-camp.html
On a bright August morning in the
quiet waterfront town of Edenton,  North Carolina , Artur Davis,
the black former congressman from Alabama, looked out at a sea
of beaming white faces and grinned.  “I’m going to let you all in on a secret,” he said. “I
used to be a Democrat!” Lusty boos dissolved into chuckles.
“He saw the light!” someone shouted. Davis nodded. “I once
was lost, but now I am found!”  In one sense, the scene was familiar. Four years ago Davis
made a splash in the presidential race by becoming the first
congressman outside  Illinois  to endorse  Barack Obama  for
president. He delivered a speech nominating Obama at the
Democratic convention and gladly embraced the moniker “Obama of
Alabama.”  Bright, charismatic, and inclined toward an inclusive,
post-racial brand of politics, he seemed a sure bet to thrive in
the new era, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 3
issue. Just weeks after Obama’s inauguration, Davis set out with
great fanfare to become Alabama’s first black governor -- only
to suffer a searing, life-altering loss at the hands of his own
party.  On this day, Davis, 44, was addressing a crowd of
Republicans gathered outside  Mitt Romney ’s presidential campaign
headquarters, many of them drawn by his startling decision last
May to quit the  Democratic Party , denounce Obama, and endorse
Romney.  Prime Time  Giddy at their unexpected good fortune, Republicans awarded
Davis a prime-time speaking slot at the Republican convention
last night. He had no trouble making an impression. “Thank you
for welcoming me where I belong,” he said to applause and
cheers. “America is a land of second chances, and I gather in
this close race you have room for the estimated 6 million of us
who know we got it wrong in 2008 and who want to fix it.”  In Edenton and elsewhere, Davis slid easily into his new
persona, reverently invoking  Ronald Reagan , hitting all the
Republican talking points, and always circling back to what he
presents as his puzzled disappointment with the president,
drawing sympathetic nods.  A political consultant would say that Davis was supplying a
“permission structure” for people once supportive of Obama to
abandon him with a clear conscience.  “I have this crazy theory,” he told the crowd in Edenton,
“that some of you kind of liked what a smart, impressive young
man from Illinois had to say four years ago. Well, here we are
four years later, and I just want to ask you something, North
Carolina: How’s that working out for you?”  Voter ID  Afterward, Davis received a succession of eager well-
wishers, several of whom thanked him for speaking out on what
one couple termed his “signature issue”: imposing strict
identification requirements on voters.  Instituting voter-identification laws has become a
Republican crusade that many Democrats deem racist, for while
studies have found scant evidence of fraud, they do suggest that
requiring photo identification will disenfranchise large numbers
of elderly and minority voters -- i.e., Democrats -- who don’t
have it and can’t easily get it.  To a party resentful of the charge of racism and struggling
to attract minorities, Davis is a validation and a godsend.
Later that day, he posed for pictures with an excited Republican
woman who held up her driver’s license. These apostasies have
left his old allies angry and confused.  ‘He’s a Clown’  “He has no core values, no principles, he’s a user and a
narcissist,” says Mark Kennedy, Alabama’s Democratic Party
chairman. “Who knows where he’ll pop up next? Maybe the circus,
because he’s a clown.”  The verdict down South is that Davis overreached and then
had the gall to blame the very people who had helped him for his
loss.  “He’s a very ambitious man,” says Natalie Davis, a
political scientist at Birmingham Southern College and a former
candidate for the Democratic Senate nomination who isn’t related
to Artur Davis. “I remember him telling me two years into his
House career that he was destined for bigger things. He’s smart
as hell, but he blew it in Alabama.”  Davis, who is polished and charming, weathers these charges
with equanimity, laughing off the suggestion that ambition and
animosity are what’s driving him.  “You don’t switch parties simply because of your party’s
candidate for president,” he says. “I have all manner of
disagreements with Obama’s policies, but I made the decision to
align with Republicans because it’s become clear to me that on
every issue we’re talking about my sentiments are with
Republicans.” He added, “The Democratic Party changed very,
very quickly.”  Move to Virginia  Yet Davis changed, too. Although it isn’t the role he
envisioned for himself four years ago, he’s smack in the middle
of another presidential race and once again the focus of
attention, something he plainly enjoys. While his ambitions may
have been set back, they clearly haven’t been destroyed. He’s
moved to  Virginia  and is said to be contemplating a run for
Congress, or perhaps even governor, this time as a Republican.  Meanwhile, he’s a potent symbol about to receive an
important national platform. In his fierce support and
subsequent abandonment of Obama, Davis embodies the way
Republicans would like Americans to view the president. In an
election shaping up as a referendum on Obama, Davis’s strange
journey from ally to apostate could have real resonance.  First, voters will have to make up their minds about the
question that everyone who encounters him eventually ponders:
Did Obama and his party really leave Artur Davis -- or has Davis
gone so far in the service of his own ambition that he’d
willingly bring down his own president?  Horatio Alger Story  Davis has the kind of Horatio Alger story upon which many a
successful political career has been built. Born in West
Montgomery, Alabama, in 1967, he was raised poor by a single
mother in a house near the railroad tracks, and persevered to
become a magna cum laude Harvard graduate and later a Harvard
Law School classmate of Obama’s.  “I was an African-American who had great admiration for
Jack and Bobby Kennedy,” he says. “Growing up with that
mindset in Montgomery, Alabama, I couldn’t have been anything
but a Democrat.”  His ambition was evident from early on. In “The
Breakthrough,” her 2009 book on the rising generation of black
politicians, Gwen Ifill noted that Davis’s biography reads as
“a carefully plotted political career map.” More precisely, it
was a carefully plotted Democratic career map, impeccably
credentialed and attuned to the shifting politics of the new
South.  Former Prosecutor  Davis worked for Alabama’s Democratic senator Howell
Heflin, the Southern Poverty Law Center, and clerked for a U.S.
District Court judge; he also worked as a civil rights lawyer
and added a dash of law-enforcement toughness by prosecuting
drug cases as an assistant U.S. attorney.  His initial foray into electoral politics showed similar
care. In 2000, Davis, then 32, challenged Representative Earl Hilliard, Alabama’s first black congressman since Reconstruction
and, at 58, a senior member of the state’s black political
machine who was under scrutiny for alleged corruption. Congress
would rebuke Hilliard for misusing campaign funds the next year.  Hilliard’s district -- Alabama’s seventh -- was 62 percent
black. Davis lost badly. Yet two years later he beat Hilliard,
drawing enough financial support from progressive members of the
business community to outspend his opponent and showing that he
could attract white voters as well as black.  Centrist Democrats  In Congress, he aligned himself with centrist  New
Democrats , though his district was one of the country’s poorest
and many of his constituents depended on the federal government.
Still, he carved out a name for himself on education policy,
fought back an effort to cut funds for public housing, and took
up the cause of reforming Alabama’s racist constitution, long a
source of embarrassment for the state.  Written in 1901 on behalf of powerful economic interests
explicitly to disenfranchise black voters, it imposed a poll
tax, school segregation, a land-ownership requirement, and a ban
on interracial marriage. Rallying under the banner of “White
supremacy, suffrage reform and purity in elections,” its
advocates narrowly won ratification that same year, although as
Wayne Flynt of Auburn University writes in his book “Alabama in
the Twentieth Century,” historians have concluded the election
was rigged.  Black voter eligibility plunged from 181,000 in 1900 to
fewer than 3,000 in 1903.  Fought Republicans  Although the  Supreme Court  and Congress have restored many
of these rights, the Republican campaign for voter-
identification laws has begun to roll them back in Alabama and
elsewhere. Davis fought this at home and in  Washington , where he
dressed down the Bush  Justice Department ’s voting-rights chief
during a hearing on a Georgia identification law.  “I happened to be sitting in Artur’s office one day in
2003, when he was quite animated about exactly these issues,”
says Flynt, once a Davis supporter and contributor. “He said,
‘Wayne, do you know what the legislature’s just done? The
governor has signed a bill that would require voter ID for
African-Americans!’ He talked about what a betrayal it was. He
was outraged.” Davis says he doesn’t recall this.  In Washington, Davis came to be regarded as one of the
brightest Democratic lights. The parallels with another rising
star were obvious: The broken home, Harvard Law degree, civil
rights work, political ambition -- even the early, failed
attempt to unseat an entrenched black congressional incumbent --
all echoed Obama’s story.  Talk With Obama  Davis plainly felt a kinship. To Ifill, he recalled being
at a Congressional Black Caucus party in Washington with Obama,
soon after each man had challenged, and lost to, a senior CBC
member: “We ended up standing in a corner talking about
politics. I have a vivid memory of people looking at us and one
person pointing to us. I think there were probably thinking,
‘There are the two losers over there.’”  It’s hard not to see Obama as the pivotal figure in Davis’s
career, the exemplar and enabler of his own grand designs. When
Obama challenged  Hillary Clinton  for the nomination in 2007,
Alabama’s black establishment lined up with Clinton. Davis,
still at odds with that establishment, endorsed Obama.  In February 2008, Obama swept the Alabama primary, carrying
most of the black vote and much of the white vote, too.  To Davis, this portended historic change. Months later,
when Democrats unexpectedly won special elections in Louisiana
and Mississippi, he declared, “The Republican hold is eroding
in the South.”  Obama Phenomenon  His pollsters released a memo arguing that “The Obama
phenomenon has dramatically changed the way Alabamians view the
viability of African-American candidates at the national and
state level.”  Davis started dropping hints that he would run for
governor. What’s striking in hindsight is how few people, his
supporters included, thought he had a prayer.  “The racism in this state is just palpable,” Flynt says.
“I told him, ‘Artur, I’ll certainly support you, but I wish you
wouldn’t do this. We need you in Congress.’ But he was convinced
by some of his white business supporters that he had this
Harvard degree, this great narrative coming out of single-parent
public housing.”  The excitement of Obama’s victory obscured some ominous
signs. In the general election, white Alabamians voted 88-10 for
 John McCain , blacks 98-2 for Obama, the largest such spread in
any state. Yet Davis prided himself on his ability to draw white
support and staked out positions well to the right of his
party’s mainstream to capture it.  Establishment Ignored  He also made a big show of ignoring the black
establishment. “He basically told the leadership that their
endorsements were not worth having,” says John Anzelone, his
former consultant.  Both these imperatives led Davis to cast a fateful vote
against Obama’s health plan, the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act. The day before, his campaign brain trust
quit in frustration.  “He made a fatal mistake in voting against the president’s
health-care law,” says Natalie Davis, “and was taken to task
inside the black community.”  Kennedy, the Democratic chairman, agrees: “He made a
calculated decision to break with his caucus and vote against
the best interests of his district because he wanted to build a
larger coalition. He just assumed there was no African-American
who wouldn’t vote for a candidate who could erase the image of
George Wallace standing in the schoolhouse door.”  Primary Drubbing  Rather than embrace Davis, voters rejected him. He was
trounced in the Democratic primary by the lightly regarded
agriculture commissioner, Ron Sparks, who is white. Sparks
carried the black vote and even took Davis’s own district.  Sparks ultimately lost to Republican physician Robert Bentley.  “Davis and Bentley were clearly the most impressive pair
in the race, but he was really done in by the identity
politics,” says  David Ferguson , who was Bentley’s campaign
manager. “Artur was astounded,” says Kennedy.  Adds Flynt: “Everything that’s happened since then is
rooted in the bitterness of being rejected by his own
constituents.”  Complaining of voter fraud while offering no proof, Davis
refused to endorse Sparks. Then he announced he was quitting
politics to return to practicing law. He moved to Virginia. Last
October, he astonished his old allies by publicly recanting his
opposition to voter-ID laws, and soon after quit the Democratic
Party and joined the Republicans.  ‘Dead Letter’  The intensity of this reaction is one of the many mysteries
about Davis, and one he’s disinclined to shed any light on.  “The Democratic Party in Alabama is a dead letter at this
point,” he says. “It’s irrelevant. So I don’t spend a lot of
time thinking about a race that’s over and done with.”  To spend time in Davis’s company is to appreciate what a
strange world he now inhabits. His old friends have disavowed
him. His new Republican friends don’t quite seem to know what to
make of him.  “I think he’ll feel a great reception,” says  Tom Davis ,
the former Virginian congressman, whose old seat Davis may be
eyeing. “What that translates to over time, I couldn’t tell
you,” the former congressman, who is no relation, said in a
judgment echoed by other Virginia Republicans.  Davis seems most comfortable answering questions about his
ease in casting off his views, and what he is after, at a level
of broad generality.  Obama’s ‘Talents’  “I thought that electing someone of Obama’s obvious
abilities and talents, who seemed to have staked his political
career on overcoming polarization, I thought that was enormously
attractive,” he says. “I really expected Barack Obama would be
a president who would do exactly what he talked about in his
famous Boston speech. What I heard that night was a very
powerful statement about the country overcoming its polarization
and ideological division. I thought electing a talented,
capable, African-American president would alter this country.
That is not how Barack Obama has governed.”  He waves off the suggestion that his new party might play
something of a role in this state of affairs.  “I know the mantra on the other side: ‘Oh, these evil,
mean Republicans have frustrated him at every turn.’ You’d think
the separation of powers was invented in the last several years
to be a special hurdle for Barack Obama!”  Davis is coy about his intentions. “I’ve aligned myself
with the  Republican Party  now and I want to be a good,
constructive member of that party,” he says. “For the
foreseeable future, that’s what I see myself doing.”  Tea Party  To that end, he’s dedicated himself to politics full time.
In February he quit his  law firm . He’s made an effort to appeal
to Republican leaders and the  Tea Party  rank-and-file as well.  And he’s well aware of his totemic power on many of the
issues that animate the party base.  To Alabama Democrats, his championing the cause of voter ID
laws seemed like a way to rub salt in the wound -- the ultimate
retaliation upon those who rejected him. Davis now mocks those
who oppose the laws.  A photo ID is not “a fire hose,” he told an audience at
the conservative  Heritage Foundation  in Washington in July.
“It’s not some kind of weapon or club that Southern sheriffs
used to keep people from voting or participating.”  “It was really quite a reversal for Artur,” Flynt says.
“But then, what hasn’t been? Everything he’s ever believed in
or stood for he’s reversed.”  ‘Trophy Doll’  His old allies swear he’ll pay a price for this.  “Right now, he’s like a little trophy doll,” says
Kennedy. “They’ll parade him around, but after the election
they’ll dump him and he’ll be what he was before: a man without
a state or a party. I feel sorry for him. To be seen at a Tea
Party rally talking about the president of the  United States  --
he just can’t believe that he’s not living in the White House.”  Yet Republicans may embrace him, especially if last night’s
convention speech, in which he appealed to “those Democrats and
independents whose minds are open to argument,” is deemed
successful. Davis won’t speculate about the path he envisions
for himself, yet it isn’t hard to imagine what he might be
thinking.  Demonstrating loyalty to his new party could hasten his
path back to Congress or into a Romney administration. A smart
young African-American who played his cards right could go far
in a Republican Party that will soon confront the country’s
changing demographic realities.  Virginia governors serve a single term, so there’d be ample
opportunity to advance. And a black Republican governor of a
pivotal state would be on any short list for national office.  It would be the ultimate vindication and rebuke, and might
finally satisfy what seems to be eating at Davis -- not that
America elected a talented, capable, African-American president,
but that they elected the wrong one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  