-- France to Keep Shale Ban Until Fracking Alternative Emerges
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-08-29T08:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/france-to-keep-shale-ban-until-fracking-alternative-emerges.html
France  isn’t prepared to tap its
shale energy resources until “clean technologies” are invented
to replace hydraulic fracturing, Industry Minister  Arnaud
Montebourg  said.  The technique known as fracking causes “irreversible
pollution” in some cases, the minister was cited as saying in
an interview published today in  Les Echos  newspaper. It will
probably be replaced by a different method, he said.  The French parliament passed a law last year outlawing
fracking because of concern it can pollute drinking water,
effectively halting plans by companies including  Total SA (FP)  to
explore for shale gas in southern France. Fracking is widely
used in the U.S., including by Total, to produce gas.  France will maintain the ban on fracking, Environment and
Energy Minister Delphine Batho told RMC radio today.  Debate over the future of shale energy in France has
resurfaced since the election of Socialist President  Francois
Hollande  in May.  “Hydraulic fracturing is and will remain banned and
currently it’s the only way to produce shale gas,” Batho said
today. “Debate is now centered on a technology that doesn’t
exist right now to my knowledge. A new technique hasn’t yet been
demonstrated.”  French energy companies and industry officials have
increasingly argued in recent months in favor of exploring for
shale oil and natural gas in a bid to quantify reserves of shale
hydrocarbons in France.  Courage Needed  Total Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said
today France should have the “courage” to explore for shale
gas.  “When we are in a difficult economic situation like today
and we have the possibility to maybe find gas, which is cleaner
than oil and coal, and as we are questioning nuclear, it would
be too bad not to develop gas,” he said in a radio interview on
RTL. Environmental issues “would have to be addressed as we go
along,” the CEO said.  Shale energy will be discussed at an environmental policy
conference organized by the government on Sept. 14 and Sept. 15,
Batho has said. A debate focused on the country’s energy policy
will come later.  Fracking uses water, sand and chemicals to open fissures in
rocks and release gas and oil. Following passage of the French
law in parliament, the previous government suspended the rights
of energy companies to explore for shale gas around Paris and in
southern France.  Oil companies  including Total, the nation’s largest, and
Toreador Resources Corp. had been awarded licenses for
exploration.  France and  Poland  are the two countries with the biggest
potentially recoverable reserves of shale gas in  Europe ,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  The French law banning fracking allows for experiments into
the procedure overseen by a national commission that must report
back to the government annually. It’s not clear whether the new
government will install this commission.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tara Patel at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net  