-- French Business Confidence Stays Close to Two-Year Low: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-08-29T10:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/french-business-confidence-remains-close-to-two-year-low-1-.html
French  industrial confidence 
remained near its lowest in two years in August, increasing
pressure on President  Francois Hollande ’s government to revive
growth in the face of Europe’s debt crisis.  Sentiment among factory executives rose to 90 after July’s
reading was revised down to 89, national statistics office Insee
in Paris said in a statement today. That’s in line with the
median of 20 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. A gauge that
includes retailers, builders and service industries was
unchanged at 87, the lowest in almost three years.  Weak confidence at businesses underlines Hollande’s
challenge as he attempts to keep a commitment to reduce the
 budget deficit  at a time when the economy has  failed to grow  for
three straight quarters. Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault will
address business leaders on the economy later today near Paris.  “France, unlike Germany, might suffer from the sharp
tightening in fiscal policy following measures implemented over
the summer,” said Francois Cabau, an economist at  Barclays
Capital  in London. “Ayrault already said that growth
assumptions might have to be revised down from the current 1.2
percent for 2013.”  Merkel Meeting  The euro was within half a cent of an eight-week high
against the dollar before Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet in Berlin today, trading at
$1.2559 as of 11:35 a.m. in London.  Italian  consumer confidence  dropped to 86 in August from
86.5 in July, the national statistics office said. The decline
matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Italy’s two-year notes were little changed at 3.054 percent
after the nation sold 9 billion euros ($11.3 billion) of 181-day
bills at an auction. The rate has fallen from 3.75 percent a
month ago after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said the ECB may intervene to help lower borrowing costs in some
euro nations, a proposal that has led to a rift with Germany’s
Bundesbank.  In a commentary for Die Zeit newspaper, Draghi hit back at
criticism of his plan.  The ECB “will always act within the limits of its
mandate,” he wrote. “Yet it should be understood that
fulfilling our mandate sometimes requires us to go beyond
standard monetary policy tools.”  French Jobless  The bleak business outlook in France, the euro area’s
second-largest economy, is translating into rising unemployment.
 Jobless claims  jumped to a 13-year high in July, the Labor
Ministry said this week.  Hollande wants to improve economic growth by bolstering
 Europe ’s crisis-fighting toolbox and countering the debt turmoil
that has been a drag on growth for almost three years. Meeting
with Merkel on Aug. 23, he said he wanted euro nations to move
as fast as possible to implement the terms of a June agreement
on a banking union and the use of bailout funds.  Whether or not European leaders manage to reassure
investors, Hollande also knows he has an uphill task at home.
According to the national auditor, he will have to find about 33
billion euros in new tax revenue or savings by the time his
government sets out its 2013 budget on Sept. 24. The budget hole
will be larger if the  Finance Ministry  is forced to lower its
growth forecasts.  German Outlook  Germany’s BGA business association, which represents
exporters, wholesalers and services companies, said today that
Europe’s largest economy will expand at a “flatter”
trajectory, though it “won’t fall off a cliff.” Five German
states said today inflation accelerated in August on higher
energy prices. The Federal Statistics Office will release
 national data on inflation  at 2 p.m. today.  In Asia, there were further signs of pressure on  China’s
economy  after  export growth  almost stalled in July and factory
output missed forecasts. Retailers selling goods from clothing
to computers are reporting weaker sales growth, undermining
Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s goal of relying more on  consumer spending 
for expansion.  Passenger-vehicle sales trailed analysts’ estimates in
July. Sportswear seller Li Ning Co. shut 1,200 stores in the
first half and department-store chain  Parkson Retail Group
Ltd. (3368) ’s same-store sales rose at less than a quarter the pace of
a year earlier.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493)  said it
would report a first-half loss on lower sales.  The  Federal Reserve  releases its Beige Book survey of
economic conditions in 12 U.S. districts later today, two weeks
ahead of the Sept. 12-13 policy meeting of the  Federal Open
Market Committee . Before that, the Commerce Department’s first
revision to second-quarter gross domestic product may show a
gain of 1.7 percent compared with an initially reported 1.5
percent increase, according to a Bloomberg survey. In the first
three months of the year, the economy expanded 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  