-- Fulham Accepts Tottenham’s Dembele Bid; QPR Nears Cesar Signing
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-29T01:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/fulham-accepts-tottenham-s-dembele-bid-qpr-nears-cesar-signing.html
Fulham accepted an undisclosed bid
from Premier League soccer rival Tottenham Hotspur for
midfielder Moussa Dembele, while newly promoted Southampton
bolstered its attack by signing Zambia forward Emmanuel Mayuka.  Dembele, who joined Fulham from Dutch side  AZ Alkmaar  in
2010, was undergoing a medical examination at Tottenham, Fulham
manager  Martin Jol  told his team’s website after the Cottagers’
League Cup defeat at Sheffield Wednesday last night.  The acquisition of Dembele would end Tottenham’s yearlong
pursuit of a midfielder who’s scored five goals in 62 Premier
League games. Spurs, who sold playmaker Luka Modric to Real
Madrid two days ago, failed with a 10 million-pound ($15.8
million) bid for the 25-year-old Belgian international last year,
the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  The Premier League’s  transfer window  for teams to buy and
sell players closes at 11 p.m. U.K. time on Aug. 31. Another
trade period is scheduled for the month of January.  Queens Park Rangers is close to completing the signing of
Inter Milan goalkeeper Julio Cesar, QPR manager  Mark Hughes  said
after yesterday’s 3-0 League Cup win against Walsall.  Cesar, a 32-year-old Brazil international, helped Inter win
the  Champions League  and five Serie A titles since joining from
Chievo in 2005.  “We’re not at a point where we can actually say it’s a
done deal,” Hughes said at a news conference. “The intention
is there obviously if we can, but at the moment it’s not
concluded. If we are able to conclude it, we’ll be delighted.”  Southampton said it signed Mayuka, 21, for an undisclosed
fee from Swiss club Young Boys Berne. Mayuka, who’s scored 10
goals for the Zambia national team, agreed on a five-year
contract after passing a medical, the club said on its website.  Mayuka already has been granted a work permit and
Southampton said it’s awaiting entry clearance for him to join
in time for the Sept. 2 home game against  Manchester United .  “Emmanuel is a lightning-quick striker who I am sure will
excite the fans,” Saints manager Nigel Adkins said. “He will
bring something different to the group.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  