-- Furukawa-Sky, Sumitomo Light Metal to Merge as Competition Rises
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-08-29T11:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/furukawa-sky-sumitomo-light-metal-to-merge-as-competition-rises.html
Furukawa-Sky (5741)  Aluminum Corp., Japan’s
biggest maker of rolled aluminum products, agreed to take over
Sumitomo Light Metal Industries Ltd. as the companies seek to
pare costs and compete with international rivals.  Sumitomo Light Metal investors will get 0.346 shares of
Furukawa-Sky for each share they own in Japan’s largest
fabricator of the metal, the two companies said today in a
statement to the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange. Sumitomo Light Metal will
be delisted on Sept. 26, 2013, and the deal is expected to be
completed on Oct. 1, 2013, according to the statement.  The combined company will seek to reduce costs and
accelerate expansion in  emerging markets  as domestic producers
face intensifying competition from rivals in  China  and  South
Korea  and demand in Japan falls amid an aging population, the
two companies said. The value of the deal wasn’t given in the
statement.  “Competition in  Southeast Asia  is increasing,” Furukawa
Sky President Mitsuru Okada told reporters today in Tokyo. “If
things remain unchanged, it will be difficult for us to
survive.”  Furukawa-Sky shares gained 0.5 percent to 208 yen at the
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Sumitomo Light Metal fell 2.5
percent, the most since Aug. 15, to 77 yen.  The proposed merger is subject to approval from competition
regulators in Japan and abroad, according to the statement.
Yukio Edano, Japan’s trade minister, supported the deal, saying
it will help strengthen competitiveness in the global market,
according to a statement on the ministry website.  Furukawa Sky and  Sumitomo Light Metal (5738)  had combined sales of
452.9 billion yen ($5.4 billion) in the financial year ended
March 31, according to the statement.  Okada of Furukawa Sky will become president of the combined
company, while Sumitomo Light Metal President Shigenori Yamauchi
will be chairman, the companies said.  Mizuho Securities Co. and Nomura Securities Co. acted as
financial advisers to Furukawa-Sky, while SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc. and Daiwa Securities Group Inc. advised Sumitomo Light.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  