-- Genting Quarterly Net Falls as Singapore Casino Takings Drop
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-08-30T02:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/genting-quarterly-profit-falls-on-lower-singapore-casino-takings.html
Genting Bhd. (GENT) , which controls  Asia ’s
second-biggest casino operator by market value, said second-
quarter profit fell 21 percent after reporting lower earnings at
its Singapore gaming resort.  Net income  for the three months ended June 30 dropped to
534.5 million ringgit ($171 million), or 14.4 sen a share, from
673.2 million ringgit, or 18.1 sen, a year earlier, the company
said in a filing to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange yesterday.
Revenue was little changed at 4.5 billion ringgit.  Genting controls Asia’s second-biggest casino operator
 Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) , which earlier this month reported a 43
percent drop in second-quarter profit to S$138.5 million ($110
million). This offset higher contributions from the group’s
gaming businesses in  Malaysia , the U.K. and the U.S., where
Resorts World Casino  New York  City began operations in October.  “The global economy looks increasingly unfavorable,”
Genting said in the statement. The Singapore casino resort
“will continue to see similar narrower profit margins as in the
current quarter,” it said.  The earnings were also lower after last year’s profit was
boosted by a one-time gain of 144 million ringgit, the filing
showed.  Genting has fallen 18 percent this year in Kuala Lumpur
trading, compared with a 7.5 percent increase in the  benchmark 
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. It rose 0.1 percent to 9.01
ringgit as of 10:37 a.m. local time.  Changing Regulations  “The volatile Singapore market is currently facing some
headwinds with the ever-changing government regulations,” Hoe
Lee Leng, an analyst at RHB Capital Bhd., wrote in a report
today. “We recommend investors switch over to Genting Malaysia,
whose earnings are more defensive and has more growth
leverage.”  Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM) , operator of the country’s only
casino resort, jumped 2.4 percent, its biggest intraday gain
since Aug. 9. The stock was upgraded to the equivalent of buy
today by the broking arms of Malayan Banking Bhd. and RHB.  The group’s  plantation  division saw profit contributions
drop 52 percent to 92.9 million ringgit on lower palm oil prices
and higher costs. The group’s Malaysian estates are expected to
boost production in the second half of this year, Genting said.  Pretax profit from power generation increased 14 percent to
141.6 million ringgit, boosted by its first earnings from a wind
farm in  India .  Going forward, energy earnings are likely to fall with the
proposed sale of Malaysia’s Kuala Langat power plant to
1Malaysia Development Bhd., according to the statement. The
group expects to record a one-time net gain of 1.9 billion
ringgit from the disposal, it said in an Aug. 13 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  