-- Germany Backs Charging Consumers to Cut Offshore Wind Risks
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-08-29T11:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/germany-backs-charging-consumers-to-cut-offshore-wind-risks-1-.html
Germany  backed measures to charge
consumers and grid operators for risks linked to installing sea-
based wind farms in an effort to support investments from
developers including  EON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG. (RWE)   The  draft bill  endorsed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet of Ministers would make power consumers pay as much as
0.25 euro cents a kilowatt-hour if wind farm owners can’t sell
their electricity because of delays in connecting turbines to
the grid. The plan is aimed at raising investments after
utilities threatened to halt projects and grid operators
struggled to raise financing and complete projects on time.  “We lacked investments in wind parks and grid projects”
because it wasn’t clear who would pay for possible delays,
Economy Minister Philipp Roesler told reporters in Berlin.
“With this regulation, the likelihood that liability losses
will arise is now minimized.”  Germany is boosting investment in clean energy to replace
nuclear power by 2022. While it seeks to build offshore wind
farms, work is being held up by delays in linking turbines to
the electricity grid. RWE last month said it postponed a
decision on building the Innogy Nordsee 1 offshore wind farm
until 2013 as it waits for the government to set out who will
pay for delays. Damages linked to current delays are expected to
amount to 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), according to the draft
bill.  Temporary Problem  Grid operators will have to shoulder as much as 20 percent
of damages up to 200 million euros if they act carelessly, it
said. For sums greater than that, their share of the costs will
fall according to a sliding scale. The maximum cost for grid
operators won’t exceed 100 million euros a year.  Potential maximum costs for the average private household
with 3,500 kilowatt-hours of consumption would amount to 8.75
euros a year.  “We expect this to be a temporary problem,” said
Environment Minister Peter Altmaier. “I expect the significance
of this liability fee to decrease constantly over the coming
years because grid expansion will go more smoothly.”  Germany added 45 megawatts of offshore  wind turbines  in the
first half, less than expected, mainly because of the grid
connection delays. That means the country won’t reach its target
of adding 10 gigawatts of sea-based turbines by 2020, Thorsten Herdan, head of VDMA Power Systems, a manufacturers’ group, said
Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  