-- Italian Bonds Rise as Merkel Praises Monti Before Debt Auctions
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-29T16:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/german-10-year-bunds-snap-5-day-gain-before-italy-sells-bills.html
Italian government bonds rose, with
two-year yields falling to the lowest in three months, as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  praised Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s effort to overhaul his country’s finances.  Italian securities also advanced after the nation’s
borrowing costs dropped to the least since March at a bill
auction before it sells as much as 7.5 billion euros ($9.4
billion) of five- and 10-year bonds tomorrow. German bunds
declined after a U.S. report showed the world’s biggest economy
expanded more than previously estimated last quarter, damping
demand for safer assets.  “Encouraging comments by Merkel on the Italian reforms
might have helped” the country’s bonds, said Annalisa Piazza, a
fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in London. Demand should
be “relatively solid at tomorrow’s auction. Markets seem to
price in a less risky scenario for the Italian debt as the
government’s efforts to implement structural reforms have been
widely praised.”  The Italian two-year yield fell 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 2.94 percent at 5 p.m.  London  time after
dropping to 2.88 percent, matching the lowest level since May 8.
The 4.25 percent bond due in July 2014 rose 0.175, or 1.75 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount, to 102.34.  Spanish  two-year yields  declined seven basis points to 3.61
percent after rising as much as 17 basis points.  Bill Sale  The Rome-based Treasury auctioned the 181-day bills at a
yield of 1.585 percent, compared with 2.454 percent at the
previous sale of similar-maturity debt on July 27. Investors
submitted bids for 1.69 times the amount of bills offered, up
from 1.61 times last month.  Merkel said euro-area policy makers face “a very ambitious
agenda in the next few weeks” and need to improve their
cooperation in the months ahead. “We are convinced that the
path we’ve chosen is the right one,” she said.  Efforts to stamp out the debt crisis now in its third year
have intensified as Europe’s political summer break recedes.
French President  Francois Hollande  visited Berlin last week to
coordinate a strategy with Merkel on conditions for extending
Greece’s bailout. Merkel is due to meet Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  in  Madrid  on Sept. 6.  German 10-year bunds dropped for the first time in six
days, with yields rising four basis points to 1.38 percent. They
earlier fell to 1.30 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 3.  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.7 percent annual
rate from April through June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5
percent, revised Commerce Department figures showed today. The
figure followed a 2 percent first-quarter pace.  EFSF Auction  The European Financial Stability Facility sold 3 billion
euros of bonds due in September 2022 at a yield of 2.307 percent
today, 57 basis points above the mid-swap rate. Finland
auctioned 4 billion euros of 10-year bonds yesterday at three
basis points above the mid-swap rate. Belgium,  Austria , Germany,
France and Spain are all due to sell securities next week.  Volatility on French  government bonds  was the highest in
euro-region markets today, followed by the Belgium and Germany,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread
between two-and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German  government securities  returned 3.9 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Italian bonds rose 11 percent and Spain’s fell 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  