-- German Stocks Little Changed, Paring Earlier Losses
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-08-29T16:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/german-stocks-fall-before-u-s-gdp-data-lufthansa-drops.html
German stocks were little changed,
erasing earlier declines, as the  U.S. economy  expanded more than
previously estimated in the second quarter.  Deutsche Post AG rose 1.1 percent.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
dropped 1.3 percent as the airline’s main cabin crew union plans
to strike after it called off wage talks. Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG lost 0.5 percent. Q-Cells SE plunged the most in nearly
five months after its creditors approved selling the company to
Hanwha Group.  The  DAX (DAX)  rose 0.1 percent to 7,010.57 at the close in
Frankfurt. The benchmark measure has climbed 17 percent from its
2012 low on June 5 as policy makers agreed to recapitalize
Spanish banks and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
promised to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro. The
broader HDAX Index added 0.2 percent today.  “The health of the U.S. economy will once again be at the
forefront of markets’ focus today and the expectation that the
Fed Chairman will fire the starting gun on another round of
easing,” said  Michael Hewson , a market analyst at CMC Markets
U.K. Plc, referring to a  potential third program of stimulus
from the  Federal Reserve .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will make his annual speech at
the central bank’s symposium at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, on Aug.
31. His 2010 address was followed by a second round of bond
purchases to ease financial woes in the world’s largest economy.  U.S. Growth  In the U.S., gross domestic product climbed at a 1.7
percent annual rate from April through June, up from an initial
estimate of 1.5 percent, revised Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The figure matched the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The revised data showed
companies invested in new equipment at the slowest pace in
almost three years.  Deutsche Post, the world’s biggest carrier of air and sea
freight by volume, added 1.1 percent to 15.53 euros.  Lufthansa slipped 1.3 percent to 9.71 euros. The
Unabhaengige Flugbegleiter Organisation said yesterday that it’s
planning unlimited strikes as early as this week after wage
negotiations with Europe’s second-largest airline broke down.  BMW, the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, lost 0.5
percent to 60.21 euros.  Q-Cells, a maker of solar cells, slumped 26 percent to 11.2
euro cents, the biggest drop since April 2. The company said
today its creditors backed an agreement allowing South Korea’s
Hanwha to buy its plants in Germany and Malaysia and sales units
in the U.S., Australia and Japan. Hanwha will pay as much as 40
million euros ($50 million) for the units, and assume 850
million ringgit ($272 million) of debt guaranteed by Q-Cells
Malaysia.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, slipped 0.5 percent
to 23.77 euros. The company’s loss of market value may lead to a
stepdown to the MDAX Index, the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung 
reported, citing calculations by index analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  