-- German Inflation Quickened More Than Forecast in August
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-08-29T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/german-inflation-quickened-more-than-forecast-in-august.html
German inflation accelerated more
than economists forecast in August on higher energy costs.  The  inflation  rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, rose to 2.2 percent from 1.9 percent in July, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s the
first increase since February. Economists forecast a gain to 2
percent, the median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey 
shows. In the month, consumer prices rose 0.3 percent.  Oil prices have surged about 25 percent since the end of
June as storms in the  Gulf of Mexico  crimped output. At the same
time, the  European Central Bank  predicts that euro-area
inflation will slow to below its 2 percent limit next year and
is easing monetary policy to fight the region’s debt crisis.  “Energy costs in July rose faster than expected, which is
the main reason for the higher inflation,” said Heinrich Bayer,
an economist at Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn. “I assume that
 Germany  has seen its low point in inflation for this year. We
better get ready for rates of above 2 percent in the months to
come.”  Germany’s non-harmonized inflation rate rose to 2 percent
in August from 1.7 percent in July, the statistics office said.
The main reasons for the increase were higher fuel and heating
oil costs, it said.  In Bavaria, heating  oil prices  gained 2.1 percent from July
and were 13.6 percent higher than a year ago, the state’s
statistics office said earlier today.  Economists predict euro-area inflation will accelerate to
2.5 percent in August from 2.4 percent in July, according to the
median of 31 estimates in a separate Bloomberg  survey . Eurostat,
the European Union’s statistics office, will publish that report
on Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  