-- Glanbia’s Co-op Shareholders to Cut Stake as Guidance Rises
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-08-29T10:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/glanbia-s-co-op-shareholders-to-cut-stake-as-guidance-rises.html
Glanbia Plc (GLB) , one of the largest
cheddar cheese producers in  North America , raised its full-year
targets and said its largest shareholder, Glanbia Co-operative
Society Ltd. plans to cut its stake.  Glanbia raised its full-year adjusted earnings per share
growth guidance to 8 percent to 10 percent for this year, up
from 5 percent to 7 percent in May, as sales and profit rose in
the first half. The Co-op, many of whose members supply milk and
trade with Glanbia, plans to cut its stake in the Kilkenny,
Ireland-based company to 41.4 percent from 54.4 percent, based
on approval from Co-op members, the company said.  Glanbia plans to establish a joint venture with the Co-op
in a transaction that will see the Co-op take a 60 percent stake
in Glanbia’s Dairy Ingredients Ireland business, which includes
its consumer product offerings. The Co-op will sell a 3 percent
stake to fund investment in the joint venture and will seek
approval from its members to reduce its holding in the listed
company a further 10 percent to 41.4 percent.  “The transaction, if concluded, will release funds for
Glanbia to singularly pursue its development objectives in
nutritionals, an activity with strong growth potential,” said
John O’Reilly, an analyst at Dublin-based stockbroker Davy, in a
note.  Stock Rises  The stock rose 2.6 percent to 6.16 euros in Dublin trading
as of 11:12 a.m.,  extending  this year’s gain to 33 percent.  The Co-op needs the approval of 75 percent of its members
at two general meetings to reduce its stake under 51 percent. If
approved, the Co-op would distribute a 7 percent shareholding in
Glanbia to its members and sell 3 percent.  In May 2010, a plan to sell its Glanbia’s Irish dairy
business to the Co-op failed after only 73 percent of Co-op
members backed the deal. Glanbia’s Managing Director John
Moloney said he has “high hopes” for the vote passing the
threshold, and expects them to be held in November.  “It will also enable us to continue to focus on the
success of our international growth strategy around nutritional
ingredients and U.S. cheese,” Moloney said in telephone
interview. “That is the business sector that has been driving
the performance of the group.”  Glanbia’s first-half sales increased 1.6 percent to 1.36
billion euros ($1.7 billion). Adjusted earnings per share rose
1.3 at constant currency to 28 euro cents in the same period as
sales at its U.S. cheese and global nutritional business rose
8.6 percent on the same basis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  