-- Google, FTC Settlement Can Face Consumer Group Challenge
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-08-29T19:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/google-ftc-settlement-can-face-consumer-group-challenge.html
A public interest group won the
right to oppose a $22.5 million consumer lawsuit settlement
between the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  over a
privacy breach of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari browser.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco last
night gave attorneys for Consumer Watchdog until Sept. 21 to
file a brief opposing the settlement, which was announced Aug. 9
needs court approval.  Consumer Watchdog, a  Santa Monica , California-based
advocacy group, opposes the agreement because it didn’t include
an admission of wrongdoing by Google, echoing a dissenting view
on the deal by FTC Commissioner  Thomas Rosch . The group has
frequently criticized privacy practices of Google and Facebook
Inc.  “Google executives want to buy their way out of trouble
with what for them is pocket change and then deny doing anything
wrong,” John M. Simpson,  Consumer Watchdog ’s privacy project
director, said in a statement.  The FTC alleged that  Mountain View , California-based Google
deceived consumers and violated terms of a consent decree signed
with the commission last year when it bypassed Apple’s
software’s privacy settings to plant so-called cookies on Safari
that tracked users’ Internet browsing. The $22.5 million fine
was the largest the agency had ever levied.  By law, the court must review whether the settlement is
fair, reasonable, adequate and consistent with public policy.  Illston said she’ll decide whether to hold a hearing on
Consumer Watchdog’s request after receiving all the legal
papers.  ‘No Basis’  “We are confident that there is no basis for this
challenge,” said Nadja Blagojevic, a Google spokeswoman.  Claudia Bourne Farrell, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Both the FTC and Google filed motions with the court
taking no position on Consumer Watchdog’s request to oppose the
settlement.  Google, operator of the world’s largest Internet search
engine, has drawn regulatory scrutiny and pressure from consumer
advocates for the way it handles personal information. The
company’s consent decree with the FTC settled allegations that
it used deceptive tactics and violated its own privacy policies
in introducing the Buzz social-networking service in 2010.  The question of whether judges should accept settlements
where companies deny liability is now an issue in two other
cases, Consumer Watchdog said in a court filing Aug. 21.  Last year, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan 
rejected a proposed stipulated order between the Securities and
Exchange Commission and Citigroup Inc. because the bank didn’t
admit or deny of the allegations in the complaint. An appeals
court said Rakoff had minimal authority to second-guess the SEC,
withholding a final ruling until it hears full arguments on the
issue.  New Jersey  In another FTC case, against a New Jersey-based company
called Circa Direct LLC, which involves promoters of acai berry-
based weight-loss products, the district court asked the agency
to submit briefs on whether the lack of an admission of
liability affects the court’s public interest analysis, Consumer
Watchdog said in the filing.  Consumer Watchdog, which was founded by activist Harvey
Rosenfield, represents consumer interests in areas including
health care reform, insurance rates,  energy policy , legal rights
and political accountability, according to its website. The
group started its privacy project four years ago, when it
received a $100,000 grant from the Rose Foundation to develop
awareness about Google’s data collection and privacy practices,
according to the foundation’s website.  The Rose Foundation, based in Oakland,  California , was
founded by Jill Ratner and Tim Little in 1992 to promote
grassroots initiatives supporting the environment, consumer
protection and community action programs, according to its
website.  The case is U.S. v. Google Inc., 3:12-cv-04177, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  