-- Google Said to Tap Barclays to Sell Motorola’s Home Unit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-29T22:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/google-said-to-hire-barclays-to-sell-motorola-s-home-business.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  wants to sell the unit
within Motorola Mobility that sells set-top boxes and other
equipment to cable television providers and has hired  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  to seek buyers, according to two people familiar with the
situation.  Motorola Mobility’s Home Business unit might fetch about $2
billion and the sale is in the very early stages, said one of
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, is shifting
Motorola’s focus toward high-end smartphones as it competes with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  This month Google announced it would cut 4,000
Motorola staff and close about a third of its 90 facilities as
part of a plan to restore the hardware firm’s leadership in the
mobile market. Google completed the $12.5 billion purchase of
Motorola Mobility in May in its biggest takeover.  Light Reading Cable  reported  on Aug. 6 that Google was
considering a sale of the Home Business unit. Motorola tried to
sell the unit in 2009 for more than $4 billion, people close to
the situation said at the time.  Kerrie Cohen , a spokeswoman for Barclays, and Niki Fenwick,
a spokeswoman for Google, declined to comment.  Google announced the deal to buy Motorola Mobility a year
ago after losing out on an auction of Nortel Networks Corp.
patents to a group that included Apple,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Research in Motion Ltd.  which bought them for $4.5 billion. The
acquisition gave Google a trove of more than 17,000 patents.  Motorola’s handsets use Google’s Android software, which
the search engine provider offers at no cost to mobile-device
makers. Google-powered devices accounted for 56 percent of
global sales in the first three months of the year, compared
with 23 percent for Apple’s iPhone, according to Gartner Inc.  Google shares rose 1.6 percent to $688.01 at the close in
New York, and are up 6.5 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  