-- Greek Concern Forces Elko to Delay Latvia’s First IPO in 8 Years
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   H e l l m u t h   T r o m m
-- 2012-08-29T10:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/greek-concern-forces-elko-to-delay-latvia-s-first-ipo-in-8-years.html
Elko Group AS, a Latvian computer
wholesaler, has put off plans to hold the Baltic country’s first
initial public offering in eight years as euro-region nations
battle to avoid a Greek exit from the common currency.  “We need a more positive environment, when the market is
hungry for some equities,” Chief Financial Officer  Svens
Dinsdorfs  said Aug. 23 in an interview in Riga, the capital.
“Sentiment can change during one week. Again some bad news,
Greeks again say we won’t make it, and everyone is running and
screaming, and the world is collapsing.”  Elko, whose sales fell about 40 percent in 2009, when
international credit markets froze and  Latvia ’s economy shrank
about 18 percent, predicts revenue will grow about 24 percent
this year to $1.2 billion. The company, which distributes  Acer
Inc. (2353)   notebook computers  in  Russia , forecasts profit will
increase 19.3 percent to $16.1 million.  Latvia’s benchmark Nasdaq OMX Riga index has risen 2.8
percent this year, while Estonia’s stock market has risen 27
percent and Lithuania’s has gained 16.7 percent.  Elko, which had credit lines reduced, fired staff and cut
pay during the crisis, has raised salaries and will increase a
credit facility by $15 million to about $60 million from Nordic
lenders  SEB AB (SEBA)  and  Nordea AB. (NDA)   ‘Extremely Tough’  “The crisis was extremely tough, so we had a tough 6 to 9
months, it was hell, and then we again returned to the path of
earning money and growing from the bottom,” Dinsdorfs said.  For now, the euro-area turmoil is delaying plans to sell a
stake on the stock exchange. Valuations are low across eastern
 Europe , according to Heiti Riisberg, head of asset management at
Trigon Capital AS, based in Tallinn,  Estonia .  “The valuations of most public companies in the Baltics,
and the whole CEE region, are anything but demanding,”
Riisberg, whose firm manages about 700 million euros, he said by
e-mail. “Most privately held companies that have made it
through the crisis in reasonably good shape are simply not
willing to raise capital at such low valuations.”  Elko’s closest publicly listed peer is  ASBISc Enterprises
Plc (ASB) , a Cyprus-based computer equipment retailer that trades on
the  Warsaw stock exchange (GPW) , according to Riisberg. Even after its
stock rose 45 percent this year, it’s still trading at 40
percent of its book value, he said.  Low Valuation  “It is difficult to see why Elko Group would be willing to
go public at a valuation similar to this,” Riisberg said.  Some of Elko’s shareholders, such as investment funds that
are expiring, preferred a share sale, said Dinsdorfs. Stockholm-
based  East Capital (ECEX)  Asset Management AB owns 8.8 percent of Elko,
and Amber Trust II S.C.A., a joint venture between Dankse Bank
AB. and Firebird, a New York-based fund, holds 17.7 percent. The
remaining shares are held by private investors.  While Elko prepared and filed a listing prospectus last
summer, shareholders were unsure what the valuation would be
because of the situation in the euro area that ultimately
delayed the sale, according to Dinsdorfs.  “The main concern is about demand and everyone wishes for
an IPO that’s oversubscribed,” he said. Still, “my Swedish
investors might think quite differently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net 
Hellmuth Tromm in Berlin at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  