-- Greece’s Coalition Government Rushes for Agreement on Cuts
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-08-29T11:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/greece-s-coalition-government-rushes-for-agreement-on-cuts-1-.html
Greece ’s coalition government rushed
to complete an agreement on an 11.5 billion-euro ($14.4 billion)
package of austerity measures before the arrival of inspectors
representing its international creditors next week.  While Prime Minister Antonis Samaras secured political
backing for the spending cuts at a meeting with leaders of the
parties supporting his government, “minor issues” still need
to be resolved, Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told
reporters after the talks in Athens today.  Evangelos Venizelos 
of the socialist Pasok party and Fotis Kouvelis of Democratic
Left, the leaders attending the meeting, said the package needed
to avoid across-the-board cuts in wages and pensions.  “The elaboration of the 11.5 billion euros of measures has
not been completed,” Kouvelis said. “We are trying to avoid
horizontal cuts, which I’m categorically opposed to, and to
protect low and middle incomes so they don’t bleed any further,
whether they’re from wages or pensions.”  The so-called troika of the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  will
return to Athens next week to continue their review of Greece’s
progress in meeting the terms its 240 billion euros of bailout
loans. Without a positive review, the other countries in the
euro area may not approve the disbursements of funds, which
could lead to Greece’s exit from Europe’s single currency.  Complete Deal  The coalition partners will complete the measures, which
are for 2013 and 2014, next week in time to present them to the
troika when it arrives, Stournaras said.  Venizelos, a former finance minister, said they agreed on
the need for a comprehensive plan on how Greece would resolve
the crisis and that the budget deal is part of the government’s
plan, which should include growth measures.  European Union President Herman  Van Rompuy  will travel to
Athens on Sept. 7 to meet with Samaras, Proto Thema reported
today, without saying how it got the information. Van Rompuy
will meet with Samaras, the Athens-based newspaper said. Van
Rompuy will have talks with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Francois Hollande  before his visit to Greece,
according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  