-- Illinois Debt Cut by S&P After No Action on Pension Funding
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-08-29T20:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/illinois-debt-cut-by-s-p-after-lack-of-action-on-pension-funding.html
Illinois , the U.S. state with the
worst-funded pension system, had the rating on its general-
obligation debt cut one level by  Standard & Poor’s  and may face
more downgrades.  The change to an A rating followed state lawmakers’ failure
to agree to reduce retirement costs during a special session
Aug. 17. The outlook for the state’s debt, which now has S&P’s
sixth-highest grade, is negative.  California , with an A-ranking,
one level below Illinois, remains S&P’s lowest-rated state.  Illinois has an unfunded pension liability of at least $83
billion, according to state figures. It had 45 percent of what
it needed to pay future retiree obligations as of 2010, the
lowest among U.S. states, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The downgrade reflects the state’s weak pension funding
levels and lack of action on reform measures intended to improve
funding levels and diminish cost pressures associated with
annual contributions,” said Robin Prunty, an S&P analyst, in a
report today.  Governor  Pat Quinn  said today he is inviting legislative
leaders to meet in early September to work on pension changes.
Lawmakers have considered boosting employee contributions,
passing some costs to local school districts and forcing workers
to choose between the current system and receiving free
retirement health care.  No Surprise  Quinn, a Democrat, said the rating cut wasn’t a surprise.  Erasing the fifth-most populous state’s unfunded pension
liability “is vital to getting our financial house in order,”
Quinn said in a statement. “Today’s action by Standard & Poor’
is more evidence that we must act.”  Illinois had about $28 billion of general-obligation debt
as of May 8, according to bond documents. The state of about 13
million people plans to sell $50 million of debt next month for
technology projects, John Sinsheimer, the state’s director of
 capital markets , said in an interview.  Taxpayers will pay more to issue debt because of the lower
rating, state Treasurer Dan Rutherford said in a statement.  “I urge the legislature to act decisively towards
comprehensive, constitutional and fair pension reforms that will
reverse this situation,” he said.  Investors have been unfazed by the state’s fiscal strains.
Yields on 10-year debt sold by Illinois and its localities are
 1.45 percentage points  above those on top-rated municipals with
a similar maturity, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
least extra yield since February 2011.  Bond Returns  Illinois state and local  debt  has returned about 7.1
percent this year, including price gains and interest, compared
with 5.9 percent for the $3.7 trillion municipal-securities
market, according to S&P index data.  Among the 26 states and  Puerto Rico  covered by the S&P
indexes, only Ohio and  Colorado , which each returned about 7.2
percent, beat Illinois.  S&P assigned a negative outlook for the state because of
possible additional “erosion” of Illinois’s pension funds
during the next two years. Individual and corporate tax
increases will expire on Jan. 1, 2015, which may weaken
financial operating results, S&P said.  The Legislature in January 2011 approved a 67 percent
personal-income tax increase and a 46 percent boost in business-
income tax to produce about $6.8 billion annually, according to
the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  