-- Lilly Stops Testing of Schizophrenia Drug on Efficacy
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-08-29T20:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/lilly-stops-testing-of-schizophrenia-drug-on-efficacy.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  halted testing on an
experimental treatment for schizophrenia after the company
determined the drug was unlikely to show a benefit in patients.  Development of pomaglumetad methionil was stopped after an
analysis of a large-scale study found the drug appeared to be
ineffective, the Indianapolis-based company said today in a
statement. The decision wasn’t based on safety, Lilly said.  Lilly also said today that pomaglumetad methionil didn’t
show a benefit in a smaller study that looked at its benefits
when combined with another treatment. Last month, the company
announced the drug had failed in another large-scale trial.
Analysts had low sales expectations for the medicine with ISI
Group analyst  Mark Schoenebaum  in July estimating peak annual
revenue of $250 million.  “I’m disappointed in what these results mean for patients
with schizophrenia who still are searching for options to treat
this terrible illness,” Jan Lundberg, president of Lilly’s
research laboratories, said in the statement. “While there are
many challenges in this complex field of research, neuroscience
remains a core area of focus at Lilly.”  Lilly  shares  rose 1 percent to $45.17 at 4 p.m. New York
time.  The drugmaker is in need of new treatments as the company
braces for the expected loss of as much as $7 billion in sales
to generic competition over the next five years. Lilly now has
11 compounds in the final stages of testing.  Lilly said it is working to move the people in the phase
III study of pomaglumetad methionil to clinical care outside the
trial. The decision to stop the research is expected to result
in a third-quarter pretax charge of $25 million to $30 million,
or 2 cents a share after tax, the company said. The treatment
was in the final stages of testing required to get U.S.
regulatory approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  