-- India May Auction 1 Gigawatt to Double Solar Capacity
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-29T07:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/india-may-auction-1-gigawatt-to-double-solar-capacity.html
India  may auction a third of the
solar projects planned by 2017 in the current financial year to
double the nation’s sun-powered capacity as it seeks additional
clean-energy investments to combat power shortages.  Of the 3,000 megawatts of solar plants proposed to be built
starting in 2013, contracts for “1,000 megawatts or a little
less” may be tendered in the first batch, Tarun Kapoor, joint
secretary at the  Ministry of New and Renewable Energy , said
yesterday in a phone interview from  New Delhi .  The plan provides some guidance to solar utilities and
manufacturers, which have said India must demonstrate a reliable
pipeline of projects to draw the investment needed to meet its
targets. India is aiming for 20,000 megawatts of solar power by
2022 and most of the country’s existing capacity of 1,040
megawatts was built in the past year.  “Predictable demand is probably the most important factor
for us in the creation of additional manufacturing capacity,”
Sujoy Ghosh, country head of  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s
biggest thin-film panel maker, said in an interview this month.  Of the existing solar capacity in India, 620 megawatts of
projects were auctioned until December while the rest was built
in the western state of Gujarat under a separate program.  Possible Subsidy  In the first phase of its solar program, India awarded
contracts with incentives including special tariffs and a power-
bundling arrangement designed to assure projects of buyers for
their electricity. For the next phase, the government may
consider some form of subsidy, Kapoor said.  India has used auctions to avoid the spiraling renewable-
energy subsidies that burdened European governments. Project
developers are awarded capacity based on the discount at which
they’re willing to sell power. Under that system, the price of
solar power in India fell 38 percent between 2010 and 2011.  The government awarded 350 megawatts of solar capacity in
the latest auction in December 2011 to utilities including  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management LLC-backed Welspun Group,
Mahindra Group and partner Kiran Energy Solar Power Pvt. and
World Bank-backed Azure Power India Pvt.  Of those projects, 340 megawatts met a deadline to arrange
financing from lenders including the U.S. Export-Import Bank,
 Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , Kapoor said. A 10-megawatt
project was canceled for irregularities with its documents, he
said, declining to elaborate.  Those projects are due to be completed by early 2013.
Kapoor said 260 megawatts, or 76 percent of them, plan to use
thin-film panels and the remainder will install silicon-based
crystalline panels.  India, which suffered the world’s biggest blackout last
month, depends on coal to generate more than half of its
electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  