-- Infosys Seeks Product Deals as Customers Delay: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-08-30T10:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/infosys-seeks-product-deals-as-customers-delay-corporate-india.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest
software developer by value, needs to make acquisitions to meet
a goal of earning a third of its revenue from products in five
years as clients delay new projects.  The company’s “aspiration” is to boost  business  selling
banking products such as Finacle and WalletEdge, used to
transfer money over mobile phones, from 6.1 percent of sales in
the three months ended June 30, Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal said. Infosys in July cut its sales forecast for the
year that began April 1 amid weaker spending by customers.  Infosys, which has 151,151 employees, is targeting software
products to help it reduce its dependence on writing customized
code to boost  revenue , said Ankur Rudra, an analyst with Ambit
Capital Pvt. in Mumbai. The first Indian company to sell shares
on the  Nasdaq  is open to purchasing a firm that’s a 10th of its
size in revenue, Shibulal said. Infosys’s sales rose 22 percent
to $7 billion in the year ended March 31.  “It’s about increasing our revenue share from non-
commoditized areas,” Shibulal, 57, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s office in Mumbai yesterday, adding that boosting
product revenue wasn’t in his plan 18 months ago. The company
will this year “hire 35,000 people, if you continue on this
path in about seven years we’ll be recruiting about 200,000
people. This is not a viable option.”  Infosys  shares  have dropped 14 percent this year, compared
with a 16 percent increase at larger rival  Tata Consultancy 
Services Ltd. The benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index has risen
13 percent. Infosys, based in Bangalore, rose 0.2 percent to
2,392.7 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai.  ‘Risky Business’  “Infosys’s focus on growing its products and platform-
based businesses is risky,” said Rod Bourgeois, a New York-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “If Infosys were
thriving better in its core services businesses, it would have
less need for products and platform-based growth.”  Finacle, used by companies including Rabobank Groep of the
Netherlands and  Denmark ’s Nykredit Group, accounts for the
majority of Infosys’s product revenue.  The software has approximately 70 percent market share in
India, Chief Financial Office V. Balakrishnan said in an
interview in February. Revenue from the 15-year-old product rose
7.8 percent to $318.75 million in the year ended March 31, from
$295.6 million the year before.  The company, started by seven people including Shibulal
with $250 borrowed from their wives in 1981, is targeting
 emerging markets  for its products and platforms including
WalletEdge.  Cash Pile  GlaxoSmithKline Plc uses Infosys’s marketing tool
BrandEdge, which competes with  Sapient Corp. (SAPE) ’s SapientNitro,
 Accenture Plc (ACN) ’s Accenture Interactive and a digital advertising
suite from  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)   Reaching the company’s goal “isn’t going to happen
overnight, unless we do an acquisition,” Shibulal, who took
over as head in August last year, said. Infosys had a  cash pile 
of 206 billion rupees ($3.7 billion) as of June 30, the largest
among Indian software developers.  Buying a product company may be expensive, said Ambit’s
Rudra.  “They will have to pay a massive premium to acquire
anything of size and scale,” said Rudra, who  recommends 
investors sell the stock. “One would imagine they would not be
ready to spend as much, given their relatively conservative
track record.”  In 2008, Infosys decided against pursuing a plan to buy
Axon Group Plc for 407 million pounds ($644 million) after its
bid was trumped by New Delhi-based  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  In
2006, Infosys spent $115 million to purchase Citigroup Inc.’s
stake in Progeon Ltd., a back-office service provider controlled
by Infosys.  Missed Estimates  The company, which has  missed  earnings estimates for four
of the past eight quarters, on July 12 said sales in the year
ending March may rise to at least $7.34 billion, lower than the
$7.55 billion forecast in April. In contrast, Tata Consultancy’s
earnings lagged behind analysts’  forecasts  twice in the past
eight quarters.  Shibulal blamed the difference on Infosys’s portfolio and
the company’s dependence on so-called discretionary spending by
companies, which has slowed.  Customers are facing “a lack of confidence about where to
invest,” Shibulal said. “I don’t see any events on the horizon
which will build confidence.”  For the year ending March, Infosys has forecast dollar-
denominated sales growth below an  estimate  of 14 percent
expansion for the Indian information technology services
industry by the National Association of Software & Services
Companies.  “In our 30-year history, one year and one quarter doesn’t
mean much,” Shibulal said. “You don’t go in and reassess the
entire strategy of a corporation and what we have achieved just
because of a couple quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in  Mumbai  at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  