-- Infrared Export Limits Pentagon Wants Opposed by Industry
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-08-29T15:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/infrared-export-limits-pentagon-wants-opposed-by-industry.html
U.S. companies that make infrared
detection technology used in night-vision devices and weapons
sights are fighting a Pentagon effort to impose the government’s
most stringent export rules on their products.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , DRS Technologies Inc. and  Flir Systems Inc. (FLIR) 
are pressing the Pentagon not to add the infrared detectors to
the U.S. Munitions List. Doing so would make official the
government’s current restrictive treatment of the technology.  U.S. companies risk being shut out of a global market of
about $2.6 billion by 2017 for commercial uses in the
automotive, surveillance and security industries at a time when
U.S. military purchases are waning, according to technology
analyst Jeff Perkins.  “Such a regulation will give a serious leg up to the
foreign competition, from  Europe  to  Korea ,  Japan  and  China ,”
Perkins, president of the U.S. unit of Lyon, France-based Yole
Developpement, said in an e-mail. “To hinder the ability of
U.S. factories to compete will only lead to moving all of that
development offshore.”  While infrared imaging is associated with military
equipment such as night-vision goggles, it also is used in
collision-avoidance cameras for automobiles, commercial security
cameras and thermography that can detect heat leaks in homes.  Raytheon rose 12 cents to $56.35 at 11:30 a.m. in  New York 
trading, and Flir fell 1 cents to $19.51.  The technology in dispute is called uncooled infrared focal
plane arrays. These thermal imaging sensors operate at ambient
temperatures, eliminating the need for expensive cooling
systems. Infrared is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum
between visible and microwave light.  Easing Restrictions  The addition to the U.S. Munitions List, which is
maintained by the State Department, is being considered even as
the Obama administration seeks to ease export restrictions
generally. The U.S. needs “a system where higher walls are
placed around fewer, more critical items,”  Robert Gates , who
was defense secretary at the time, said in 2010.  The infrared technology is being reviewed as part of that
inter-agency process, Pentagon spokesman Lieutenant Colonel
James Gregory said in an e-mail. “In the coming months, a
Federal Register notice for public comment will be published on
the results of the review,” he said.  While “dual-use” items that have both military and
civilian applications can be placed under Commerce Department
export controls, the most sensitive military technology is
supposed to go on the more stringent State Department munitions
list. It requires export licenses to almost all destinations,
setting a higher threshold to grant export licenses and more
restrictions on the transfer of the technology to third parties.  Bolts, Screws  “There is a very strict U.S.-content requirement” under
the State Department controls, according to  William Reinsch ,
president of the Washington-based  National Foreign Trade
Council , who administered the Commerce Department export rules
during the Clinton administration.  Companies often find it tough to deal with the munitions
list because a finished product -- such as a machine gun or an
airplane -- can be subject to the controls if it contains an
American part as small as a bolt or screw, Reinsch said in an
interview.  “The  United States  would stand alone in deciding to
control this commercial technology as military while equivalent,
and in some cases better, uncooled detector technology is
available worldwide,” executives of three companies wrote in a
May 30 letter to Frank Kendall, the Pentagon’s acquisition
chief.  Competing Abroad  The controls would make U.S. companies unable to compete
abroad and result in “a significant reduction, if not the
complete elimination of manufacturing and design facilities in
the United States,” according to the executives, Charles
Cartwright, vice president for advanced programs for Waltham,
Massachusetts-based Raytheon; Robert Mehmel, president of DRS, a
U.S. unit of  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  based in  Rome ; and William Davis,
senior vice president of Wilsonville, Oregon-based Flir.  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) , which also produces
military items with the technology, is “closely following” the
issue as well, Jennifer Barton, a spokeswoman for the New York-
based company, said in an e-mail.  Pentagon officials expect a vigorous debate over including
uncooled infrared technology and critical components as they
ready a draft of a revised munitions list for publication as
soon as September, according to a U.S. defense official who
spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal
deliberations.  Through Smoke  At this point, some military officials believe the
technology should be placed on the munitions list to prevent
adversaries from getting advanced applications such as the
ability to see at night even through smoke, the official said.  Pentagon specialists also are reviewing the extent to which
the uncooled infrared technology is being produced by commercial
competitors outside the U.S., and that will be weighed in their
decision along with industry comments, the official said.  Based on the letter from the U.S. executives, companies
outside the U.S. that produce the technology include  Ulis  of
Veurey-Voroize,  France ; SemiConductor Devices of Haifa,  Israel ;
NEC Avio Infrared Technologies Co. of  Tokyo ; and  Zhejiang Dali
Technology Co. (002214)  of Hangzhou, China.  “Given that the rest of the world treats uncooled thermal
imaging technology as dual-use, restrictions would jeopardize
U.S. competitiveness,” DRS Vice President John Baylouny said in
an e-mail.  “We feel like we are fighting with one arm tied behind our
backs,”  Shane Harrison, a spokesman for Flir, said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  