-- Insider Trading, Mortgage Discrimination, ECB: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-29T13:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/insider-trading-mortgage-discrimination-ecb-compliance.html
U.S. regulators sued a  Georgia 
accountant over claims he passed confidential information on
 Sanofi-Aventis (SNY)  Inc.’s 2009 offer to buy Chattem Inc. to friends
who then made illegal trades ahead of the deal’s announcement.  Thomas D. Melvin Jr., who was an accountant for a Chattem
board member, learned of the pending deal in December 2009 when
his client asked how an ownership change would affect his  stock
options  and tax liability, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said yesterday in a  complaint  filed in federal court
in Atlanta. Melvin’s tips generated more than $500,000 in
profits for the seven people who traded on the information, the
SEC said.  Shares of Chattem, maker of products such as Allegra
allergy medicine and Gold Bond foot powder, rose 33 percent on
Dec. 21, 2009, after Paris-based Sanofi-Aventis said it would
make a tender offer for all of the company’s stock at a 32
percent premium over the previous day’s close. Melvin had told
three friends and a partner at his accounting firm about the
impending transaction, the SEC said. The information was
subsequently passed to three others, according to the complaint.  Sanofi (SAN)  completed its acquisition of Chattem on March 11,
2010.  Four of the seven people who traded on the confidential
information agreed to settle the SEC’s claims, paying back their
illegal profits, plus interest and penalties, for a total of
more than $175,000, the SEC said.  Melvin didn’t trade; according to the lawsuit, his benefit
was “in the form of furthering both his personal and
professional relationship with” one of the tippees.  Melvin is represented by C. Brian Jarrard of Jones Cork &
Miller LLP in Macon, Georgia. Jarrard didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Melvin,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  Compliance Action  GFI Mortgage to Pay $3.56 Million in Race Bias Suit Accord  GFI Mortgage Bankers Inc., a firm concentrating on  New
York , New Jersey and Florida, agreed to pay $3.56 million to
resolve a lawsuit in which it was accused of discriminating
against black and Hispanic borrowers.  The New York-based company admitted to charging higher
 interest rates  and fees to black and Hispanic borrowers than for
similarly qualified white borrowers from 2005 to 2009, the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Manhattan said yesterday. The firm also
agreed to reform its practices, the government said.  The  Justice Department  sued the lender in April alleging
that it engaged in a pattern of discriminatory lending. The
company described itself on its  website  as “one of the largest
licensed home mortgage firms” and said it funds more than $1
billion in mortgages annually.  GFI previously argued that it had no legal liability for
any of the conduct alleged in the case, according to a consent
order filed Aug. 27 with the court.  In settling the case, the company acknowledged that a
statistical analysis showed it charged interest rates that were
from 19 to 41 basis points higher for black borrowers and from
20 to 23 basis points higher for Hispanic borrowers than for
white borrowers with similar credit characteristics, according
to the order.  The analysis also showed the company charged fees that were
from 73 to 105 basis points higher for black borrowers and from
27 to 56 basis points higher for Hispanic borrowers than for
similarly situated white borrowers, the filing said.  A basis point is the equivalent of 0.01 percentage point.  “Notwithstanding its strong denial of DOJ’s discrimination
claims in this lawsuit, GFI has always preferred to settle this
case provided it could do so on affordable terms,” said Andrew
L. Sandler, counsel for the lender, of Buckley Sandler LLP.
“Last week, DOJ offered such terms and the case quickly
settled. GFI can now return its full focus to its mortgage
lending business.”  The case is U.S. v. GFI Mortgage Bankers Inc., 1:12-
cv-02502, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  PepsiCo, Energy-Drink Makers Said to Be Probed by New York  The New York attorney general is investigating  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) 
and two other energy-drink makers over their marketing
practices, according to a person familiar with the probe.  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman in July subpoenaed
PepsiCo, maker of the Amp energy drink, as well as  Monster
Beverage Corp. (MNST)  and Living Essentials LLC, which makes 5-Hour
Energy, said the person, who declined to be named because the
person wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about the probe.  Schneiderman’s office is investigating the companies’
marketing practices and ingredient disclosures, including
whether energy drinks are improperly marketed as dietary
supplements, the person said. The companies also don’t disclose
the true amount of caffeine in the drinks, the person said.  Michelle Duffy, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment. The probe was first reported by the Wall Street
Journal.  Monster, the largest U.S. energy-drink maker by volume
sales, said in a regulatory filing this month that an
unspecified attorney general was investigating the company’s
flagship drink and ingredients.  A message left before regular business hours for Roger
Pondel, a spokesman for Corona, California-based Monster, wasn’t
immediately returned.  Jeff Dahncke, a spokesman for Purchase, New York-based
PepsiCo, declined to comment.  Elaine Lutz, a spokeswoman for 5-hour Energy, said the
company had no additional comment beyond an earlier bond
offering filing.  “We will appropriately disclose any new, material
information,” Lutz said yesterday in an e-mail.  Hong Kong Seeks Court Order for Ernst & Young Audit Papers  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission asked a court
to order Ernst & Young Hong Kong to produce audit papers related
to the listing plans of Standard Water Ltd.  Ernst & Young failed to comply with the SFC’s request for
the documents on Standard Water, a wastewater treatment company
that applied to sell stock in Hong Kong in 2009, according to a
 statement  from the watchdog on Aug. 27.  The audit firm said the documents requested were held by
its joint venture partner in  China  and couldn’t produce them,
according to the statement, which also cited Ernst & Young as
saying it was restrained by Chinese secrecy laws. The SFC said
its legal action followed consultation with the relevant
authority in China.  “Accounting and audit working papers relating to private
companies applying for listing in Hong Kong must be capable of
being produced,” the regulator said. “Especially where the SFC
is investigating suspected misconduct.”  In March 2010, Ernst & Young informed the Stock Exchange of
Hong Kong of its resignation as reporting accountants and
auditors of Standard Water upon discovery of certain
inconsistencies in documentation provided by the company. The
company withdrew its listing application shortly afterward.  “We understand our obligations to the SFC and endeavor to
fully comply, while also meeting our compliance obligations with
mainland China’s laws and regulations,” Ernst & Young said in
an e-mailed statement. “As legal proceedings are under way, it
would be inappropriate for us to comment further.”  Ernest Kong, a spokesman for the SFC, declined to comment
on why the regulator was pursuing the case after the listing
application had been withdrawn.  Ernst & Young Hong Kong’s Chinese partner also failed to
produce the records to mainland authorities who had requested
them, the SFC said in its statement.  For more, click here.  Assurant Details Force-Placed Sales After Pressure by SEC  Assurant Inc. (AIZ) , facing reviews into whether it overcharges
for insurance that some homeowners are compelled to buy,
expanded disclosure about its profits after an inquiry from the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Premium revenue from so-called force-placed coverage was
$36 million in New York and $54 million in California in the
first six months of this year, New York-based Assurant said in
its second-quarter regulatory filing. The coverage accounted for
89 percent of profit at Assurant’s specialty property unit this
year through June 30, according to the filing.  California, Florida and New York are pressing force-placed
insurers to cut premiums amid inquiries into whether firms
including Assurant and  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE)  charge too much.
The  National Association of Insurance Commissioners , an
organization of state regulators, held a hearing on the coverage
this month, and Assurant said other watchdogs may examine the
business, also called lender-placed insurance.  “The company has experienced an increase in the number of
inquiries from departments of insurance and other regulators,”
Assurant said in a letter to the SEC dated June 29 which was
released yesterday. “If in the aggregate such reviews lead to
significant decreases in premium rates for the company’s lender-
placed insurance products, our results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.”  Force-placed coverage is typically selected by lenders and
paid for by borrowers, and the business expanded as homeowners
missed payments amid the financial crisis. It protects the
mortgage holder from storm damage and vandalism when homeowners
stop paying for their prior policies. Assurant and Sydney-based
QBE control at least 90 percent of the U.S. market, Kevin
McCarty, Florida’s insurance commissioner, said this month.  “Like all registered companies, our filings are subject to
review by the SEC,”  Robert Byrd , a spokesman for Assurant, said
in an e-mail. “We will continue to work cooperatively with
regulators at the national and state level.”  Residential Capital Faces SEC Investigation for Possible Fraud  Residential Capital LLC, the bankrupt mortgage unit of  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY) , is being investigated by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission for possible fraud.  “The commission is investigating possible fraud in the
offer and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities by
ResCap and certain of its subsidiaries,” the SEC said in an
Aug. 27 filing in federal court in  Los Angeles .  The investigation started Feb. 22, according to the SEC’s
filing.  Residential Capital, known as ResCap, filed for bankruptcy
May 14 with plans to sell most of its assets and to resolve
lawsuits related to mortgage-backed securities. ResCap has
proposed settling a fight over mortgage-backed securities by
giving investors the right to pursue an $8.7 billion claim in
bankruptcy.  Ally, a Detroit-based bank that specializes in  car loans ,
is majority-owned by the  U.S. Treasury  after receiving a
bailout.  Susan Fitzpatrick, a spokeswoman for ResCap, declined to
comment on the court filing.  The agency is also asking a judge to force  R.R. Donnelley &
Sons Co. (RRD)  to comply with an administrative subpoena for due
diligence reports on the bonds that ResCap prepared. Doug
Fitzgerald, a spokesman for Chicago-based R.R. Donnelley, a
commercial printer, said the company was subpoenaed as a service
provider, not as a party to the case.  The case is SEC v. R.R. Donnelley, 12-7331, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  The bankruptcy case is In re Residential Capital LLC,
12-12020,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Fund Managers Chiasson, Newman Face More Fraud Charges  The U.S. filed new  securities-fraud  charges against Level
Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson, ex-Diamondback
Capital Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman  and New
York analyst Jon Horvath.  All three were charged in January by prosecutors in the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara with being part
of a “criminal club” of friends and co-workers who reaped
almost $62 million from  insider trading  in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  shares.  The men were initially charged with conspiracy and
securities fraud. The revised indictment filed yesterday adds
charges of securities fraud stemming from the actions of Danny
Kuo, a former analyst at Whittier Trust Co., a South Pasadena,
California-based wealth-management company. Kuo, who was
arrested with the defendants in January, pleaded guilty in April
and agreed to cooperate with the government.  The revised indictment describes how the criminal club
worked and how fund managers passed insider tips to each other.  Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson; Steve Peikin a lawyer
for Horvath; and Stephen Fishbein, a lawyer for Newman, didn’t
return voice-mail messages left at their offices seeking comment
about the charges.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC Commissioners Fault Schapiro Over Money-Market Rule Debate  Two U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission members faulted
Chairman  Mary Schapiro ’s handling of discussions over rules
governing money-market funds, saying she misrepresented other
commissioners’ dissents after proposing regulations that could
“severely compromise” the industry.  “The changes the chairman advocated were not supported by
the requisite data and analysis, were unlikely to be effective
in achieving their primary purpose, and would impose significant
costs on issuers and investors while potentially introducing new
risks into the nation’s financial system,” Republican
commissioners Daniel Gallagher and  Troy Paredes  said yesterday
in a statement.  The  statement  is the latest in a string of public barbs
among the SEC’s presidentially appointed commissioners following
Schapiro’s decision last week to scrap a vote on a proposal for
tighter money-market fund rules. In canceling the vote, Schapiro
said “the issue is too important to investors, to our economy
and to taxpayers to put our head in the sand and wish it away.”  Gallagher and Paredes, who had offered a counterproposal
that would allow firms running money funds to stop investor
flight in the event of a run, said they were “dismayed” by
Schapiro’s statement. They also commended  Luis Aguilar , a
Democratic commissioner, who called for further study before
proposing rules that could cause investors to move money from
money-market funds to other unregulated investment vehicles.  “The chairman’s statement creates the misimpression that
three commissioners -- a majority of the commission -- are not
concerned with, or are somehow dismissive of, the goal of
strengthening money-market funds,” Gallagher and Paredes said.
“This is wholly inaccurate.”  SEC Guidance on Cyber-Disclosure Becomes Rule for Google, Amazon  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines on when
companies should disclose cyber-attacks have become de facto
rules for at least six companies, including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , agency letters show.  The six companies were asked to break silence and tell
investors in future filings that intruders had breached their
computer systems, according to the SEC letters. Companies such
as Amazon argued that the attacks weren’t important enough to
reveal. Hacking admissions can hurt reputations, give
competitors useful information and trigger investor litigation.  Before the requests, Seattle-based Amazon, the  largest
Internet retailer , hadn’t said in its reports that cyber-thieves
had raided its Zappos.com unit, stealing addresses and some
credit card digits from 24 million customers in January. In
April, Amazon was asked by the SEC to disclose the cyber-raid in
its next quarterly filing, which it did.  Google, the world’s biggest search engine, agreed in May to
put its previously disclosed cyber-assault in an earnings
report.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG) ,  Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN)  and  Quest Diagnostics
Inc. (DGX)  were also prodded to improve disclosures of cyber-risks,
according to SEC letters available on the  regulator’s website .  The  U.S. Congress , reviewing a bill designed to boost
defenses against computer attacks, has been debating ways to
encourage companies to disclose such hacking, including a
voluntary system for reporting.  The SEC instituted a voluntary disclosure plan in an
October advisory. This year, the SEC sent dozens of letters to
some companies, asking about cyber-security disclosures and
later pushing companies to disclose, spokesman  John Nester  said.  “It’s not a rule, but the SEC, by taking a policy
position, can effectively create a rule,” said  Peter Henning , a
former SEC lawyer who teaches at  Wayne State University  in
 Detroit . “It lets companies know what it would like to
happen.”  Nester declined to say how many companies had been told to
disclose in future filings. The SEC disclosure letters aren’t
all public yet.  Cyber-attacks on U.S. computer networks rose 17-fold from
2009 to 2011, according to data cited by General Keith
Alexander, head of the National Security Agency and U.S. Cyber
Command, at a July conference.  For more, click here.  ECB Said to Urge Weaker Basel Liquidity Rule on Crisis Risks  The  European Central Bank  is pushing global banking
regulators to relax a draft liquidity rule so that lenders can
use some asset-backed securities and loans to businesses in a
buffer they must hold against a possible credit squeeze,
according to three people familiar with the talks.  The ECB, backed by the Bank of  France , considers a draft
version of the liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, may hamper
efforts to combat the euro-area debt crisis by curtailing
lending and making it harder for central banks to implement
their monetary policies, said the people, who couldn’t be
identified because the discussions at the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  are private. They said the ECB stance is
opposed by some other Basel members, including U.S. regulators.  The LCR was drawn up by the Basel group as part of a
package of measures to prevent a repeat of the turmoil that
followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The
ECB is seeking to relax the rule -- designed to force banks to
hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit
squeeze -- by expanding the range of eligible securities,
aligning the standard more closely with its own collateral
arrangements, the people said.  “As central banks have relaxed their rules” during the
debt crisis in the euro area, “the LCR has become more and more
out of sync with central-bank reality,” said Jesper Berg,
senior vice president at Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest
mortgage bank.  The 212 largest global banks would have had a collective
shortfall of 1.76 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) as of June 2011
in the assets needed to meet the LCR, according to figures
published by the Basel committee. The ratio is scheduled to take
effect in 2015.  Lenders have warned that a provisional version of the LCR
standard, published in 2010, would force them to cut loans by
making them hoard cash and buy up more  government bonds , because
few assets other than sovereign debt would fully qualify.  There are concerns among some Basel members, including in
the U.S., that far-reaching changes to the LCR may undermine the
effectiveness of the measure, which was drawn up in part to make
lenders less reliant on central bank support in crises, the
people said. Germany’s Bundesbank and Swedish regulators are
also among members skeptical of the ECB proposals, two of the
people said.  Officials at the ECB and the Bank of France in Paris
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Virginia Governor McDonnell Asks EPA for Ethanol Waiver  Virginia Governor  Bob McDonnell  asked the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to suspend the nation’s ethanol
requirement, citing high grain prices.  McDonnell follows lawmakers from both political parties who
have called for a suspension of the mandate in the wake of the
worst U.S. drought in 56 years, prompting the U.S. Agriculture
Department to reduce its forecast for this year’s corn crop to
10.779 billion bushels.  The governors of North Carolina, Arkansas, Maryland, Texas,
Delaware and Georgia have asked the Obama administration to halt
the law, which requires refiners to use 13.2 billion gallons of
ethanol this year and 13.8 billion in 2013.  The EPA asked Aug. 20 for public comments on the waiver
requests and said it has 90 days to make a decision.  Growth Energy, an ethanol trade group, sent a letter on
Aug. 27 to Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe and the heads of the
other states who have called for a waiver, saying that the
measure isn’t needed.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  was unsuccessful in a 2008
petition to the EPA to reduce the requirements.  In the Courts  Travelport, Sabre, Orbitz Must Face Antitrust Suit by American  Sabre Holdings Corp., Travelport LP and  Orbitz Worldwide
Inc. (OWW)  must face American Airlines Inc.’s antitrust claims, a
federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Terry R. Means in Fort Worth, Texas,
yesterday publicly released his Aug. 7 decision at the
companies’ request.  American claims Sabre, Orbitz and Travelport are conspiring
to block the carrier from entering the electronic flight data
and reservations market via its AA Direct Connect system, in
violation of federal antitrust laws.  “American identifies the specific intent to monopolize
allegedly shared by Sabre, Travelport and Orbitz,” Means wrote
in his 23-page ruling, denying defense motions to dismiss those
claims filed under a part of the Sherman Antitrust Act.  The case is part of a dispute triggered by Fort Worth-based
American’s move to provide flight information directly to travel
agents rather than going through the three data providers.  In an Aug. 16 ruling, Means threw out Travelport
counterclaims against the airline owned by bankrupt  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
Jill Brenner, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based Travelport, didn’t
immediately reply to after-hours voice-mail and e-mail requests
for comment on the decision unsealed by Means yesterday.  Orbitz’s media relations department didn’t reply to an e-
mailed request for comment.  “There was no decision on the merits of the claims,” said
Nancy St. Pierre, a spokeswoman for Southlake, Texas-based
Sabre. “The judge did not say American’s claims were valid,
only that American had made allegations sufficient to meet the
minimal pleading requirements of federal court.”  “The court’s order confirms that American has adequately
pleaded numerous antitrust claims against the defendants,”
American said in a statement. “We would prefer to resolve our
dispute with the defendants amicably, but any such resolutions
need to end anticompetitive practices and to account for the
harm done to American.”  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport  Ltd., 11-
cv-00244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  