-- Insurers Add Risk, Sacrifice Liquidity in Hunt for Yield
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-29T15:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/insurers-add-risk-sacrifice-liquidity-in-hunt-for-yield.html
U.S. life insurers, a group led by
MetLife Inc., are turning to riskier and less-liquid assets as
they work to increase investment income amid near record-low
 interest rates , Moody’s Investors Service said.  Portfolio managers are adding high-yield bonds, commercial
mortgages and bank loans to boost income, while attempting to
limit risk if rates do rise, according to the ratings firm.  “Insurers are naturally searching for yield,” said Ann Perry, a senior credit officer at New York-based Moody’s. “They
are devoting or allocating a little bit more money to high-yield
investments, to alternatives.”  Life insurers build investment portfolios to back payouts
on long-term obligations such as annuities and policies that
provide cash to survivors when customers die. They’ve struggled
to maintain investment income as the  Federal Reserve  pledged to
keep interest rates low through at least late 2014, sending the
average yield on the 10-year Treasury to 1.81 percent in the
second quarter of this year, compared with 3.19 percent in the
same period a year earlier.  “They’re not trying to garner yield simply by going out
further on the yield curve,” said Joel Levine, an associate
managing director at Moody’s. “Many companies view the
direction of rates ultimately to be going up and you don’t want
to be long.”  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, said the average
yield on its $367.1 billion of fixed-maturity securities fell to
4.76 percent as of June 30 from 4.94 percent a year earlier.  Junk Bonds  Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  has focused on
private lending to corporations, saying rates are higher with
less liquid securities. The New York-based firm boosted its
allocation to U.S. corporate bonds to 30.1 percent of fixed-
maturity holdings from 28.3 percent a year earlier and limited
foreign holdings, according to its second quarter  financial
supplement .  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the bailed-out insurer,
purchased $7.1 billion of mortgage investments this year from
the Maiden Lane III vehicle created to aid in its rescue as it
works to boost yields, the New York-based firm said this month.  The assets “are very good for this company on the yield
basis going forward, especially in this lower interest rate
environment,” CEO  Robert Benmosche  said on an Aug. 3 conference
call with analysts.  U.S. life insurers increased their high-yield allocation
to 8 percent of corporate bonds last year from about 6 percent
in 2010, while reducing holdings of bonds rated A or higher to
49 percent from 50 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by
 Eric Beinstein  wrote in an Aug. 24 research report.  Among the 20 largest life insurers, 33 percent of $1.9
trillion in total assets was allocated to corporate bonds and 22
percent to structured products such as mortgage-backed
securities, JPMorgan said. Mortgages comprised 12 percent.  “Recent yield pressure has driven life insurance companies
to increase the portion of their holdings to lower-rated bonds
and  emerging markets  corporate issuers,” the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  