-- Lira Weakens to Lowest This Month After Basci Signals Loosening
-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 2012-08-29T09:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/lira-weakens-to-lowest-this-month-after-basci-signals-loosening.html
The lira slid to the weakest level
this month after the central bank said it would lower the upper
limit of its interest-rate corridor to help support economic
growth.  The lira depreciated 0.4 percent to 1.8173 per dollar at
11:23 a.m. in Istanbul, the lowest since July 30. The currency
declined for the fourth day, the longest losing streak since May
18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a knee-jerk reaction,”  Benoit Anne , chief
strategist for emerging market research at Societe Generale SA,
said in an e-mailed response to questions from  London . The
central bank is turning dovish and it may start hurting the lira
a bit. But I’m not too worried’’ as the sell-off may not last
very long, Anne said.  The central bank will slowly bring the cost of credit down
because the economy has cooled and the risk of external growth
shocks is increasing, Basci told reporters in Ankara on Aug. 25.
 Turkey ’s economy grew an annual 3.2 percent in the first
quarter, the slowest rate in three years, compared with a
government goal of a 4 percent expansion for 2012.  The currency weakened 1.1 percent this month, the worst
performance in emerging  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  after
the South African rand, which dropped 1.9 percent. It reached a
record low of 1.9219 per dollar on Dec. 28, prompting Basci to
intervene in the  currency market  to sell dollars.  Yields on  two-year benchmark lira bonds  fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.63 percent, declining for
the third day.  Funding Rate  The central bank introduced its interest-rate corridor in
October, altering the rates at which it lends to banks between
5.75 percent and 11.5 percent on a daily basis. The  average
lending rate  fell to 6.43 percent on Aug. 27 from as high as
8.74 percent in July and 11.93 percent in January.  “This policy stance discouraged the carry trade
investors,”  Alper Ozsarac, a currency trader at Turk Ekonimi
Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “The central
bank prefers looser monetary policy since the beginning of
August and the average funding rate decreased significantly.”  The central bank is watching the lira’s performance against
a basket of dollars and euros and doesn’t want the lira to
strengthen beyond 2.0 to the basket, Ozsarac said.  The lira fell for a third day against the basket to 2.0494.
It traded stronger than 2.0 between Aug. 2 and Aug. 10 and has
traded weaker than that level since.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  