-- Iran Challenges Isolation Imposed by Sanctions at Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-08-29T11:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/iran-challenges-isolation-imposed-by-sanctions-at-meeting.html
Iran is using a summit of non-
aligned nations as a platform to challenge U.S. and European
attempts to isolate the Islamic Republic over its nuclear
program, looking to build support among a largely sympathetic
bloc of countries as it contends with sanctions.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, Indian Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  and Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi are
among the leaders attending tomorrow’s two-day conference of the
Non-Aligned Movement in Tehran. Iran will assume leadership of
the 120-nation group created during the  Cold War  through 2015.  “It is simplistic to say that because a coalition of the
willing has sanctions against Iran, that Iran is isolated,”
said Richard Dalton, the U.K.’s former ambassador to Iran who is
a policy adviser at London’s Chatham House. “There are tough
measures in force, but they don’t require the withdrawal of
diplomatic recognition or other forms of trade.”  The U.S. and  Israel  had urged Ban not to attend the
conference in an attempt to maintain  Iran ’s isolation. The U.S.
and the European Union have gone beyond four sets of UN
sanctions intended to stop the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear
work. EU nations embargoed Iranian oil imports in July.
Prosecutors are targeting institutions worldwide that use the
U.S. financial system to process Iranian transactions.  Kings, Presidents  The U.S. and its allies accuse Iran of trying to build
atomic weapons. The country, the subject of a decade-long UN
investigation, insists it only wants nuclear power for energy
and the medical industry.  Ban, who last week  criticized  Iran’s Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  and President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  over
threats to Israel, is joining 24 presidents, 8 prime ministers,
50 foreign ministers and 3 kings at the NAM conference, Iranian
Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said today. Ban
will give a speech to delegates tomorrow and will meet with
Khamenei and Ahmadinejad Press, TV reported yesterday, citing a
UN spokesman. He met with Iran’s parliamentary speaker,  Ali Larijani , this morning.  Iran is using the summit to burnish Tehran’s image. The
government mandated a week-long holiday for the city of 8.4
million to make room for the 7,000 delegates attending the
event. The streets of the capital have been cleaned in
anticipation of the $50 million delegates are expected to spend.  Tours, Visits  Hosting the summit will help Iran reduce its global
isolation and bypass sanctions, the state-run Mehr news agency
reported on Aug. 23, citing Industries, Mines and Commerce
Minister Mehdi Ghazanfari, who said: “The ministry will offer
tours of various industrial centers to the attendees to present
Iran’s economic, industrial and mining potential.”  Iran has invited delegates to visit its nuclear
installations upon request, the country’s  International Atomic
Energy Agency  envoy Ali Asghar Soltanieh told journalists
yesterday in Tehran. He reiterated that Iran won’t observe UN
Security Council resolutions ordering it to suspend its uranium-
enrichment work.  Iran’s rial, linked to the  U.S. dollar , plunged earlier
this month after the country said it would review its official
 exchange rate . Iranian inflation has quickened while the economy
has come under strain from the sanctions, and oil exports have
dropped. Prices of meat, rice and bread have spiraled as the
rial lost a third of its value against the dollar on the open
market since November.  Deflecting Attention  “The Iranian regime is hoping to capitalize on the
international conference there, to try to distract attention
from just how isolated they are from the broader international
community, stemming directly from their failure to live up to
their international obligations when it comes to their nuclear
program,” White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said on Aug. 22.  NAM is the world’s biggest bloc of politically non-aligned
nations.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  on Aug. 1 that time “is running out”
for a peaceful solution to Iran’s atomic program. Israel is
considering bombing the nuclear facilities before Nov. 6 U.S.
elections, Tel Aviv-based Haaretz newspaper said Aug. 10.  ‘Freebie PR Coup’  “Netanyahu gave Iran a freebie public-relations coup by
making an issue out of Ban’s visit,”  Trita Parsi , president of
the Chicago-based National Iranian-American Council, wrote in an
e-mailed reply to questions. “Iran has now been given a much
greater boost from Ban’s visit than it otherwise would have.”  Under a law enacted Dec. 31 in  Washington , institutions in
nations that don’t win exemptions may be cut off from the U.S.
financial system if they settle oil trades with Iran’s central
bank. The EU banned the purchase and insurance of Iranian oil
from July 1. About 95 percent of the world’s tankers were
insured by companies following EU law before the embargo.  Iran, the third-largest supplier in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is pumping less crude than  Iraq 
for the first time in 20 years, OPEC said Aug. 9 in a monthly
report. Oil exports to Asian nations including China,  Japan  and
 India  are set to climb 19 percent in August as governments
insure tankers carrying the crude to replace coverage blocked by
EU sanctions, according to vessel-tracking data.  Non-oil trade between Iran and other members of the Non-
Aligned Movement fell 1.8 percent to $43 billion in the year
ending March 19, the Iranian Students News Agency reported Aug.
22, citing customs data. That accounted for 40 percent of Iran’s
$105 billion in non-oil trade in the same period.  NAM Statement  The summit will produce a document with 701 articles that
tackle international, regional, economic and human-rights
issues, Mehmanparast said yesterday at a briefing. It would be
“unrealistic” for all 120 nations to agree on a common
approach to the sanctions Iran faces over its nuclear work or
the Syrian uprising, he said.  “The success of the conference should not be judged by the
number and status of the participants, but by its final
statement,” said Ali Vaez, senior Iran analyst at the Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group .  “If the statement strongly condemns the sanctions against
Iran and confirms Iran’s stance on the Syrian imbroglio, then it
can be assumed that Iran has successfully advanced its agenda,”
he wrote in an e-mailed response to questions. “Iran’s gains
would be uncertain, if the summit ends with another
platitudinous boilerplate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  