-- Israel Startup Adds Display to Keyboards for Struggling Typists
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-08-29T12:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/israel-startup-adds-display-to-keyboards-for-struggling-typists.html
KeyView , an Israeli startup company,
plans to introduce a computer keyboard with a built-in display,
allowing poor typists to view what they have typed without
having to look up at the monitor.  The so-called  smartype  device has a strip at the top that
shows what letters and words have been typed and enabling the
user to keep looking at the keyboard.  KeyView was set up by Dov Moran, the founder and former
chief executive of M-Systems Flash Disk Pioneers Ltd., which was
acquired by  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK)  in 2006 for about $1.3 billion.  “This is an Israeli consumer product that we hope will
reach millions of users,” Moran said at the product’s
introduction today in  Tel Aviv . Consumers find the use of
existing keyboards “mediocre.”  The majority of people do not touch-type and suffer from
loss of time and typing errors, according to KeyView. Regular
keyboards can cause neck and eye strain, as a result of
splitting the visual focus between the keyboard and the screen.
The patented product helps minimize typing errors and can also
be used for various applications such as e-mail notification,
time, photos and weather, the company said.  In Stores  The product will be sold to consumers in Israeli stores
starting this week at 399 shekels ($99), and will be shipped to
overseas markets later this year, Moran said. KeyView said it
has had talks with  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  and  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  about
selling the keyboard.  “We have had enthusiastic responses to the product,”
Moran said.  KeyView, based in Moshav Yarkona in central  Israel , has 10
employees and has raised several million dollars from private
investors, Moran said.  Another startup of Moran’s, Modu Ltd., which offered the
world’s smallest mobile phone, was unsuccessful because of the
investments required and the high amount of regulation and
number of operators involved in the field, Moran said.  “This company is smaller, more modest, less people,” he
said. “In many of the things we do, you need to fall and then
get up again. This is part of the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  