-- TiVo’s Loss Is Smaller Than Estimates on Subscriber Gains
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/tivo-s-loss-is-smaller-than-analysts-estimates-on-customer-gain.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the digital-video
recorder pioneer, posted a second-quarter loss that was smaller
than analysts estimated after signing more new subscribers.  The net loss of $27.7 million, or 23 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $19.6 million, or 17 cents, a year
earlier, Alviso, California-based TiVo said yesterday in a
 statement . Analysts projected a 24-cent loss, the average of 12
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Cable operators are licensing TiVo technology for use in
set-top boxes that connect to the Internet and access content
from Netflix and others.  General Communication Inc. (GNCMA) , based in
Anchorage,  Alaska , on Aug. 21 became the latest operator to
adopt the TiVo platform for subscribers. Even in tough economic
times, consumers are willing to pay for broadband services, Tom Rogers, TiVo’s chief executive officer, said in an interview.  “Broadband is one of those things that people are finding
room for in their budgets, and what TiVo does is bring the
benefits of broadband video to the television,” Rogers said.  TiVo rose as much as 9.8 percent to $10.28 in extended
trading after results were announced. The  shares  fell 1.9
percent to $9.36 yesterday in New York and have gained 4.3
percent this year.  TiVo enrolled 253,000 new cable and satellite customers,
compared with a gain of 10,000 a year earlier. Revenue rose 6.6
percent to $65.3 million in the period ended July 31.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the second-largest U.S. cable operator, will
begin offering TiVo service in  Sacramento , California; Portland,
Oregon; Denver and other markets this year, TiVo said.  Add-On Box  On Sept. 6, TiVo plans to begin selling its $130 Stream
add-on box, which reformats content on TiVo Premiere set-top
boxes and uses home networks to stream shows to mobile devices.  This quarter, TiVo forecasts a loss of $27 million to $29
million, as the company spends more in a patent lawsuit against
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  set to go to trial in October. That
was more than the $19.8 million loss  estimated  by analysts.  The company also said it expects to make progress toward
breakeven on a cash-flow basis as research spending declines and
revenue from cable systems increases in the latter part of the
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  