-- JAL Shareholder Discounts Lose Allure on Budget Competition
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-08-30T09:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/japan-air-s-shareholder-fares-lose-allure-on-budget-competition.html
The rise of budget carriers is
undermining a perk for retail investors in  Japan  Airlines Co.’s
initial public offering of as much as 663 billion yen ($8.4
billion) -- cheap tickets.  Individual investors, who held  59 percent  of JAL shares
before its 2010 bankruptcy and delisting, are being offered
discount coupons as the carrier holds the biggest IPO worldwide
since Facebook Inc. Such vouchers used to give travelers some of
the cheapest tickets in Japan. Now, they can be undercut by low-
cost airlines, such as  Jetstar Japan Co.  and  AirAsia Japan Co. ,
which advertise fares a third of JAL’s prices.  “I have absolutely no interest in buying JAL stock
again,” said Takashi Uema, 59, who used shareholder vouchers
before the Tokyo-based carrier’s bankruptcy, which wiped out his
investment. He was waiting for an AirAsia flight this week at
the city’s Narita airport, which was “even cheaper than using a
discount coupon,” he said.  Retail investors may also be deterred because JAL is
offering a less generous voucher package than larger rival All
Nippon Airways Co., said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Barclays
Plc. JAL is re-listing following a government-backed turnaround
that has sparked opposition-party complaints about tax breaks.  ‘Difficult Sell’  “It’s proving a difficult sell to individual investors,”
Himeno said. “JAL’s discount-coupon deal isn’t as good as ANA’s
and there are political risks.”  The JAL vouchers will give holders a 50 percent discount on
a domestic coach-class flight. Stockholder will get one coupon a
year for every 100 shares they own up to 1,000. After that, the
number of shares needed for extra coupons increases.  Investors will need to spend at least 350,000 yen on JAL
stock to get a voucher, based on the 100-share minimum and the
3,500 yen to 3,790 yen IPO price range announced today. ANA
shareholders can get two coupons a year for half-price flights
after an investment costing 177,000 yen, based on today’s 177
yen closing price. The Tokyo-based carrier gives  two vouchers 
for every 1,000 shares held up to 4,000. Beyond that, the number
of vouchers tails off in a similar manner to JAL.  Uema bought shares in ANA partly to get discount vouchers,
the retiree said as he waited for his AirAsia flight to Okinawa.
Half of ANA’s shares were owned by individuals and others as of
March 31, 2011, according to its  annual report . Financial
institutions were the second-largest category owning 24 percent.
Retail investors own about 20 percent of Tokyo-listed shares by
market value, according to  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc.   JAL investors will get bonus vouchers if they hold onto 300
shares for at least three years, according to the carrier’s
prospectus.  Sze Hunn Yap, a JAL spokeswoman, declined to comment. The
carrier is due to list shares on Sept. 19.  JAL Turnaround  The airline is returning to the stock market after cutting
30 percent of routes, retiring its fleet of  Boeing Co. (BA)  747
planes and shedding staff in a restructuring prompted by three
losses in four years through March 2009. The carrier is
predicting a profit of 130 billion yen this fiscal year. It will
also benefit from tax credits against past writedowns, which has
prompted the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  to draft a bill
to change these regulations.  Growing Competition  JAL is facing growing competition from budget carriers who
are luring travelers with lower fares. Jetstar Japan was
offering one-way tickets from  Tokyo ’s Narita to Sapporo leaving
on Dec. 1 for as low as 6,790 yen on its website yesterday.
AirAsia Japan was charging 4,580 yen for the same trip and JAL
fares started at 12,400 yen.  “You don’t necessarily need to be a shareholder to get
cheaper tickets anymore,” said Nicholas Cunningham, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. “The growth of the LCCs
may reduce the value of the coupons.”  The three budget carriers that began flights this year --
Jetstar Japan, AirAsia Japan and  Peach Aviation Ltd.  -- all
filled about 90 percent of domestic seats during this month’s
peak holiday season. JAL and Tokyo-based ANA both had load
factors of less than 80 percent for flights within the country,
and both reported declines from a year earlier.  JAL has tapped into the discount market by investing in
Jetstar Japan, which is also part-owned by  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) 
ANA has similarly got stakes in Peach and AirAsia Japan, a
venture with  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s largest discount carrier.  Voucher Advantages  JAL shareholder vouchers still have some advantages over
budget airlines, including a wider network and the possibility
of using them for short-notice trips and during peak travel
periods when budget carriers traditionally raise fares.  “Passengers do have a choice of when to use coupons,”
said Shozo Shibata, who usually flies with ANA or JAL, as he
waited to board his first Jetstar Japan flight. “During busy
periods, when low-cost carriers’ tickets are expensive, it’s
handy to use them.”  Still, as the new low-cost carriers expand their fleets
they will be able to offer more flights and a wider range of
destinations. Jetstar Japan has said it may have 100 planes by
2020 and its Chief Executive Officer Miyuki Suzuki has predicted
that budget carriers may account for 35 percent of the nation’s
air travel by the end of the decade.  The new carriers “are really cheap,” said Shigeru Sasaki,
before boarding a Jetstar Japan flight from Narita to Sapporo
with his family. “If you’re just traveling for fun, then they
do the job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  