-- Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Fall Before Bernanke
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-29T23:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/japanese-australian-stock-futures-fall-before-bernanke.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures fell as the U.S. Federal Reserve said the world’s
largest economy continued to expand “gradually,” damping
speculation Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may announce a third round
of quantitative easing.  American Depositary Receipts  of BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, slid 0.5 percent as metals
prices retreated. ADRs of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s second-
biggest construction-equipment maker, gained 0.4 percent after
U.S. rival  Joy Global Inc. (JOY)  said China’s coal markets show signs
of stabilizing. Shares of Nissin Electric Ltd. may move after
the Japanese utility cut its full-year profit forecast.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring next
month closed at 9,065 in Chicago yesterday, down from 9,080 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,070 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index declined 0.2 percent today.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.3 percent in Wellington.  “Investors who expect Bernanke to deliver a clear
commitment to QE3 might be disappointed, which could trigger
some sort of sell-off in so-called risky assets,” said Mikio Kumada, a Singapore-based global strategist for LGT Capital
Management, which oversees more than $20 billion. “This is
still not a time to bet against major central banks’ ability to
intervene in markets -- particularly when income-generating
alternatives to equities and corporate bonds are not exactly
plentiful.”  U.S. GDP  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge gained 0.1 percent yesterday as a
report showed the economy grew more than first estimated and
investors awaited a speech by Bernanke to a meeting of central
bankers in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, at the end of this week. Gross
domestic product expanded at a 1.7 percent annual rate from
April through June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5 percent.  The  U.S. economy  continued to expand “gradually” in July
and early August as improving housing and retail sales helped
outweigh a weakness in manufacturing, the Fed said yesterday in
its Beige Book business survey based on reports from its 12
districts. The report reflects information collected on or
before Aug. 20 and summarized by the Boston Fed.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said the Fed
will add to monetary stimulus even if Bernanke fails to indicate
additional measures later this week. Policy makers will announce
more so-called quantitative easing “relatively soon,” Gross,
who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said in an interview
yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Trish
Regan .  Index Rebounds  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index gained 9.4 percent from this
year’s lowest level in June through yesterday amid speculation
central banks across the world will act to stimulate economic
growth. Stocks on Asia’s benchmark index were  valued  at 12.5
times estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.7 for the
S&P 500 and 11.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The London Metals Exchange Index of six industrials metals
fell 0.8 percent yesterday.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. retreated 0.7 percent to 88.90 at
the close of trading in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  