-- Japan Upper House Passes Noda Censure in Bid to Force Election
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-08-29T10:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/japan-upper-house-passes-noda-censure-in-bid-to-force-election.html
Japan ’s opposition-dominated upper
house of parliament passed a censure motion against Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in a bid to force elections and delay
the passage of a bill needed to finance  government spending .  The main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  and smaller
groups voted for the non-binding motion, indicating the chamber
won’t consider any more legislation before parliament closes on
Sept. 8. The measure came a day after the lower house passed a
bill authorizing the sale of 38.3 trillion yen ($488 billion) in
deficit-financing bonds to fund this year’s budget.  LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki is pushing Noda to fulfill a
promise to call elections “soon,” and last week signaled the
bond bill won’t be ratified unless the prime minister complies.
Without the financing, the government of the world’s third-
largest economy will run out of money by October, Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  said last month.  “With the opposition refusing to take part in debate,
there’ll be little time for the government to say anything but,
‘OK, let’s start again in the next session,’” said Harumi
Arima, an independent political analyst. “In the end, the LDP
will have to give in on the financing bill.”  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan, which controls the
more powerful lower house, forged a deal with the LDP and New
Komeito parties to double the five percent sales tax by October
2015 in return for Noda’s pledge. No election need be held until
August 2013.  Tanigaki told reporters Aug. 23 that “we hope parliament
will be dissolved swiftly, and then after that we can discuss
the handling of” the deficit financing bill.  Leadership Contests  The wrangling comes ahead of leadership contests next month
in both major parties. The DPJ meets Sept. 21 to decide whether
to keep Noda as its standard-bearer as polls show voters
disenchanted with his administration, the country’s sixth since
2016.  Almost 65 percent of DPJ members will support Noda,
according to a Nikkei newspaper poll published Aug. 27. The
DPJ’s approval rating was at 21 percent, up three percentage
points from last month, while the LDP’s rating fell two points
to 25 percent, the paper said. The Nikkei surveyed 902 people
and provided no margin of error.  Last year the DPJ had difficulty pushing through a similar
deficit-financing bond issuance bill because the opposition
blocked its passage to force then-Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to
resign. The bill was approved on Aug. 26, the same day Kan
announced his resignation. Noda succeeded Kan in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  