-- Joy Global Cuts 2012 Forecast as Mining Expenditure Declines
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-08-29T20:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/joy-cuts-forecast-as-mine-spending-falls-on-commodities-slowdown.html
Joy Global Inc. (JOY) , the world’s fourth-
largest mining equipment maker, cut its full-year profit and
sales forecasts and said revenue may not increase next year as
commodity demand slowed in the U.S. and  China .  Earnings excluding restructuring costs will be $7.05 to
$7.20 a share on revenue of $5.45 billion to $5.55 billion in
the year through October, the Milwaukee-based company said today
in a statement. That’s lower than its May forecast for per-share
profit of $7.15 to $7.45 on sales of $5.5 billion to $5.7
billion.  “The outlook for our business has continued to decline
over the past quarter,” Chief Executive Officer Mike Sutherlin
said in the statement. “The deceleration of China demand has
deteriorated international markets more quickly and severely
than previously expected.”  Miners are reducing  capital spending  and production in
response to slower demand. While the greatest cuts are coming
from U.S. coal producers, higher cost mines are spurring
closures in Australia and  Russia ,  Joy Global  said. Lower
electricity use is curbing coal demand in China. While the U.S.
and Chinese markets may have bottomed, a recovery will be
“sluggish,” Sutherlin said.  Cost Cuts  Joy Global will accelerate cost cuts in a “softer market”
during the fourth quarter and next fiscal year to improve
efficiency and margins, Sutherlin said. While restructuring
costs may reach $20 million, reducing fully diluted per-share
earnings by 13 cents, the actions will result in about $40
million of annual cost savings in the next fiscal year, the
company said.  “People are willing to give them the benefit of the doubt
because their track record is so strong,” said Ted Grace, a
Boston-based analyst for Susquehanna Financial Group, a market
maker for Joy Global. The company outperforms most peers in
terms of metrics such as return on invested capital, he said
today in a telephone interview.  Joy Global’s return on invested capital in the last
calendar year was 27 percent, compared with 14 percent for
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest mining-equipment maker,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Joy Global  rose  2.6 percent to $54.43 at the close in  New
York .  Price Declines  Commodity prices  have declined as much as 22 percent from
this year’s high in February, according to the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, said Aug. 22 that it put off
approvals for about $68 billion of projects after its second-
half profit fell 58 percent.  “Mining projects already under way will continue, but they
are being slowed by additional engineering review,” Joy Global
said. The focus increasingly is on projects that carry less risk
and many larger, new plans have been pushed out beyond 2013, the
company said.  Under current market conditions, spending for next year
will be unchanged, the company said.  “U.S. coal is performing about in line with the company’s
plan,” Larry De Maria, a New York-based analyst for William
Blair & Co. who has a buy rating on the shares, said in a report
today. “However, weakened global macro is having a larger
detrimental effect than initially thought.”  Full-Year Forecast  Joy Global’s full-year forecast is also lower than the
average analysts’  estimates  for per-share earnings of $7.32 on
sales of $5.58 billion. Joy also cut its full-year profit and
revenue forecasts on May 31.  Net income  climbed 12 percent in the fiscal third quarter
ended July 27 to $193.5 million, or $1.82 a share, from $173.1
million, or $1.61, a year earlier. Profit was $1.79 a share
excluding acquisition costs and other one-time items, trailing
the $1.89 average of 19 analysts’ estimates.  Second-quarter sales rose 22 percent to $1.39 billion from
$1.14 billion, missing the $1.43 billion average of 16
estimates.  Joy Global’s results may pressure shares of Caterpillar,
 Stephen Volkmann , a New York-based analyst for Jefferies & Co.
who has a hold rating on both companies, said in a report today.
“Joy management continues to temper near-term outlook on end
markets as capital spending plans by miners continue to be
extended,” Volkmann said.  Japan ’s  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and  Sweden ’s  Sandvik AB (SAND)  are the
second- and third-largest mining-equipment makers by sales,
according to Bloomberg Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  