-- Judge Says Florida Voter Registration Rules to Be Blocked
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/judge-may-toss-florida-voter-registration-limits.html
Florida  restrictions on voter
registration groups, passed by the state’s Republican lawmakers
and governor, will probably be permanently blocked by a U.S.
judge who earlier said the rules were probably unconstitutional.  U.S. District Judge Robert Hinkle in Tallahassee said
yesterday he would grant an Aug. 10 request from both Florida
and voting rights groups for a permanent injunction blocking the
rules as soon as a federal appeals court dismisses the state’s
appeal.  Hinkle ruled May 31 that conditions the state had imposed
on groups signing up voters are probably unconstitutional. The
League of Women Voters of Florida and Rock the Vote sued to
overturn the laws. Hinkle said the plaintiffs and defendants
both requested a permanent injunction “resolving all issues
among all parties.”  Fights over voting access are intensifying in swing states,
such as Florida,  Ohio ,  Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin , where both
Republican and Democratic presidential campaigns see a
possibility of victory. Voter cases are also under way involving
 Alabama , Texas and  South Carolina .  On Aug. 28, a federal court in Washington rejected a
Republican-supported plan to redraw electoral districts in
Texas, finding it discriminated against Hispanic and black
voters.  Yesterday, minority voting rights activists asked
a three-judge panel to convene all parties in the Texas
redistricting dispute as soon as possible to devise a plan to
keep November elections on track.  South Carolina, meanwhile, is in trial before a special
three-judge panel seeking approval of its law requiring citizens
to show photographic identification before casting a ballot.  Photo ID Case  In a separate case, Texas said it won’t be able to
implement its photo ID law in time for the November elections
unless a court rules by the end of the week.  Florida officials voluntarily dismissed their appeal of
Hinkle’s May ruling, according to an Aug. 10 filing in the U.S.
appeals court in Atlanta. Hinkle, who was appointed to the bench
by President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat, said in yesterday’s order
that he will grant a permanent injunction if the appeals court
directs him to do so or if the appeal of his ruling is
dismissed.  “This order is a decisive victory for Florida voters,”
said Lee Rowland, counsel for the Brennan Center’s democracy
program, one of the attorneys who argued the case for the
plaintiffs. “The Florida Legislature has tried repeatedly to
stifle access to voter registration opportunities.”  Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi’s media office referred
inquiries about the ruling to the governor. Republican Governor
 Rick Scott ’s communications office didn’t respond to an e-mail
message seeking comment on the ruling.  The voter registration case is League of Women Voters v.
Browning, 11-628, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Florida (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  