-- Renesas Surges by Record as KKR Said to Be in Talks: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-08-29T07:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/kkr-said-to-be-in-discussions-to-take-control-of-renesas-1-.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  surged by
a record 35 percent as a person with knowledge of the matter
said  KKR & Co. (KKR)  is in talks to spend about 100 billion yen ($1.3
billion) buying shares of the unprofitable Japanese chipmaker.  Renesas closed at 308 in Tokyo trading, the stock’s highest
since July 10. New York-based KKR will take a controlling stake
by the end of the year, the Nikkei newspaper reported earlier,
without saying where it got the information.  Renesas, whose  customers  include Apple Inc. and Nintendo
Co., is trying to end  losses  exacerbated by falling demand for
its system LSI chips, used for functions ranging from processing
images for TV screens to crunching data. The Kawasaki, Japan-
based company’s major shareholders agreed in July to provide
Renesas with loans to help cover costs including worker buyouts
and reorganization of its factories.  “Considering the record of the current management, it may
lead to positive changes if KKR shakes up the management,”
 Takeo Miyamoto , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said today by
phone. “Investors who thought Renesas would go bankrupt and
sold the shares bought them again after today’s report.”  Biggest Shareholders  The U.S. private equity firm presented the offer to Renesas
 stakeholders  including its biggest shareholders  NEC Corp. (6701) ,
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503)  and main banks, the
person said, asking to remain anonymous as the negotiations are
private.  NEC gained 6.5 percent, while Hitachi rose 1.1 percent in
Tokyo. Mitsubishi Electric fell 0.2 percent.  The Nikkei newspaper reported the planned investment
earlier today. Renesas isn’t the source of the report, the
Kawasaki, Japan-based company said in a statement to the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. Steve Okun, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for KKR,
declined to comment.  A formal agreement will be made next month between the main
creditor banks of Renesas and its shareholders, the Nikkei said.
NEC and Mitsubishi Electric declined to comment, and Hitachi
didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  Japan ’s chipmakers have struggled as  South Korea ’s  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  extended its dominance. Boise, Idaho-based
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  agreed in July to buy Tokyo-based Elpida
Memory Inc., after Elpida filed for  bankruptcy protection .  Job Cuts  Renesas plans to cut 5,000 jobs and may close or sell as
many as nine of its 18 domestic factories to help end losses,
after falling demand for TVs and a drop in prices for computer
chips eroded earnings.  The chipmaker’s three  main shareholders , NEC, Hitachi and
Mitsubishi Electric, will provide 49.5 billion yen in loans to
Renesas in October, they said July 31. Banks including
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) 
and  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309)  have a basic agreement
with Renesas to continue offering about 50 billion yen in lines
of credit to the chipmaker, two people with knowledge of the
matter said in May.  Renesas plans to increase its focus on making
microcontrollers, used in cars and TVs. The business has an
operating profit margin of at least 10 percent, Renesas said in
June.  The company had a 27 percent share of the global
microcontroller market last year, making it the world’s largest
manufacturer of the products. It plans to raise the share to 35
percent in five years by targeting  emerging markets , and an
alliance with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. will help
cut costs and widen profit margins, Renesas said in June.  Renesas forecasts it will return to an  operating profit 
this fiscal year, it  said  Aug. 2. Operating profit, or sales
minus the cost of goods sold and selling, general and
administrative expenses, may be 21 billion yen for the 12 months
ending March 31, compared with a loss of 56.8 billion yen a year
earlier, Renesas said.  Renesas was formed in 2010 through the merger of money-
losing chipmakers Renesas Technology Corp., a venture between
Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric, and NEC Electronics Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in 東京 at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  