-- Nereus Capital Raises IFC Investment for India Projects
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-29T09:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/nereus-capital-raises-funds-from-ifc-for-clean-energy-projects.html
The World Bank’s International
Finance Corp. unit has agreed to invest in a fund managed by
Nereus Capital Management LLC that’s targeting clean-energy
companies in  India .  The $20 million investment is part of $250 million that
Nereus plans to raise in the next year, Nereus founder Jonathan Winer said today in a phone interview from  New Delhi . It already
raised more than $20 million from another investor whom Winer
declined to identify, citing a confidentiality agreement.  Nereus seeks to “develop hard assets on the ground,”
Winer said. “We’re trying to back companies with scalable
business models that address the larger opportunity created by
the supply-demand imbalance in the Indian power market.”  India, which suffered the world’s biggest blackout last
month, depends on coal to generate more than half its
electricity and struggles with a  9 percent  power deficit at peak
hours. The government seeks to boost alternative energy sources
as infrastructure bottlenecks cripple utilities, creating a 30-
gigawatt backup power market by businesses switching to diesel
generators when lights go out.  Nereus’s first investment may be in a company developing a
waste-heat recovery power plant, Winer said. Such plants use
heat released as a byproduct of industrial operations, such as
flue gases at factories, to heat water to run turbines.  The fund is expected to make seven to 10 investments of $15
million to $35 million each, according to a  summary  of IFC’s
investment proposal on its website. Winer said there’s no cap on
the amount it invests in a single company or industry.  Potential investment targets also include developers of
wind farms, small hydropower, off-grid solar projects,
engineering contractors and suppliers servicing the clean-energy
industry, Winer said.  The IFC has invested $3 billion in 190 funds globally,
according to Vikram Raju, who heads private equity investments
for the organization in  South Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  