-- New York Fed Gets More Time to Give Congress Libor Info
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-08-29T18:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/new-york-fed-gets-more-time-to-give-congress-libor-info.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York
was given more time to comply with a congressional request for
information about staff communications with banks involved in
setting the London interbank offered rate.  Representative  Randy Neugebauer  extended a Sept. 1 deadline
for the Fed to release communications on Libor rate submissions
from August 2007 until July of this year between employees of
the New York Fed and those at 16 banks, according to  Jeff
Emerson , a spokesman for the House Financial Services Committee.
The Fed will have until the end of September to comply, he said,
without specifying a date.  The U.S. central bank has come under increased scrutiny
from lawmakers critical of its record as a bank supervisor after
the New York Fed released documents on July 13 showing it was
aware that  Barclays Plc (BARC)  underreported Libor rates in 2008. In a
letter sent July 23 to William C. Dudley, president of the New
York Fed, Neugebauer said there are still “outstanding
questions that merit further investigation.”  Neugebauer, a Texas Republican, is the chairman of the
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the House
Financial Services Committee.  Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds ($459
million) in June for rigging  interest rates , and the scandal
cost Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chairman Marcus Agius their jobs. At least a dozen banks are being investigated.  The documents released by the New York Fed showed that
 Timothy F. Geithner , then the president of the regional Fed
bank, sent a memo in June 2008 to Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  recommending changes to how Libor was calculated.  “We brought those concerns to their attention and we felt,
and I still believe this, that it was really going to be on them
to take responsibility for fixing this,” Geithner told the
House Financial Services Committee on July 25. He also said he
raised concerns to other U.S. regulators, including the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  