-- NFL to Open Season With Replacements for Locked-Out Referees
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-08-29T20:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/nfl-to-open-season-with-replacements-for-locked-out-officials.html
The  National Football League  will
use replacements for its locked-out field officials to open the
regular season in the U.S.’s most popular sports league next
week.  Talks with the officials remain deadlocked, and
replacements will take the field Sept. 5 when the Super Bowl-
champion  New York  Giants and  Dallas Cowboys  open the season in
 East Rutherford ,  New Jersey , according to a memo sent to all 32
teams by  Ray Anderson , executive vice president for football
operations.  “The replacements have undergone extensive training and
evaluation, and have shown steady improvement during the
preseason,” Anderson wrote. “We will continue the training
with each crew and they will work as much of the regular season
as necessary.”  The league and its officials “remain apart” on pay,
pension and operational issues, Anderson wrote.  The NFL Referees Association was locked out in June.
Michael Arnold, the association’s chief negotiator, said the
group wasn’t surprised by the league’s memo.  “This is consistent with the NFL’s negotiating strategy,
which has been ‘take it or leave it’ and lock them out,” he
said in an e-mailed statement. “It is unfortunate because the
referees want to get back on the field. Our members have been
engaged in extensive preparations and are ready to go.”  Second Level  The replacement officials have been recruited from the
second level of college football on down. They have handled the
entire preseason schedule amid criticism from coaches and
players over missed calls, inaccurate spotting on downs and
general lack of skill and experience.  Anderson acknowledged the criticism.  “The replacement officials are dedicated and enthusiastic,
have worked very hard to improve, and have persevered despite
the attacks on their qualifications and performance,” he said.  The NFL used replacements for the first week of the 2001
season, before reaching a contract agreement with officials.
Bruce Smith and  Gene Upshaw , both now members of the Pro
Football Hall of Fame, said at the time that using replacement
referees risked injury to players.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  