-- Nissan Cars Head Home as Yen Erodes Century of Made-in-Japan
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-08-30T06:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/nissan-ships-cars-home-as-yen-erodes-century-of-made-in-japan.html
Japan  Inc. has a new export market:
Japan.  For the first time, companies including  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
are building products abroad to ship home as a stronger yen,
aging workforce and improved skills overseas erode a century-old
mantra that what’s sold in Japan should be made there.  Nissan’s decision to import foreign-made vehicles in 2010
paved the way for some of Japan’s biggest companies, including
cosmetics company  Shiseido Co. (4911)  and electronics maker  Toshiba
Corp. (6502)  Shipments home from Japanese producers’ overseas plants
have more than doubled in a decade to a record, including a 31
percent jump in the past two years, compared with a 61 percent
gain in total  imports  over the 10 years, government data show.  “Nissan’s decision was epochal,” said Masato Sase, an
auto-industry analyst and partner at Deloitte Tohmatsu
Consulting Co. in  Tokyo . “Before then there was a tacit
assumption that cars sold in Japan would be made in Japan.”  The shift reflects one of the biggest departures from an
industrial strategy begun by the Meiji leaders who ousted the
last shogun in 1868 and set up western-style factories. A “made
by Japan” model, where manufacturers base operations with less
regard to nationalism, may boost corporate competitiveness at
the cost of jobs in the world’s third-biggest economy, deepening
deflation pressures.  “People see the sale of cars made abroad as a sign of the
times, as globalization,” said Shiro Kakinuma, a salesman at
Taiyo Nissan Auto Sales Co.’s Shibaura Chuo showroom in Tokyo,
which offers the Thai-made  Nissan March subcompact . “When the
new March came out there were some articles questioning the
quality of a car made in a developing country. Not anymore.”  ‘Epochal’ Move  Shiseido next month will introduce to domestic customers
its Za range of makeup made in Taiwan and Vietnam, the first
time Japan’s biggest cosmetics maker will import one of its
ranges.  Kubota Corp. (6326) , Japan’s largest tractor manufacturer,
started domestic sales of its Chinese-made rice-planting
machines and U.S.-built lawnmowers last year.  Toshiba ended domestic fabrication of its Regza television
sets last fiscal year after almost half a century of production
at home.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s biggest appliance manufacturer,
shifted all its production of mobile phones to factories in
Malaysia and China “to improve price competitiveness,” said
Yuko Hosaka, a company spokeswoman.  Japan’s manufacturers will make a record 39 percent of
their products overseas in the year through March 2015, up from
33 percent two years ago, a Japan Bank for International
Cooperation survey showed in December.  First Wave  Earlier forays into overseas production were typically
designed to serve markets where the factories were located. In
the wake of World War I, Japanese textile companies built plants
in China for the Chinese market, according to Tetsuji Okazaki, a
Tokyo University professor of economic history who edited “The
Contemporary Japanese Economic System and its Historical
Origins.” That strategy accelerated in the 1980s amid trade
tensions with the U.S. and an appreciating yen.  Now, after a 45 percent gain in the yen in the past five
years, business leaders are again moving more production to
countries that offer upgraded workforces and lower costs. The
yen traded at 78.62 to the dollar at 3.30 p.m. today in Tokyo,
within 4.4 percent of the postwar high in October last year.  For companies in the  Topix (TPX)  stock index, offshore factories
typically carry profit margins that are on average 2.5 to 3
times higher than for domestic operations, said  Jesper Koll ,
head of equity research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo. “The
deindustrialization of manufacturing means a structural increase
in the profitability of Japan Inc.”  Nissan Overseas  Nissan, which makes three out of four vehicles overseas,
the highest proportion among Japan’s eight biggest carmakers,
was also the most profitable for the first time last fiscal year,
with a net income of 341.4 billion yen. In the past two years,
Nissan’s stock has gained 14 percent, compared with 7.7 percent
for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which made 54 percent of its vehicles
abroad in the year ended March, according to the company’s
website. In the same two-year period, the Topix has fallen 9.2
percent.  The 12-month return potential on Nissan, Japan’s second-
biggest automaker, is 38 percent, compared with Toyota’s 25
percent, according to a consensus of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. A 1 yen gain against the dollar cuts operating profit
at Nissan by 2.4 percent and at Toyota by 3.3 percent, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimated in an April report.  Job Losses  The lure of shifting abroad will contribute to Japan losing
4 million manufacturing and construction jobs this decade,
according to Tokyo-based Works Institute, a research arm of
staffing agency Recruit Co. Factory jobs made up 16.5 percent of
the workforce in December, the lowest level since comparable
data began in 1953.  While industry is retreating in importance, Japan will
probably remain one of the world’s largest manufacturers,
especially for higher-end products, according to Yuqing Xing, an
economist at the Asian Development Bank Institute in Tokyo.  From its base at the foot of Mount Fuji,  Fanuc Corp. (6954) 
makes control systems that run more than half the world’s
automated machine tools, helping production lines at Boeing Co.,
General Motors Co. and Toyota. Japan’s  Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. (4063) 
and  Sumco Corp. (3436)  control more than 30 percent each of the global
market for silicon wafers, used to make computer chips,
according to the companies.  “Japan still has stocks of engineers, skilled workers
and technologies that are essential for making top-end
products,” said Xing, who also teaches at the National Graduate
Institute for Policy Studies. “I don’t see any possibility that
Japan would be left out of global supply chains.”  ‘Monozukuri’ Spirit  Nissan will continue to make 1 million cars a year in Japan
“to maintain our monozukuri strength,” Chief Operating Officer
Toshiyuki Shiga said in an e-mail. Monozukuri is a Japanese term
for “making things.”  Automakers, who face a temporary drop in domestic demand as
subsidies from a government stimulus program run out this year,
will continue to move production abroad, said  Satoru Takada , an
analyst at securities research company Toward the Infinite World
Inc. in Tokyo.  “Reverse imports, especially for compacts, will
increase,” said Takada.  Policy makers will need to take steps to bolster services
in Japan as the economy transitions away from manufacturing, and
should loosen regulations, said  Martin Schulz , a senior
economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo. Exports have
accounted for almost half of Japan’s economic growth in the past
decade, and make up about 16 percent of GDP.  While Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government has set a
target of creating 2.8 million jobs in medical, health and
nursing care by 2020, qualification hurdles for such positions
have inhibited payroll gains, according to Koll at JPMorgan
Chase.  “The barriers to entry into nursing and care giving are
very, very high,” said Koll. “Barely 50 percent of Japanese
applicants pass the test.”  For Japan’s central bank, the increasing share of overseas-
made goods in  consumer spending  may deepen the challenge of
quelling deflation, already entrenched in the economy since the
1990s. Core prices, which exclude fresh food, fell 0.2 percent
in June from a year earlier.  Deflation Impact  “Reverse imports makes deflation even worse,” said Xing
at the Asian Development Bank Institute. “If you move to
overseas production, it increases room for cost reductions and
that will reduce  price levels  further.”  Consumers may not mind.  The March at Taiyo Nissan starts at just over 1 million yen,
according to the manufacturer, compared with more than 1.6
million for the bigger Japan-made Juke compact for sale at the
dealer. Kakinuma says sales of the March have increased since
production moved to Thailand, as companies that run fleets of
vehicles try to cut costs.  “Consumers are far less concerned about where things are
made,” said  Robert Feldman , head of Japan economic research at
Morgan Stanley in Tokyo and a former economist at the
 International Monetary Fund . “A Nissan car made in Thailand is
still a Nissan car.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  