-- NSN Said to Be Close to Selling Business-Support Unit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-08-30T12:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/nsn-said-to-be-close-to-selling-business-support-unit.html
Nokia Siemens Networks is in
advanced talks to sell a unit that helps phone operators manage
their billing systems as the network-equipment venture of  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  focuses on mobile broadband, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Business Support Systems division has attracted
interest from potential buyers including Sweden’s Ericsson AB,
U.S.-based  Amdocs Ltd (DOX)  and private-equity firms, the people said,
asking not to be identified as the discussions are private. The
business may fetch as much as 300 million euros ($377 million),
they said.  Nokia Siemens and French rival  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  are among
telecommunications equipment providers that are slashing jobs
and costs as the slowing global economy crimps spending on
infrastructure for mobile networks. Nokia Siemens is in the
process of eliminating some 17,000 jobs, about a quarter of its
workforce, by the end of next year. Alcatel-Lucent said last
month it will cut 5,000 jobs after slumping to a quarterly loss.  “As we announced in November, Nokia Siemens Networks
believes that the future of our industry is in mobile broadband
and we are intensifying our strategic focus on that area,”
Nokia Siemens spokesman  Ben Hunt  said in an e-mailed response to
questions, declining to comment on the BSS unit. “Business
areas not consistent with the new strategy are planned to be
divested or managed for value, and we have already announced the
divestment of a number of these business.”  Nokia Rises  Nokia shares rose 1.9 percent to 2.31 euros as of 3:23 p.m.
in Helsinki after earlier gaining as much as 3.8 percent.
Siemens shares fell 0.1 percent to 75 euros in  Frankfurt .  An Ericsson official declined to comment. Representatives
for Amdocs didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Purchasing billing-services providers is increasingly
attractive for enterprise software companies thanks to
“industry players’ desire to move closer to the heart of the
telecom network,”  Shaul Eyal  and Hugh Cunningham, analysts at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, said in a note to clients. In
March, Japanese electronics firm NEC Corp. agreed to spend $449
million to acquire  Convergys Corp. (CVG) ’s billing unit.  Siemens and Nokia abandoned talks in July last year on
selling their venture to private-equity investors after the
buyout firms failed to come up with a compelling offer.  The manufacturer has been a continuing source of trouble
for Nokia, which has seen its share of the market for mobile
phones plunge since Apple Inc. introduced the iPhone in 2007.
Nokia, based in Espoo,  Finland , booked a 772 million-euro charge
for costs related to the joint venture in April, sending its
shares to a 15-year low.  Crowded Market  Selling the BSS unit, which helps phone carriers manage
charging and billing, would be the latest in a string of asset
sales. Nokia Siemens, created in 2007, completed the sale of its
microwave transport business to DragonWave Inc. in June and
finished the sale of its fixed line broadband access business to
Adtran Inc. in May.  A decline in demand, along with intensified competition in
a crowded marketplace, is hurting providers of network gear
worldwide. The slowdown has even hit Asian manufacturers that
previously grew rapidly thanks to the build-out of high-speed
mobile networks in emerging countries. Huawei Technologies Co.
and ZTE Corp., China’s largest network suppliers, last month
reported declining profits.  Nokia Siemens had an operating loss of 227 million euros in
the second quarter. Analysts at Nordea Bank AB predict the
business will lose 127 million euros, before interest and taxes,
in the three months through September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  