-- Obama Says Amendment May Be Needed to Limit Campaign Finance
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-08-29T22:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/obama-says-amendment-may-be-needed-to-limit-campaign-finance.html
President  Barack Obama  said he would
“seriously consider” seeking a constitutional amendment that
would overturn the U.S.  Supreme Court ’s 2010 decision that
removed limits on campaign spending by corporations and unions.  “We need to seriously consider mobilizing a constitutional
amendment process to overturn  Citizens United , assuming the
Supreme Court doesn’t revisit it,” Obama said today during an
 online chat  on the Reddit website. “Even if the amendment
process falls short, it can shine a spotlight of the super-PAC
phenomenon and help apply pressure for change.”  The Supreme Court decision in a case known as Citizens
United allowed corporations and unions for the first time to
spend unlimited amounts of money on ads advocating the election
or defeat of a candidate. The court’s majority said restrictions
on such spending violated the Constitution’s free-speech
guarantee.  Obama has been critical of the decision since it was
announced; in his 2010  State of the Union  address, he cautioned
it would “open the floodgates for special interests.”  The ruling led to the development of so-called super-
political action committees, independent groups able to take
unlimited donations to support candidates. Those include
organizations that don’t have to disclose contributors. In the
2010 elections, 308 non-party groups reported spending money to
influence voters, and only 166 of those reported where the money
came from.  Campaign Impact  In this year’s presidential campaign, the super-PACs
supporting Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  have outstripped
Obama’s backers in raising and spending money.  Restore Our Future, a pro-Romney group which raised $7.5
million last month, reported $20.5 million in the bank, and
American Crossroads, founded with the help of former President
 George W. Bush ’s chief political adviser  Karl Rove , brought in
$7.1 million and had $29.5 million left to spend.  Priorities USA Action, founded by former Obama aides,
brought in $4.8 million and had a bank balance of $4.2 million.  Obama answered questions from users of Reddit following a
campaign rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. He said that
“money has always been a factor in politics, but we are seeing
something new in the no-holds barred flow of seven and eight
figure checks, most undisclosed, into super-PACs.”  The amount of money will “fundamentally threaten to
overwhelm the political process over the long run and drown out
the voices of ordinary citizens,” he said.  He repeated his support for the Disclose Act, which would
require groups that spend at least $10,000 on an election to
report donations of more than $10,000 within 24 hours of such
expenditures. Senate Republicans have blocked the bill, which
was written in response to the Citizen’s United ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  