-- Ohio, Texas, Maryland Reach $69 Million E-Books Deal
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-08-29T23:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/ohio-texas-maryland-reach-69-million-e-books-deal.html
States including Maryland, Ohio and
 Texas  said they reached a $69 million settlement with three U.S.
publishers over alleged price-fixing for electronic books.  The agreements were made with Hachette Book Group,
HarperCollins Publishers LLC and Simon & Schuster Inc.,
according to statements from  attorneys general  in states also
including Colorado and  Florida . The settlement, which must be
approved by a federal judge in  New York , couldn’t be confirmed
in court records.  “Unlawful collusion and price-fixing not only violates
antitrust laws, it is anti-competitive and inconsistent with the
free market approach that is critical to our economy,” Texas
Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said in a statement. “Today’s
settlements provide refunds to customers who paid artificially
inflated prices for e-books.”  The U.S. sued  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and the five publishers in April,
charging that the defendants conspired to limit e-book price
competition. The government said that the defendants sought to
raise e-book prices “significantly higher” than the $9.99
level at which they were selling.  The publishers viewed online retailer  Amazon.com’s (AMZN) 
discounted prices on e-books a “substantial challenge to their
traditional business model,” according to the complaint. At
that time, Apple was preparing to introduce its iPad electronic
tablet and considering whether to sell e-books for the device,
the U.S. said in its court filing.  Different Model  To carry out the conspiracy, the U.S. said, the publishers
and Apple agreed to set up a different model for pricing, under
which retailers wouldn’t have the power to change prices set by
publishers. Apple would receive a 30 percent commission on
digital books sold, the complaint states.  Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi said in a statement that
the settlement “will repay consumers affected by price-fixing
scheme and will restore competition in the electronic book
market.”  She said about 97 percent of consumers will get notice of
the settlement by e-mail.  In addition to Florida, 54 attorneys general in other
states, districts and U.S. territories joined in the settlement.  At a hearing in New York federal court in June, Connecticut
Assistant Attorney General  Gary Becker  told U.S. District Judge
Denise Cote that a settlement among the three publishers and the
states would be agreed to by August.  In a letter dated Aug. 14 to the judge, Doreen Johnson, of
the antitrust section of Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine’s
office, said a motion for preliminary approval of the settlement
would be filed in federal court by today.  The lawsuit against Apple and the publishers Macmillan and
Penguin Group remains in effect, according to the statement from
Texas.  The case is U.S. v. Apple, 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  