-- Oil Declines From One-Week High on Isaac, G-7 Statement
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-29T12:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/oil-declines-from-one-week-high-on-isaac-landfall-g-7-statement.html
Oil fell from its highest closing
price in a week and gasoline declined for a second day after
Hurricane Isaac made landfall in the U.S. and the Group of Seven
nations said prices may threaten the global economic recovery.  Crude futures slipped as much as 0.9 percent, then pared
some its loss after the  U.S. economy  expanded more than
estimated in the second quarter. Gasoline dropped by 1.3 percent
after Isaac struck the coast of southeastern  Louisiana . A
shutdown of refineries because of the storm has curbed crude
demand, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The G-7 called on
oil-producing countries to increase output, according to a joint
statement issued yesterday by the U.S. Treasury Department.  “The information we have on Isaac as of now suggests it
has not been as destructive as the market had perhaps feared,”
said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International
AG (RBI)  in Vienna, who predicts crude prices will remain near current
levels this month. “The focus is on when the majority of
production will resume and whether or not there will be any
serious damage to the infrastructure.”  Oil for October delivery declined as much as 89 cents to
$95.44 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $95.92 at 1:49 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday climbed 0.9 percent to $96.33, the highest
close since Aug. 22. Prices are 2.7 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement was little changed at
$112.64 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark grade’s  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate was $16.66, compared with $16.25 yesterday.  Economic Growth  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.7 percent annual
rate from April through June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5
percent, revised Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The figure matched the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The revised data showed companies invested in
new equipment at the slowest pace in almost three years.  Gasoline extended yesterday’s decline after  Venezuela 
extinguished a fire at its biggest refinery. State-owned
Petroleos de Venezuela SA will wait at least 24 hours before
resuming the 645,000 barrel-a-day Amuay refinery, Oil Minister
 Rafael Ramirez  told reporters yesterday in Falcon state near the
plant. A gas explosion on Aug. 25 and the subsequent four-day
blaze shut the plant and killed 48 people.  Gasoline for September delivery was at $3.0955 a gallon,
down 3.06 cents, on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The
contract slid 0.9 percent yesterday after rising as high as
$3.205 on Aug. 27, the highest level since April 30, amid
concern the Venezuelan fire and Isaac would curb supplies.  Gasoline Gains  Retail prices  for regular grade increased 1.3 percent to
$3.804 a gallon yesterday, the highest level since April 30,
according to AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group.  Oil in New York may extend its decline to as low as $94.55
a barrel, along the bottom of a short-term uptrend channel on
the daily chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
channel started from the June 28 fall to $77.28, the 2012
intraday low. Buy orders tend to be clustered near technical-
support levels.  Companies halted 93 percent of oil production in the  Gulf
of Mexico  and 67 percent of natural-gas output as Isaac neared
the Louisiana coast, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement said. Six Louisiana refineries were shut and three
were running at reduced rates, idling 6.7 percent of U.S.
capacity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Category 1 Hurricane  “Markets were already pricing in what was proving to be a
disruptive storm,” said Jeremy Friesen, a commodity strategist
at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “The market is focusing on
the comments from governments. The comments highlight that
policy makers are getting concerned about how high oil prices
are.”  Isaac was 20 miles (30 kilometers) southeast of Houma,
Louisiana, and 50 miles south-southwest of  New Orleans , the
National Hurricane Center said in a report published on its
website at 6:56 a.m. New York time. The system’s maximum
sustained winds were 80 miles per hour, making it a Category 1
hurricane, the center said.  “While production and imports might continue to be
impacted for a couple more days after the hurricane has passed,
crude demand has also been impacted,” Stefan Wieler, an analyst
at Goldman in New York, said in a note e-mailed today. “The
greater concern lies in the risk to refining capacity.”  IEA Stockpiles  The G-7 said in its statement that it’s prepared to call
upon the  International Energy Agency , a 28-member group of oil-
consuming countries, “to take appropriate action to ensure that
the market is fully and timely supplied.” The IEA’s countries
made available 60 million barrels of crude and oil products in
June 2011 after Libyan output was disrupted by an armed uprising
against  Muammar Qaddafi .  Oil also fell after the  American Petroleum Institute  said
U.S. crude stockpiles gained  5.5 million barrels  last week. An
Energy Department report today at 10:30 a.m. in Washington may
show inventories slid 1.75 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  The Labor Day holiday on Sept. 3 marks the end of the U.S.
summer driving season, the peak gasoline demand period. Refiners
often idle processing units for maintenance in September and
October as consumption of the motor fuel drops and before
heating-oil use increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  