-- Oil Declines for a Second Day as Stockpiles Rise, Storm Weakens
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-08-30T07:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/oil-declines-for-a-second-day-as-stockpiles-rise-storm-weakens.html
Oil dropped for a second day in  New
York  as stockpiles unexpectedly rose and Hurricane Isaac
weakened, reducing the threat to offshore platforms and rigs in
the  Gulf of Mexico .  Futures slipped as much as 0.6 percent after falling 0.9
percent yesterday. Crude inventories increased  3.8 million
barrels  last week, data from the Energy Department showed. They
were forecast to decrease 1.75 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Isaac was downgraded to a tropical storm
after striking the Louisiana coast as a hurricane.  “Isaac caused temporary shut-downs of oil facilities but
it doesn’t appear to have done any lasting damage, so that’s
been removed as a threat,” Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst
at CMC Markets in Sydney, said by telephone today. “The
increase in inventory, as opposed to an expected decline, is a
little bit of a minor negative.”  Oil for October delivery slid as much as 58 cents to $94.91
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $95.12 at 8:07 a.m. London time. The
contract yesterday dropped 84 cents to $95.49, the lowest close
since Aug. 27. Prices are 7.9 percent higher this month, headed
for a second monthly gain, and 3.8 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 11 cents to $112.65 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $17.54, from $17.05 yesterday.  Oil’s decline in New York may stall at $94.95 a barrel,
along the bottom of a short-term uptrend channel on the daily
chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This channel
started from the June 28 drop to $77.28, the 2012 intraday low.
Buy orders tend to be clustered near technical-support levels.  Gulf Output  Isaac will weaken for the next two days, the National
Hurricane Center said in an advisory at 2 a.m. New York time. It
was 10 miles (15 kilometers) west-southwest of  Baton Rouge  with
top winds of 50 miles per hour, down from 80 mph at landfall on
Aug. 28, and moving northwest at 5 mph.  Companies halted about 95 percent of oil production in the
Gulf of Mexico and 72 percent of natural-gas output, the Bureau
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said. Six Louisiana
refineries were shut, idling 6.7 percent of U.S. capacity,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “WTI fell after an unexpected increase in U.S. crude
inventories and on expectations that damage to U.S. Gulf
production from Isaac would be minimal,”  Mark Pervan , the head
of commodity research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Melbourne , said in a note today.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline supplies dropped  1.51 million barrels  last
week, the Energy Department report showed. They were forecast to
decline 1.45 million barrels, according to the median estimate
of 12 analysts in the Bloomberg survey. Distillate stockpiles, a
category that includes diesel and heating oil, climbed 873,000
barrels compared with a projected 200,000 barrel increase.  The  International Energy Agency  may release oil stockpiles
from emergency reserves in September to prevent higher prices
from derailing the global economic recovery, according to Mirae
Asset Securities Ltd. Production losses from Hurricane Isaac are
equivalent to the drop in supplies after sanctions were imposed
on  Iran  in July,  Gordon Kwan , Mirae’s head of energy research in
 Hong Kong , said in an e-mailed report today. Brent will trade
between $105 and $120 a barrel in the month ahead, he said.  Japan ’s crude imports from Iran fell 52 percent in July
from a year ago, according to data today from the Ministry of
Finance. Purchases were 624,585 kiloliters, or about 127,000
barrels a day, compared with 1.31 million kiloliters in July
2011, the ministry said. Imports fell 23 percent from June.  Japanese shippers lost access to insurance for cargoes from
Iran after European Union sanctions on the Middle East nation’s
crude shipments took effect on July 1. The West alleges that
Iran is concealing a nuclear-weapons program, a charge the
Persian Gulf nation rejects.  Venezuela Fire  Gasoline was little changed near the lowest level this week
after  Venezuela  said it’s almost ready to resume operations at
its Amuay oil refinery, the nation’s biggest, after a four-day
fire. Petroleos de Venezuela SA will end the process of cooling
the area affected by the blaze today, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said on state television yesterday. The plant can
process as much as 645,000 barrels of crude a day.  Gasoline for September delivery was at $3.105 a gallon, up
0.47 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract
reached $3.205 on Aug. 27, the highest intraday level in four
months, amid concern the fire and Isaac would curb supplies.  The September future expires tomorrow. The more-active
October contract was at $2.923 a gallon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  