-- Hollande’s 100-Day Popularity Is Lowest for a French President
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-08-29T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/hollande-s-100-day-popularity-is-lowest-for-a-french-president.html
Socialist French President  Francois Hollande , elected in May, became the country’s most unpopular
leader at just over 100 days into the job, a poll showed.  Hollande’s approval rating fell by five points to 50
percent from July, beating the 54 percent level for Jacques Chirac at the same point in his presidency in August 2002, the
poll for Figaro Magazine weekly by  TNS-Sofres showed  yesterday.
 Nicolas Sarkozy , who lost to Hollande, had a 64 percent rating
after 100 days, while  Francois Mitterrand  was the most popular
with a 66 percent approval rating in August 1981. TNS-Sofres
started polling the 100-day popularity in 1978.  “French people have become impatient,” Leendert de Voogd,
the Brussels-based global head for politics at TNS, said in an
interview. “They’re looking for the miracle man who can reverse
the crisis within 100 days. But that doesn’t explain this bad
score. The lack of leadership at the helm, mishaps in
communication and of course the economic pressure are conspiring
to make him the least-popular president at the start.”  Hollande, who returned from a 15-day summer break last
week, faces an economy that hasn’t grown in three quarters,
rising joblessness, a ballooning trade deficit and the task of
coming up with a plan in the next few weeks to plug a budget
hole of more than 30 billion euros ($37 billion) for next year.  The government may revise its 1.2 percent economic growth
forecast for next year, making it even harder for the euro
area’s second-largest economy to create jobs.  ‘No Passion’  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault’s approval rating fell
three points to 51 percent, TNS said.  “French people today don’t feel reassured about their
future; they’re not ready to sign a blank check to the
government,” government spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem told
reporters yesterday. “We knew there wasn’t going to be a grace
period.” Hollande wasn’t elected to be “Mr. Miracles,” she
said.  An Ipsos opinion poll for Le Point magazine showed
Hollande’s popularity  plummeted 11 points  from July to 44
percent. That compares with Nicolas Sarkozy’s 61 percent rating
in August 2007 and  Jacques Chirac ’s 56 percent in August 2002,
the Paris-based  polling institute  said.  “This result reflects Hollande’s election: there was no
real passion, no real desire for him,” said Jean-Francois Doridot, Ipsos’s head of opinion polls. “If you add these
difficult economic circumstances, the result doesn’t come as a
surprise.”  Hollande was elected on May 6 with 50.64 percent of the
vote, defeating Sarkozy with a margin of 1.1 million ballots.  Seeking Action  Although Hollande’s government has attempted to address the
quotidian concerns of the French people, the overall impression
is one of a lack of action, Ipsos’s Doridot said.  The government announced Aug. 28 that retail fuel prices
will drop by as much as six cents a liter in part thanks to a
three-month government tax rebate that will cost the state 300
million euros. That came after pressure built up to counter the
rising cost of motor fuel and diesel prices rose to a record.  Hollande’s cabinet also promised 100,000 subsidized jobs
for youths without diplomas next year and extra measures to
boost hiring. The youth jobs plan will add a 2.3 billion euros
cost to the 2013 budget, the government said.  “The Ipsos survey asks respondents about the president’s
action and so far they have seen little that reassures them,”
said Doridot. “The price of oil at the pump is always a very
sensitive issue. Maybe the latest government actions will make a
difference, but I don’t expect Hollande’s approval rating to go
above 50 percent in the near future.”  TNS-Sofres polled 1,000 respondents of ages 18 and more at
their homes between Aug. 24 and 27. Ipsos called 965 respondents
over 18 years old on Aug. 24 and 25. The two Paris-based
institutes didn’t publish margins of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  