-- Lonmin, Workers to Resume Talks on Strike End Next Week
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-08-30T20:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/lonmin-workers-management-seek-end-to-strike-as-talks-resume.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-biggest
platinum producer, will next week resume government-mediated
talks with workers and unions to end a strike that has shut its
Marikana complex in South Africa for three weeks.  “The issues that have been discussed are of a vast nature
and have required several processes and various engagements,
with different constituencies in the process,” the parties said
today in an e-mailed statement following the second day of talks
in Rustenburg, northwest of Johannesburg. Worker representatives
will report back to their colleagues and discussions will resume
at 2 p.m. on Sept. 3.  Most of the 28,000 miners at Marikana have stayed away
since police shot dead 34 protesters at the operation on Aug. 16
after 10 people died in fighting during the illegal strike by
about 3,000 rock drillers that started Aug. 10. Union rivalry
and pay disputes are stoking unrest at platinum mines in  South
Africa , which has the world’s largest known reserves.  The drillers are going directly to the company with
demands, saying the dominant  National Union of Mineworkers ,
South Africa’s largest labor group, didn’t take their request to
raise wages to 12,500 rand ($1,488) a month to management.  Rock-drill operators earn “just shy of 10,000 rand” a
month, Lonmin said Aug. 24. In addition, they can earn
performance bonuses which average 1,500 rand “but some are in
the order of 6,000 rand.”  AMCU Quits  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s Rustenburg operation, the
world’s biggest mine of the metal, had a stoppage of as long as
six weeks from mid-January when rock-drill operators started a
strike, demanding higher pay. The company said conflict caused
by the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union’s
efforts to recruit NUM members caused the strike.  AMCU, which has about 5,000 members at Marikana’s Karee
mine and isn’t included in a two-year wage agreement that ends
in October next year, was excluded from this afternoon’s talks,
President Joseph Mathunjwa said.  “I won’t be part of the process,” he told reporters in
Rustenburg today. “Let them continue as they wish.”  Lonmin has lost 2,500 ounces of platinum daily by closing
Marikana, which comprises 96 percent of the company’s output,
hampering its ability to meet the conditions set by creditors on
its borrowings.  Murder Charges  The 270 workers arrested for violence at Marikana have been
charged with murder of those shot on Aug. 16 because they were
in the crowd that confronted the police with weapons, the
British Broadcasting Corp. reported, citing proceedings at the
Ga-Rankuwa Magistrates Court today. Their trial has been
postponed to Sept. 6, eNCA channel reported.  While South Africa needs to deal urgently with wide
inequality that may foment fighting, the violence at Lonmin
won’t deter investment in the industry, Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  said.  “Mining is unique in the sense that you can’t take it to
another country,” Motlanthe said. “Investors know that. They
are also aware that the industrial relations in South Africa
actually produce a very stable work milieu. We don’t expect that
investors would be put off or discouraged by these tragic
developments in Marikana.”  Labor Minister Mildred Oliphant met with striking workers
on Aug. 28. On Aug. 24, she facilitated a meeting between Lonmin
and  labor organizations  including the NUM, the emerging AMCU,
Solidarity, and the Congress of South African Trade Unions, to
try to resolve the standoff with striking employees.  Platinum, used in jewelry and cars, has climbed 8.2 percent
since the shooting, trading at $1,509.25 an ounce by 9:02 p.m.
in  London . The rand weakened 0.3 percent to 8.4353 against the
dollar. Lonmin shares declined for a third day, losing 3.9
percent to 584.5 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  