-- Monsoon Revival Brightens Prospects for India Rice, Cane
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-08-29T09:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/monsoon-revival-brightens-prospects-for-india-rice-cane.html
A revival in  India ’s monsoon is set
to benefit rice, sugar cane and cotton crops, easing concerns
that the weakest rainfall in three years will shrink farm output
and stoke food prices in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  Rainfall in September will be better than forecast this
month, helping growth of already-planted crops, said L.S.
Rathore, director general of  India Meteorological Department .
The revival in the monsoon this month will help oilseeds and
increase planting of coarse cereals and lentils, Agriculture
Secretary Ashish Bahuguna told reporters in New Delhi today.  A rebound in rains in the past two weeks has eased the
drought situation in more than  50 percent  of India, improving
prospects for crops from rice to  corn and soybeans, and easing
pressure on government to curb exports to cool domestic prices.
The monsoon rainfall  deficit  has narrowed to 12 percent from 29
percent at the end of June with 70 of the country recording
normal rainfall, according to the weather bureau.  “Almost all the crops are benefiting because of the
improvement in rainfall recently,” Rathore said in a phone
interview yesterday. “The recent spell of rain has reduced the
load of irrigation, otherwise the cost of cultivation would have
increased for some crops.”  The area under rice totaled 32.9 million hectares (81.3
million acres), compared with 30.8 million hectares a week
earlier, the farm ministry said Aug. 24. The monsoon-sown rice
harvest was a record 91.5 million tons last year.  ‘Ample Rice’  “If this weather continues until the flowering stage in
the next two months, we will have a good crop,” said Trilochan
Mohapatra, director of state-run  Central Rice Research
Institute . “We should continue exports of rice to ensure a
better price for the farmers as there will be ample rice in the
country. The situation was bleak until last month.”  India extended a ban on exports of sugar, rice and wheat in
2009 after the weakest monsoon in almost four decades. Non-
basmati rice shipments totaled about 5.7 million metric tons as
of July 20 after the ban on exports was lifted in September,
according to the food ministry.  Sugar cane yields in India, the world’s second-biggest
producer, will increase with the latest rains, said  Vinay Kumar ,
managing director of  National Federation of Cooperative Sugar
Factories Ltd.  Farmers have planted sugar cane to 5.29 million
hectares as of Aug. 24, compared with 5.06 million hectares a
year earlier, according to the farm ministry.  Cane Yields  “These rains will increase cane yields across the
country,” Kumar said in a phone interview yesterday. “The crop
situation is much better compared with a month earlier.”  Still, output may drop to 25 million tons in the year
beginning Oct. 1, from 26 million tons this season as dry
weather in Maharashtra and Karnataka cuts yields, the Indian
Sugar Mills Association said July 2.  Cotton will benefit as increased rainfall boosts soil
moisture in the driest of areas such as Gujarat and Maharashtra
states, the biggest producers, said Nayan Mirani, vice president
of the Cotton Association of India.  “The plants which were water-stressed will get some relief
due to the revival of the monsoon,” Mirani said. “Output will
not be much lower.”  India, the world’s second-biggest  cotton grower , harvested
a record 35.3 million bales of 170 kilograms each in the year
ending September, according to the Cotton Advisory Board.  The withdrawal of the monsoon from northwest India may be
delayed this year as El Nino weather conditions may not impact
rains in September, Bahuguna said. Rainfall may be 91 percent of
a 50-year average in August to September, the weather bureau
said Aug. 2. The monsoon typically begins to withdraw from the
first week of next month.  “The rains will also help winter-sown crops as it has
helped in recharging the ground water and also increased water
level in reservoirs,” weather bureau’s Rathore said.  The nation grows crops such as wheat and mustard during
winter season. India is the world’s second-biggest producer and
user of wheat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  