-- Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Valuation Delayed Before Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-08-29T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/morgan-stanley-smith-barney-valuation-delayed-before-sale.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
agreed to delay setting a valuation for their brokerage joint-
venture as they wrangle over the sale of a 14 percent stake.  A determination of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney’s fair
market value will be made Sept. 10 rather than this week,
according to a statement yesterday from Morgan Stanley, which is
buying the stake from Citigroup to boost its holding to 65
percent.  Shannon Bell , a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined to
elaborate.  The companies hired Perella Weinberg Partners LP to help
settle a disagreement this year over the unit’s value, which
Citigroup estimated is about $13 billion more than an amount
submitted by Morgan Stanley. Morgan Stanley Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman , 54, has said the purchase of the whole
brokerage is key to his strategy of making the firm less reliant
on trading revenue and improving profitability.  The two New York-based banks formed the joint venture in
2009 with more financial advisers than any brokerage. Morgan
Stanley paid $2.75 billion for a 51 percent stake and the right
to buy the rest over time. The bank announced in May it would
exercise its option to increase its stake. It has the right to
buy another 15 percent next year and 20 percent in 2014.  Citigroup estimated in a July 19 regulatory filing that its
49 percent stake was worth $11 billion and said Morgan Stanley’s
bid was 40 percent of that. Citigroup faces a writedown that
could top $6 billion if Morgan Stanley’s valuation is accepted.
That’s twice Citigroup’s $2.9 billion estimated third-quarter
net income, according to the average of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The brokerage, which is run by Morgan Stanley’s  Greg Fleming , 49, is largely made up of the Smith Barney and Dean
Witter businesses. Gorman said in June that he will change the
name of the unit to Morgan Stanley Wealth Management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  