-- Asian Stocks Advance Before Bernanke Speech, U.S. Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-29T10:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/most-asian-stocks-rise-before-u-s-gdp-bernanke-speech.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index heading for its first advance in four days, as
investors await a report on U.S. economic growth and  Federal
Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s speech on monetary policy
this week.  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  surged 35 percent in  Tokyo  after
the Nikkei newspaper reported that Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
will shares of the chipmaker. Samsung Electronics Co., the
world’s biggest mobile-phone maker, climbed 2.9 percent after a
court hearing for a permanent ban on U.S. sales of its mobile
devices was scheduled. Daikin Industries Ltd. slid 3.5 percent
on a report the Japanese air-conditioner maker will buy Houston-
based Goodman Global Inc.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.1 percent to 119.39 as
of 7:37 p.m. in Tokyo, with almost five shares rising for every
four that fell. U.S. reports yesterday showed  home prices 
increased for the first time since 2010, while  consumer
confidence  fell. The Federal Reserve signaled last week it’s
ready to take more steps to spur the economy and Bernanke may
comment on the likelihood of further measures in an Aug. 31
speech at a meeting of central bankers in  Wyoming .  “Bernanke’s probably going to hold fire here, while
sending an encouraging message,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing
director at White Funds Management in Sydney who manages more
than $350 million. “Realistically we’re probably going to see
him say what he’s said over the last couple of months, which is
simply that they will act, but only if conditions continue to
deteriorate. That’s probably neutral for the market.”  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  added 0.4 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.6 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index and Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  both fell 0.1 percent.
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index slipped 1 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.1 percent
today. The underlying gauge slid 0.1 percent yesterday.  Pacific Investment Management Co. Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed El-Erian is among money managers speculating Bernanke
probably won’t provide specific plans for further monetary
action this week. El-Erian spoke yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu .  Spending by U.S. consumers is expected to have climbed in
July by the most in five months, easing concern the biggest part
of the economy is backsliding, economists said before a report
tomorrow. Revised second-quarter gross domestic product to be
released today by the Commerce Department may show the world’s
biggest economy grew faster than initially estimated.  Tech Stocks  Information technology companies posted the biggest advance
among the  10 industry groups  in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP)   Renesas jumped by a record 35 percent to 308 yen in Tokyo.
New York-based KKR will spend 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) to
take a controlling stake in the unprofitable chipmaker by the
end of the year, the Nikkei reported, without saying where it
got the information. Renesas said it was not the source of the
report.  NEC Corp., a maker of telecommunications equipment and a
major shareholder in Renesas, advanced 6.5 percent to 114 yen.
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. plans to buy patents from the
Japanese company, Simon Hsing, a spokesman for the Taipei-based
maker of Apple Inc.’s iPad, said by phone today, confirming
comments made by Hon Hai Chairman Terry Gou in Tokyo yesterday.  Samsung Electronics advanced 2.9 percent to 1.23 million
won in  Seoul . Apple’s request for a permanent ban on U.S. sales
of some of the South Korean company’s devices was set for a Dec.
6 hearing, according to a court filing. The later date for the
hearing is positive for Samsung, Brian Park, a Seoul-based
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc., said by phone today  LG Smartphone  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  climbed 4.4 percent to 71,600 won in
Seoul. The world’s fourth-largest mobile-phone maker’s latest
Android smartphone Optimus G will help boost fourth-quarter
sales, Kwon Sung Ryul, an analyst at Dongbu Securities Co.,
wrote in a report today.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. advanced 3.4 percent to
HK$22.65 in Hong Kong. Permira Advisers LLP will sell 278.8
million shares, cutting its stake in Galaxy to 5.95 percent,
according to the Macau casino operator. This is a positive
development because concerns that the buyout firm could sell
more shares had been an “overhang” on the stock, said Gary Pinge, an analyst at Macquarie Securities Ltd.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 7.5 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday. Stocks on Asia’s
benchmark index were  valued  at 12.4 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.7 for the S&P 500 and 11.6 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Daikin, Evergrande  Among stocks that fell, Daikin slipped 3.5 percent to 2,073
yen. The Japanese air-conditioner maker will buy Goodman Global
for 300 billion yen, the Nikkei newspaper reported.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. dropped 3.1 percent to
HK$3.09 in  Hong Kong . China’s biggest developer by sales volume
said first-half underlying profit fell 21 percent from a year
earlier to 3.8 billion  yuan  ($598 million) as it sold fewer
apartments as the government maintained property curbs.  Of the 439 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that have
reported quarterly earnings since July 1, and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, more than half failed to meet
projections, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Air China Ltd. declined 2.9 percent to HK$4.70 in Hong Kong
after the nation’s largest international carrier reported first-
half profit slumped 77 percent from a year earlier to 944.5
million yuan as  travel demand  slowed and fuel costs increased.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  