-- Stocks Gain as Treasuries Fall After GDP Data; Oil Drops
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-29T20:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/most-asia-stocks-rise-before-u-s-gdp-data-oil-drops-won-gains.html
U.S. stocks rose, halting a two-day
drop, and Treasuries fell as American economic growth was
revised higher and investors awaited Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s speech in two days. Oil slid as Hurricane
Isaac’s landfall reduced threats to offshore energy facilities.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1 percent to close
at 1,410.49 at 4 p.m. in  New York , while 10-year note yields
climbed two basis points to 1.65 percent after touching a three-
week low yesterday. Crude for October delivery lost 0.9 percent
to $95.49 a barrel and gasoline fell 0.8 percent. The Dollar
Index, a gauge of the currency against six major peers, climbed
0.2 percent to 81.564.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate from
April through June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5 percent,
government data showed before Bernanke’s Aug. 31 speech in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . The Fed said today in its Beige Book
survey that the U.S. economy continued to expand “gradually”
in July and early August as improvement in housing and retail
sales helped outweigh weakness in manufacturing.  “The market has already been pricing in low growth and
basically all these points on the margin do co-operate with some
other data that there is no imminent recession signal,” James Kee, president at South  Texas  Money Management in  San Antonio ,
Texas, said in a phone interview. His firm oversees about $1.8
billion. “My advice is not to think that the Fed has silver
bullets, there is a limit to what you can accomplish on the
monetary side.”  ‘Holding Steady’  Most regional Fed banks reported employment was “holding
steady or growing only slightly,” the Fed said today in its
 Beige Book , a business survey based on reports from its 12
districts. The report reflects information collected on or
before Aug. 20 and summarized by the Boston Fed.  Among U.S. stocks, WellPoint Inc. increased 7.7 percent
after Angela Braly resigned as chairman and chief executive
officer of the insurer. Yelp Inc. surged 23 percent as investor
confidence in its growth prospects prevailed after a ban lifted
on stock sales by some of the largest investors in the online
review website.  Verizon Communications Inc., Walt Disney Co. and McDonald
Corp. rose at least 0.6 percent to lead gains while  Intel Corp .
and Coca-Cola Co. fell more than 1 percent for he biggest
decliners.  The  S&P 500  has climbed 2.3 percent so far in August,
poised for a third straight  monthly gain  and extending this
year’s rally to 12 percent. Daily swings in the index have
averaged less than 0.8 percent so far this month, the smallest
fluctuation for any August since 1995, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Four Years  The S&P 500 last week  climbed  to its highest level on an
intraday basis in more than four years, then failed to close at
that milestone.  The index has fluctuated near the 1,400 level for three
weeks as trading slowed toward the end of the U.S. summer and
investors awaited the Fed’s annual gathering in Jackson Hole to
gauge prospects for a possible third round of so-called
quantitative easing through asset purchases.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.1 percent today,
trimming its August advance to less than 2.2 percent.  L’Oreal
SA dropped 4.4 percent after the world’s largest cosmetics maker
reported profit margins that missed analysts’ estimates.
Bouygues SA tumbled 9 percent after the French building,
television and telecommunications company trimmed the earnings
forecast for its phone business. Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA sank 8 percent after posting a loss.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of stocks in developing
nations lost 0.4 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated
1 percent on a report  China  may slow the pace of monetary policy
easing. Russia’s Micex Index lost 0.9 percent and  India ’s Sensex
declined 0.8 percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi index jumped 0.8
percent.  Crude sank as much as 1.6 percent to $94.76 a barrel.
Natural gas dropped as much as 1.5 percent to $2.575 per million
British thermal units, the lowest in 10 weeks, before erasing
declines and rising 0.8 percent amid forecasts for above-average
temperatures that may boost demand for power-plant fuel.  U.S. crude supplies increased by 3.78 million barrels to
364.5 million barrels, while the median forecast of analysts
called for a decrease of 1.75 million. As of 3 p.m. New York
time, Isaac was 50 miles (80 kilometers) west-southwest of  New
Orleans , the National Hurricane Center said. Downgraded to a
tropical storm, it was creeping northwest at 6 mph, with
sustained winds of 70 mph, and dumping sheets of rain.  ‘Successful Drill’  “The crude oil number was a surprise relative to
expectations,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York. “Isaac continues to cause
damage along the Gulf but as far as the oil and gas industries
are concerned it appears to have been a successful drill rather
than a traumatic event.”  The S&P GSCI Index of raw-materials was little changed as
corn, wheat, soybeans and cattle rose more than 1.5 percent to
lead gains in 15 of its 24 commodities, while sugar, aluminum
and oil fell the most.  Tin declined 5.2 percent in  London , the biggest drop of the
year on a closing basis, after PT Timah, the world’s third
largest producer, restarted sales. Copper slipped for a third
consecutive day in London.  Gold futures for December delivery slipped 0.4 percent to
$1,663 an ounce, retreating for a second straight day after
reaching the highest level since April.  Options traders are boosting bullish wagers on gold to an
almost four-year high, betting Bernanke will hint at additional
stimulus measures this week.  The ratio of outstanding calls to buy the SPDR Gold Trust
versus puts to sell jumped to 2.69-to-1 on Aug. 24 and reached
2.76 earlier this month, the highest level since October 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  