-- Japanese Stocks Rise on U.S. Home Prices; Renesas Soars
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-08-29T06:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/most-japanese-stocks-advance-after-u-s-home-sales-climb.html
Japan  stocks  gained after U.S.  home
prices  rose for the first time in almost two years and as
investors await Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
speech this week. Shares of Renesas Electronics Corp. soared on
a report Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. will buy the chipmaker.  Bridgestone (5108)  Corp., a tiremaker that counts the Americas as
its biggest market, gained 1 percent. Renesas surged a record 35
percent after the Nikkei newspaper reported KKR will spend 100
billion yen ($1.3 billion) for a controlling stake. Sharp Corp.
jumped 7 percent after offering to buy out workers.  Daikin
Industries Ltd. (6367)  lost 3.5 percent on a report the manufacturer of
air conditioners will acquire Goodman Global Inc. of  Texas .  “The  U.S. economy  has actually entered into a recovery
stage led by housing,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , Tokyo-based chief
strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co., which manages the
equivalent of $23 billion. “U.S. home prices are recovering,
thanks to government measures to keep long-term  interest rates 
low. Investors are paying so much attention to Bernanke’s
remarks in  Jackson Hole  that they can’t take a position until
they’ve heard the speech.”  The  Topix (TPX)  Index gained 0.5 percent to 750.03 at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in  Tokyo , the steepest increase since Aug. 17,
with almost twice as many shares rising as declining. The  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 0.4 percent to 9,069.81, with volume
almost 10 percent below the 30-day average.  Consumer Confidence  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1
percent today. The underlying gauge slid 0.1 percent yesterday
as a report showed confidence among U.S. consumers fell in
August by the most in 10 months. Home prices in 20 U.S. cities
climbed in June from a year earlier, the first gain in almost
two years, indicating the market that triggered the recession is
beginning to rebound.  Bridgestone, which gets more than 40 percent of its sales
from the Americas, gained 1 percent to 1,876 yen. Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd., which makes Subaru vehicles and gets more than
45 percent of its revenue in  North America , added 0.9 percent to
646 yen.  “The U.S. economy has avoided a worst-case scenario, but
isn’t strengthening,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, a Tokyo-based senior
strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s
third-largest lender by market value. “Housing prices show a
recovery trend, but the other economic data is a mixed bag.”  Shares of companies linked to the semiconductor industry
gained. Renesas surged by its daily limit of 80 yen to 308 yen
after the Nikkei reported private-equity firm KKR will buy new
shares to take control of the unprofitable chipmaker. Renesas
said it wasn’t the source of the report.  NEC, Advantest  NEC Corp., a major shareholder of  Renesas (6723) , rallied 6.5
percent to 114 yen. The stock also gained after Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. agreed to buy some of the electronics
manufacturer’s patents. Advantest Corp., the world’s biggest
maker of memory-chip testers, rose 4.9 percent to 1,198 yen.  Sharp soared 7 percent to 230 yen, the most in the Nikkei
225, after the electronics maker yesterday said it will offer
buyouts to 2,000 workers as part of a plan to cut 5,000 jobs.
The company faces back-to-back annual losses and is the worst
performer on Japan’s benchmark index this year.  Bernanke probably won’t provide specific plans for further
monetary action at a meeting of central bankers in Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming , at the end of the week, according to money managers
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Fed signaled last week it’s ready to
take further steps to spur the economy. Many policy makers said
additional stimulus probably will be needed soon unless the
economy shows signs of a sustainable recovery, according to
minutes of the central bank’s most recent meeting.  Hold Fire  “Bernanke’s probably going to hold fire here, while
sending an encouraging message,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing
director at White Funds Management in Sydney who oversees more
than $350 million. “We’re probably going to see him say what
he’s said over the last couple of months, which is simply that
they will act, but only if conditions continue to deteriorate.  The Topix has rebounded 7.8 percent from this year’s low on
June 4 amid speculation central banks will stimulate growth.
Stocks on Topix are  valued  at 0.9 times book value, compared
with 2.2 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.5 for the
Europe Stoxx 600 Index. A number less than one means companies
can be bought for less than the value of their assets.  Daikin Drops  Daikin declined the most on the Nikkei 225, falling 3.5
percent to 2,073 yen after the Nikkei reported the air-
conditioner manufacturer will buy Goodman Global for 300 billion
yen. The company generated 10 percent of its revenue in the
Americas as of June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘‘The company needs to strengthen its U.S. operations, but
the purchase price of 300 billion yen is too high, which may be
reflecting in the stocks,” said Hitoshi Ohnishi, an analyst at
Iwai Cosmo Securities Co.  Stocks linked to Europe rose as the single currency traded
near its highest level in eight weeks before Italy sells debt
amid speculation the  European Central Bank  is preparing a bond-
buying program that may cap borrowing costs in the region.  The euro rose to as high as 98.79 yen in Tokyo today,
compared with 98.08 at the close of  stock trading  yesterday. A
stronger euro boosts the value of overseas income for exporters
to the region.  Nikon Corp. (7731) , a camera maker that relies on Europe as its
biggest market, gained 1.8 percent to 2,249 yen.  Kyocera Corp. (6971) ,
an electronics maker that gets almost a fifth of its sales in
the region, climbed 1.5 percent to 6,900 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  