-- Louisiana Guard Troops Empty Nursing Home as Floodwaters Surge
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-08-29T22:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/louisiana-guard-troops-empty-nursing-home-as-floodwaters-surge.html
Officials in  Louisiana ’s flooded
Plaquemines Parish coordinated the pickup of 112 nursing home
residents after officials worried levees would break.  After the order at 4 p.m. today, dozens of ambulances
convoyed with flashing lights down Belle Chasse Highway to get
patients at the Riverbend Nursing & Rehab Center, only about
1,000 feet (305 meters) from the barrier between inundated land
and the  Mississippi River .  A line of a dozen elderly men and women, some hunched and
weak, queued at the door in wheelchairs waiting to be loaded
onto vans by paramedics in white rubber gloves.  Earlier today, dozens were trapped in their homes in the
parish southeast of  New Orleans  after Tropical Storm Isaac.
Officials were considering breaching a second levee there to
reduce flooding, Governor  Bobby Jindal  said at a briefing in
 Baton Rouge , the capital.  At Riverbend, the most critical of the evacuees, about 20
in all, were taken to sister nursing homes in the region, said
Mike Ford, the home’s chief operating officer. One silver-headed
man wearing a plaid shirt looked bewildered as he was loaded,
strapped onto a gurney, into one of the stream of waiting
ambulances.  “Could you imagine doing this at 10 p.m.?” Ford said.  National Guard troops in Humvees helped load supplies and
push patients onto the rescue units.  The rest of the home’s residents were being taken outside
the levee seven miles (11 kilometers) away to a nearby military
air base, where they would be tended to by Riverbend staff.  The evacuation was expected to last about two hours, Ford
said. It was put into motion by a single command from a lead
coordinator, Ford said.  “They just said get on the convoy,” one ambulance driver
told a colleague.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Belle Chasse at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  