-- Pemex May Have 10 Billion Barrels in Perdido Oil Deposits
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-08-29T20:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/pemex-may-have-10-billion-barrels-in-perdido-oil-deposits.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fourth-largest oil producer, may have as many as 10 billion
barrels of potential reserves in its El Perdido deposits in the
 Gulf of Mexico , a company executive said.  The Trion-1 exploration well in El Perdido, where the
company struck its first deep-water oil, may hold 250 million to
500 million barrels, Deputy Exploration Director Jose Antonio
Escalera said in an interview in Mexico City after the
discovery’s announcement today. Mexican President  Felipe
Calderon  said earlier that Trion may hold more than 400 million
barrels of light oil.  Pemex, as the state-owned company in known, is counting on
deep-water Gulf of Mexico deposits to increase production by a
third in the next dozen years. The company estimates it has 27
billion barrels of untapped crude in the Gulf.  “This is a great discovery,” Calderon said. “It further
strengthens our hydrocarbon reserves and allows Mexico to
maintain and increase oil production in the medium and long
term.”  Trion is 8,333 feet (2,540 meters) deep and located 39
kilometers (24 miles) from the maritime border with the U.S. If
the 10 billion barrels prove to be recoverable, the Perdido area
would be the biggest discovery by Pemex since Cantarell, the
world’s third-largest field when it was found in 1976.  No Crude  Pemex found no commercially viable deep-water crude in its
first 22 attempts. The Mexico City-based company allocated 15
billion pesos ($1.1 billion) for this year’s deep-water
projects.  Pemex expects to start producing sweet light oil from Trion
in as soon as five years,  Carlos Morales , Pemex’s head of
exploration and production, said. Pemex invested $120 million in
the Trion project, he said.  The company will get results in a month from another ultra-
deep-water exploratory well called Supremus-1, which is 9,514
feet deep, Morales said. Supremus is also being drilled in the
Perdido Fold Belt.  “This is one of the most important oil discoveries in deep
waters” anywhere, Morales said.  Oil producers such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  are already pumping crude from the U.S. side of
the Perdido region, where the companies operate the world’s
deepest spar production facility.  On Feb. 20, Mexico and the U.S. established a legal
framework that created incentives for U.S. energy companies to
develop oil and gas resources jointly with Pemex.  The accord helps to resolve issues such as whether oil
extracted from the Mexican side of the Gulf but sent directly to
crude terminals in the U.S. is considered Pemex output and
imported crude, and whether  Mexico  will charge royalties on it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  