-- Pending Sales of Existing Homes in U.S. Rebounded in July
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-29T14:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/pending-sales-of-existing-homes-in-u-s-rebounded-in-july.html
Americans signed more contracts to
purchase previously owned homes in July, a sign housing will
keep strengthening in the second half.  The  index  of pending home resales climbed 2.4 percent,
exceeding the 1 percent gain  median  forecast of 39 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . The gauge rose to 101.7,
the highest since April 2010.  Home buying is coming within reach for more Americans as
less expensive properties and record-low borrowing costs combine
to stabilize the industry that helped trigger the recession.
Faster hiring and easier access to credit are needed to reduce
foreclosures, a hurdle to a more sustained recovery.  “All the elements are in place for continued growth in the
housing industry,” said  Omair Sharif , a U.S. economist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Housing is one of
the bright spots in the economy.”  Stocks were little changed after the report as investors
awaited comments from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
in two days on the state of the economy. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 0.1 percent to 1,411 at 10:18 a.m. in  New York .  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 1.5
percent to a rise of 6.6 percent. Signings rebounded from a 1.4
percent fall in June that was the same as previously estimated.  Economy Cools  The world’s largest economy cooled less than previously
estimated in the second quarter, another report today showed.
Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.7 percent annual rate from
April through June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5 percent,
revised Commerce Department figures showed. That followed a 2
percent first-quarter gain.  Three of four regions showed an increase in pending sales,
according to today’s report from the real-estate agents’ group.
That included a 5.2 percent gain in the South, and a 3.4 percent
advance in the Midwest. The number of contracts in the West
dropped 1.7 percent.  Compared with a  year earlier , the index increased 15
percent after an 8.4 percent gain in the prior 12-month period.  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of existing
homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or
two later, and made up more than 90 percent of the housing
market last year.  Improving Sales  Other figures signal demand is improving. Purchases of new
homes, logged when contracts are signed, rose more than forecast
in July to match a two-year high, Commerce Department data
showed. Previously owned house sales rebounded from an eight-
month low, the Realtors group reported.  Property values are also recovering. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of  home prices  in 20 cities climbed in June from a year
earlier, the first gain since September 2010, a report from the
group showed yesterday. Nationally, prices jumped in the second
quarter by the most in more than six years.  Companies in related industries are benefiting from the
pickup.  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, reported second-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates and raised its forecast for earnings this year as
customers spent more on remodeling projects.  There are “signs of gradual improvement within the overall
housing market,” Chief Executive Officer  Frank Blake  said on a
conference call with analysts Aug. 14.  Distressed Sales  At the same time, foreclosures remain a risk, albeit one
that is easing. Distressed sales accounted for 24 percent of
existing-home purchases in July, the Realtors data last week
showed. That’s less than the prior month and down from 29
percent in July 2011. Such sales are comprised of foreclosures
and short sales, in which the lender agrees to a transaction for
less than the balance of the mortgage.  Borrowing costs are also attractive. The average rate on a
30-year fixed mortgage dropped to 3.49 percent in the week ended
July 26, the lowest in records dating to 1971, according to
McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac . It was 3.66 percent last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  