-- Pepper Hamilton, Latham, Debevoise, Weil: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/pepper-hamilton-latham-debevoise-weil-business-of-law.html
Pepper Hamilton LLP is merging with
the  law firm  run by former FBI Director  Louis Freeh , who has
supervised the wind-down of bankrupt  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and
a probe of  Penn State ’s child sex abuse scandal.  Freeh will join the 122-year-old Philadelphia-based firm’s
executive committee, it said yesterday in a statement. Lawyers
at Freeh Sporkin & Sullivan LLP will become members of Pepper
Hamilton’s white collar litigation and investigations group.  “The Freeh Group will deepen and broaden Pepper’s already
substantial corporate investigations, white collar advocacy and
enforcement practice in key markets,” Nina Gussack, chairwoman
of Pepper Hamilton’s executive committee, said in the statement.  Freeh, 62, a former federal judge who led the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation under President  Bill Clinton  from 1993
to 2001, serves as a bankruptcy trustee for MF Global Holdings
and issued a 267-page report last month on Pennsylvania State
University’s handling of the scandal surrounding ex-football
coach Jerry Sandusky, who was convicted of dozens of counts of
sexual abuse.  Founded in 1890, Pepper Hamilton has more than 500 lawyers
in seven states and the  District of Columbia , according to the
firm’s website. The merger will be effective Sept. 1.  The deal includes the acquisition of Freeh Group
International Solutions LLC, a consulting firm that advises on
issues of risk, compliance and security. The group will retain
its name and continue to operate independently of the law firm
under the leadership of James Bucknam, its president and chief
executive officer, according to the statement.  “This transaction will allow us to do a lot more than
conduct investigations and uncover problems,” Freeh said in the
statement. “We will now have the depth to react quickly to
sophisticated, complex issues anywhere in the world.”  For more, click here.  Deals  Clayton Dubilier to Buy David’s Bridal for $1.05 Billion  Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC, the private-equity firm that
exited  Sally Beauty Holdings Inc. (SBH)  this year, agreed to buy
David’s Bridal Inc. for $1.05 billion, gaining the largest low-
end wedding-gown retailer in the U.S.  Latham & Watkins LLP advised David’s Bridal while Debevoise
& Plimpton LLP advised Clayton Dubilier on the deal.  Latham’s corporate deal team is led by  New York  partner
Howard Sobel and Los Angeles partner Jason Silvera. Advice was
also provided by New York finance partner Joshua Tinkelman and
Los Angeles partner Mark Stegemoeller; New York benefits and
compensation partner Bradd Williamson; New York intellectual
property partner Jeffrey Tochner; and Chicago tax partner Joseph
Kronsnoble.  The Debevoise team is led by partner Paul S. Bird and
includes partners Jonathan F. Lewis, Jeffrey E. Ross and David H. Schnabel.  Leonard Green  & Partners, also a private-equity investor,
will continue as a minority partner, the companies said
yesterday in a statement. No additional terms of the transaction
were disclosed.  David’s Bridal, which Leonard Green and TPG Growth bought
five years ago in a deal valued at about $750 million, has the
most recognized name in its industry in the U.S., according to
 Standard & Poor’s . The Conshohocken, Pennsylvania- based  company
has more than half of the market share in the $600-and-under
bridal gown market, and a “much lower” share in prices above
$800 and higher, Brian Milligan, an S&P analyst, wrote in a note
last month.  David’s Bridal, which has 300 stores in  North America , has
an exclusive partnership with  Vera Wang , under the brand White
by Vera Wang, and has been working to increase its designer
offerings. Paul Pressler, a Clayton Dubilier operating partner
and Gap Inc.’s former chief executive officer, will become
chairman when the deal closes.  For more, click here.  IAC Will Buy About.com From New York Times for $300 Million  Barry Diller ’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI)  agreed to buy About.com
from  New York Times Co. (NYT)  for $300 million in cash, letting the
company expand its Ask.com informational-website business.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP is representing InterActiveCorp
while Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP was legal adviser to Times Co.
on the transaction.  Weil’s team was led by New York corporate partner Doug Ryder and included partners Jeff Osterman, intellectual
property; Jared Rusman, tax; and Michael Kam, employee benefits.  The Morgan Lewis deal team was led by business and finance
partners Howard Kenny and Robert Dickey.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the next
several weeks, Times Co. said in a statement.  For more, click here.  News  Geneva Lawyer Demands Probe of German Official on Bank CD Thefts  A Geneva lawyer asked Switzerland’s attorney general to
detain and question the German state of North-Rhine Westphalia’s
finance minister, Norbert Walter-Borjans, over his alleged role
in data theft from Swiss banks.  “It’s public knowledge that this individual has
instigated, organized and participated in the theft and piracy
of Swiss bank CDs of computer data containing lists of
clients,” Pierre Schifferli wrote in an Aug. 24 complaint to
the Office of the Attorney General. “These acts seriously
violate our Swiss legal system.”  Peter Langer, a spokesman for Walter-Borjans, a member of
Germany’s  Social Democratic Party , said acquiring the CD was
legal. The Swiss Federal Court in Lausanne ruled in 2007 that
such data may be used to prosecute  tax evasion , Langer said in
an e-mailed statement.  Switzerland’s federal prosecutor said Aug. 27 it’s
investigating the theft of information from  Julius Baer  Group
Ltd. after the Zurich-based private bank discovered an employee
stole data on German offshore clients. North-Rhine Westphalia,
Germany’s most populous state, has regularly been the subject of
reports it bought CDs with Swiss account information on wealthy
German clients.  Switzerland’s criminal code contains provisions on business
espionage and crimes against the state committed abroad that
provide the legal basis to investigate Walter-Borjans, according
to the complaint. The intervention is necessary to persuade
other German states not to engage in the same activities, said
Schifferli, who specializes in business crime law, international
mutual legal aid and civil court litigation.  Germany’s Social Democratic Party is leading opposition in
the country’s upper house of Parliament to an accord that would
levy a tax on German assets held in Swiss banks while keeping
client identities secret. The agreement signed last year is a
giveaway to tax cheats, Walter-Borjans has said.  Jens Bullerjahn, the finance minister of Sachsen-Anhalt,
told SonntagsZeitung this month his state would also buy data on
Swiss bank clients.  Julius Baer said yesterday that the suspected data thief
was fired by the company and arrested. The bank agreed last year
with German authorities to pay 50 million euros ($63 million) to
end an investigation over undeclared client assets in a separate
case of data theft.  For more, click here.  Moves  Orrick Adds Commercial Litigation Partner From Patton Boggs  Christina Guerola Sarchio joined Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP as a partner in its commercial litigation
practice. Sarchio joins the firm’s Washington and New York
offices from Patton Boggs LLP, where she was co-chair of the
government investigations and litigation practice group.  Sarchio concentrates her practice on commercial litigation,
antitrust and white collar criminal defense matters. She has
trial experience in federal and state courts, and has
represented clients in both criminal and civil litigation,
including class actions.  Sarchio’s cases have involved antitrust, contract, business
torts, employment, intellectual property, environmental and
franchise/dealer issues. Her representation includes clients in
the oil and gas, chemical, pharmaceutical, alcoholic beverages,
transportation, tobacco and consumer products industry, the firm
said.  Clifford Chance Re-Hires Arbitration Lawyer Suarez Anzorena  Clifford Chance LLP announced that Ignacio Suarez Anzorena
returned to the firm as a partner in Washington, where he will
practice international arbitration in the Americas region. He
was previously at Chadbourne & Parke LLP, where he was a partner
in the international dispute resolution practice since August
2009, the firm said.  Suarez Anzorena focuses on traditional commercial
arbitration, such as contractual disputes, as well as investor-
state disputes, including claims brought under bilateral
investment treaties and the  North American Free Trade Agreement .  A native of Argentina, Suarez Anzorena has worked on
matters relating to companies, investors and governments in
Europe, South America and the U.S. He has represented clients in
arbitrations before tribunals including the International Centre
for Settlement of Investment Disputes, the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  