-- Philippine Growth Seen Slowing as Remittances Boost Falters
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M u n o z
-- 2012-08-29T03:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/philippine-growth-seen-slowing-as-remittances-boost-falters-1-.html
Philippine growth probably eased
from the fastest pace since 2010 as the faltering global
recovery damps demand for Filipino workers and exports.  Gross domestic product  probably increased 5.5 percent in
the three months through June from a year earlier, slowing from
a 6.4 percent pace in the first quarter, according to the median
estimate of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . That would
contrast with  Thailand ,  Malaysia  and  Indonesia , which reported
faster expansion in the second quarter. The data is due Aug. 30.  Money sent home is equivalent to about 10 percent of the
$225 billion economy and helped the Philippines achieve the
fastest growth in  Southeast Asia  in the first quarter. That
support is sputtering as the protracted European crisis brought
remittance growth to a 15-month low, crimping sales at companies
including  Megaworld Corp.  and putting pressure on President
 Benigno Aquino  to boost manufacturing and investments.  “The Philippines doesn’t have a rich domestic market and
it has been very dependent on external income,” said Kevin Lai,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa Capital Markets Ltd. “This
reliance on remittances is hurting the economy. Worker
remittances will soften because  Europe  is suffering and to a
certain extent,  Asia  is slowing.”  The Philippine peso fell 0.1 percent to 42.362 per dollar
as of 11:01 a.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc, and
is the worst performer among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies
this month. The yield on bonds due July 2031 dropped to a two-
week low, according to Tradition Financial Services.  Foreign funds bought a net $1.83 billion of bonds and
stocks from January to July, 31 percent lower than a year ago,
according to central bank  data .  Classroom Contract  Philippine  exports  rose 4.3 percent in June from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in three months. Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record-low 3.75
percent in July, joining nations from  China  to  South Korea  in
shoring up growth amid the global slowdown.  Aquino aims to bolster expansion to as much as 7 percent
next year from a goal of 6 percent this year to boost incomes
and reduce poverty. The government awarded contracts to build
about 9,300 classrooms this month as part of efforts to draw
more than $16 billion of investment in airports and roads.  The president is also accelerating asset sales, with an aim
of raising about 2 billion pesos ($47 million) each in 2012 and
2013 from privatization.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the nation’s
credit rating to one step below investment grade in July, citing
easing fiscal vulnerability as debt is reduced.  Investor Confidence  Aquino has pledged to rid the nation of corruption to boost
investor confidence. He appointed Maria Lourdes Sereno last week
as the nation’s first female chief justice after Renato Corona,
the former top judge, was removed from office for illegally
concealing his wealth.  Remittances increased 4.2 percent to $1.81 billion in June,
and the central bank forecasts an increase of 5 percent this
year compared to 7.2 percent in 2011. A study by the monetary
authority last month showed the funds dilute the effectiveness
of the policy rate even as they bolster consumption and growth.  “Remittance growth is unlikely to return to the double-
digit growth rates seen from 2002-2008,” according to a report
by analysts at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. last week. “Working
domestically may become more attractive to locals as employment
opportunities grow. We suspect that remittances will slowly
diminish in importance in the coming years.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  