-- Pimco’s Ivascyn Beats Gross’s Flagship: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-08-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/pimco-s-ivascyn-beats-gross-s-flagship-riskless-return.html
Bill Gross  is the biggest and best-
known bond picker at Pacific Investment Management Co. He isn’t
the top performer.  Daniel Ivascyn, who runs the $11.2 billion Pimco Income
Fund, holds that distinction for the past five years among 26
Pimco bond funds bigger than $1 billion, according to the
BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. The Income Fund rose 13.8
percent in the period after adjusting for price swings, compared
with the 9.6 percent gain by Gross’s flagship Total Return Fund,
which ranked fourth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This speaks to the depth and quality of the research
bench that Pimco has that often gets overlooked when people are
talking about Bill Gross,” said  Eric Jacobson , a fund analyst
at research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , which named Gross fixed-
income manager of the decade in January 2010.  Ivascyn, 42, has tempered volatility in  the fund  by
investing in higher-quality mortgage-backed securities,
including in the case of those not backed by government
agencies. He also picks corporate bonds that are senior in the
 capital structure , whose holders get priority over other debt
sold by the issuer in the event of a default. His strategy of
loading up on debt he deems less risky is in line with Pimco’s
 “new normal”  view that predicts extreme outcomes because of
global market swings.  Caveat Applies  Ivascyn applies caution while comparing his risk-adjusted
returns to those posted by his more famous boss. Matching his
returns against Gross’s $270 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  isn’t an
“apples to apples comparison,” because the two funds have
different objectives, he said. The Income Fund’s primary
objective is to provide investors with a consistent dividend
stream. Gross’s fund aims to give investors a higher total
return, which is a combination of income and appreciation, he
said.  “In a world of so much volatility, staying senior in the
capital structure has significantly insulated the fund,”
Ivascyn said in a telephone interview from  Newport Beach ,
 California , where Pimco is based. “It allows for a significant
margin of error if the world deteriorates.”  The fund’s 14 percent position in non-agency mortgage
securities, which aren’t backed by agencies such as  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
and  Fannie Mae , contributed to performance as Ivascyn focused on
those that had “resilient”  cash flow , yet were trading at a
discount to their value, he said. Ivascyn also focused on the
senior-most tranches of securitized assets that bundle mortgages
to avoid losses in the event of defaults on the underlying
securities, he said.  Return Rundown  Bloomberg’s risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized,
is calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the
degree of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per
unit of risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset
can swing dramatically in a short period, increasing the
potential for unexpected losses.  Ivascyn produced the best risk-adjusted return among Pimco
bond funds with at least a five-year track record over the past
one and three years as well. Gross’s $2.1 billion  StocksPLUS TR
Short Strategy Fund (PSTIX) , which allows investors to bet against the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index through futures and total-return
swaps, was the worst of the group, with a risk-adjusted return
of 0.2 percent over the past five years.  Mortgage Securities  Not including the impact of price swings, Ivascyn’s Income
Fund had a cumulative return of 67 percent over the past five
years, which ranked fifth among the 26 Pimco funds, and
volatility of 4.9, which ranked third. Gross’s Total Return Fund
had a cumulative return of 55 percent over the past five years,
which ranked 11th among the 26 Pimco funds, and volatility of
5.6, which ranked eighth, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  About 40 percent of Ivascyn’s fund was in  mortgage-backed
securities  as of July 31, compared with 51 percent for Gross’s
Total Return, according to the firm’s website. Sovereign bonds
from non-U.S. developed countries are the second-largest holding
after mortgages for the Income Fund, while in Total Return, it’s
U.S. government and related debt.  Before joining Pimco in 1998, Ivascyn worked at Bear
Stearns Cos. in the asset-backed securities group. He has a
bachelor’s degree in economics from Occidental College in  Los
Angeles  and an MBA in analytic finance from the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business.  Fidelity, Oppenheimer  Ivascyn’s fund also had the highest risk-adjusted return
among 64 similarly managed rivals that included non-Pimco funds
with least $1 billion in assets over the past five years. Among
those funds, Pimco Income Fund beat the $9.9 billion  Fidelity
Strategic Income Fund (FSICX)  over the past one and five years. It
ranked second over three years behind the $6.2 billion
 Oppenheimer Senior Floating Rate Fund (OOSAX) , which focuses primarily
on collateralized senior loans.  Ivascyn has run the Income Fund since its inception in
March 2007. He was part of the team that helped the firm weather
the U.S. housing meltdown by guiding it largely out of so-called
non-agency MBS, or those without an explicit or implicit
guarantee from the U.S. government, before the crisis. The firm,
including the  Income Fund (PONAX) , then went back into non-agency MBS
beginning in 2009 when prices fell.  More than half of the allocation to mortgage-backed
securities is in agency debt and the rest is in mortgages not
backed by the government. Ivascyn said he likes agency mortgages
because of their high quality, implicit or explicit U.S.
government guarantees and liquidity. In the non-agency part of
his portfolio, he focused on higher-quality securities that
traded below their value.  MBS Outperforms  Over a longer period, mortgage-backed securities have
proved a good value and carried relatively low volatility.
Barclays’ index of U.S. mortgage-backed securities returned 36
percent in the past five years, ahead of  government bonds  while
trailing corporate credits. They had the lowest volatility of
the group, and the highest volatility-adjusted returns.  Ivascyn followed a similar pattern of buying at discounts
with bank loans in the middle of last year, after the European
sovereign-debt crisis scared away retail investors and prices
fell to about 90 cents on the dollar, he said. Bank loans have
returned 7.7 percent this year through Aug. 27, according to the
S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index.  “We try to be as tactical as possible,” Ivascyn said.
“In this deleveraging environment with lots of volatility,
typically these big swings in risk-on versus risk-off lead to a
lot of technical repricing, and that provides opportunity.”  Market Volatility  Ivascyn said the market volatility has presented investment
opportunities. Government bonds from developed markets outside
the U.S. account for 19 percent of the  fund’s assets ; emerging-
market government-backed bonds represent 16 percent; U.S.
investment-grade corporate bonds are 7 percent; and U.S. junk
bonds, or those rated below investment grade, 5 percent.  “We’re more diversified than at any other point,” he
said. “But we still think housing-related investments will
continue to perform.”  Gross had what he termed “a stinker” in 2011 after
eliminating U.S. Treasuries early in the year and missing a
rally as investors rushed to the safety of government-backed
debt. The Total Return Fund returned 4.2 percent last year,
trailing 70 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, his worst year since at least 1995.  Gross Rebounds  This year, it’s outperformed 97 percent of similarly
managed funds and 98 percent of peers over the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg data.  Total Return Fund decreased its allocation to 33 percent
from 35 percent in U.S. government and related debt as of July
31, compared with a month earlier, according to the firm’s
website.  Pimco has gathered more new customer money this year than
any U.S. mutual-fund manager except Vanguard Group Inc.,
according to data compiled by Morningstar. Investors deposited
$28.3 billion with the firm’s mutual funds through July, with 28
percent of that going to the Total Return Fund. Ivascyn’s Income
Fund gathered $3.8 billion during the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  