-- Piraeus Bank in Talks to Buy Geniki From Societe Generale
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 0 8 0 6 2 ]   F r a n k   C o n n e l l y   [ ]
-- 2012-08-29T12:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/piraeus-bank-in-talks-to-buy-geniki-from-societe-generale-1-.html
Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) , the Greek lender
that last month acquired Agricultural Bank of Greece SA, is in
talks with  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  to buy  Geniki Bank SA (TGEN) , the French
lender’s Greek unit.  The talks are at an “advanced stage,”  Frederic Oudea , the
chief executive officer of Paris-based Societe Generale, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview today near Versailles, France,
declining to elaborate.  The discussions are continuing and there is nothing further
to announce at this point, according to a filing by Piraeus to
the Athens bourse. Societe Generale, in a separate statement,
said “no decision has been made by either party.”  Societe Generale and French competitor  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
are trying to sell their Greek subsidiaries as the nation,
bailed out by the European Union and International Monetary
Fund, struggles to rein in its deficit, halt a five-year
economic slump and avoid exiting the euro currency.  Societe Generale  declined  0.9 percent to 20.80 euros by
2:32 p.m. in Paris trading, trimming the gain this year to 21
percent. Piraeus rose 7.6 percent in Athens, leaving the stock
down 4.3 percent in 2012 and 76 percent in the last  12 months .
Geniki jumped 20 percent.  Capital Increase  Credit Agricole  said yesterday it may be weeks away from
the sale of its Athens-based Emporiki unit. The French bank,
founded in 1894 as a lender to farmers, invested 2.2 billion
euros ($2.8 billion) in 2006 to buy a majority stake in
Emporiki, the least profitable of Greece’s top banks at the
time. Since then, Emporiki has been unprofitable every year
except 2007, with accumulated losses for Credit Agricole of
about 5.7 billion euros.  Credit Agricole provided 2.3 billion euros in capital to
Emporiki in July following a request from the Bank of Greece,
CEO Jean-Paul Chifflet told journalists yesterday.  Greece is overhauling its banks after lenders sustained
losses on their holdings of government bonds in the country’s
debt swap, the biggest sovereign restructuring in history. The
country obtained a 130 billion-euro bailout in March from the EU
and IMF, which earmarked 50 billion euros for recapitalizing the
banks.  National Bank of Greece SA , Eurobank Ergasias SA and  Alpha
Bank SA (ALPHA)  submitted binding offers for Emporiki, and Credit
Agricole is still considering the offers, Chifflet said. 