-- Pirates Hijack Tanker Carrying $54 Million Cargo of Gasoil
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-08-29T11:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/pirates-hijack-tanker-carrying-54-million-cargo-of-gasoil-2-.html
Pirates seized a tanker in the Gulf
of Guinea carrying a cargo of gasoil worth $54 million, the
second hijacking of a vessel in the region in nine days.  The Energy Centurion, which sails under the flag of the
 Isle of Man , is missing after the pirates exchanged gunfire with
Togo’s navy, according to Athens-based vessel operator
 Enterprises Shipping & Trading S.A.  No contact has been made
with the ship since a distress call was received yesterday at
7:30 a.m. London time, a spokesman said by phone today,
remaining anonymous in line with company policy.  The Panamax tanker was seized while storing its 56,000
metric-ton cargo at anchor about nine miles from Togo’s capital
of Lome, the spokesman said. The ship may have been targeted by
the same pirates who hijacked a smaller vessel on Aug. 19 and
stole its gasoil cargo, said Richard Mcenery, chief operations
officer at security company Ocean Protection Services.  “It’s just too much of a coincidence,” he said by phone
from  London  today.  The Energy Centurion’s hijacking was confirmed by a
spokesman in London for the U.K. Foreign and Commonwealth Office
who remained anonymous in line with the department’s policy. The
cargo’s value is based on a gasoil  price  of $964.50 a ton in
northwest  Europe , excluding freight costs.  The hijackings underscore an emerging threat off  Nigeria 
that may trigger piracy activity on levels seen off Somalia,
Maritime UK, a shipping industry body whose members contribute
26.5 billion pounds ($42 billion) to the U.K. economy, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Pursuit, Evasion  The tanker was pursued by the Togolese navy and evaded
capture by entering waters off  Benin  that were outside naval
jurisdiction, the Enterprises Shipping spokesman said, citing a
conversation yesterday with an official in the African nation.  While pirates based in  Somalia  typically aim to hold
vessels and crews for ransom, those operating in the gulf tend
to attack vessels to steal their cargoes, according to Mcenery
of Ocean Protection Services. Ships hijacked in the gulf usually
are released after about a week, he said. The waters also border
Nigeria, the biggest African oil exporter.  Twenty-one pirate attacks were reported in the gulf in the
year to Aug. 23, compared with 20 for all of 2011, the website
and annual report of the International Maritime Bureau’s Piracy
Reporting Centre. Attacks in the area are probably
underreported, the organization said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  