-- Portman Prepares Romney for a More Hostile Obama in Debates
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-29T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/portman-prepares-romney-for-a-more-hostile-obama-in-debates.html
Senator  Rob Portman  of Ohio has
played  Barack Obama  before. This time, in his role as  Mitt Romney ’s sparring partner for the presidential debates, he’s
working up a character more hostile than four years ago.  Portman, who Romney passed up as his vice presidential
running mate in choosing Representative  Paul Ryan , said he
expects a tougher Obama when the presidential candidates face
off in October.  “I assume he’ll be more aggressive and more on the attack
and, you know, it’ll be more personal,” he said yesterday at a
Bloomberg/Washington Post event in Tampa, Florida. “The person
who shows up this year at the three debates is going to be a
different person than the one who showed up four years ago who
was talking about how to bring the country together.”  Portman’s assessment is part of the Republican line of
attack against Obama: that the incumbent is no longer the
candidate of hope and change.  Romney is trying to narrow a likability gap evident in a
Washington Post/ABC News poll released this week. The  poll ,
taken Aug. 22-25, showed 27 percent of registered voters find
Romney to be the more friendly or likable among the two
candidates, compared with 61 percent for Obama.  This week’s  Republican National Convention  and the debates
will help Romney close the gap, Portman said, after a “barrage
of negative ads” that have driven down Romney’s ratings. Jobs
also mean more than likability to most voters, Portman said.  “People will have learned between 2008 and now that liking
somebody or celebrity status or, ‘wow, he’s cool’ doesn’t fix
the economy,” he said. “Our argument this year is the far
easier argument to make, which is that he didn’t fix it, we
will.”  ‘Acceptability Standard’  Portman said Romney needs to meet an “acceptability
standard,” rather than getting people to “swoon” over him.  With an  unemployment rate  of 7.2 percent in Ohio -- below
the national average of 8.3 percent -- Portman credited Governor
 John Kasich  for helping to improve the economy there by
balancing the state budget without raising taxes. He downplayed
a resurgent automotive industry that followed the Obama
administration’s decision to bail out  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC.  Portman, a former budget director in President  George W. Bush ’s administration, said Democrats and Republicans must
consider eliminating tax preferences such as deductions for
mortgages on second homes to simplify the U.S. tax code.  Romney has proposed a plan to lower U.S. tax rates, without
indicating which tax preferences he would end to offset rate
reductions.  “At the end of the day you’ve gotta deal with some of
these tough issues,” Portman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Tampa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  