-- Profits May Dwindle as U.S. Productivity Wanes With Demand
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-29T20:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/profits-may-dwindle-as-u-s-productivity-wanes-with-demand-1-.html
Businesses in the U.S. may struggle
to maintain the profit gains of the past three years as cost-
cutting opportunities become scarcer and cooling global growth
reduces demand, according to economists such as Harm Bandholz.  Commerce Department data released today showed before-tax
earnings at U.S. corporations increased by 0.5 percent in the
second quarter after a 2.7 percent drop in the prior three
months. Earnings climbed 6.1 percent from a year earlier, slower
than the pace of the previous two quarters.  Economic growth in the U.S. has cooled, European countries
are heading into a recession and  China  is slowing, limiting
opportunities for sales growth. At the same time, waning
productivity gains mean American companies will be less able to
offset rising costs of raw materials and parts.  “We were maybe a little bit spoiled by the profits we saw
in the last one-and-a-half years,” said Bandholz, chief
economist at UniCredit Group in  New York . “We may now see a
normalization. Businesses already cut costs to a significant
extent, so they are just looking for higher revenues, which in
this environment may not go up so easily.”  Today’s report showed gross domestic product in the U.S.
climbed at a 1.7 percent annual rate from April through June,
down from a 2 percent gain in the first quarter and 4.1 percent
in the final three months of 2011.  Shares Advance  Stocks advanced, following a two-day decline in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the economy grew more than first
estimated and investors awaited Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s speech in two days. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.1 percent
to 1,410.49 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Companies generated higher earnings during the economic
recovery as they reduced costs. Profits as a share of gross
domestic product rose to 12.8 percent in the final three months
of 2011, the highest level since the 1950s, Commerce Department
data show. That number began to ease this year, sliding to 12.2
percent in the second quarter.  Greater efficiency enabled businesses to maintain profit
growth even as  unemployment  in excess of 8 percent kept a damper
on demand. Productivity, a measure of worker output per hour,
advanced 3 percent in 2009 and 3.1 percent in 2010.  It has since dwindled, growing 0.7 percent last year. Unit
labor costs have risen as a result, climbing in the first two
quarters of 2012, the first consecutive increases since 2008.  Less Productivity  Most of the boost to efficiency came from “speeding up the
assembly lines, from squeezing out as much output as possible
from the workforce,” said Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at
Renaissance Macro Research LLC. A lack of investment in
technological enhancements and the need to train new hires will
probably damp productivity growth, he said.  “The vast majority of productivity gains have basically
been wrung out of the system,” New York-based Dutta said.  That leaves revenue growth to bolster profits, a
transition that should have already taken place with the
expansion in its fourth year, according to Richard Moody, chief
economist at Regions Financial Corp. in Birmingham,  Alabama .  “In the early stages of a recovery, private growth tends
to improve due to cost containment,” Moody said. “This far
into a recovery, cost containment would have passed the baton
off to revenue growth. We should be past that. You have to ask
how long companies can eke out cost savings.”  Cutting Costs  Ford Motor Co., the second-largest U.S. automaker, and Home
Depot Inc., the biggest home-improvement retailer, were among
companies that reported second-quarter profit topping analysts’
projections, helped by cost cuts as the slowing global economy
dented sales growth.  Sixty-seven percent of the members of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index beat analysts’ second-quarter profit
projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A third
beat sales estimates, the smallest percentage since at least the
third quarter of 2009, the earliest period tracked by Bloomberg.  Cooling global growth is an obstacle.  The euro area shrank in the second quarter after the
worsening debt crisis and tougher budget cuts forced at least
six nations into recessions. GDP in the 17-nation currency bloc
fell 0.2 percent from the first quarter.  China’s growth slowed for a sixth quarter to the weakest
pace since the global financial crisis. The Asian economy
expanded 7.6 percent last quarter from a year earlier.  Sales in Europe  “People aren’t buying” cars in  Europe , Ford Chief
Financial Officer Bob Shanks told analysts July 25, spurring the
automaker to reduce spending on advertising and shorten work
days in factories in the region responsible for a quarter of
Ford’s revenue.  Frank Blake , chief executive officer of Atlanta-based Home
Depot, has reduced costs as the housing slump has crimped demand
for kitchen remodeling and other big-ticket purchases.  A sales gain of 2.1 percent for Home Depot stores open at
least a year trailed the 2.6 percent average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Swampscott, Massachusetts-based researcher
Retail Metrics.  The weak economic environment is also prompting companies
to amass cash instead of investing in ways that will stimulate
the expansion, Bandholz said.  Corporate spending on equipment and software rose at a 4.7
percent pace in the second quarter, the weakest since the third
quarter of 2009, according to Commerce Department figures.  “It’s not a lack of cash or financial means driving
cautious business spending but the uncertain outlook,” he said.
“It’s not that companies don’t have the means to spend more
money, it’s more the macro-environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  