-- Pussy Riot Jail Term Rated ‘Fair’ by Most Russians, Poll Shows
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-08-29T13:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/pussy-riot-jail-term-rated-fair-by-most-russians-poll-shows.html
Most Russians support sentencing
three members of the Pussy Riot female punk band to two years in
prison for a protest stunt against President  Vladimir Putin  in
Moscow’s largest cathedral, according to a poll.  Fifty-three percent of respondents said the punishment is
“fair,” while 27 percent said it is “not fair,” the Moscow-
based Public Opinion Foundation, or FOM, found in a survey it
plans to publish on its website this week. The women were
convicted Aug. 17 of hooliganism and inciting religious hatred.  The U.S. and the European Union criticized the terms as
“disproportionate,” as did pop stars including Madonna, Sting
and  Paul McCartney , who Putin invited to the Kremlin before a
Red Square concert in 2003.  “Holy Mother, Blessed Virgin, drive Putin away,” masked
Pussy Riot members lip-synched in front of the altar of the
Christ the Savior cathedral in February, weeks before the
presidential election. Then-premier Putin won a third term in
the Kremlin in that vote, overcoming the biggest protests to his
12-year rule. The group later made a music video of the
performance and posted it online.  Just 19 percent of the 1,500 people FOM polled in 100
cities Aug. 25-26 said they hadn’t heard of the Pussy Riot case,
while 34 percent said they followed the trial closely. The
survey had a margin of error of 3.6 percentage points.  Death Penalty  “People are assessing the court ruling to some extent, but
to a greater extent they are assessing the deeds of the
sentenced,” said Grigory Kertman, senior analyst at FOM.  Russians in general favor tough measures against what they
consider a crime, Kertman said by e-mail today. “The majority
here has been against the moratorium on the death penalty for a
long time,” he said.  Russians also prefer not to hear criticism of their country
from foreigners, according to FOM data. Twenty-four percent of
respondents viewed the condemnation from the pop stars as
“negative,” versus 19 percent who said it was “positive.”  Putin and Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s approval ratings
slumped this month to the lowest levels since mass protests
erupted in December, when tens of thousands took to the streets
to denounce Putin and alleged fraud in parliamentary elections.
A crackdown on demonstrators has since ensued, including
embezzlement charges that could see protest leader Alexey Navalny jailed for 10 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  