-- Treasuries Fall for First Time in 3 Days After Reports
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-08-29T21:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/treasuries-remain-lower-after-35-billion-five-year-note-auction.html
Treasuries fell as reports showing
the U.S. economy expanded more than previously estimated and
that pending home sales rose reduced speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will announce another round of bond purchases.  Bonds declined for the first time in three days even after
the U.S. sold $35 billion of five-year notes at a lower-than-
forecast yield. The government will auction $29 billion in
seven-year debt tomorrow. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said the Fed will add to monetary stimulus whether
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicates additional measures in an
Aug. 31 speech or not.  “At the end of the day, the market is waiting for
Bernanke,”  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income strategist at GMP
Securities LLC in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “The
auction came and was well received. As we move out the curve, we
should see stronger demand tomorrow.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  increased two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.65 percent at 5 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. It touched
1.61 percent yesterday, the lowest level since Aug. 8. The price
of the 1.625 percent security due in August 2022 dropped 5/32,
or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 3/4.  Thirty-year yields  rose two basis points to 2.77 percent,
while the  yield  on the current five-year security was little
changed at 0.68 percent after touching 0.7 percent earlier.  Volume Increases  Treasury trading  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose to $248
billion today, after dropping to $110 billion on Aug. 27, the
lowest this year. It has averaged $238 billion in 2012.  The five-year notes sold today drew a  yield  of 0.708
percent, compared with a forecast of 0.716 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers.
The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.92, matching
the average for the past 10 sales.  Five-year yields reached a record auction low of 0.584
percent at the last offering on July 25.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 39.7 percent of the notes today,
compared with an average of 44 percent at the past 10 offerings.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 11 percent, the
highest level since the March offering. The average at the past
10 auctions was 10 percent.  Note Returns  Five-year notes have returned 1.8 percent this year,
compared with a 2.2 percent gain by Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The five-
year securities rose 9.2 percent in 2011, versus a 9.8 percent
advance by Treasuries overall.  Yesterday’s sale of $35 billion in two-year debt  yielded 
0.273 percent. Tomorrow’s auction will cap the week’s $99
billion in note sales.  Treasuries traded at the most expensive level in three
weeks, according to the term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed that includes expectations for interest
rates, growth and inflation. The gauge was at negative 0.88
percent today, the most costly since Aug. 6.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
over the past decade is positive 0.46 percent.  Beige Book  Treasuries remained lower as the Fed said in its  Beige Book 
regional business survey that the U.S. economy continued to
expand “gradually” in July and early August as improvement in
housing and retail sales helped outweigh weakness in
manufacturing.  Pending home sales  in the U.S. climbed 2.4 percent in July,
more than double the forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, data
from the National Association of Realtors showed. Sales dropped
1.4 percent in June.  “Housing is such a big factor in the economy that when you
get sales up a little bit, it’s seen as a positive for the
economy,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New
York at Credit Suisse Group AG, which as a primary dealer is
obliged to bid at Treasury debt auctions.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.7 percent annualized pace
in the second quarter, Commerce Department data showed today,
more than the government’s initial 1.5 percent estimate a month
ago. Gross domestic product grew 2 percent in the first quarter.  Fed Speculation  Treasuries gained yesterday and Aug. 27 on speculation the
Fed, which meets Sept. 12-13, is planning to announce new debt
purchases to spur economic growth. The central bank bought $2.3
trillion of assets in two rounds of the stimulus strategy called
quantitative easing from 2008 to 2011.  Policy makers will announce more quantitative easing
“relatively soon,” Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond
fund, said today in an interview  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart” with  Trish Regan .  Bernanke may outline his views on stimulus in his speech
this week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , at the Kansas City Fed’s
annual economics conference. Minutes of the Fed’s July 31-Aug. 1
meeting released last week showed many policy makers said more
stimulus probably will be needed soon unless the economy shows
signs of a durable pickup.  “Quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve is likely to
be implemented, despite our view that the U.S. economy is
stabilizing and is not likely to fall into recession,” wrote
Rick Rieder, chief investment officer of fundamental fixed
income at New York-based BlackRock Inc., in the firm’s August
fixed-income report. “The Fed isn’t anywhere close to achieving
its mandate of healthy labor markets.”  U.S. Jobs  A Labor Department report Sept. 7 is forecast to show U.S.
employers added 118,000 jobs in August, down from 163,000 in
July, according to economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed bought $4.75 billion of Treasuries today due from
August 2018 to August 2020. The purchase is part of an effort
called Operation Twist in which it is swapping shorter-term
Treasuries in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years to
put downward pressure on long-term  interest rates .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  