-- Record Farm Profit Amid Drought Raises Questions of Aid
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-08-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/record-farm-profit-amid-drought-raises-questions-of-aid.html
A projection that U.S. farmers will
make a record profit amid the worst drought in more than five
decades shows that government help for producers can be scaled
back, critics say.  Higher prices and crop-insurance payments will outweigh
losses from dry conditions, propelling aggregate farm profits to
$122.2 billion this year, up 3.7 percent from 2011, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture   forecast  yesterday.  “It’s compelling evidence that what started out as a basic
safety net has become a program that is essentially guaranteeing
business income,” said Craig Cox, head of agriculture and
natural-resource programs for the Environmental Working Group, a
Washington-based advocacy organization that opposes many  farm
subsidies .  Federal crop insurance dates to the Dust Bowl droughts of
the 1930s. The program and subsidies were boosted in 2000 as
lawmakers sought to use them as a way to avoid near-annual
disaster-aid appropriations that the  Congressional Research
Service  says cost taxpayers $68.7 billion from 1989 to 2009.  This year the USDA has declared  natural disasters  in more
than 1,800 counties in 35 states, or more than half of the
country’s total, mostly because of the dry, hot weather. Futures
prices for corn surged 57 percent since mid-June through
yesterday. Soybeans were up 31 percent and wheat 40 percent.  Crop Sales  The sale of crops this year will result in an estimated
$222.1 billion for farmers, up 6.7 percent from the year before,
according to the USDA projections. Receipts from livestock and
livestock products will total $165.8 billion, down 0.1 percent.
Farm-related income, a category that includes government-backed
crop-insurance payments, will be up 32 percent to $34.5 billion,
while other federal subsidies will rise 6.3 percent to $11.1
billion, the USDA said.  Some agricultural sectors are faring better than others.
Corn and soybean producers will see record income, buoyed by
high prices for farmers who have crops and insurance for those
who don’t. Meanwhile,  milk receipts  will fall 11 percent and
livestock income will stay flat as dairymen and ranchers deal
with feed costs that will jump 13 percent, the USDA said.  The differences among producers argue for a robust
insurance program, said Bob Young, chief economist for the
 American Farm Bureau Federation , the largest U.S. farmer group.  Corn Crop  “If you’re one of the lucky guys with something to sell,
you’re OK,” Young said yesterday in an interview. “If you’re
the guy who was expecting 180 bushels and you got 20, you need
something to help with your costs.”  This year’s corn crop, the country’s most valuable, will
total 10.779 billion bushels, 17 percent smaller than last year,
the USDA said this month.  Under the crop-insurance system, the government covers
about 60 percent of premium costs. It shares profits with
private insurers some years and covers part of the payouts in
disaster years.  Because the programs are commonly based on average yields
over 10 years, future payouts will be lower in drought-struck
areas.  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in an e-mailed
statement that while “strong farm income” will help many
farmers and ranchers through the drought, “it is important to
remember that thousands of farm families, particularly livestock
and dairy producers, continue to struggle.” Vilsack repeated
his call for Congress to pass a new farm bill that will provide
“more certainty” for agricultural producers.  Farm Bill  Phone calls and e-mails seeking comment from  Debbie Stabenow  of  Michigan , the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate
Agriculture Committee, and Republican Representative  Frank Lucas 
of  Oklahoma , Stabenow’s House counterpart, were not returned.  A plan that would provide $383 million in aid to livestock
producers, who aren’t covered by government-backed insurance,
has stalled in Congress, as have efforts to pass a bill
governing agricultural policy for the next five years, before
current law expires Sept. 30. Both the House Agriculture
Committee and the  U.S. Senate  have approved bills that would
eliminate about $5 billion in annual subsidies paid directly to
farmers while boosting other support programs, including
insurance, by smaller amounts.  New subsidies are needlessly extravagant in a time of
record deficits, according to Josh Sewell, a policy analyst for
the Washington-based group Taxpayers for Common Sense.
Essentially, government programs are eliminating the element of
risk from agriculture, he said.  “Agriculture’s been on a big run of record or near-record
profits for years,” he said. “What we have now isn’t a safety
net, it’s a springboard toward profits.”  In July, when his panel approved its farm bill, which
contains new funding for insurance programs, Lucas called the
legislation “a balanced, reform-minded, fiscally responsible
bill that underscores our commitment to production agriculture
and rural America.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  