-- Renesas Surges on Report of $1.3 Billion KKR Stake: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-08-29T02:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/renesas-shares-surge-on-report-of-1-3-billion-kkr-investment.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  surged the
most in almost three months in Tokyo trading after the Nikkei
reported  KKR & Co. (KKR)  will spend 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) on
new shares of the unprofitable Japanese chipmaker to take
control of the company.  Renesas jumped as much as 35 percent, the most on an
intraday basis since May 30, to 308 yen and traded at 299 yen as
of 11:02 a.m. The stock has dropped 37 percent this year. New
York-based KKR will take a controlling stake by the end of the
year, the Nikkei reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Kawasaki, Japan-based Renesas, whose  customers  include
Apple Inc. and Nintendo Co., is trying to end  losses  exacerbated
by falling demand for its system LSI chips, used for functions
ranging from processing images for TV screens to crunching data.
The company’s major shareholders agreed in July to provide
Renesas with loans to help cover costs including worker buyouts
and reorganization of its factories.  “Investors who thought Renesas would go bankrupt and sold
the shares bought them again after today’s report,”  Takeo Miyamoto , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said today by phone.
“Considering the record of the current management, it may lead
to positive changes if KKR shakes up the management.”  Renesas isn’t the source of the Nikkei report, the company
said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Steve Okun, a
Hong Kong-based spokesman for KKR, declined to comment.  Formal Agreement  A formal agreement will be made next month between the main
creditor banks of Kawasaki, Japan-based Renesas and its
shareholders including  NEC Corp. (6701) ,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Mitsubishi
Electric Corp. (6503) , the Nikkei said. NEC and Mitsubishi Electric
declined to comment, and Hitachi didn’t immediately return a
phone call seeking comment.  NEC, which holds a stake of about 35 percent in Renesas,
rose 5.6 percent to 113 yen in Tokyo trading.  Japan ’s chipmakers have struggled as  South Korea ’s  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  extended its dominance. Boise, Idaho-based
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  agreed in July to buy Tokyo-based Elpida
Memory Inc., after Elpida filed for  bankruptcy protection .  Renesas plans to cut 5,000 jobs and may close or sell as
many as nine of its 18 domestic factories to help end losses,
after falling demand for TVs and a drop in prices for computer
chips eroded earnings.  Microcontroller Business  The chipmaker’s three  main shareholders , NEC, Hitachi and
Mitsubishi Electric, will provide 49.5 billion yen in loans to
Renesas in October, they said July 31. Banks including
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) 
and  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309)  have a basic agreement
with Renesas to continue offering about 50 billion yen in lines
of credit to the chipmaker, two people with knowledge of the
matter said in May.  Renesas plans to increase its focus on making
microcontrollers, used in cars and TVs. The business has an
operating profit margin of at least 10 percent, Renesas said in
June.  The company had a 27 percent share of the global
microcontroller market last year, making it the world’s largest
manufacturer of the products. It plans to raise the share to 35
percent in five years by targeting  emerging markets , and an
alliance with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. will help
cut costs and widen profit margins, Renesas said in June.  Renesas forecasts it will return to an  operating profit 
this fiscal year, it  said  Aug. 2. Operating profit, or sales
minus the cost of goods sold and selling, general and
administrative expenses, may be 21 billion yen for the 12 months
ending March 31, compared with a loss of 56.8 billion yen a year
earlier, Renesas said.  Renesas was formed in 2010 through the merger of money-
losing chipmakers Renesas Technology Corp., a venture between
Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric, and NEC Electronics Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  