-- Republican Platform Is More Important Than You Think
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-08-29T22:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/republican-platform-is-more-important-than-you-think.html
A  poll  released Monday by the Pew
Research Center for the People and the Press included an
unexpected result: Americans say they are more interested in the
party platforms released during the conventions than the
speeches. That is to say, forget the pageantry; voters want the
cold, hard pdf documents.  That must be a letdown for the two campaigns -- like
discovering the guests at your wedding are really there to see
your aunts and uncles. But it shows real wisdom on the part of
the American people. Parties, and the platforms they produce,
often matter more than candidates.  Take President  Barack Obama . He campaigned as a different
kind of Democrat, one unleashed from the hoary controversies,
stale ideas and bitter arguments of yesteryear. His central
policy difference with rivals  Hillary Clinton  and  John Edwards 
was that their health-care plans included an individual mandate
and his didn’t. His great promise was that he would change
 Washington  in ways the others couldn’t.  After becoming president, Obama governed from the center of
his party, building an individual mandate into his health-care
bill, backing cap-and-trade legislation developed by  House
Democrats , and supporting a slew of ideas that had been floating
around Democratic Party circles for years -- the Lily Ledbetter
Act, new tobacco regulations, an expansion of the Children’s
Health Insurance Program, green energy credits. If you had known
only that a Democratic candidate had won the presidency in 2008
(without knowing which particular candidate), you could’ve
largely predicted the agenda just the same.  Useful Document  That’s neither criticism nor compliment; it’s simply the
reality of our two-party political system, which doesn’t afford
presidents or individual legislators much power to take action
on their own. Consequently, the quadrennial party platform is a
useful document, reflecting the compromises hammered out among
relevant players: activists, interest groups and the
presidential campaign. After spending weeks haggling over
language, they emerge with a political vision that all can live,
and govern, with.  That produces some oddities. The 2012 Republican  platform 
warns against “our dependence on foreign imports of fertilizer,”
for example, while demanding that “any value added tax or
national  sales tax  must be tied to the simultaneous repeal of
the Sixteenth Amendment, which established the federal income
 tax .” It recommends the formation of a commission to study
whether we should return to the gold standard, the last vestige
of which was abandoned under President  Richard Nixon .  Too often, discussion of party platforms begins and ends
with such wacky bits. It shouldn’t. The Republican platform
takes up a consequential 62 pages. The section on economic
recovery, for example, is quite detailed about the party’s
reigning philosophy of economic growth and how to achieve it.
The main problem it cites is too much government; the solution
is to cut spending, cut regulations and unleash the private
sector to perform its wonders.  The platform states: “Our vision of an opportunity society
stands in stark contrast to the current Administration’s
policies that expand entitlements and guarantees, create new
public programs, and provide expensive government bailouts. That
road has created a culture of dependency, bloated government,
and massive debt.”  Three Theories  What’s notable about this is how unrelated it is to our
current predicament. Regarding the  labor market , for instance,
most economists subscribe to one of three theories about what’s
gone wrong. Some think we’ve had a terrible shock to demand, and
the way to get the economy moving again is for government to
support demand while consumers dig out from under debt and
businesses wait to see what direction the economy takes. Others
think the bursting of the credit bubble has exposed a
misalignment of skills underlying the American economy, in which
workers know too much about construction, a depressed sector,
and not enough about high-skills manufacturing, an ascendant
one. Still others think the  Federal Reserve  is simply doing a
shoddy job, that if the Fed were willing to lean hard into
unconventional policies and uncork a bit of inflation it would
change investor expectations about the future and get the
economy moving again. (Some economists think it’s a bit of all
three.)  The virtue of these theories is that each addresses what’s
actually happening in the labor market -- why unemployment is
above 8 percent today when it was below 6 percent just a few
years ago. The  Republican Party ’s explanation doesn’t. In fact,
long-run projections for the size of government are not very
different today than they were before Obama became president,
and the economy began tanking well before the Republicans were
out of power.  Of course, individual Republicans don’t all share the views
of the platform drafters. Among the economic advisers to  Mitt
Romney , the party’s presidential nominee,  Harvard University ’s
Greg Mankiw has argued for radically more aggressive monetary
policy -- up to and including permitting more inflation -- while
 Columbia University ’s  Glenn Hubbard  has called for mass
refinancing of mortgages. (Among prominent Republican
politicians, however, the most popular explanation for the
financial crisis seems to be the erroneous belief that the
Community Reinvestment Act, enacted in 1977, and other
government efforts to promote homeownership in minority
communities, are responsible.)  Such differences actually underscore the value of a party
platform, which takes the cacophonous argument that is a
political party and forces its various components to agree on
what problems they acknowledge, and which solutions they’re
willing to propose. So if you want to know what the Republican
Party really thinks, as opposed to what the Republican Party
believes will win votes, take some time away from this week’s
convention. Read the platform.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 