-- Republicans Vow to Transform Obama’s U.S. by Less Government
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-08-29T16:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/republicans-vow-to-transform-obama-s-u-s-with-low-tax-freedom.html
The Republican Party platform
promises to replace what it criticizes as President  Barack Obama ’s debt-swollen entitlement society with “a roaring job
market to match a roaring economy.”  The platform reflects the influence of presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , offering as the remedy for the nation’s
economic ills a familiar recipe of low taxes, light regulation,
expanded oil drilling and free enterprise. It vows to reduce
personal and corporate taxes, repeal Obama’s health-care law,
promote small businesses and avoid taxpayer bailouts of troubled
financial institutions.  The 62-page  roadmap , approved by a voice vote of the
delegates yesterday at the party’s national convention in Tampa,
 Florida , promotes expanded trade and accuses the Obama
administration of “a virtual surrender” to commercial rival
 China . The Asian country is stealing American  trade secrets ,
manipulating its currency to make its exports cheaper, and
hampering U.S. firms trying to sell to Chinese customers, the
Republicans say.  Republicans call for banks to be “well-capitalized” and
pledge to repeal the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial-regulation law.  Along with major economic policy shifts, the Republicans
vow to transform the size and scope of government. Trillion-
dollar annual  budget deficits  and mounting debt are harming job
growth, they say. “The massive federal government is
structurally and financially broken,” the platform says.  Medicare Overhaul  Republicans propose overhauling the Medicare program, which
spent $549 billion last year on health insurance for 49 million
Americans. Instead of government-paid health care, senior
citizens would receive financial help to purchase private
insurance, with no changes for those currently older than 55.  With a nod to “the wisdom of the framers,” the platform
refers to the U.S. Constitution as an “owner’s manual” for
running the country. Celebrating limited government, it promises
that a Republican administration would “get our country back on
track.”  Republicans also offer a “salute” to state officials such
as  Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker  who have acted to limit
public-employee unions, and the platform urges “elected
officials across the country to follow their lead.”  At a Bloomberg/ Washington  Post media breakfast today in
Tampa, Walker said Republicans could win a November election
focused on the anemic economic recovery by emphasizing their
“reform” credentials.  ‘Fiscal Crisis’  “Clearly in America, just like we have in Wisconsin, the
issues that people are concerned about is: We face an economic
and a fiscal crisis,” Walker said.  The Republican blueprint paints a vision of a failed Obama
administration, guilty of saddling future generations with debt
and grooming citizens for a “culture of dependency.” Its
attack upon “expensive government bailouts” doesn’t
acknowledge that the first bailout, the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, began in 2008 under Republican President  George W. Bush .  The platform says the “chief cause” of high unemployment,
which has topped  8 percent  since February 2009, is
“unprecedented uncertainty” caused by Obama’s policies.  A Romney administration would “propose immediate
reductions in federal spending as a down payment on the much
larger task of long-range fiscal control.”  More Gridlock  If the platform were enacted, any tax increase would
require a congressional super-majority with exceptions made only
during wartime or national emergencies. The Republicans also
promise to cap  government spending  at its historic average to
prevent future Congresses from balancing the budget with tax
increases.  If kept, that promise would continue gridlock in
Washington, where Democrats insist on what they call a
“balanced” approach to closing the deficit with a mix of tax
increases and spending cuts.  Echoing a longtime demand of libertarian Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , the platform calls for an annual audit of the
 Federal Reserve . And it proposes a commission to investigate
“possible ways to set a fixed value for the dollar,” a
reference to a potential revival of the gold standard.  The campaign document labels  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
government-sponsored mortgage financiers, as “a primary cause
of the housing crisis because their implicit government
guarantee allowed them to avoid market discipline and make risky
investments.”  Alternative Energy  That view, though widely held among conservatives, has been
rejected by the Federal Reserve and three of the four
Republicans on the government commission that investigated the
2008 financial meltdown.  The Republican plan also criticizes Obama administration
programs that fund emergent  alternative energy  technologies,
saying, “Taxpayers should not serve as venture capitalists for
risky endeavors.”  Instead, it urges opening more areas to oil and gas
exploration, including the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, the
Outer Continental Shelf, and adopting a “reasoned approach” to
drilling in East Coast waters. It praises coal as a “low-cost
and abundant energy source” while criticizing environmental
regulation that it characterizes as a “war on coal.”  The Republicans would expand nuclear energy and commit to
approving the Keystone XL Pipeline, which the Obama
administration denied a permit earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  