-- Resignation Shows Divisions Hindering Syria’s Opposition
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-08-29T10:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/resignation-shows-divisions-hindering-syria-s-opposition.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
said the battle his government is fighting against rebels needs
time to be resolved and the “situation is better now.”  Assad’s remarks, made in an interview with local Addunia
television, came as rifts emerged within one of the main
opposition groups, the exile-led Syrian National Council. Bassma
Kodmani, a Paris-based academic turned activist, said she was
quitting the organization “because of a difference of views
over how to move forward.”  Senior government officials have also made contradictory
statements on the future of the Syrian leadership. Deputy
Foreign Minister Fayssal Mekdad, speaking in an interview in
Tehran yesterday, said that keeping Assad as president was “the
sovereign will of the Syrian people,” in contrast to remarks by
Deputy Prime Minister Qadri Jamil, who last week said Assad’s
departure might be discussed if there were talks with rebels.
The U.S. has said he must leave.  United Nations  efforts to end the 17-month conflict have
faltered as military monitors left the country last week and the
organization’s envoy,  Kofi Annan , this month resigned and
accused world powers of “finger-pointing and name-calling.”
The pullback has been accompanied by an upsurge of fighting,
with battles engulfing areas of the country’s two biggest
cities, Damascus and Aleppo.  Airport Attack  Rebels destroyed 10 helicopters at an airport near Idlib,
Al Jazeera television reported, airing footage of the attack.
Syrian security forces killed at least 142 people across the
country yesterday, Al Arabiya television reported, citing the
Syrian Network for  Human Rights .  More than 23,000 lives have been lost during the unrest,
the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights estimates.  The United Nations refugee agency warned yesterday that the
tide of Syrians leaving the country was rising. The number
reaching northern  Jordan  doubled to 10,000 in the week to Aug.
27, the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees said on its website.  At least 26 Jordanian security personnel were injured, one
of them in critical condition during clashes with Syrian
refugees protesting poor services inside Al-Zeaytar camp, state-
run Petra News Agency said yesterday.  Turkey  now hosts more than 80,000 refugees and has asked
the UN Security Council to discuss how the costs can be shared
more widely, Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  told reporters in
Ankara on Aug. 27.  Buffer Zone  “We’ll emphasize that from now on it shouldn’t just be
 Syria ’s neighbors -- Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon,  Iraq  -- that must
shoulder the burden, but the entire international community,”
he said.  Assad, who has vowed to crush the rebellion, said talk of
an international buffer zone on Syrian soil “is not practical,
even for those countries which are playing a hostile role”
against his regime.  Iran ’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi , yesterday called
on delegates attending the Non-Aligned Movement summit in Tehran
to consider the “restoration of peace and tranquility in Syria
as a main agenda” item, Iran’s Fars news agency reported.  Mekdad praised Iran’s stance as “positive and excellent.”
He said the opposition has given a “negative response” to
negotiations and seeks to implement a “Zionist, U.S. and
Western solution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yeganeh Salehi in Dubai at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  