-- Rhode Island Setting Standard for Bondholders’ Love: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/rhode-island-setting-standard-for-bondholders-love-muni-credit.html
Central Falls , the first city in
 Rhode Island ’s 222-year history to go bankrupt, is preparing to
exit court protection after 13 months by keeping bondholders
whole while raising taxes and cutting workers and pensions.  The financial and political support Central Falls got from
state officials makes the case unique among municipal
bankruptcies in the past year from  Alabama  to  California .  Yet “there are great lessons to be learned here,” said
Theodore Orson, who represented the state-appointed receiver 
overseeing the bankruptcy and is a lawyer with Orson & Brusini in 
Providence. Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , which localities 
can use to cut debt as companies use Chapter 11, “can be effectively 
utilized to fix what appeared to be a broken city,” Orson said.  A proposed resolution is set for review in federal
 bankruptcy court  in Providence Sept. 6. The city’s plan to cut
debt doesn’t impose losses on bondholders and may let them
recover legal fees. State lawmakers also put investors ahead of
other creditors by letting them put liens on city tax revenue.
Rhode Island helped ease the pain of retirees and workers,
providing $2.6 million to cushion pension cuts.  ‘Good Sign’  By contrast, Alabama state lawmakers refused to let
Jefferson County raise taxes, prolonging the biggest U.S.
municipal bankruptcy by months. California took away
redevelopment tax money, contributing to two cities’ insolvency.  The Central Falls approach “is a good sign for bondholders
of Rhode Island bonds compared to, say, California,” said Alan Schankel, head of fixed-income research at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC, an investment bank in Philadelphia.  Stockton, California, targeted lenders including
bondholders when it sought court protection in June for the
community of 296,000. It was one of three such filings in the
state since June. Last year, there were 14 local-government
insolvencies nationwide, including special tax districts,
compared with six in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rhode Island has labored under the lingering effects of the
longest recession since World War II, with one of the nation’s
highest  jobless rates . For Central Falls, the difficulties date
to at least 1991, when the state took over its school district’s
finances.  Cocaine Capital  Dubbed the Cocaine Capital of  New England  by Rolling Stone
magazine in 1986, it is the state’s smallest city, at 1.2 square
miles (3.1 square kilometers) and a population of about 19,400,
according to U.S. Census Bureau data. A quarter of the
population lives in poverty, double the state average.  Residents resent that $3 million has been spent on lawyers
while their  community center  was closed and the public library
turned over to a nonprofit group, said state Senator Elizabeth Crowley, a Central Falls Democrat. The city remains in a state
of disrepair with potholed streets, she said, while bondholders
have continued to be paid.  “I will never be able to retire because they had to
protect their precious bond rating,” said Don Cardin, 47, a
former fire department battalion chief. His monthly pension fell
to $2,100 from $2,800 and is set to drop to $1,250 in five
years. Like many government workers, firefighters in the city
don’t participate in the federal Social Security system.  Market Access  The approach to resolving the bankruptcy will help the city
regain access to the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market , said
Janney’s Schankel.  “Central Falls will be penalized by the market going
forward for awhile, but they have a shot at crawling their way
back,” Schankel said. “They will be able to borrow because the
process worked out OK for bondholders.”  Central Falls securities maturing in May 2015 traded on
Aug. 9 at an average of about 92 cents on the dollar to yield
9.33 percent, or about nine percentage points more than top-
rated debt with a similar maturity, Bloomberg Valuation data
show. On Dec. 20, the securities traded at about seven
percentage points above a AAA  index .  In the broader muni market yesterday, yields fell in most
maturities, tracking gains in Treasuries. Yields on top-rated
tax-exempts due in 10 years fell 0.02 percentage point to 1.80
percent, the lowest in about two weeks, Bloomberg Valuation  data 
show.  Less Complex  The city’s case differs from the bankruptcies in
California, according to  Marc Levinson , an Orrick Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP lawyer in  Sacramento  who represents Stockton.  “Central Falls is a much smaller city than San Bernardino,
Vallejo or Stockton,” Levinson said by e-mail. “Its debt
structure was not nearly as complex.”  Levinson also worked for Vallejo, the California city that
has spent about $11 million over three years to exit a Chapter 9
case that began in 2008. San Bernardino, with 213,000 residents,
filed for bankruptcy this month.  Central Falls is asking citizens and retirees to absorb
higher taxes and reduced benefits after Rhode Island Treasurer
Gina Raimondo last year spearheaded an overhaul of the state’s
pensions. The revamp included measures such as delaying
retirement and offering workers 401(k)-type plans.  Under the Central Falls plan, the city’s payroll will fall
to 121 jobs from 174 in May, according to Rosemary Booth Gallogly, the state’s revenue director who oversaw negotiations
with creditors. Pensions will be cut as much as 55 percent for
133 municipal retirees, while no one will get less than $10,000
a year, court documents show. They will also be required to pay
20 percent of their health-care costs until they turn 65 and
become eligible for the federal Medicare program.  State Promises  Retirees accepted the proposal after the state promised to
supplement pensions for five years. After an earlier receiver
put the city in bankruptcy, municipal workers agreed to new
contracts with lower benefits, helping expedite the Chapter 9
process, said Orson.  “I would consider it a model,” Gallogly said. “I don’t
want to make it sound like this was easy and anybody could go
through this process. It’s an unfortunate chapter, and I hope
all Rhode Island cities and towns will learn by it.”  The plan also includes annual 4 percent property-tax
increases through 2017. It closes almost $26 million in deficits
projected over six years in annual budgets averaging about $18
million. Rhode Island covered more than $3 million in legal
fees, which the city will have to repay starting in 2017,
Gallogly said.  Payments Priority  Last year, Governor Lincoln Chafee, an independent, ensured
investors holding $27 million of Central Falls debt would be
protected when he signed a law giving them a lien on tax and
general revenue.  “We don’t want Central Falls to become a contagion that
spreads around the state,” Gallogly said in September. “We
want to show very clearly that our priority is to pay these
obligations.”  Moody’s Investors Service in June said the city’s credit
rating, seven steps below investment grade at Caa1, might be
raised.  “You take the bonds being held hostage out of the
equation,” said  James Spiotto , a bankruptcy lawyer in  Chicago 
with Chapman & Cutler LLP.  The case is In re City of Central Falls, 11-13105,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Rhode Island (Providence).  Following are pending sales:  ARKANSAS is set to issue $225 million of general-obligation
bonds as soon as next month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The bonds are secured by Federal Highway Grant Anticipation and
Tax Revenue and will help finance interstate highways, according
to bond documents. (Added Aug. 29)  FLORIDA MUNICIPAL POWER AGENCY plans to sell a combined
$140 million of debt as soon as today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The issuance will refund debt and finance
capital projects, according to sale documents. (Updated Aug. 29)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 