-- Romney Win to Drive Russia Stocks Down 10%, Citigroup Says
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-08-29T15:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/romney-win-to-drive-russia-stocks-down-10-citigroup-says-2-.html
A victory for  Mitt Romney  in this
year’s U.S. presidential elections may drive  Russian stocks  down
as much as 10 percent, according to Citigroup Inc.  Romney was confirmed yesterday as the  Republican Party ’s
candidate to stand against President  Barack Obama  in the
November election.  The former governor of  Massachusetts  sees  Russia  as
America’s “No. 1 geopolitical foe” and has criticized Obama’s
delay of plans for a missile defense system in eastern Europe.
With two thirds of the Russian stock market’s freefloat owned by
foreign investors -- about half in U.S. funds -- changing
relations between the two countries are likely to affect the
market, according to a Citigroup note today.  “Romney is calling Russia U.S.’s number one geopolitical
foe so clearly Romney’s victory would mean a downturn for the
Russian market, at least initially,”  Kingsmill Bond ,
Citigroup’s chief Russia strategist, said by phone today.  In case Romney as president pursues a “Cold War-style
agenda,” Citigroup expects a “powerful reaction” from
President  Vladimir Putin , according to the note.  “If Obama is concerned about restraining those domestic
forces which would unleash cold war rhetoric, then it appears
that Romney would encourage this process,” Citigroup analysts
said in the report.  Russia Critic  During his July 31 speech in Warsaw, Poland, as part of the
candidate’s six-day international trip, Romney criticized
Russian leaders, saying their “once-promising advances toward a
free and open society have faltered.”  Romney’s intention to reduce regulation and increase
domestic production of oil and gas would also decrease European
energy reliance on Russia, according to Citigroup.  An Obama victory remains the “base-case” scenario,
Citigroup said in the note.  Russian equities trade at the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg. The  Micex (INDEXCF)   trades  at 5.3
times estimated earnings after gaining 2.5 percent this year.
That compares with 9.9 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, which has added 4 percent.  The Micex fell 0.9 percent to 1,437.14 by the close in
Moscow, the lowest level since Aug. 20.  A Romney victory would be “beneficial” for Russia’s
defense companies, Citigroup said. Stocks “most at risk” would
be those favored by Western investors, including OAO Magnit,
Russia’s largest food retailer, OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest
lender, OAO Novatek, OAO Mobile TeleSystems and Globaltrans
Investments Plc, according to Citigroup.  MTS dropped 1.6 percent to 240.91 rubles. Novatek fell 1.4
percent to 361.60 rubles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  