-- Romney Adviser Blasts ‘Phony’ Antitrust Probe of Google
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-08-29T19:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/romney-adviser-blasts-phony-antitrust-probe-of-google.html
Charlie Black , a veteran Republican
strategist and adviser to GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
criticized “phony antitrust suits” at an event co-sponsored by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , a lobbying client whose competitive practices are
under U.S. investigation.  “Phony antitrust suits that are completely unnecessary are
a distraction” hindering technological innovation in the U.S.,
Black said at a panel discussion on economic development at the
Republican National Convention in Tampa, Florida. Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of  Bloomberg News , co-sponsored the event.  The Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether
 Mountain View , California-based Google is abusing its dominance
as operator of the world’s most popular search engine.  The FTC is focusing on whether Google unfairly ranks search
results to favor its own businesses and increases advertising
rates for competitors, people familiar with the investigation
have said. The agency also is examining whether the company uses
its control of the Android mobile operating system to discourage
smartphone and device makers from using rivals’ applications,
the people said.  Black’s firm, Prime Policy Group, received $70,000 in
lobbying income from Google during the first quarter of this
year, according to  disclosures  filed with the  U.S. Senate .  Black said during a brief interview after the panel
discussion that he was referring to the federal investigation of
Google.  “The FTC and the  Justice Department  are fighting over who
gets to go after Google, because they’re big and successful,”
Black said. “The FTC’s mandate is to protect consumers. Where
are the consumers that are hurt?”  Black said the fault lies with Democratic political
appointees’ exercise of discretion in antitrust enforcement.  Kent Walker, Google’s general counsel, and Rachel Whetstone, the company’s senior vice president for
communications and public policy, were among those in attendance
as Black spoke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  