-- Russia Demand Prompting Audi to Rolls Boom Eluding Europe
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2012-08-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/russia-demand-prompting-audi-to-rolls-boom-eluding-europe.html
Igor Skibar describes his first car,
a Soviet-era Lada purchased about 20 years ago, as a
“nightmare.” He’s since moved on to a Volvo XC90 sport-utility
vehicle, and this summer he bought a  Land Rover (TTMT)  Discovery 4 for
about 2 million rubles ($62,400).  “I need a respectable car to visit clients and travel
outside the city,” said the 41-year-old bank executive from the
St. Petersburg area. “I earn enough money to do it with
ultimate comfort on bad Russian roads.”  Skibar’s shift upmarket is a reflection of the growing
class of wealthy consumers in the former communist country.
Fueled by an economy based on  Russia ’s abundant natural
resources, the number of households able to afford  luxury goods 
is forecast to rise to 13 million by 2025 from 7 million in
2010, according to consulting company Capgemini.  Those growth prospects are prompting high-end carmakers to
expand their presence in the country.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Porsche
plans to double the number of dealers to 36 over the next six
years. Audi is adding showrooms as it targets 30,000 car
deliveries this year, double its sales from 2009.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  will add about 20 outlets by 2018, a third more
than today.  At the Moscow International Automobile Salon, which opens
tomorrow and features more than double the exhibition space from
the last show in 2010, BMW will introduce an updated version of
its top-of-the-line 7-Series sedan.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
plans to present a high-performance AMG version of the GL SUV,
and Porsche will show the 420-horsepower GTS variant of the
Cayenne SUV.  $75 Billion Market  Russia is poised to surpass  Germany  as  Europe ’s largest
auto market by 2014, with sales rising to 3.4 million vehicles,
according to the Russian Industry Ministry. As more buyers
choose upscale cars, total revenues for automakers will increase
19 percent to $75 billion this year, outpacing the 10 percent
gain in vehicle sales, according to Russian market researcher
Autostat.  Lada (AVAZ) , Russia’s dominant brand, has been largely left out of
the move upscale. The only domestic carmaker among the country’s
10 top-selling nameplates, Lada offers mostly low-end cars such
as the Kalina compact and the Niva, a boxy 4X4 that dates from
the Leonid Brezhnev era. Lada’s market share fell to 18 percent
in the first half from 24 percent a year earlier.  Renault SA (RNO) , the No. 2 brand in Russia in the first half,
and its alliance partner  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , agreed in May to raise
their stake in Lada’s parent, OAO AvtoVAZ to 74.5 percent from
25 percent today. The group is aiming for combined market share
of 40 percent by 2015 from 33 percent last year, though Lada
will anchor the lower end of the lineup while more expensive
cars will bear the foreign nameplates.  Growth Potential  BMW plans to open a new training center for employees and
dealers in Russia next year and intends to expand its network of
BMW and Mini outlets to 80 from 61 by 2018. The carmaker’s
Rolls-Royce brand opened a second dealership in Moscow in July,
making the Russian capital the second city, after  New York , with
more than one showroom.  “We’re continuing to invest in Russia because we believe
in the Russian luxury market’s future growth potential,” said
 Ian Robertson , who heads sales for BMW.  Volkswagen is looking to catch up. Its Porsche sports-car
brand is drumming up interest with a road show in Russia to
encourage test drives. Bentley, the German automaker’s ultra-
luxury nameplate, is featuring the Continental GT Speed, its
fastest model ever, at the Moscow auto exhibition.  Biggest Potential  “Russia offers the biggest growth potential for the
luxury-car segment worldwide,” said Jan-Henrik Lafrentz,
Bentley’s finance chief. He expects the brand to double its
sales there “in the near future” as it adds showrooms.  Nissan is also stepping up its high-end offerings in
Russia. This summer, the Japanese carmaker began assembling the
Infiniti FX SUV at its  St. Petersburg  factory, where it also
makes the Nissan Murano SUV.  “The facility will focus on popular premium models with
the highest profit margins,” said Dmitry Mikhailov, the plant’s
director.  The expansion in Russia marks a sharp contrast to the
European Union, where car sales are expected to decline 7
percent this year to the lowest level since 1995, according to
the auto-industry association ACEA. That’s making a strong
presence in Russia more critical for high-end carmakers to
remain competitive.  Europe Offset  “Russia is starting to close the gap for us to Germany and
the U.K. volume-wise,” said Doug Speck, sales chief for Volvo
Car Corp. “We’ve taken the forecast for Russia up three times
this year” and are now targeting sales of more than 20,000 cars
there, at least 18 percent more than 2011.  The brand’s sales surged 50 percent in Russia through June,
compared with an 8.2 percent slump in western Europe, according
to data from industry associations.  The Russian boom is creating opportunities for dealers like
Evgeny Voitenkov. The president of St. Petersburg-based Olymp
Group, one of the oldest official Mercedes-Benz dealers in
Russia, added Porsche to his portfolio three years ago after
seeing that demand for high-end cars remained stable even when
the economy contracted.  “The number of rich people is growing,” Voitenkov said.
“Luxury cars sales will have a bright future in Russia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  