-- Ryan Readies Speech in Bid to Rally Base, Soothe Undecideds
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-08-29T21:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/ryan-readies-for-speech-in-bid-to-rally-base-soothe-undecideds.html
Paul Ryan  was putting the finishing
touches on a prime-time speech aimed at rallying the Republican
base and drawing in swing voters when he takes center stage
tonight at the party’s national convention in Tampa.  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , who selected
Ryan as his running mate, courted veterans today in Indianapolis
at the annual conference of the  American Legion . He told the
gathering that President  Barack Obama ’s “greatest failure” is
not delivering on jobs for those returning from service. He also
said he would make “a personal priority” to overhaul the
Veterans Administration to make it more efficient  Ryan, 42, faces the task of not alienating independent
voters who may be alarmed by his government-shrinking, budget-
cutting ideas and proposal to turn Medicare into a voucher
program.  “He has to prove to the American people that he’s not the
extremist that the liberal mainstream media is trying to paint
him to be,” said Jim Pinkerton, a Republican strategist and a
co-chairman of RATE Coalition, an organization working to
overhaul the  tax code .  Ryan, who arrived in Tampa last night, was spending much of
today in his hotel room near the convention center preparing his
address.  Michael Steel , a spokesman, said the Wisconsin
congressman was “spending the day with his family, and getting
ready for his speech tonight.”  Romney appeared on the convention podium last night after
his wife, Ann, lauded him in a speech as a man who will “lift
up America.”  Tuition Plan  In Indianapolis, Romney promised to offer in-state tuition
at any school across the country for veterans, ease the
credentialing process for them to work as mechanics and in other
fields, and improve their health care. He vowed to halt spending
reductions for defense programs that are part of $1.2 trillion
in automatic, across-the-board cuts over a decade due to start
in January under a debt deal reached last year.  “I will make reductions in other areas and install pro-
growth policies to make sure that our country remains safe and
secure,” he said.  The speech was an effort to link national security and
veteran affairs with the core economic themes of Romney’s
campaign.  Romney returned to Tampa after his remarks to spend the
evening in his hotel suite with his family watching convention
speeches. Aides said his plans could change and he may decide to
make an appearance on the convention floor.  Speech Preparation  Romney has been preparing his Republican convention speech
for months by reading past addresses, talking to advisers and
jotting down possible themes as he’s campaigned across the
country.  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , the party’s 2008 presidential
nominee, and  Condoleezza Rice , former secretary of state for
President  George W. Bush , are among the headline speakers
preceding Ryan tonight, turning the focus of the gathering to
foreign policy.  In an interview today with Fox News Channel, Rice said she
planned to underscore the “need for America to speak with a
voice that the world can hear.”  Ryan, 42, had no public events scheduled for the day,
giving him time to make any final changes to his speech and
relax before one of the biggest nights of his career.  “He’s preparing and he’ll probably look at his speech a
couple more times,” said Republican Representative  Kevin McCarthy  of  California , the House majority whip. “He’ll spend
some time with his family, walk out and knock it out of the
park,” he said.  Exercise Program  “I imagine he did P90 this morning,” said McCarthy,
referring to the workout routine that he and Ryan often do
together. “He calls me from the road and he’s keeping up with
it.”  Democrats were busy highlighting Ryan’s calls for deep cuts
to programs such as Medicare.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, the top
Democrat on the House Budget Committee that Ryan heads, said the
Republican attacks on the Medicare cuts in Obama’s 2010 health-
care law  are “a calculated, cynical effort to confuse
seniors” and “hide from seniors just how bad the Romney-Ryan
plan would be.”  ‘Muddy the Waters’  Joining  Van Hollen  at a Tampa news conference today,
 Stephanie Cutter , a deputy manager of Obama’s re-election
campaign, said Republicans are “trying to muddy the waters” on
Medicare because “they know how vulnerable they are on their
plan to turn Medicare into a voucher program.”  House Republicans  twice have approved legislation sponsored
by Ryan to convert Medicare to a voucher program. The plan would
rely on competition among private insurers to hold down health-
care costs. The measure would cut  government spending  by more
than $5 trillion, reduce taxes for high earners and balance the
budget in 2040.  Ryan’s original plan did away with the traditional Medicare
program entirely; he later agreed to continue a public option,
albeit with limits on how much the government would spend. The
current Medicare system would remain for everyone now
participating, and everyone at least 55 years old now would
receive the traditional fee-for-service program with no caps on
expenditures when they turn 65.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Tampa, Florida at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Lerer in Indianapolis, Indiana, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  