-- Samsung Note Could Use Some Infringing: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-08-29T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/samsung-note-could-use-some-infringing-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Here’s a word to  Apple (AAPL) ’s patent
lawyers: Trust me, no one will mistake the stylus-based Samsung
Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet for an iPad. Which is actually too bad
for would-be buyers, because the new Note doesn’t measure up to
the competition.  The tablet builds on Samsung’s Galaxy Note 5.3, a similarly
stylus-equipped smartphone that came out earlier this year and
provides a certain level of geeky fun on a five-inch screen.  Something about its size, and the fact that as a phone it’s
always with you, seems to encourage a grab-and-go spontaneity
that’s missing from the tablet version. The Galaxy Note 10.1
offers a lot more screen, but a lot less fun.  Unlike its smaller cousin, the 10.1 is a Wi-Fi-only device.
There’s no option to connect over a cellular network, as you can
with the phone or with the  AT&T (T)  or  Verizon (VZ)  Wireless versions of
the iPad. It starts at $500 for a model with 16 gigabytes of
storage, the same as a Wi-Fi iPad.  At 0.35 of an inch thick and 1.31 pounds, the Galaxy Note
is a smidgen thinner and lighter than the iPad. But the way
Samsung achieves its advantage is by making the tablet seem
plasticky and cut-rate.  Not only can you actually feel the back flex when you push
on it, which raises some questions about its durability, but
there’s even a visible distortion on the screen where your
finger is pressing. I’ve never seen that on a tablet before.  Skimpy  The Galaxy Note also skimps on the screen, which is usually
among the strongest selling points for any  Samsung (005930)  device. (Just
check out the dazzling display on, say, Samsung’s Galaxy S III
smartphones.)  The tablet’s 1280 by 800 resolution means its picture is
made up of a little over a million pixels. That sounds like a
lot -- until you realize that the Retina Display on the iPad
packs more than three million pixels into a similar amount of
real estate.  There isn’t anything hugely wrong with the screen: Movies
and photos look all right. But in an area where Samsung products
normally excel, it’s just pedestrian.  The Galaxy Note’s most distinguishing characteristic is, of
course, the stylus, which Samsung calls an S Pen. It hides so
well in a corner of the tablet that there’s a sticker on the
back to show you where to find it. Just keep close track of it:
A replacement costs $40.  Pen Apps  Remove the pen, and a menu automatically pops up showing
the pre-loaded apps that take advantage of it. These include
Samsung’s S Note, which lets you draw pictures and offers some
iffy handwriting recognition, and  Adobe (ADBE) ’s Photoshop Touch
editing software.  The Galaxy Note runs “Ice Cream Sandwich,” the next-to-
newest version of  Google (GOOG) ’s operating system, on top of which
Samsung has added its own interface and features.  Some of its tweaks are useful, like the ability to split
the screen to show some apps running side by side. I was able,
for instance, to display a  Microsoft (MSFT)  Word-compatible document in
the included Polaris Office app right next to the e-mail client,
and drag content from one to the other.  Other Samsung-specific enhancements are more questionable,
like the extra software button added to the standard Android
navigation that snaps a screenshot. It’s handy when you want to
grab a picture of a web page so you can annotate it with the
stylus; you can also permanently capture that masterpiece you
doodled. But I sometimes found myself hitting it by accident
when I was going for one of the neighboring, far-more-often-
useful Android controls.  Stereo Sound  The Galaxy Note has some nice touches. It has a pair of
speakers, as opposed to the single one on the iPad, and they
fire forward rather than downward. The result is audio that, if
it isn’t very loud, is recognizably stereo and of better quality
than you’ll find on many other tablets.  A microSD slot allows you to expand storage capacity. And
an infrared blaster lets the tablet double as a television
remote control; Samsung includes the  Peel  app, which learns your
viewing habits and suggests video content you might enjoy. On
the other hand, you won’t find its battery life coming close to
the iPad’s.  The late  Steve Jobs  famously detested the idea of using a
stylus. But if your heart really yearns for one, you still might
be better off buying an iPad and paying extra for an add-on pen.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  -- Editors: Zinta Lundborg, Jeremy Gerard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 