-- San Francisco Diesel Rises to Record on 7-Year Supply Low
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-08-29T22:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/san-francisco-diesel-rises-to-record-on-7-year-supply-low.html
Spot diesel in San Francisco rose to
the highest level against futures since at least 2007 after
inventories of the fuel in  California  dropped.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel inventories tumbled 15
percent, or 303,000 barrels, to 1.75 million in the week ended
Aug. 24, the state Energy Commission said by e-mail. That’s the
 lowest level  since August 2005 and the third weekly decline.  CARB diesel in San Francisco gained 3.5 cents to 33 cents a
gallon above heating oil futures on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange at 4:38 p.m. East Coast time, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the highest premium for the fuel since
Bloomberg began assessing prices there in November 2007.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle refinery
in Northern California cut diesel output last week after a
compressor failure at a hydrodesulfurization unit, a person with
direct knowledge of the upset said Aug. 21. The plant will have
to run at reduced capacity until new equipment can be installed
in the unit, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  The refinery is performing “unspecified maintenance,” and
the company is meeting product supply commitments, Tina Barbee,
a spokeswoman at Tesoro’s headquarters in  San Antonio , said by
e-mail earlier today.  CARB diesel in  Los Angeles  advanced 3 cents to 30.5 cents a
gallon above Nymex heating oil futures, the highest level in
more than nine months.  Richmond Refinery  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  has been producing fuels at a reduced
capacity at the 240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond refinery, the
largest in Northern California, since an Aug. 6 fire shut the
plant’s only crude unit.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s 158,000-barrel-a-day Martinez
refinery yesterday reported a planned shutdown of the
flexicoker, which converts heavy hydrocarbons into lighter oil
products, a filing with the Contra Costa County hazardous
materials division shows. Kayla Macke, a Shell spokeswoman in
Houston, didn’t return an e-mailed request for comment on the
shutdown yesterday.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles fell
for the second day, losing 3 cents to 22 cents a gallon above
Nymex gasoline futures. That’s the lowest premium for the fuel
in four days. Carbob in  San Francisco  slipped 2 cents to 24
cents a gallon over futures for the third consecutive decline.  Golden Eagle  Tesoro’s Golden Eagle refinery started an alkylation unit,
which makes a high-octane, gasoline-blending component,
yesterday, a filing with the Contra Costa County hazardous
materials division shows. The plant reported a “small leak” of
spent acid or hydrocarbons from the unit on Aug. 26, a separate
filing to the county shows.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, supplies rose 254,000
barrels, or 4.8 percent, to 5.5 million in the week ended Aug.
24, the state said. That’s the highest inventory level since the
week ended March 30. Production of the fuel slipped 1.9 percent
last week to 6.42 million barrels, the state said.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
jumped 23 cents to a premium of 27 cents a gallon after the fuel
began to be priced against October futures instead of the
September contract. Low-sulfur diesel in Portland increased 1.5
cents to 26.5 cents a gallon above heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  