-- HSBC Marks Plaza for Eviction of Hong Kong Occupy Protest
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-08-29T03:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/hsbc-marks-plaza-for-eviction-of-hong-kong-occupy-protest.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is marking out the
area in its  Hong Kong  ground floor plaza that has been occupied
by protesters for more than 10 months ahead of their eviction by
court-authorized officers.  Hong Kong’s  High Court  has issued a writ of possession
empowering a bailiff to re-possess the site, according to an
internal HSBC memo obtained by  Bloomberg News . Gareth Hewett, a
HSBC spokesman, confirmed the content of the memo.  “The process by which the bank takes back the plaza has
reached a new stage and is now in the hands of the bailiff,
whose job is to execute the writ,” according to the memo.  The Occupy Central protest in Hong Kong, one of the
longest-running demonstrations sparked by the  Occupy Wall Street 
movement, numbered about 50 at the peak. They were ordered by
the court to evacuate by 9 p.m. on Aug. 27. Three have
voluntarily left the ground floor of HSBC’s Asian headquarters,
according to the memo. Protesters in  New York  were evicted in
November and in London in June.  “Our consensus is that we will persist and stay till the
end,” according to a  statement  posted on the Facebook page of
Occupy Central today. “We are still staying on the ground floor
of HSBC’s building, to face the eviction from HSBC and the
bailiff which could come anytime.”  There were about 10 tents with 10 protesters, tables and
couches on the site at 11:00 a.m. today. HSBC will demarcate the
site to make clear areas for public passage through the plaza,
Hewett said.  Office Hours  An area would also be specified for the media to ensure
that they don’t obstruct the public, he said. The bailiff will
probably execute the writ during office hours, he said.  Journalists outnumbered protesters on the evening of Aug.
27, when a small band performed at the site.  While Hong Kong has seen its wealth gap widen to a record,
stoking public discontent, the Occupy Central movement has
failed to attract demonstrators equal in number to those who
took part in protest marches this year.  On July 1, the anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to  China ,
as many as 112,000 people took to the streets to demand more be
done about  income inequality , human rights in China and higher
minimum wages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  