-- Sberbank Shares Advance on Bet Earnings to Beat Estimates
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-29T03:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/sberbank-gains-on-bet-earnings-beat-estimates-russia-overnight.html
OAO Sberbank (SBRCY)  rose to a two-week high
in  New York  on speculation that second-quarter earnings will be
strong enough to prompt the Russian government to sell its stake
in the country’s largest lender.  Moscow-based Sberbank added 1.6 percent to the highest
since Aug. 10. Russian  equity futures  expiring in September on
the dollar-denominated RTS index fell 0.2 percent and the
 Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index (RUS14BN)  of the most traded Russian
companies in New York dropped to a one-week low.  OAO Mobile
TeleSystems (MBT)  slipped after taking a $1.08 billion writedown
against its operations in Uzbekistan.  Sberbank is scheduled to report earnings today as the
government assesses when to sell a 7.6 percent stake in eastern
 Europe ’s largest lender, part of a wider asset sales program.
The government has targeted September as a date to reduce its
57.6 percent stake in the bank, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in May. Investors are eager for the privatization
program to take place because it would reduce the government’s
ownership in its equity market, said Julian Rimmer of CF Global
Trading.  “If they want to do a big offering sometime soon, you have
to make sure the news flow is positive,” Rimmer said in a phone
interview yesterday. “In addition to its dependence on oil
price, Russia’s problem is the fact that the state owns too much
of the market. Fund managers will always penalize stocks,
sectors or markets that have heavy state involvement, so it
would be positive if they could sell the Sberbank stake.”  Russia ETF Slides  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest exchange-traded
fund of Russian shares, fell for a second day, losing 0.6
percent to $27.59. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, dropped for the third time
in four days, retreating 0.5 percent to 30.34.  Sberbank is  expected  to report adjusted earnings per share
for the second quarter of 10 cents, according to the mean
estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales for the
period are expected to be $7 billion, according to the mean
estimate of five analysts.  The Russian government controls Sberbank via its central
bank, or Bank Rossii, whose first deputy chairman, Alexei Ulyukayev, said in January that it wanted Sberbank’s stock price
to get “closer to 100 rubles” before it offered shares. The
stock rose 1.8 percent yesterday in Moscow to close at 94.52
rubles, or the equivalent of $2.96. One ADR represents four
ordinary shares.  “There is some expectation that Sberbank could come out
with a good set of numbers ahead of a potential placement,”
said  Ronny Rehn , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in
 London . “For Sberbank, a placement is very important because
there’s been a massive overhang on the stock. This placement has
been around for a long time now.”  Crude Advances  Rehn has an outperform rating on Sberbank with a 12-month
price target on its Moscow shares of 118 rubles.  RTS index futures fell 0.2 percent to 142,470 yesterday and
the Bloomberg Russia-US 14 gauge dropped 0.3 percent to 93.71.  Oil for October delivery increased 0.9 percent to settle at
$96.33 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  as Hurricane
Isaac cut offshore output in the  Gulf of Mexico . Brent oil for
October settlement rose 0.3 percent to $112.58 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Isaac’s center was 55 miles (85 kilometers) south-southeast
of the mouth of the  Mississippi River , the National Hurricane
Center said in an advisory at 2 p.m. New York time. Isaac was
moving northwest at 10 miles per hour with top winds of 75 mph.  Urals crude, Russia’s major export oil blend, rose for the
first time in four days, gaining 0.1 percent to $111.85.  MTS Writedown  MTS, as Russia’s largest mobile-phone operator is known,
fell 0.3 percent to $18.23 as it took a writedown against its
operations in Uzbekistan after the nation’s authorities removed
its license. MTS invested about $1.5 billion in the Uzbek unit,
Joshua Tulgan, the company’s director of investment relations
said on Aug. 22. The Moscow-based company reported a net loss of
$682 million.  MTS  shares  in Moscow gained 3.3 percent to 244.70 rubles,
or $7.65. One ADR represents two ordinary shares.  “Operationally, the MTS numbers were absolutely sound but
the discrepancy on net income came from the writedown,” Rimmer
said. “I think people will see through this one quarterly
hiccup because investors still like high yielding stocks with
fairly reliable income streams.”  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s biggest coking coal miner, fell for a
fifth day, losing 4.5 percent to $5.77, the lowest since July
26. Shares in Moscow retreated 2.9 percent to 191.90 rubles, or
the equivalent of $6.  Micex Gains  The 30-stock  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,450.81, its
third advance in four days.  The gauge has gained 3.5 percent in 2012 and trades at 5.4
times analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies, the
lowest of the 21  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg. That
compares with a 2.9 percent advance this year for  Brazil ’s
 Bovespa (IBOV)  index, which trades at 11.8 times estimated earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  trades at 9.3 times estimated earnings and the  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has a ratio of 13.8.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
gained 0.5 percent to HK$4.32 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:01
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.2 percent
today as investors await a report on U.S. economic growth and
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s speech on monetary
policy this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  