-- Scotiabank Agrees to Buy ING Unit for C$3.13 Billion
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-08-29T22:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/scotiabank-agrees-to-buy-ing-bank-of-canada-for-c-3-13-billion.html
Bank of Nova Scotia  announced the
biggest takeover in its history by agreeing to buy ING Bank of
Canada from  ING Groep NV (INGA)  for C$3.13 billion ($3.16 billion) in a
bid to expand its deposits.  Scotiabank, Canada’s third-largest lender, will spend C$1.9
billion after deducting excess capital at ING Direct in the cash
deal, the Toronto-based bank said today in a statement.
Scotiabank will sell 29 million shares at C$52 each for proceeds
of C$1.51 billion to fund the takeover.  “It looks like a good deal,” said Anil Tahiliani, head of
North American equities at Calgary-based McLean & Partners
Wealth Management Ltd., which manages about C$1 billion
including Scotiabank shares. “They’re buying ING to strengthen
their retail operations in Canada,” he said by phone.  North American banks including Scotiabank are taking
advantage of  Europe ’s turmoil to buy operations and assets from
competitors on the continent that need to raise cash. Under
pressure from regulators, ING is reviewing which units to sell
as plans to repay a government bailout this year becomes less
certain.  Scotiabank said the transaction will add C$30 billion in
retail deposits to its balance sheet and 1.8 million customers.
ING Direct has assets of about C$40 billion in  Canada  and
employs 1,100 people. Scotiabank said it will keep the ING
Direct brand. Scotiabank, which has expanded mostly in  Asia  and
 Latin America  over the past decade, had C$670 billion in assets
at the end of July.  ‘Non-core Assets’  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services firm, received 10
billion euros of state aid in 2008.  Following it’s bailout, ING was ordered by the EU to sell
its insurance operations, its U.S. online bank and Dutch
mortgage lender WestlandUtrecht Bank before the end of 2013. It
is in discussions with buyers for its Asian life insurance
operations and may sell the business in parts to generate higher
proceeds, Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said earlier this
month.  ING has so far repaid 7 billion euros of aid as well as 2
billion euros in interest and premiums.  Hommen sold the company’s U.S. online bank to  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  for about $9 billion in February, and disposed
of the Latin American insurance operations last year. The firm
has also divested a real estate investment-management business
and car-lease unit.  December Sale  The Canadian transaction is expected to lead to a 1.1
billion-euro gain after tax, Amsterdam-based ING said in a
statement. The sale, releasing 1.4 billion euros in capital,
should boost ING’s core Tier 1 ratio by 47 basis points, to
about 11.6 percent if applied to the ratio as of June 30.  The deal, expected to close in December, would be the
biggest bank takeover in  North America  this year after PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. bought Royal Bank of Canada’s U.S.
unit for $3.5 billion in March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  agreed to buy Hudson City Bancorp for
about $3.7 billion in a transaction expected to close in the
second quarter of 2013.  Scotiabank shares  fell  1.2 percent to C$52.25 at the close
of trading in Toronto.  The takeover is the biggest bank deal in Canada since
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  bought Canada Trust for C$8 billion in
1999, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  acquired National
Trustco Inc. in 1997 for C$1.21 billion, and Toronto-Dominion
bought 57 branches from  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB)  in 2003 for
C$112.5 million.  Internet Bank  ING Bank of Canada is the largest foreign-based lender in
Canada after  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , according to data from the
country’s banking regulator. ING is Canada’s eighth-biggest bank
by assets in the country.  ING started its Internet bank in Canada, its first
branchless venture, in 1997. It built the division through a
television advertising campaign in which Dutch actor Frederik de
Groot urged Canadians to “Save your money” in accented English
and French and criticized fees charged to the nation’s
established banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  