-- SEC Guidance on Cyber-Disclosure Becomes Rule for Google
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/sec-guidance-on-cyber-disclosure-becomes-rule-for-google.html
Securities and Exchange Commission
guidelines on when companies should disclose cyber-attacks have
become de facto rules for at least six companies, including
Google Inc. and  Amazon (AMZN) .com Inc., agency letters show.  The six companies were asked to break silence and tell
investors in future filings that intruders had breached their
computer systems, according to the SEC letters. Companies such
as Amazon argued that the attacks weren’t important enough to
reveal. Hacking admissions can hurt reputations, give
competitors useful information and trigger investor litigation.  Before the requests, Seattle-based Amazon, the  largest
Internet retailer , hadn’t said in its reports that cyber-thieves
had raided its Zappos.com unit, stealing addresses and some
credit card digits from 24 million customers in January. In
April, Amazon was asked by the SEC to disclose the cyber-raid in
its next quarterly filing, which it did.  Google (GOOG) , the world’s biggest search engine, agreed in May to
put its previously disclosed cyber-assault in an earnings
report.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG) ,  Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN)  and  Quest Diagnostics
Inc. (DGX)  were also prodded to improve disclosures of cyber-risks,
according to SEC letters available on the  regulator’s website .  The  U.S. Congress , reviewing a bill designed to boost
defenses against computer attacks, has been debating ways to
encourage companies to disclose such hacking, including a
voluntary system for reporting.  The SEC instituted a voluntary disclosure plan in an
October advisory. This year, the SEC sent dozens of letters to
some companies, asking about cyber-security disclosures and
later pushing companies to disclose, spokesman  John Nester  said.  Created Rule  “It’s not a rule, but the SEC, by taking a policy
position, can effectively create a rule,” said  Peter Henning , a
former SEC lawyer who teaches at  Wayne State University  in
Detroit. “It lets companies know what it would like to
happen.”  Nester declined to say how many companies had been told to
disclose in future filings. The SEC disclosure letters aren’t
all public yet.  Cyber-attacks on U.S. computer networks rose 17-fold from
2009 to 2011, according to data cited by General Keith Alexander, head of the National Security Agency and U.S. Cyber
Command, at a July conference.  Businesses spend $10 billion a year globally to fight
cyber-crime with firewalls, detection systems and software
maintenance, while cyber-thieves steal hundreds of millions of
dollars from online banking accounts, according to a study by
university experts recruited by the U.K. Ministry of Defense,
“Measuring the Cost of Cybercrime,” presented in June.  No Authority  The SEC doesn’t have the authority to order companies to
spend money on security controls to try to fend off attackers.
It can make them report cyber-risks to investors who buy stocks
or make loans. To attract capital, companies might then have to
take steps to reduce the risks, Democratic U.S. Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, said in a May 2011 letter to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  Rockefeller, Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee,
asked the SEC to issue guidance on disclosing cyber-risks and
network breaches. It did so five months later, telling companies
to acknowledge any breaches or malware in the risk section of
their earnings reports.  Companies may have legitimate business reasons for
disliking such disclosures, said  Michael Perino , a securities
law professor at  St. John’s University  in New York.  “If you’re constantly having to disclose actual or
potential cyber-attacks against the company, that gives
information to competitors, to everybody about the
vulnerabilities of the company,” Perino said. “There’s also
the possibility for SEC action and investor lawsuits.”  Proposed Bill  A cyber-security bill proposed by Connecticut Senator  Joe Lieberman , an independent, would have given companies limited
protection from lawsuits if they followed reasonable standards
in guarding critical networks. President  Barack Obama  is
considering executive-branch action after Congress failed to
pass the legislation, said  John Brennan , Obama’s
counterterrorism adviser, this month at an event at the Council
on Foreign Relations in Washington.  While Amazon’s e-commerce business might not have qualified
as critical under the legislation, following safety measures set
under a government program would have helped reduce liability,
said Stewart Baker, partner at the Steptoe & Johnson LLP law
firm and a former Department of Homeland Security assistant
secretary for policy.  Zappos Lawsuits  “Courts might decide you’re complying with widely accepted
standards,” he said. “Courts are otherwise more likely to find
you acted unreasonably.”  Lawsuits against Zappos allege violations of industry
standards, including those for firewalls and encryption. Amazon
and Zappos, working since March to get nine would-be group suits
merged into one and moved to federal court in Nevada, haven’t
yet responded to customers’ allegations.  The SEC doesn’t offer protection from lawsuits when it
forces disclosure. Under securities law, companies must disclose
“material” information, meaning data that might influence
investors’ decisions to buy or sell a company’s securities. Even
if a cyber-attack didn’t affect revenue or profit much, it would
illuminate cyber-risks that a business faces, the SEC said in
October.  SEC Direction  “In future filings please expand this risk factor to
disclose that you have experienced cyber-attacks and breaches,”
SEC Accounting Branch Chief William H. Thompson wrote to Amazon
Worldwide Controller Shelley Reynolds on April 18.  Amazon, first sued in March by Zappos customers seeking
damages for stolen account information, initially resisted
putting the attack in its description of cyber-risks, saying
Zappos didn’t contribute material revenue. When the SEC
persisted, Amazon said, “We continue to believe that the cyber-
attack experienced by Zappos is not covered” by the SEC’s
guidance on the subject. “However, in light of the staff’s
comment, we will revise our disclosure.”  Amazon in July disclosed more than one breach at unnamed
subsidiaries, saying, “although they did not have a material
adverse effect on our operating results, there can be no
assurance of a similar result in the future.”  Malware, Viruses  Insurer Hartford also told the SEC it hadn’t had a
“material” cyber-breach and was told to disclose any attack it
had. AIG agreed to say in its next quarterly report: “Like
other global companies, we have, from time to time, experienced
threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer
virus attacks, unauthorized access, systems failures and
disruptions.”  Craig Berman, an Amazon spokesman, wouldn’t comment on why
the company didn’t want to mention the Zappos attack in an  SEC
filing , given that it had alerted customers to it in January.
James Ankner, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment on the
company’s correspondence with the SEC. Hartford spokesman Thomas Hambrick said the company had no immediate comment.  The SEC can force disclosure without making rules, because
companies need to stay on good terms with the regulator, which
regularly reviews their financial filings and can “make things
difficult,” Henning said. There was no official SEC rule in the
1970s about disclosing bribery overseas, yet the SEC let
companies know it would be a good idea to disclose illegal
payments, and they obeyed, he said.  China-Based Hackers  Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page , who disclosed in
a January 2010 filing that China-based hackers raided the
company’s networks for a source code, agreed to repeat the
information in an earnings report when the SEC said in May it
would “provide the proper context for your risk factor
disclosures.”  SEC Special Counsel Maryse Mills-Apenteng’s letter had
asked Google to respond within 10 days to four single-spaced
pages of comments on the company’s preliminary proxy statement
and annual report. Google, based in  Mountain View , California,
replied two days later, saying it would disclose the cyber-
assault in its next filing.  The company extensively revised its proxy statement in
response to SEC comments and agreed to alter its voting
procedures as recommended, according to a letter from Google’s
outside counsel, Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC, which
specializes in securities and intellectual property law.  “We comply with all applicable disclosure rules and
regulations,” Jim Prosser, a Google spokesman, said.  Resisting a letter from the SEC can be costly, amounting to
$250,000, according to Henning.  “If it’s complex, your lawyers write drafts in response,
you have conference calls with them,” he said. “It’s easier to
put a line in your 10-Q, if you’re told to disclose something,”
referring to the shorthand form name for quarterly earnings
reports.  “The SEC knows that’s their power,” he said. “If you
want to litigate with them, it costs millions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  