-- Serco Targets New U.S. Business on Weak Government Spending
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-08-29T11:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/serco-targets-new-u-s-business-on-weak-government-spending-1-.html
Serco Group Plc (SRP) , the services
company whose operations include prisons, defense facilities and
air traffic control centers, may adjust its U.S. business to
help offset declines in  government spending .  Options include increasing work in health care, air traffic
control or business process outsourcing, the Hook, England-based
company’s newest business area, Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Hyman said in an interview. “We will be looking at
whether there are things that we can do that allow us to grow in
areas we are not in today,” he said.  Revenue from the Americas operation, which includes  Canada ,
fell 15 percent in the first six months to 381 million pounds
($603 million) as U.S. federal government spending slowed, the
company said today in a statement. Total sales increased 4.3
percent to 2.34 billion pounds, in line with analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The White House and Congress are in discussions over long-
term budget plans, and uncertainty over spending levels in the
U.S. will probably persist at least until March, Hyman said.
Once spending levels are set, the government’s efforts to
achieve savings may open opportunities for new business in the
medium term, Hyman said.  Encouraging U.K.  “Once the market recovers it should snap back quickly,”
Liberium Capital analyst Joe Brent said in a note to investors.  Serco shares rose 0.4 percent to 565 pence at 11:55 a.m. in
London. The stock has climbed 19 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 2.82 billion pounds.  In the U.K., where Serco generates 50 percent of sales,
prospects are starting to improve, said Hyman. “We are seeing
encouraging signs” and that should lead to contracts in the
next six to 12 months, he said.  Sales from Australasia, the  Middle East ,  Asia  and  Africa 
rose to 17 percent of the total from 13 percent last year.  Serco is looking to new markets for growth and the
Philippines, Turkey and Brazil are good candidates, Hyman said.
 China  is not on the agenda for acquisitions, but remains a
market of interest, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  