-- Serena Williams Follows Sister Venus Into U.S. Open Second Round
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-29T04:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/serena-williams-follows-sister-venus-into-u-s-open-second-round.html
Serena Williams  got a challenge from
Coco Vandeweghe last month in the final of the Bank of the West
Classic. Their rematch at the  U.S. Open  tennis championship was
decidedly more one-sided.  Williams, a three-time U.S. Open women’s singles champion,
needed 55 minutes to defeat Vandeweghe 6-1, 6-1 in windy
conditions last night at the National Tennis Center in New York.
The previous time the two Americans met, Williams fought her way
to a 7-5, 6-3 victory in Stanford, California.  “When I played at the Bank of the West, she played so
well, so I knew I had to come out really strong, really
focused,” Williams said in a televised interview from Arthur
Ashe Stadium. “That’s what helped me.”  Williams, a 14-time Grand Slam winner who turns 31 next
month, is seeking to become the oldest U.S. Open winner since
 Margaret Court  in 1973. She’s won three of her past four
tournaments, including Wimbledon and an Olympic gold medal.  Williams’s older sister Venus, a two-time U.S. Open
champion, took 62 minutes to win her opening match 6-3, 6-1
yesterday against another American, Bethanie Mattek-Sands.  Venus Williams, 32, who won a women’s doubles gold medal
with Serena last month in London, has been fighting through an
energy-sapping autoimmune disease that forced her to pull out of
last year’s U.S. Open. It also contributed to her second-round
loss at the  French Open  in May and a first-round exit at
Wimbledon in June.  ‘Full Circle’  “It’s very exciting to just come full circle to be back
out here, winning matches, moving forward and getting better,”
said  Venus Williams , who next faces sixth-seeded Angelique
Kerber of Germany, who won in straight sets yesterday.  Serena Williams’s victory capped a quick night session on
the Arthur Ashe Stadium court, where defending men’s champion
Novak Djokovic of Serbia cruised to a 6-1, 6-0, 6-1 defeat of
Italy’s Paolo Lorenzi. American  Andy Roddick , the 2003 U.S. Open
winner, also advanced to the second round with a straight-sets
victory yesterday.  Sloane Stephens, a 19-year-old American, pulled off one of
the biggest upsets on Day 2 of the season’s final Grand Slam,
defeating 22nd-seeded Francesca Schiavone of Italy 6-3, 6-4.  “I just believe in myself a lot more and know that
whatever I put my mind to and focus on and really want to do, I
do it,” said Stephens, a close friend of Serena Williams.  Eighth-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark, who reached
the semifinals the past three years, was slowed by a knee injury
in a 6-2, 6-2 loss to Romania’s Irina-Camelia Begu.  Wozniacki Slowed  “I definitely felt like I couldn’t hit through her and I
couldn’t hit past her like I wanted to,” the 22-year-old
Wozniacki said at a news conference. “When she had the
opportunity, she went and finished off the point.”  Women’s top seed  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus returns to
the court today with a second-round match against Kirsten Flipkens of Belgium. Russia’s  Maria Sharapova , the women’s third
seed and 2006 champion, faces Lourdes Dominguez Lino of Spain,
while three-time champion and 23rd seed  Kim Clijsters  of Belgium
puts her 22-match U.S. Open winning streak on the line against
Laura Robson of Britain.  Defending women’s champion Samantha Stosur, the seventh
seed from Australia, and No. 5 Petra Kvitova of the Czech
Republic are also scheduled to play second-round matches today.  Olympic gold medalist  Andy Murray  of Britain, the men’s No.
3 seed, plays a second-round match tonight against Ivan Dodig of
 Croatia  in Arthur Ashe Stadium.  Isner’s Opener  American  John Isner , who’s seeded ninth in the men’s draw,
faces Xavier Malisse of Belgium in his opening-round match.
Fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  of Spain and No. 7 Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina, the 2009 U.S. Open champion, will also play
first-round matches today.  Agnieszka Radwanska, 23, the No. 2 women’s seed from
Poland, reached the second round with a 6-1, 6-1 win yesterday
against Nina Bratchikova, a 27-year-old Russian.  Others to advance in the women’s draw included 10th-seeded
Sara Errani of Italy, No. 12 Ana Ivanovic of Serbia and No. 14
Maria Kirilenko of Russia. American Christina McHale, who was
seeded 21st, was upset last night by Kiki Bertens of the
Netherlands 4-6, 6-4, 3-6.  Men’s No. 5 seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France and No. 6
Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic had straight-set wins
yesterday, while 10th-seeded Juan Monaco of Argentina blew a
two-set lead and was ousted by Guillermo Garcia-Lopez of Spain
3-6, 1-6, 6-4, 7-6 (8-6), 7-6 (7-3) in a match that lasted four
hours and 31 minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  