-- Shortage of Educated Workers Boosts U.S. Joblessness
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/shortage-of-educated-workers-boosts-u-s-joblessness.html
Mismatches in supply and demand for
educated workers boost U.S. unemployment and add as much as 2
percentage points to the jobless rates for some cities,
according to the  Brookings Institution .  Cities with larger gaps in education levels between workers
and available positions have lower rates of  job creation  and new
openings, the institution’s Jonathan Rothwell said in a report
published today. San Francisco,  Washington  and  San Jose ,
California, have the most demand for college graduates,
according to the report.  “It’s harder for employers to fill open positions if
they’re in metro areas with a low-educated workforce,” Rothwell
said in an interview. “There are very few job openings
available for workers with less education. We need to create
more openings for middle-to-lower educated workers.”  Jobs in the 100 largest metropolitan areas require more
education than the workforce can provide, according to the
analysis of online employment postings, occupations and
educational attainment from January 2006 to February 2012. A
bachelor’s degree or more is required for 43 percent of jobs,
while 32 percent of adults ages 25 and older have attained that
education level, according to Rothwell, a senior research
associate at Washington-based Brookings.  “Metro areas with the most highly educated workers
relative to demand also have the lowest unemployment rates for
both less educated and less experienced workers,” Rothwell
wrote. “Opportunities for those with the least education are
often in the metro area labor markets with the most education.”  Pittsburgh ‘Resilient’  Pittsburgh has the most recession-resilient labor market,
based on education gap, house price trends and industry growth,
according to the study. Its greatest strength is in housing
prices, which rose 7.3 percent since 2006, even as prices
dropped by 15 percent in the average large metro area, the study
said.  The  California  metro areas of  Sacramento , Riverside,
Bakersfield, Stockton, Fresno and Modesto accounted for six of
the 10 least resilient metro areas in the nation. The Miami-Fort
Lauderdale-Pompano Beach region was least resilient.  Education gaps pose a “longer-run challenge for many
regional labor markets” because they account for about two-
thirds of the variation in the level of unemployment across
metro areas, Rothwell wrote.  San Jose, located in Silicon Valley, where many of the
world’s  largest technology companies  are based, had the highest
level of demand for highly educated workers, according to the
study. Some 56 percent of openings required at least a
bachelor’s degree in the area, while only 36 percent of existing
positions required such credentials, the study showed.  Apple, Google  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , based in San Jose’s neighboring city of
Cupertino, became the most valuable company in history this
year, topping  $633 billion  as the shares soared  67 percent  on
demand for iPhones and iPads. The Valley also is home to  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Fewer than one-third of openings in cities such as Cape
Coral, Florida and Youngstown,  Ohio  required a bachelor’s
degree, highlighting the variation among the largest cities.  Occupations that had high demand for workers were also the
ones that sought employees with more education, Rothwell said.
Computer jobs, in which 63 percent of workers have at least a
bachelor’s degree, were the most heavily advertised online,
followed by health practitioners, a profession in which 71
percent have that level of education, the analysis showed.  Higher educational attainment also benefits cities by
making workers more employable and entrepreneurial, leading to
more job openings for less-educated workers as new businesses
hire, the report said.  More Entrepreneurship  “Given that more than half of new jobs typically come from
establishments started within five years, the lack of openings
implies a need for more entrepreneurship,” Rothwell wrote.  The study sheds additional light on a debate among Federal
Reserve policy makers over the causes of unemployment stuck
above 8  percent  for more than three years. The debate centers on
whether the jobless rate is high because of a lagging economic
recovery, which can be influenced by monetary policy, or because
of a mismatch between worker skills and the needs of employers,
a structural problem that the Fed can’t solve.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , in a June speech, said she
viewed the “bulk of the increase in unemployment since 2007”
as cyclical and went on to say that “a highly accommodative
monetary policy will remain appropriate for some time to come.”  While unemployment rates are elevated mostly because of the
declines in  home prices  and  consumer spending  caused by the
longest and deepest recession since the Great Depression,
education gaps explain most of the unemployment in cities that’s
considered structural, the Brookings report said.  More Employable  “Unemployment rates are unlikely to come down to their
pre-recession levels” without improvement in housing and
consumer spending, Rothwell wrote. “High educational attainment
is essential for the health of metropolitan labor markets
before, during, and after recessions. Educational attainment
makes workers more employable, creates demand for complementary
less-educated workers, and facilitates entrepreneurship.”  Pittsburgh’s economy got a boost because it’s home to a
concentration of jobs in health care and education, which were
the only major industries with consistent growth throughout the
recession and recovery, the report said. The Pennsylvania city,
once the U.S. steel industry’s capital, has a 7.3 percent
unemployment rate, a percentage point below the U.S. rate,
according to Labor Department data.  Job growth in  Oklahoma City , which has the lowest
unemployment rate of any large U.S. city, got a boost from
hiring by mining, oil, and gas companies as energy was one of
the few sectors to fully recover to pre-recession employment
levels. Oklahoma’s capital had a  5 percent  jobless rate in June,
according to the Labor Department.  About two-thirds of the nation’s population lives in the
100 largest metro areas, according to Rothwell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  