-- Silver’s Sexual-Harassment Payout May Get N.Y. Ethics Review
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-08-29T19:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/silver-s-sexual-harassment-payout-may-get-new-york-ethics-review.html
New York  Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver is the subject of an ethics complaint calling for an
investigation into the Manhattan Democrat’s handling of a secret
$103,000 payout in a sexual-harassment case against a fellow
lawmaker.  Common Cause New York and the National Organization for
Women’s New York City chapter said they are filing the complaint
with the state’s ethics commission today, according to an e-
mailed statement. The formal letter allows the commission to
begin an investigation into allegations of sexual harassment
against Democratic Assemblyman Vito Lopez and the attempts by
Silver to hide the payout to two of Lopez’s accusers.  “Sexual harassment is illegal, and revelations that it was
handled secretly to protect a powerful member of the Legislature
in 2012 in Albany are shocking,”  Susan Lerner , executive
director of Common Cause New York, said today in a statement.  The ethics panel “must investigate the extent of Lopez’s
misconduct, every thwarted attempt to report it and the failure
of process which resulted in that conduct being hidden,” Lerner
said. Her group is the state chapter of the national nonprofit
founded in 1970 to promote open government.  Albany Three  Silver, 68, Republican Majority Leader Dean Skelos and
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  make up the Albany troika that local
pundits call the Three Men in the Room because they often strike
deals behind closed doors that get approved by both legislative
houses.  “All complaints are reviewed by the commission, but the
commission doesn’t comment on any matters that may or may not be
before it,”  John Milgrim , a spokesman for the Joint Committee
on Public Ethics, said in a telephone interview today.  Cuomo yesterday called for a similar investigation by the
ethics board. The 54-year-old Democrat created the commission as
part of a bundle of bills he pushed through the Legislature last
year that are intended to crack down on corruption.  Lopez was stripped of his committee chairmanship Aug. 24.
Three days later, state Senator Shirley Huntley was accused in
an indictment of trying to cover up the theft of state funds
through a nonprofit she created.  The $103,000 payout made in June to two Lopez staff members
wasn’t made public and the accusations of sexual harassment
weren’t referred to the Assembly’s ethics committee, Silver said
in a statement yesterday. Two other Lopez employees filed
sexual-harassment complaints with the committee in July, which
resulted in Lopez losing his job as head of the housing
committee.  Silver Apology  The offices of Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  and Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman signed off on the payout as part of
their routine review of state settlements. Neither official was
involved in the negotiations, their offices said.  Silver, who has been speaker since 1994, apologized
yesterday for not being transparent about the settlement and
accusations. He said the staff members’ attorney requested that
the mediation and settlement be kept confidential.  In the case that was sent to the Assembly ethics committee,
Lopez is accused by two female staff members of “pervasive,
unwelcome verbal conduct,” according to a letter Silver sent to
Lopez last week notifying him that he had lost his post.  The Brooklyn assemblyman also is accused of putting his
hand on an aide’s leg. When she removed it, he placed his hand
between her upper thighs and moved it “as far up between her
legs as you could go,” the letter said. In another incident, he
required an aide to take a trip with him to  Atlantic City ,  New
Jersey , in July. Once there he tried to kiss her and she had to
struggle to fend him off, the letter said. On the drive back, he
put his hand between her legs, it said.  Full Accountability  Gloria Allred , who represented at least one of the women
involved in the settlement, said in a statement to the New York
Times, which first reported the hushed payout, that her office
didn’t discourage a formal Assembly investigation.  “We believe that it is in the interest of good government
and working women that there is full accountability and
transparency about workplace sex harassment,” Allred said.  Silver’s apology isn’t enough, Sonia Ossorio, president of
NOW’s New York City branch, said in a telephone interview today.  “An apology doesn’t even begin to cover it,” Ossorio
said. “The public needs a full accounting of what happened in
this case, and we need to know if this has ever happened before.
It begs the question, Is this the way  Albany  works?”  In a statement e-mailed today, Silver invited an
investigation by the Joint Committee on Public Ethics.  “I would welcome a JCOPE investigation, as a JCOPE inquiry
would supersede any confidentiality agreements that exist and
allow all of the facts to come out,” Silver said. “Those facts
will show that any decision by the Assembly to enter into any
settlement agreement was both legal and ethical and made out of
deference to the wishes of the complainants.”  He said the Assembly has written to lawyers in previous
settlement cases asking for a release from confidentiality
clauses so he can publicly provide details about them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  