-- SocGen Chief Says Policymakers Must Avoid ‘Major Disappointment’
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2012-08-29T13:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/socgen-chief-says-policymakers-must-avoid-major-disappointment-.html
European policy makers have shown a
“strong commitment” to the euro and must now avoid a “major
disappointment” as they tackle the debt crisis, said  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea .  “Yes it might take time, but a commitment is there, by the
governments, by the  European Central Bank ,” Oudea said in a
Bloomberg Television interview near Versailles, France, today.
“August was a positive month for the European banking system.”  ECB policy makers meet in Frankfurt on Sept. 6 and
President  Mario Draghi  is expected to announce details of the
bank’s latest efforts to lower the borrowing costs of countries
such as Spain and Italy. Draghi announced on Aug. 2 that the
central bank may resume bond purchases if distressed governments
ask for aid from the region’s bailout funds.  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said this week
the central bank is still working on the specifics of the new
program, which council members will discuss at next week’s
meeting. He also said he wants either the European Financial
Stability Facility or the permanent European Stability Mechanism
to buy debt in the primary market before the ECB makes any
purchases of its own.  For that to happen, a country must formally apply to the
bailout fund and agree to conditions set out in a memorandum of
understanding, which neither  Italy  nor Spain have done.  “Things are moving forward” regarding measures to support
the Spanish banking system and authorities must keep “ensuring
that there is an answer,” Oudea said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  