-- Softbank, Mitsui to Open Japan’s Biggest Solar Park
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-08-29T09:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/softbank-mitsui-seek-to-open-japan-s-biggest-solar-park-in-july.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) , Japan’s third-
biggest mobile phone company, and  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  plan to build and
start operating what may be the nation’s biggest solar power
plant.  Spurred on by Japan’s incentive program for clean energy
and Softbank Chairman Masayoshi Son’s ambition to install more
renewable energy in a country that last year experienced the
world’s worst nuclear disaster in a quarter of a century, the
two companies today signed a pact to build 39.5 megawatts of
capacity at a site in  Tottori prefecture .  Tottori will be Japan’s largest solar plant when it starts
in July, Son said at a briefing in Tokyo today. The phone
company also plans a 111-megawatt solar generator on the
northern island of Hokkaido, which is scheduled to begin
operations in fiscal 2014, according to Softbank.  Since the Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011,  Japan ’s
government has moved to ease the nation’s reliance on atomic
energy in favor of renewables and natural gas. According to a
state incentive plan introduced this year, power utilities are
obliged to buy electricity from renewable sources such as solar
and wind at above-market rates. Softbank plans to invest in
about 230 megawatts in renewables, mostly in solar.  Softbank was picked by Osaka prefecture to develop an 18.9-
megawatt solar plant, the company said in a  statement  later
today. It did not disclose how much it will cost.  Mitsui, which gets about 90 percent of its profit from
trading in metals, oil and gas, has helped to arrange for
 Chugoku Electric Power Co. (9504)  to buy the electricity from the solar
plant, Son said. Mitsui will also take an active role in the
project management, Chief Executive Officer Masami Iijima said
at the joint briefing with Son.  “The country needs different energy types,” Iijima said.
“We want to play our role.”  New Entrants  Japanese trading houses including Mitsui have amassed more
than 26,000 megawatts of capacity around the world, with about
300 megawatts of that in their home market. The traders, which
until now have acted mainly as fuel suppliers to the 10 power
utilities that dominate Japan’s electricity industries, are
starting to consider investments in generators at home following
the Fukushima crisis.  Marubeni Corp. (8002) , the Japanese trading house most heavily
invested in the electricity industry, was among two companies
selected to build and operate what would be Japan’s biggest wind
farm in  Ibaraki prefecture , north of Tokyo, the regional
government said in a  statement  yesterday.  Marubeni and Wind Power Energy Co. were each given half of
a 680-hectare area off the coast of Kashima port to build 250
megawatts of capacity that may begin operating in 2017, the
government said.  Softbank and Mitsui plan to start construction of their
solar plant at the city of Yonago as soon as next month. The
companies will split the investment equally and are in talks
with other parties about joining the project, Son said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  