-- Soundest Banks Raise Payouts and Meet Ratios
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-08-29T14:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/soundest-banks-raise-payouts-and-meet-ratios.html
Toronto-Dominion (TD)  Bank and  Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce  are poised to join the world’s
soundest banks in raising dividends as profit growth allows them
to meet higher capital requirements next year.  Toronto-Dominion and CIBC will boost their payouts while
reporting third-quarter results tomorrow, according to Bloomberg
Dividend Forecasts, following surprise dividend increases from
Toronto-based  Bank of Nova Scotia  and Bank of Montreal
yesterday. Dividend yields at Canadian banks, four of which were
ranked among the world’s six strongest banks by Bloomberg
Markets magazine in June, are double their U.S. counterparts.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  and Bank of  Canada 
Governor  Mark Carney  have called for increased corporate
spending to help the economy, with Carney this month saying
companies are hoarding “dead money.”  Lenders such as
Scotiabank are reporting record quarterly profit, giving them
the opportunity to boost payouts while meeting increased capital
requirements next year set by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision .  “The balance sheets of banks in Canada are relatively
healthy and they are very profitable entities, and that’s what
dividend increases show you,”  Todd Johnson , who helps manage
C$385 million ($389 million) including bank shares at BCV Asset
Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba, said by phone yesterday.
“It’s going to be a lot slower growing business going forward,
but it doesn’t mean it’s not a healthy industry.”  Capital Requirements  Julie Dickson, head of Canada’s Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, has said Canadian
lenders should meet the Basel III capital requirements next
year, well ahead of a 2019 deadline.  The Basel III guidelines, which will be phased-in between
January 2013 and 2019, ask regulators globally to boost capital
requirements for banks, limit what instruments count toward
capital and force banks to rely more on equity than debt for
funding.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s dividend increase was the first since
the financial crisis began in 2007. The change reflects “our
confidence in our continued ability to generate sustained
earnings growth,” Bank of Montreal Chief Executive Officer Bill Downe said in a conference call with analysts yesterday.  Toronto-Dominion, the country’s second-largest bank, may
increase its quarterly dividend 4.1 percent to 75 cents a share,
according to the Bloomberg forecast, which was accurate about 86
percent of the time over the last year. CIBC, the fifth-largest
lender, will boost its payout 3.3 percent to 93 cents a share,
according to the forecast.  Shares Lag  Royal Bank of Canada  and  National Bank of Canada  are also
scheduled to report third-quarter results tomorrow, although
Bloomberg isn’t forecasting a dividend boost for either bank.  Canadian bank dividend yields outstrip their U.S.
counterparts. The eight-member  S&P/TSX Banks Index (STBANKX)  has an
average yield of about 4.1 percent, more than double the 1.96
percent average yield for the 24-member  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  And the
top six dividend yields among 17 North American lenders are
Canadian, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Canadian banks’ shares have lagged behind other countries
stocks, with the S&P/TSX banks index having risen 4.4 percent in
the year through yesterday compared with a 20 percent rise in
the U.S. index.  Bloomberg Markets magazine in June ranked CIBC, Toronto-
Dominion, National Bank and Royal Bank as the world’s third,
fourth, fifth and sixth strongest banks, respectively.
Scotiabank ranked 18th and Bank of Montreal was 22nd.  Record Profit  Yesterday, Bank of Montreal said profit for the quarter
ended July 31 rose 37 percent to C$970 million, while Scotiabank
had record profit of C$2.05 billion, a 57 percent surge.  “Key metrics from the banks’ performance should provide
solid indicators for lending, credit, margins and non-interest
revenue trends for the third quarter,” Barclays Plc analyst
 John Aiken  said today in a note. “Overall, earnings
performances from both banks suggest relatively modest third-
quarter results for the ‘Big 6’.”  The country’s six biggest lenders were expected to post a
profit increase of 6 percent, according to analysts including
 Mario Mendonca  at Canaccord Genuity in Toronto.  Bank analysts have said profit may slow next year in line
with residential mortgage growth.  “My view is it’s a pretty balanced marketplace,” Frank Techar, head of Canadian  consumer banking  at Bank of Montreal,
said yesterday on a conference call with investors. “We might
see a little slowing.”  The rest of the banks will report earnings “as expected,
which is not dynamic,” said David Baskin, president of Baskin
Financial in Toronto, which oversees about C$450 million in
assets including bank stocks. “We’re not seeing any huge
problems on the downside, just not fabulous growth on the
upside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  