-- South Korean Manufacturer Confidence Stays Near Post-Crisis Low
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-08-29T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/south-korean-manufacturer-confidence-stays-near-post-crisis-low.html
South Korean manufacturers’
confidence stayed near the lowest level since the global
financial crisis, maintaining pressure for an interest-rate cut
to support growth.  An  index  measuring expectations for September was at 75
from 70 the previous month, the  Bank of Korea  said in a
statement in Seoul today. Those are the only readings below 80
since 2009, with any number below 100 indicating that pessimists
outnumber optimists.  China ’s economic slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis are
dragging down South  Korea ’s exports, weighing on prospects for
 Asia ’s fourth-largest economy. The central bank’s next interest-
rate decision is on Sept. 13, with bond yields indicating that
investors are waiting for further reductions after a surprise
cut last month.  “Big uncertainties from Europe and China continue to cloud
business conditions for Korean companies,” Lee Sung Kwon, an
economist at Shinhan Investment Corp. in  Seoul , said before the
report. “Policy makers will need to make another rate cut.”  A measure of expectations at  non-manufacturing companies 
was unchanged from August at 69, today’s report showed. The
survey was conducted between Aug. 16 and Aug. 23 with responses
from 1,424 manufacturers and 1,010 non-manufacturers.  Lee Yong Sup, an opposition Democratic United Party 
lawmaker, said yesterday that his party will drop a push for  
an extra budget to spur growth, because it’s now too late in 
the year.  Imports Slide  A report yesterday showed that a decline in imports drove
the nation’s current-account surplus to a record in July.  “This is a recession-type surplus,” said Sun Yoo, a
Seoul-based economist at Woori Investment & Securities Co. “The
surplus number is mostly driven by reduced imports, which is a
clear sign of slowing domestic growth.”  Posco, Asia’s third-biggest steelmaker by output, is among
South Korean companies facing weakness in demand.  The business environment in the second half “will be worse
than expected early this year because of weak demand from
construction and shipbuilders,” Chief Financial Officer Park Ki
Hong told investors in Seoul last month. “Still, our
profitability in the second half will be better than the first
half, driven by falling raw material prices.”  The nation’s three-year bonds have yielded less than the
central bank’s benchmark interest rate for the longest period
since at least Aug. 2000 as investors bet policy makers will
lower borrowing costs further. The  Bank of Korea ’s seven-day
repurchase rate is 3 percent.  Minutes released by the central bank this week showed that
Lim Seung Tae was the only one of seven board members to oppose 
the surprise rate cut in July.  “It’s better to preserve policy room now so that we can
take sufficient action in the future if the situation
deteriorates much further,” Lim said, according to the record
of the meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  