-- Staffing Stocks Cheapened by Weak Hiring Offer Jobs Bet
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-08-29T15:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/staffing-stocks-cheapened-by-weak-hiring-offer-jobs-bet.html
Shares of employment services
companies present an opportunity for investors projecting that
U.S. job gains will exceed economists’ forecasts this month, as
they did for July.  Nonfarm employers added 118,000 workers in August,
according to the median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  as of today. That follows a 163,000 increase the
previous month -- the highest since February -- beating the
100,000 forecast.  A similar labor report on Sept. 7 could push companies
including  Robert Half International Inc. (RHI)  higher, according to
Andrew Steinerman, a business-services analyst in New York at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Their shares are a proxy for investor
sentiment about the pace of hiring, making them a “high-beta
way to play a recovery in economic activity in the U.S.,” he
said. A stock with a high beta tends to rise or fall more than
the broader market.  The Bloomberg U.S. Employment Services Index -- made up of
17 companies including  Robert Half ,  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)  and
 Insperity Inc. (NSP)  -- has lagged behind the Russell 2000 Index by
about 14 percent since April 5, the day before March jobs data
were released. The staffing index reflects bearish investor
sentiment from weaker-than-forecast job gains and disappointing
earnings, said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of research
at New York-based research company Technical Alpha Inc.  “Amid this backdrop, even a modest improvement in hiring
could help push shares of these companies higher,” said
Stellakis, a chartered market technician.  Three-Year Low  Monster, the New York-based Internet recruiting service,
fell  14 percent  on Aug. 2 to $6.10, a three-year low, after the
company estimated earnings for the current quarter will be 2
cents to 7 cents a share. That’s below the 9-cent average
analyst estimate, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Since
then, the stock has retraced most of the losses, closing at
$7.01 yesterday.  Staffing stocks are attractive because valuations are
historically cheap, Steinerman said, noting that this is one
reason for his “overweight” recommendation on Robert Half. The
 Menlo Park , California-based company is  trading  at an 11 percent
discount to a “normal recessionary valuation” on an
enterprise-value-to-sales basis, he said.  While these companies are leveraged more fundamentally to
demand for temporary workers, their near-term stock performance
is driven by total job gains, Steinerman said. As a result, the
August labor report “will be telling.”  Expanding Economy  That will come after today’s report that the  U.S. economy 
expanded at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the second quarter, up
from an initial estimate of 1.5 percent, according to revised
data from the Commerce Department. The pace was 2 percent in the
January-March period.  Russell Price , senior economist at  Ameriprise Financial
Inc. (AMP)  in  Detroit , sees August payrolls missing the median
forecast and expanding by 90,000. With the “employment market
in a holding pattern,” it’s difficult for monthly gains to
reduce the jobless rate, which has been stuck  above 8 percent 
since February 2009, he said.  “Until business leaders are able to get more clarity on
the underlying economic environment and fiscal cliff,” job
gains could vary month-to-month, said Price, among the top-
ranked forecasters of nonfarm-payroll gains based on two years
of surveys, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S.
faces higher taxes and reductions in spending on defense and
other government programs that will take effect at year-end
unless Congress acts.  Investor Response  What matters more than the number of jobs created is how
investors respond to a report that’s above or below the
consensus, Steinerman said. U.S. hiring missed the median
estimate for four consecutive months -- March through June --
causing the staffing index to underperform the market.  The group, now at a “key support level,” could trade
below the so-called triple bottom to form a new low if August
payroll gains are less than forecast, Stellakis said. This would
signal that “sentiment is weakening incrementally” as
investors don’t see hiring providing a positive catalyst for
expansion, he said.  Even so, the fundamentals of these stocks remain attractive
for investors who see continued improvement in the labor market,
Steinerman said. With a “permissive economy,” these shares
offer a favorable opportunity for outperformance, led by a
recovery in U.S. jobs.  “Staffing stocks continue to offer an attractive risk-
reward profile for investors,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  