-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   J a m e s   T y s o n
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the  Beige Book .  The  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta  prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before Aug. 20.  Boston: “Reports from business contacts in the First
District are somewhat mixed. Tourism contacts and some retailers
cite strong results, but other merchants are more downbeat.
Manufacturers mostly report solid performance, but a couple have
seen sales fall compared with a year earlier. Software and IT
services firms indicate business is good, but somewhat slower
than three months ago, while staffing firms say recent results
are below expectations. Commercial real estate conditions are
not much changed, with the Boston market said to be stronger
than the rest of  New England ; gradual recovery continues in most
residential real estate markets around the region. Business
contacts say they are hiring only modestly; prices are generally
reported to be stable. Outlooks remain uncertain.”  New York : “The Second District’s economy has continued to
expand at a modest pace since the last report. Despite some
pickup in commodity price pressures, prices of finished goods
and services have generally been stable. There have been
scattered signs of softening in the labor market: while
manufacturers continue to add workers, firms in other industries
have scaled back hiring. A growing number of contacts in both
manufacturing and other sectors report some softening in
business conditions. Retailers, however, report generally
favorable results: auto dealers note that sales remain fairly
strong, and non-auto retailers report some recent improvement.
Tourism activity has remained strong. Residential real estate
markets have shown signs of improvement, and  Manhattan ’s office
market picked up slightly. Finally, bankers report increased
loan demand, no change in credit standards, and further declines
in delinquency rates. ”  Philadelphia: “Aggregate business activity in the Third
District has continued to grow slowly since the previous Beige
Book, although the pace of growth has shifted in a few sectors.
Manufacturing activity declined further, but the rate of decline
is tempering. Retail sales have grown somewhat faster than was
the case at the time of the last Beige Book, while auto sales
have continued to increase at a consistent pace. Lending volumes
at Third District banks have continued to grow steadily, and
 credit quality  has continued to improve since the last Beige
Book. Demand for new  home construction  grew at a slightly faster
pace than during the previous Beige Book period, and brokers
report steady growth in sales of existing homes. Commercial real
estate contacts report more widespread growth, but overall
demand remains modest. On average, service-sector firms report
more flattening of growth. Price pressures have changed little
in most sectors since the last Beige Book.”  Cleveland :  “The economy in the Fourth District grew at a
modest pace since our last report. On balance, manufacturing
output moved slightly lower, while residential and
nonresidential construction picked up. Retailers saw a modest
rise in sales during July, and motor vehicle purchases held
steady. Natural gas producers increased production, though the
demand for coal has softened. The slowdown in freight transport
volume, which began in the second quarter, has leveled off. And
the demand for business credit showed a modest increase.  Little
net hiring was reported across industry sectors. Staffing-firm
representatives said that the number of  job openings  has
declined during the past six weeks. Open positions were found
primarily in engineering, healthcare, and manufacturing. Wage
pressures are contained. Input prices were generally stable,
although concerns exist about the recent rise in agricultural
commodity prices.”  Richmond: “Fifth District economic activity improved
somewhat in most sectors since our last report, although
manufacturing and employment weakened. Retail sales improved,
and non-retail services providers reported a moderate increase
in demand. Tourism contacts generally indicated that summer
business was strong, and they anticipated a busy autumn season.
Widespread precipitation in July and August brought relief from
drought conditions, boosting expected crop yields. Residential
real estate activity inched up, while commercial real estate
reports were mixed. Lending activity also varied, and most
mortgage lending was for refinancing. Manufacturing activity
softened as orders declined. Weaker District hiring was led by a
slowdown in requests for temp workers, although demand for
highly skilled employees persisted. Price changes generally
slowed in both the manufacturing and services sectors, with the
exception of a small uptick in retail.”  Atlanta: “Reports from Sixth District business contacts
indicated that economic activity expanded at a modest pace in
July through mid-August. The majority of contacts described
their short-term outlook for future business activity as
restrained. Most retailers indicated that sales growth had
slowed with the exception of autos, which remained quite
positive. Tourism contacts continued to report strong activity
in all segments except cruise lines. Residential brokers and
builders noted improvement in home sales and construction. New
and existing home sales prices were reported to be modestly
higher than year-ago levels. Commercial builders continued to
note improvement, driven by the multifamily sector.
Manufacturers reported a pullback in new orders and production
levels. According to banking contacts, loan demand remained low
but some improvements were registered in home mortgages, and
auto lending was brisk. Hiring activity remained muted across
the District. The trend of using temporary workers to fill labor
needs continued to be cited by many firms. Some contacts said
that they had experienced lower overall input prices, but rising
food prices was a concern. Wage pressures remained in check. ”  Chicago: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
expanded at a moderate pace in July and early August, with the
pace of growth once again slowing from the prior reporting
period. Contacts reported heightened concern regarding the risks
to the economic outlook, notably the U.S. fiscal situation and
weaker growth in Europe and  Asia . Business spending increased at
a slower pace, while  consumer spending  growth picked up some.
Growth in manufacturing production moderated further, while
construction activity continued to slowly increase. Credit
conditions were again slightly improved. Smaller anticipated
corn and soybean harvests due to the ongoing drought pushed crop
prices higher and raised the cost of feeding livestock, with
some pass-through to wholesale prices already taking place.”  St. Louis : “The economy of the Eighth District has
continued to expand at a modest pace since our previous survey.
Retail and auto sales in July and early August increased over
year-earlier levels. Residential real estate market conditions
have continued to improve moderately. However, commercial and
industrial real estate conditions have been mixed. Recent
reports of planned activity from services firms have been
positive. In contrast, reports from manufacturing contacts have
been mixed. Reports of lending activity at a sample of large
District banks during the second quarter of 2012 were somewhat
mixed.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy grew at a modest
pace since the last report. Increased activity was noted in
consumer spending, tourism, professional services, construction
and real estate, while activity slowed slightly in the
manufacturing and energy sectors. Agriculture was mixed, while
mining was steady at high levels. Overall labor market
conditions were steady since the last report, and wage increases
were modest. Prices were relatively stable.”  Kansas City : “The Tenth District economy continued to
expand at a moderate pace in July and early August. Retailers
and auto dealers reported higher sales and expected increased
activity in the months ahead. Manufacturing activity expanded
slightly, with additional gains expected over the next six
months. Transportation activity grew moderately, while sales in
the high-tech services sector declined slightly. Residential and
commercial real estate markets continued to improve with
increased sales, construction, and prices. Banking contacts
reported slightly higher loan demand and improved loan quality.
Agricultural conditions deteriorated under extreme drought
conditions leading to higher crop prices and strained profit
margins for livestock producers. The energy sector held steady
as growth in crude oil drilling continued to offset the decrease
in drilling for natural gas. Most sectors reported higher input
prices, but final goods prices and wage pressures remained
stable.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate
pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturing activity continued
to expand, demand for business services remained solid, and
transportation services activity increased. Respondents said
retail sales edged up, while automobile sales held steady. The
housing and commercial real estate markets remained healthy.
Financial firms noted softening loan demand. Energy activity
remained robust, and agricultural conditions improved slightly.
Employment levels were steady to slightly higher. Wage and price
pressures were modest. Most contacts noted that European debt
issues and the upcoming national elections added uncertainty to
their outlooks.”  San Francisco : “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
continued to expand at a modest pace during the reporting period
of July through mid-August. Price inflation was limited for most
final goods and services, and upward wage pressures were quite
contained. Sales of retail items rose a bit further on net, and
demand for most business and consumer services continued to
expand. District manufacturing activity appeared to inch up on
balance. Agricultural output expanded, while activity continued
to trend up for providers of energy resources. Home demand in
the District strengthened a bit further, and demand for
commercial real estate was largely stable. Contacts from
financial institutions reported that overall loan demand was
unchanged or weakened slightly on balance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Tyson in Washington at 
 jtyson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  