-- Swiss-Style Latvian Banking Hub Thrives on Ex-Soviet Cash
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-08-30T12:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/swiss-style-latvian-banking-hub-thrives-on-ex-soviet-cash-flood.html
Latvian banks are holding more
foreign cash than ever before as Cyprus’s economic woes prompt
wealthy depositors from the former Soviet Union to seek an
alternative offshore home for their money.  As non-European inflows into Cyprus stagnate, about $1.2
billion flooded into Latvia in the first half of the year. Non-
resident deposits are now $10 billion, about half the total,
regulators say, exceeding 43 percent in Switzerland, according
to that nation’s central bank.  Accounts in Latvia, a banking hub since Soviet times, are
swelling as Cyprus seeks bailouts of $19 billion and capital
flees  Russia  amid protests at President  Vladimir Putin . While
the deposits can buoy credit, they risk banking stability, the
 International Monetary Fund  says. Regulation and client vetting
aren’t up to scratch, according to the  United Nations  and Global
Witness, which allege illicit ties to Central Asia and Africa.  “Latvia will remain quite an attractive place,” Finance
Minister Andris Vilks said in an Aug. 9 interview in  Riga , the
capital. “There are still quite strong signals that money’s
leaving Russia, Cyprus and other destinations en route to
somewhere else in the European Union.”  $32 Trillion  About $350 billion of capital has left Russia since 2007,
according to the central bank. The global market for non-
resident deposits is as much as $32 trillion, according to the
London-based Tax Justice Network, established by the U.K.
Parliament in 2003 to study  tax evasion ,  tax avoidance , tax
competition and  tax havens .  After surging 41 percent from 2007 to 2011, non-euro-area
deposits at Cypriot lenders fell 85 million euros ($104 million)
to 21.8 billion euros in the 12 months to June, central bank
data show.  The cost of insuring Cypriot government debt for five years
using credit-default swaps has jumped more than 200 basis points
in the last five months to 1,381 yesterday, exceeded only by
 Greece , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Latvia exited an IMF-led bailout program in December and
was the EU’s fastest-growing economy in the second quarter, when
gross domestic product advanced 5.1 percent from a year earlier.
Its swaps have plunged 137 basis points in 2012 to 228 basis
points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Soviet Legacy  Latvia’s Parex Banka claims to have been the  first Soviet
lender  to receive a private foreign-exchange license in 1990,
helping ignite the country’s status as a regional banking hub.  The nation of 2.1 million people has the highest share of
Russian speakers among the three Baltic states and state-owned
carrier AirBaltic AS offers direct flights to destinations
across the former  Soviet Union  including the Uzbek capital
Tashkent and Baku in Azerbaijan, as well as Moscow.  “Latvia’s benefiting from its proximity to ex-Soviet
markets like Russia and Ukraine and the fact that Russian is
widely spoken,” Gene Zolotarev, founder and chairman of Geneva-
based wealth-management company Maximus Capital SA, said July 17
by phone.  Non-resident deposits are a “short-term liability” and
the renewed inflows may jeopardize the collective stability of
Latvia’s 25 banks, the International Monetary Fund said July 16.  ‘Mixed Blessing’  “Non-resident deposits are a mixed blessing,” the
Washington-based lender wrote in a report. “The increasing size
of the non-resident banking system could pose risks to the
financial system and be a potential drain on international
reserves, unless short-term liabilities are matched by equally
liquid foreign assets.”  Non-resident deposits plunged almost 30 percent, or 1.8
billion euros, in the year from August 2008 after Parex, the
biggest domestically owned lender, needed a 1.1 billion lati
($1.9 billion) state rescue. That forced Latvia to take a 7.5
billion-euro international bailout as central bank reserves
dwindled by about a third.  Non-resident deposits also fell in 2005, when the  U.S.
Treasury  threatened to bar two Latvian banks from the American
financial system in an effort get tighter anti- money laundering 
laws passed. It later dropped sanctions against Multibanka,
while Latvian regulators annulled VEF Banka’s banking license in
2010.  Some of the Baltic nation’s lenders have been accused of
impropriety more recently.  Africa, Kazakhstan  Latvian companies helped Cote d’Ivoire officials violate
international sanctions, according to an April 12 report by the
 United Nations Security Council . A commander from the African
country obtained a  credit card  at Parex under a false name, the
UN alleges.  Christopher Gwilliam, who took over as head of Parex in
2010, later renamed Reverta, said he couldn’t comment on the
allegations because he didn’t have enough information.  Closer to home, business with central Asia has raised
questions.  In  Kazakhstan , offshore companies related to the former
chairman of  BTA Bank (BTAS) , Mukhtar Ablyazov, were accused of
defrauding what was once the country’s biggest lender out of
more than $1 billion, steering the cash through Latvia’s Trasta
Kommercbanka AS, according to London court documents.  Agita Musina, a spokeswoman for Trasta, said Aug. 22. by e-
mail that client information is confidential and the lender
adheres to Latvian law and international banking standards.  ‘Swiss Baltic’  In Kyrgyzstan, about $30 million was allegedly channeled
through ABLV Bank AS, Latvia’s biggest bank by deposits, in
transactions that may constitute money laundering, anti-
corruption campaign group Global Witness said in a June 17
report.  Latvian banks are “almost like a Swiss Baltic state,”
according to Tom Mayne, an analyst at London-based  Global
Witness . While this has benefited the economy, it opens to the
door to potential illegal activity, he said in a June 28 phone
interview.  “If a country such as Latvia is acting as an unwitting bag
man for various corrupt regimes, I think there are serious
questions it has to answer,” Mayne said.  There was nothing illegal about the Kyrgyz transfers,
according to Ernests Bernis, chief executive officer of ABLV,
the largest holder of non-resident deposits with about $3
billion.  Foreign deposits benefit Latvia, boosting GDP through
financial-services exports as well as increased economic
activity as clients buy local property and use amenities, he
said in a July 31 interview at ABLV’s headquarters in Riga.  Lending Shrinks  Nordic lenders such as  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,  SEB AB (SEBA)  and  Nordea AB (NDA) ,
which control about 40 percent of Latvia’s banking assets, have
scaled back credit in the Baltic region for the last three
years, IMF data show. Latvia’s outstanding loans fell 11.7
percent from a year earlier in the second quarter, according to
the bank regulator.  After the Parex failure, Latvia’s regulator says it’s
protecting the economy from a sudden withdrawal of non-resident
deposits by forcing the banks that hold them to set aside more
capital and liquidity.  “The crisis has taught us a lesson about what kind and how
liquid the securities banks” hold against deposits should be,
Kristaps Zakulis, who took over as head of the regulator after
Latvia’s sixth-biggest deposit bank, Krajbanka AS, collapsed
last November amid a fraud allegations, said in a July 31
interview in his Riga office. “There’s been a change in this
view.”  Stricter Rules  The last lender to get a banking license must maintain a
capital adequacy ratio of 20 percent because of its non-resident
business, according to Zakulis. The last bank to receive a
license was Rigensis Bank AS. The nation’s minimum requirement
is 8 percent, and the average ratio was 17.2 percent at the end
of June, according to the regulator.  The regulator can demand higher capital and liquidity
ratios for lenders depending on the level of non-resident
deposits and non-resident lending.  Still, Latvia is retaining its popularity as a banking hub.  Otkritie Capital, the brokerage part-owned by Russia’s VTB
Group, is interested in acquiring a lender in the Baltic nation
to gain access to the EU market, Alexey Karahan, a Moscow-based
spokesman, said June 14 by phone.  It has applied to buy GE Money Bank and is awaiting
regulatory approval, Eugenia Pryadko, head of Otkritie’s press
office, said Aug. 22 by e-mail.  ABLV, whose clients are about 40 percent Russian, predicts
Latvian non-resident deposits will continue in the years to come
as other destinations lose their sheen.  “The recent events in Greece have negatively affected
Cyprus,” he said. “We don’t see any barrier to business
doubling or tripling in three to five years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  