-- Del Piero Considers Offer to Join Australian Club Sydney FC
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-30T03:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/sydney-fc-says-it-s-in-talks-to-sign-alessandro-del-piero.html
Alessandro Del Piero, whose record-
breaking 19-year soccer career with Italian champion Juventus
ended in May, is considering  Australia  as his next destination.  The 37-year-old Del Piero, a World Cup winner with Italy in
2006, held talks with Sydney FC yesterday about the possibility
of joining the club for the 2012-13 season as its so-called
marquee player, the A-League club said in a statement.  “We spoke about football, as well as the Sydney lifestyle
and the ability for him to leave a lasting legacy in the game,”
Sydney FC Chief Executive Officer Tony Pignata said in the
statement. “We presented him with what we think is a good
package and we should get an answer within 48 hours.”  Sydney faces competition from clubs in  Switzerland  and
 Scotland  to sign Del Piero, who became a free agent in May after
scoring 208 goals in a record 513 matches for Juventus. He also
played 91 games for the Italian national team and his 27 goals
put him in a tie for fourth place on the country’s all-time
goalscorers’ list.  Sydney has been a pioneer in bringing high-profile players
to the A-League, which replaced the National Soccer League as
Australia’s flagship soccer competition seven years ago.  The club made former Manchester United striker Dwight Yorke
its first marquee signing in 2005 and also brought Brazilian
World Cup winner Juninho to Australia in 2007.  For the 2012-13 season starting Oct. 5, A-League rules
allow clubs to sign an international player outside the team
salary cap of $A2.48 million ($2.5 million).  Champions League  During nearly two decades at Juventus, Del Piero won six
Italian Serie A championships, one  Champions League  title and
the Intercontinental Cup. In 2004, he was named in the FIFA 100,
a list of the 125 greatest living soccer players selected by
Pele as a part of the governing body’s centenary celebrations.  Scottish champion Celtic, which last night qualified for
the Champions League group stage, and Switzerland’s FC Sion have
also held preliminary discussion with Del Piero, U.K. newspapers
including the Guardian reported.  “Del Piero is one of the true legends of football,”
Pignata added. “If he was to come to Sydney FC it would be huge,
not only for our club and the Sydney football community, but for
the whole A-League.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  