-- Syria’s Assad Says Time Needed in Fight Against Opponents
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-08-29T21:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/syria-s-assad-says-time-needed-in-fight-against-opponents.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
said his government’s battle against rebels will take time to be
resolved and the “situation is better now.”  Assad made the comments in an interview with local Addunia
television, broadcast yesterday, in which he praised government
forces and blamed other nations, such as neighboring  Turkey , for
the violence in  Syria .  “The Turkish state bares a direct responsibility for the
blood spilled in Syria,” he said.  United Nations  efforts to end the 17-month conflict
faltered as military monitors left the country last week and
fighting increased, with battles engulfing areas in the
country’s two biggest cities, Damascus and Aleppo.  Syrian security forces killed at least 107 people across
the country yesterday, the Syrian Network for  Human Rights  said
on its Facebook page. More than 23,000 lives have been lost
during the unrest, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights estimates.  Rebels destroyed 10 helicopters at an airport near Idlib,
Al Jazeera television reported, airing footage of the attack.
Syrian state television said no equipment was lost in the
assault in which two soldiers were wounded and many
“terrorists” were killed.  Syrians Flee  The UN refugee agency warned Aug. 28 that the tide of
Syrians fleeing the country was rising. The number reaching
northern  Jordan  doubled to 10,000 in the week to Aug. 27, the
office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said
on its website.  In the interview with Addunia, Assad said the “broad base
of the Syrian people protects the country,” and paid tribute to
the armed forces “in enabling this country to stand fast.”  Assad, who has vowed to crush the rebellion, said talk of
an international buffer zone on Syrian soil “is not practical,
even for those countries which are playing a hostile role”
against his regime.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, in  Iran  for a summit of
non-aligned nations, pressed Iranian leaders to use their
influence with Syrian leaders and seek a resolution of the
conflict, according to a UN “note to correspondents” about his
trip, which the U.S. and  Israel  had opposed.  Ban met with Supreme Leader Imam Ali Khamenei and President
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad . He urged them “to use Iran’s influence to
impress upon the Syrian leadership the urgent need for the
violence to stop and to create the condition for a credible
dialogue and a genuine political process that meets the will of
the Syrian people,” according to the UN statement.  Russia , which has backed Assad, denounced “barbarian”
assaults on civilians in Syria and urged an investigation of the
attacks, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement published on
its website yesterday.  “There’s no doubt that some interested parties aren’t
abandoning efforts to escalate tensions in Syria and undermine
all steps aimed at reaching a political settlement,” according
to the ministry in Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Dubai at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  