-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District--Atlanta.  Summary. Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated
that economic activity expanded at a modest pace in July through
mid-August. The majority of contacts described their short-term
outlook for future business activity as restrained.  Most retailers indicated that sales growth had slowed with the
exception of autos, which remained quite positive. Tourism
contacts continued to report strong activity in all segments
except cruise lines. Residential brokers and builders noted
improvement in home sales and construction. New and existing
home sales prices were reported to be modestly higher than year-
ago levels. Commercial builders continued to note improvement,
driven by the multifamily sector. Manufacturers reported a
pullback in new orders and production levels. According to
banking contacts, loan demand remained low but some improvements
were registered in home mortgages, and auto lending was brisk.
Hiring activity remained muted across the District. The trend of
using temporary workers to fill labor needs continued to be
cited by many firms. Some contacts said that they had
experienced lower overall input prices, but rising food prices
was a concern. Wage pressures remained in check.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. Most contacts in the retail
sector reported generally slower sales. Contacts in the
restaurant industry in particular were less positive in July.
Discount retail operations performed somewhat better than
traditional department stores, while luxury goods merchants
remained largely positive, although their reports were more
mixed than earlier in the year. Sales expectations for most
retailers remained conservative. Auto sales continued to grow at
a solid pace and dealers anticipated continued strong results.  Hospitality contacts reported strong hotel occupancy and room
rates for July through mid-August. Convention bookings showed
continued strength. Cruise line results remained below
expectations. However, contacts in that sector anticipate
stronger business in 2013. Florida contacts noted a drop off in
tourism activity from Europe, but that was being offset by the
increase in visitors from South and Central America.  Real Estate and Construction. District residential brokers
reported that sales were up slightly compared with year-ago
levels. Brokers continued to note declining inventories, which
has put some upward pressure on  home prices  in many markets.
Contacts indicated that buying interest continued to improve
from earlier in the year. The outlook for home sales over the
next several months remained positive, with the majority of
contacts anticipating modest gains.  Reports from District homebuilders remained positive as well.
Most said that recent activity had met or exceeded their
expectations. New home sales were up notably from year-earlier
levels and construction exceeded last year’s levels. Most
builders reported that new home inventories declined further.
Several builders also noted that finished lots were scarce and
development of new lots would not be financially feasible until
home prices increased significantly. Most builders indicated
that new home prices were flat to slightly up compared with a
year earlier. The strongest gains were again reported by Florida
builders. Homebuilders witnessed strong buyer traffic and the
outlook for construction activity and  new home sales  remained
positive. Apartment sector gains continued to drive improvements
in the District’s commercial real estate markets. Occupancy
levels were described as high and rental rates rose further.
Contacts indicated that the region’s office market continued to
make small improvements, while the industrial and retail sectors
cited some weakening in demand from earlier in the year.
Commercial contractors indicated that the pace of construction
improved somewhat from earlier in the year, while backlogs have
also risen in many areas. Most anticipated that construction
activity will likely mirror last year’s levels through the end
of the year. Some contacts suggested that 2012 would be the
bottom of the market, with improvements expected next year.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturing contacts noted a
contraction in new orders and production levels since the last
report. Roughly one quarter of manufacturing contacts still
expect production to improve from current levels over the next
three-to-six months, but an equal number anticipate additional
declines. Half see output levels near current readings. Despite
falling non-labor input costs, a slump in new orders is keeping
margins thin. Construction-related manufacturing firms cited a
bit more optimism since the last report, crediting recent
improvements in several housing market indicators.  Trucking contacts indicated that freight demand and capacity
remained closely in balance. Regulatory issues, increasing
costs, and a tight driver market continue to put pressures on
bottom lines. District air cargo contacts cited continued
positive growth, however at a slightly slower pace than earlier
in the year. Sharp volume declines with Asia and  Europe  have
been offset by increases in other regions. Rail contacts
reported continued increases in intermodal shipments, which have
helped to moderate declines in car loads of coal and
agricultural products. Shipments of construction-related
materials continued to be mixed; lumber remained positive, while
aggregates and chemicals declined.  Banking and Finance. Banking contacts continued to note margin
and profit pressures. Competition among banks and  credit unions 
for high-quality loans remained intense, further driving down
margins. A few bankers cited positive loan growth, but overall
loan demand remained low. Some contacts noted pockets of
improvement in residential real estate lending, driven mostly by
refinancing. Contacts also reported robust auto lending.
Community banks looked to fee-related services in an effort to
become less dependent on the pricing spread between loans and
deposits. Some contacts cited increased consumer credit card
use.  Employment and Prices. Regional employment growth remained very
tepid. Few firms reported their intention to add to current
staffing levels, but there were only scattered reports of firms
planning layoffs. Companies that rely on contracts with the
 Department of Defense  were not yet cutting back on staff or
otherwise changing their business plans because the timing and
focus of defense spending cutbacks is highly uncertain. Many
firms continued to note increased hiring of temporary or
contract workers. Several companies have also reported large
capital investments which reduced the need for labor. Meanwhile,
contacts also continued to note difficulty filling highly
skilled positions. Several firms continued to report that weak
demand and uncertainty surrounding fiscal and regulatory policy
weighed on decision-making processes.  Businesses reported some relief on input prices and little
change in wage plans, although some employers noted that they
were increasing starting pay for workers with specialty skills.
The potential impact of higher food prices was noted by many
companies across several sectors. Paired with the recent rise in
gasoline prices, higher food costs will have a negative impact
on lower and middle-income constituents according to community
development contacts. Firms responding to our Business Inflation
Expectations survey reported steady unit cost expectations in
July. On average, they expect unit costs to rise 1.7 percent
over the next 12 months. While similar to June’s reading, the
number was down slightly from 1.8 percent in May.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. Contacts reported a renewed
increase in production at  Gulf Coast  refineries because of
recent closures along the East Coast. An increase in demand for
crude oil and oil products, along with the Gulf Coast seeing
particularly high demand for diesel fuels and other distillates,
has helped to support refined product prices.  Recent rains improved conditions in many parts of the District.
Compared with the same time last year, prices paid to farmers
for soybeans, corn, oranges, beef, hogs, and broilers were up
while cotton was down. Although beef prices have increased over
the last year, contacts reported that both the drought and high
feed prices have resulted in lower prices paid to farmers on a
month-over-month basis. 