-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District-- Kansas City .  The Tenth District economy continued to expand at a moderate
pace in July and early August. Retailers and auto dealers
reported higher sales and expected increased activity in the
months ahead. Manufacturing activity expanded slightly, with
additional gains expected over the next six months.
Transportation activity grew moderately, while sales in the
high-tech services sector declined slightly. Residential and
commercial real estate markets continued to improve with
increased sales, construction, and prices. Banking contacts
reported slightly higher loan demand and improved loan quality.
Agricultural conditions deteriorated under extreme drought
conditions leading to higher crop prices and strained profit
margins for livestock producers. The energy sector held steady
as growth in crude oil drilling continued to offset the decrease
in drilling for natural gas. Most sectors reported higher input
prices, but final goods prices and wage pressures remained
stable.  Consumer Spending . Consumer spending continued to increase in
July and early August and was expected to rise further over the
next three months. Retailers reported higher sales, though gains
were a bit less than expected. Home furnishings, clothing and
back-to-school items sold well, while sales of high-end jewelry
were weaker. Auto sales increased sharply as more incentives
were offered and access to credit improved slightly. Demand for
small and mid-sized crossovers, SUVs and cars was strong, while
demand for larger SUVs and minivans remained weak. Most auto
dealers expected sales to strengthen further in the months
ahead. Restaurant sales increased, and several contacts expected
higher menu prices in coming months in response to rising food
costs. After strong gains in June, hotel occupancy fell slightly
in July and early August, but average room rates continued to
rise. In terms of tourism, the number of visitors at local
attractions grew slightly, and modest gains were expected in the
months ahead.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Transportation
activity continued to grow moderately, manufacturing activity
expanded slightly, and sales at high-tech services firms
declined slightly. Transportation activity continued to rise,
with an increase in sales and backlog activity. Input prices and
prices charged for transportation services increased with higher
fuel costs.  Capital spending  plans at transportation firms
remained largely unchanged, with firms continuing to expect a
modest increase in capital spending in coming months.
Manufacturing production and hiring rose modestly, though the
volume of new orders, volume of shipments, and backlogs declined
since the last survey. Manufacturers expected activity to expand
in coming months. Sales at high-tech services firms decreased
slightly, and capital spending grew modestly. High-tech contacts
expected improved sales in the months ahead and a strong rise in
capital spending.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real
estate activity continued to improve in July and early August,
and construction activity strengthened. Residential home sales
and prices rose, and home inventories fell. Contacts reported
multiple offers on homes and expected continued housing market
improvements in coming months. Homes under $300,000 sold
particularly well, while homes priced over $500,000 and condos
were slow to sell in some markets. Several contacts reported
that a large inventory of homes in foreclosure has been held
back and could put downward pressure on prices when the homes
come onto the market. Builders reported an increase in housing
starts and a rise in new  home prices  as well as improvement in
the traffic of potential buyers. Land prices and the cost of
building materials rose during the survey period as demand
improved. Commercial real estate conditions also improved.
Construction and sales of commercial real estate properties
rose, real estate prices and rents increased, and vacancy rates
continued to fall. Several commercial real estate contacts
expected uncertainty surrounding the presidential election to
slow activity until late in the year. Developers reported that
access to credit remained unchanged.  Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers generally reported
slightly stronger loan demand, improving loan quality, and
little change in deposits. Overall loan demand improved slightly
as most respondents reported stable loan demand for commercial
and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and consumer
installment loans, while demand for residential real estate
loans improved. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in
all major loan categories, and the majority of respondents
reported stable deposits. The majority of bankers reported
improved loan quality compared to a year ago, and nearly all
banks expected loan quality over the next six months to remain
steady or improve.  Agriculture. Agricultural conditions deteriorated as crops
withered under extreme drought. The majority of the corn and
soybean crops were rated in fair or poor condition, cutting
production estimates and sending crop prices to record highs.
Drought strained profit margins for livestock producers as feed
costs rose and further herd liquidations dampened cattle prices.
Escalating production costs were expected to boost farm loan
demand in the coming months. Agricultural bankers indicated
ample funds were available for farm loans at historically low
 interest rates . Loan repayment rates were expected to hold near
year-ago levels due in large part to crop insurance and higher
land lease revenues for mineral rights. While still well above
year-ago levels, farmland values rose less rapidly and were
expected to hold steady during the rest of the growing season.  Energy. District energy activity remained fairly stable at high
levels in July and early August. Drilling activity rose as
growth in the number of active crude oil rigs offset declines in
natural gas drilling. Most contacts expected drilling activity
to slow in coming months due to local and national regulatory
obstacles and low natural  gas prices . Stable demand growth and
ample supply of crude oil were expected to limit further
increases in crude  oil prices  in coming months. Contacts
expected the slowdown in natural gas drilling to put upward
pressure on natural gas prices over the next three months.
Shortages were reported for equipment and labor, particularly
for oil and natural gas operators and drilling engineers.
Several contacts also reported that the drought has affected
drilling operations by limiting water availability needed for
hydraulic fracturing.  Wages and Prices. Finished goods prices remained stable despite
an increase in raw material prices, and wage pressures remained
low. Manufacturers reported higher raw material prices, and
finished goods prices remained flat. However, both raw material
prices and finished goods prices were expected to increase over
the next six months in the manufacturing sector, especially for
food manufacturers. Retail prices increased slightly, and
additional price increases were expected to remain modest.
Restaurant menu prices remained flat, but many contacts expected
to raise prices in the months ahead in response to higher food
costs. Builders and construction supply firms also reported
higher prices, especially for roofing materials, lumber and
concrete. Wage pressures remained subdued, and only a few
contacts expected to raise wages more than normal to attract or
retain workers. However, many firms continued to report some
difficulty filling skilled positions including drivers,
technicians, engineers, computer programmers, and sales
representatives. 