-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  The Second District’s economy has continued to expand at a
modest pace since the last report. Despite some pickup in
commodity price pressures, prices of finished goods and services
have generally been stable. There have been scattered signs of
softening in the labor market: while manufacturers continue to
add workers, firms in other industries have scaled back hiring.
A growing number of contacts in both manufacturing and other
sectors report some softening in business conditions. Retailers,
however, report generally favorable results: auto dealers note
that sales remain fairly strong, and non-auto retailers report
some recent improvement. Tourism activity has remained strong.
Residential real estate markets have shown signs of improvement,
and  Manhattan ’s office market picked up slightly. Finally,
bankers report increased loan demand, no change in credit
standards, and further declines in delinquency rates.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report that sales activity has firmed somewhat since
the last report. Two major retail chains report that sales in
the region were on plan in July and ahead of plan in early
August. Similarly a major retail mall in upstate New York
reports some firming in sales, as well as shopper traffic, in
July and early August, following lackluster business in May and
June. Retail prices continue to be described as steady--
including apparel prices, which had previously been expected to
drift down with the retreat in cotton prices earlier this year.
Stores in  New York City  have performed on par or modestly better
than those in the rest of the region. Inventories are generally
said to be at or slightly above desired levels.  Auto dealers in upstate New York continue to report strong
sales. New vehicle sales are characterized as particularly
robust--up 14 percent from a year earlier--in the Rochester
area. Buffalo-area dealers are seeing gains of about 7 percent.
Sales of used cars and business at dealers’ service departments
are also described as fairly robust. Wholesale and retail credit
conditions remain favorable.  Tourism activity has been mixed but generally strong since the
last report. Hotels occupancy rates in the  Albany  and Buffalo
areas have climbed and are well ahead of year-earlier levels.
New York City hotels indicate that revenues per room were up
roughly 6 percent from a year ago in June but up by a more
modest 2 percent in July, as growth in room rates slowed and
occupancy rates leveled off at close to 90 percent. With a 2-3
percent increase in the total number of hotel rooms in the city,
this suggests continued fairly brisk growth in tourism activity.
Attendance at Broadway theatres picked up in July and remained
robust in early August, running 4-5 percent ahead of a year
earlier, while revenue was up roughly 10 percent, reflecting
higher ticket prices.  Construction and Real Estate  Housing markets across the District have shown further signs of
modest improvement since the last report. The housing market in
the Buffalo area continued to show strength through mid-July,
though activity has dropped off in recent weeks--to a greater
extent than the seasonal norm. Northern New Jersey’s housing
market has bottomed and is showing scattered signs of
improvement, according to an industry expert. This contact also
maintains that internal market fundamentals are favorable: low
and declining inventories, pent up demand, high affordability
and a steady reduction in the foreclosure pipeline Manhattan’s
co-op and condo market has been fairly active since mid-year,
relative to the normal seasonal pattern of slowing. In
particular, there has been strong activity at the very high end
(for “trophy properties”) and also for entry-level apartments,
driven in part by low  mortgage rates . There has been more
significant improvement reported in  Brooklyn  and especially in
Queens, where an inventory glut has evaporated surprisingly
quickly, according to one contact. New York City apartment rents
have continued to rise across all segments, and Albany’s rental
market has strengthened noticeably, with rents running 7 percent
higher than a year ago.  Manhattan’s office market strengthened somewhat in July, as
leasing activity picked up and vacancy rates edged down. Asking
rents for Class A office space rose modestly and continued to
run more than 10 percent ahead of a year earlier. A real estate
contact also reports that retailers have started leasing more
ground-floor space in apartment buildings that have recently
reached full occupancy.  Other Business Activity  Businesses across the District indicate some softening in
general conditions since the last report. A rising number of
contacts in both manufacturing and other sectors indicate a
recent pullback in business activity. While some pickup in input
price pressures has been noted in recent weeks and further
increases are anticipated in the months ahead, most report
steady selling prices.  Labor market conditions across the District have been mixed, but
somewhat weaker, on balance, since the last report. While
manufacturers report that they continue to add workers, on net,
firms in other sectors indicate that they have cut back on
hiring. Moreover, both manufacturers and non-manufacturing firms
recently scaled back their near term hiring plans. Separately, a
major New York City employment agency specializing in office
jobs reports that hiring activity was even more sluggish in July
and early August than is usual for the this time of year. A
contact in the securities industry reports that there has been
neither any significant increase in layoffs nor much hiring.  Financial Developments  Small- to medium-sized banks in the District report a noticeable
pickup in overall loan demand. Particularly widespread increases
in demand were reported for both residential and commercial
mortgage loans, while demand for consumer loans was little
changed. As was the case in the last report, demand for
commercial & industrial loans decreased. Bankers also indicate
steady demand for refinancing. Virtually all contacts report no
change in credit standards across all loan categories.
Respondents indicate continued decreases in spreads of loan
rates over costs of funds for all loan categories--particularly
commercial & industrial loans and commercial mortgages.
Respondents also note continued declines in the average deposit
rate. Finally, bankers report declining delinquency rates,
particularly on commercial & industrial loans and residential
mortgages. 