-- U.S. Second-Quarter Second GDP Technical Note (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-08-29T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-second-quarter-second-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  This technical note provides background information about
the source data and estimating methods used to produce the
estimates presented in the GDP news release. The complete set of
estimates for the second quarter is available on BEA’s Web site
at www.bea.gov; a brief summary of “highlights” is also posted
on the Web site.  In a few weeks, the estimates will be
published in BEA’s monthly journal, the Survey of Current
Business, along with a more detailed analysis of the estimates
(“GDP and the Economy”).  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 1.7 percent (annual rate) in the second
quarter, an upward revision of 0.2 percentage point from the
advance estimate.  The upward revision to real GDP primarily
reflected a downward revision to imports and an upward revision
to  consumer spending  that were partly offset by a downward
revision to inventory investment.  The downward revision to imports was primarily to goods
and reflected newly  available Census Bureau goods data for June and revised
data for May. The upward  revision to consumer spending reflected an upward
revision to services.  Within  services, the largest contributor to the revision was an
upward  revision to electricity and gas, based on newly
available usage and unit value  data from the Energy Information Administration (EIA)
for May and revised data  for April. *     The downward revision to inventory
investment primarily reflected downward  revisions to wholesale trade inventories and to mining,
utilities, and  construction inventories that were partly offset by an
upward revision to retail  trade inventories.  The revisions were based on newly
available Census  Bureau inventory data for June and revised data for May,
Census Bureau  Quarterly Financial Report data (for mining), and EIA
data (for utilities).  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases increased 0.8
percent in the second quarter, an upward revision of 0.1
percentage point.  Gross Domestic Income and Corporate Profits  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output
of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in
the production of GDP, increased 0.6 percent in the second
quarter.  For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI may
differ for a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of
largely independent source data. However, over longer time spans,
the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of
change.  Profits from current production before taxes increased
$10.4 billion, or 0.5 percent (quarterly rate), in the second
quarter.  Domestic profits of financial corporations decreased
$39.2 billion, domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations
increased $30.4 billion, and rest-of-the-world profits increased
$19.2 billion.  Revisions to Wages and Salaries, Disposable Personal Income, and
GDI  In addition to presenting revised estimates for the second
quarter, today’s release also presents revised estimates of
first-quarter wages and salaries, personal taxes, and
contributions for government social insurance.  Wage and salary
disbursements are now estimated to have increased $133.5 billion
in the first quarter of 2012, an upward revision of $10.2
billion.  These estimates reflect newly available wage and
salary tabulations for the first quarter from the BLS quarterly
census of employment and wages (QCEW).  (Last month’s estimate
reflected BLS wage and salary tabulations for 19 states.)  These
data are more comprehensive than the monthly employment and
earnings data that were used for the earlier estimates--the QCEW
data include irregular pay, such as bonuses and gains from the
exercise of  stock options .  Real disposable personal income is now estimated to have
increased 3.7 percent in the first quarter and 3.1 percent in
the second.  (By comparison, the estimates that were available
last month showed an increase of 3.4 percent in the first
quarter and an increase of 3.2 percent in the second.)  The revision to first-quarter wages and salaries also
results in a revision to GDI.  Real GDI is now estimated to have
increased 3.8 percent in the first quarter, an upward revision
of 0.3 percentage point.  This table shows the actual data used for the second
estimate of GDP for the second quarter of 2012.  For these key
series, actual data for June were not available in time for
inclusion in the advance GDP estimate released on July 27, 2012,
and BEA made assumptions for these source data.  The numbers in
brackets show the June values that had been assumed for the
advance estimate.  For most series, the data incorporated for
May and, in some cases, for April were preliminary, and the
numbers shown in brackets are the values used last month.  All series shown in the table are in billions of dollars,
seasonally adjusted at annual rates, and are published by the
Bureau of the Census.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  