-- U.S. Federal Reserve Aug. Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-aug-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of the  Federal Reserve 
Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Summary*
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest economic activity
continued to expand gradually in July and early August across most regions and
sectors. Six Districts indicated the local economy continued to expand at a modest
pace and another three cited moderate growth; among the latter,  Chicago  noted that
the pace of growth had slowed from the prior period. The Philadelphia and Richmond
Districts reported slow growth in most sectors and declines in manufacturing, while
 Boston  cited mixed reports from business contacts and some slowdown since the
previous report.
Most Districts indicated that retail activity, including auto sales, had increased
since the last  Beige Book  report, although  Cleveland , Chicago, St. Louis,  Dallas ,
and  San Francisco  noted the retail improvements were small. Atlanta said that retail
growth had slowed, while Philadelphia indicated growth in retail sales was somewhat
faster than in the previous report. Boston,  New York , Richmond, Atlanta,
 Minneapolis , and San Francisco recorded strong performance in tourism. Many
Districts reported some softening in manufacturing, either a slowdown in the rate of
growth or a decline in the level of sales, output, or orders; among those with
declining shipments and orders, Philadelphia noted that the rate of decline was
tempering.
Districts mentioning nonfinancial services noted increased activity, although at a
slowing pace in Boston, softening in New York, and “flattening” in Philadelphia;
 Kansas City  reported that sales of high-tech services declined slightly. Several
Districts cited declining demand for staffing services. According to District
reports, bankers in New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas
City saw increases in demand for most loan types in recent months; by contrast,  St.
Louis , Dallas, and San Francisco indicated that loan demand was mixed, softening, or
slightly weaker. Real estate markets were generally said to be improving. On the
residential side, all 12 Districts cited increases in home sales,  home prices , or
housing construction.
Reports on commercial real estate
* Prepared at the  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston  and based on information collected
on or before August 20, 2012. This document summarizes comments received from
business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on
the views of Federal Reserve officials markets were also generally positive,
although San Francisco noted stable demand, Boston indicated conditions were not
much changed since the last report, and Richmond, Chicago, and St. Louis said
commercial real estate conditions were mixed.
District reports indicated that energy and mining activity was generally high and
increasing. However, Cleveland noted softening demand for coal, while Minneapolis
and Kansas City had some energy sectors up and some down. The Midwest drought has
reduced actual and expected farm output, especially cotton, soybean, and/or corn
crops in the Chicago, Kansas City, and St. Louis Districts.
Most Districts reported that the selling prices of manufacturing and retail products
were largely stable. By exception, several Districts noted concerns about rising
agricultural commodity prices, and Richmond mentioned a small uptick in retail
prices. Hiring was said to be modest across the Districts, and wage pressures were
characterized as contained.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism
Most Districts reported that retail spending in July and early August was up
compared with the previous Beige Book. New York and San Francisco noted
strengthening sales compared with a softer May and June, although in San Francisco’s
case, the rise was only “a bit further.” Philadelphia, Richmond, Minneapolis, and
Kansas City reported stronger retail sales, while Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, and
Dallas all said that sales were up “slightly.” In the Atlanta District, most retail
contacts reported slower sales, while Boston’s retail contacts provided a mixed
assessment. The Atlanta and San Francisco reports noted that discount retailers
performed better than traditional department stores, while the Chicago report
attributed the pace of growth in consumer spending to heavy discounting by retailers
clearing space for back-to-school items. Boston and Chicago reported continuing
weakness in furniture sales; Boston also reported weak sales of electronics, but
Chicago noted some improvement in this category. Adult clothing sold well in Boston,
Chicago, and Dallas. The Atlanta District said that luxury goods merchants, while
still largely positive, provided more mixed reports compared with earlier this year;
Kansas City cited weaker sales for high-end jewelry. For the remainder of 2012,
Boston retailers have mixed sales expectations, Philadelphia retailers are
cautiously optimistic, and those in Atlanta are conservative; retail contacts in
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas expect sales to rise through the end of the
year. Automobile sales are up in the New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, St. Louis,
Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts, flat in Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas, and
a bit slower paced in Richmond and San Francisco; nonetheless, vehicle demand in the
latter two Districts is still strong, especially for used cars. The New York
District reported that new car sales are “particularly robust” and Kansas City cited
a sharp increase in new vehicle sales. Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City indicated
that car dealers in their Districts expected these strong automobile sales to
continue, while the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts reported concerns that
consumer uncertainty might depress vehicle sales in coming months. Respondents in
the Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts
reported that tourist industry performance remains strong. The Atlanta District
mentioned that Florida contacts reported a drop in European travelers, but said this
decline was offset by an increase in business from Central and  South America .
Contacts in Boston noted some concern that weakness in Europe could soften tourist
activity and that rising gas prices could affect leisure travel. The San Francisco
District reported that the pace of growth had slowed in Las Vegas and other areas.  Manufacturing and Related Services
The picture in manufacturing was mixed. The Boston, Chicago, Kansas City and San
Francisco Districts reported increasing demand and sales since the previous Beige
Book, although the improvement was generally small and uneven, with two of these
four Districts reporting that demand growth, while positive, was slowing. Six
Districts reported that demand for manufactured goods was actually falling, although
none reported a dramatic fall. The outlook was somewhat more positive, with six
Districts reporting that manufacturers expected increasing demand and only two
reporting the opposite. Areas of strength were varied. The Cleveland and
Philadelphia Districts both pointed to the revolution in natural gas production in
the United States as a driver of demand, but the Chicago District said that a
contact blamed cheap natural gas for weakness in demand for coal. Several Districts
noted that improvements in residential construction boosted demand for products such
as lumber, PVC, cement, and home goods. The Chicago and Philadelphia Districts said
that auto production was positive, but Richmond said the opposite.
Weakness overseas remains a problem for U.S. manufacturing. Reports from the Boston,
Atlanta, and Chicago Districts explicitly mentioned it. Although Europe represented
one notable problem, several Districts also mentioned weakness in demand in Asia as
an issue. In general, District reports indicate that the cost and availability of
raw materials has not been an issue for manufacturers recently, especially as
compared with the situation in previous years. Four Districts reported lower input
costs, but contacts in New York reported a slight increase. On the employment front,
there was little movement. Across all Districts, few manufacturing firms reported
any major hiring or layoffs, and the ones that did usually attributed it to
idiosyncratic factors like new products or restructuring related to a merger. The
Cleveland District reported that firms continued to have trouble finding skilled
workers.  Capital spending  also showed little change; in addition, several Districts
reported that contacted manufacturers had not revised their investment plans.  Nonfinancial Services
Activity in nonfinancial services generally picked up since the previous report,
although results were mixed across Districts and  service industries . New York and
Philadelphia reported that overall service-sector activity was flat to down
slightly, whereas Minneapolis and San Francisco noted expanding activity. Several
Districts, including Boston, Richmond, and San Francisco, reported steady to
increasing demand for information technology services; Kansas City, by contrast,
cited decreased sales at high-tech services firms. Reports from the healthcare
sector were also somewhat mixed, with Philadelphia and St. Louis reporting positive
results and San Francisco noting a drop in the frequency of elective procedures.
Advertisers in the Philadelphia and San Francisco Districts continued to report
strong revenues. In the Dallas District, legal firms reported continued increases in
demand for services, while accounting firms cited seasonal slowness. Demand for
staffing services was generally lower than expected, with decreases reported by
Boston, New York, Richmond, and Dallas. Even so, demand remained strong for highly
skilled IT personnel in the Boston and Richmond Districts.
Reports on transportation services were generally positive. Rail contacts reported
continued increases in intermodal shipments in the Atlanta District and increased
cargo volumes in the Dallas District, with both Districts recognizing gains in
lumber shipments. Atlanta and Dallas also reported steady to increasing demand for
trucking services, whereas logistics firms and carriers in the Philadelphia District
reported a relatively sluggish start to the traditional “freight season.”  Banking and Financial Services
Credit conditions have improved over the reporting period according to District
reports. Credit spreads were lower and competition for high-quality borrowers among
lending institutions has increased. The New York District noted that shrinking
spreads were observed particularly in commercial and industrial loans as well as in
commercial mortgages. Some bankers in the Cleveland District mentioned a moderate
loosening of lending guidelines. The New York, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts
reported unchanged credit standards; New York and Cleveland cited declining
delinquency rates. The direction and magnitude of changes in loan demand varied
among the Districts and also with respect to type of loan. The Richmond and Atlanta
Districts reported generally low demand for loans, but some pockets of growth. The
Chicago District noted that growth in business loan demand was generated mostly from
small and mid-size firms and for the purpose of refinancing rather than financing
 capital expenditures . Cleveland, St. Louis, and San Francisco mentioned small
positive or negative changes in business credit demand, and relatively strong demand
for  consumer credit . The Kansas City District reported stable demand for commercial
and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, while Dallas noted softer
demand for loans overall; however, both Districts cited increases in demand for
residential real estate loans. The New York and Philadelphia Districts observed
growth in most lending categories.  Real Estate and Construction
Housing markets across most Districts exhibited signs of improvement, with sales and
construction continuing to increase. Dallas reported significant levels of buyer
traffic, Richmond noted strong pending sales, and Minneapolis and St. Louis
mentioned increases in building permits. New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago
indicated improvements as well, but characterized the progress as slow and modest.
Declines in inventory levels were reported in Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco; these declining inventories put some upward
pressure on prices according to Boston, Atlanta, and Dallas. A reduction in the
stock of distressed properties was mentioned in New York, Richmond, and San
Francisco. In Philadelphia and Kansas City, the possibility of shadow inventory
entering the market remains a concern. In general, outlooks were positive, with
continued increases in activity expected, although the projected gains were more
modest in Boston, Cleveland, and Kansas City.
Commercial real estate market conditions held steady or improved in nearly all
Districts in recent weeks. New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Kansas City all
reported that commercial leasing increased and vacancy rates fell. New York and
Kansas City reported increases in office rents as well; Kansas City also cited a
rise in commercial construction. Commercial building permits were up significantly
from one year ago in portions of the Minneapolis District. Chicago’s report was
mixed: office vacancy rates remained high, restraining demand for new office
construction, but office leasing demand improved modestly and industrial
construction picked up. Atlanta reported rising apartment rents and small gains in
office leasing, with weakness in the retail and industrial sectors. Boston reported
that office fundamentals were flat on average, with rising rents in portions of
Boston proper and muted but steady activity elsewhere in the District.
Nonresidential construction picked up in the Boston and Cleveland Districts. Office
and industrial real estate markets remained healthy in Dallas. The St. Louis report
noted an increase in commercial construction across much of the District and varied
reports on leasing across areas within the District. In San Francisco, demand for
commercial property was stable while commercial construction was limited. Richmond
reported a decline in office leasing volume in Washington, D.C., but some portions
of the District recorded increasing sales and construction. Multifamily real estate
remained a strong submarket and a key driver of construction in many Districts,
including Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis,
Dallas, and San Francisco.  Agriculture and Natural Resources
According to District reports, agricultural conditions were mixed largely because of
severe drought conditions that affected the Midwest more than the rest of the
country. Producers in the Chicago, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts were all
severely affected by the drought, with cotton, soybean, and corn crops particularly
damaged. Cotton production in the Dallas District was also badly damaged, while the
northern part of the Minneapolis District reported good corn, soybean, and wheat
crops, and the San Francisco and Richmond Districts reported strong demand for their
healthy cotton crops. Although nearly all agricultural commodity prices rose, higher
feed costs led to reduced herd sizes and lower livestock prices in nearly all
Districts reporting on livestock. Reports from the Richmond and Kansas City
Districts indicated that farmland values have continued to rise, although contacts
in the Kansas City District expected them to hold steady for the rest of the year.
Farm incomes generally rose or stayed the same in the Minneapolis District. Oil and
gas activity continued to be robust across most Districts. Extraction of natural gas
and petroleum remained at high levels in the Dallas and Minneapolis Districts and
expanded in the Cleveland and Richmond Districts, partly because of increased demand
from electrical utilities. Production increased in Gulf Coast oil refineries in the
Atlanta District as a result of closures along the East Coast, while higher demand
for crude oil, diesel, and other distillates supported prices. However, natural gas
producers in the Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts reported a
decline in exploration and drilling of new wells on account of high inventories and
low prices. Coal demand was unchanged from 2011 in the St. Louis District but was
expected to fall below 2011 levels in the Cleveland District due to reduced demand
for thermal coal from domestic utilities and metallurgical coal from Europe and
Asia.  Iron ore , taconite, and sand mines in the Minneapolis District continued to
operate at high capacity.  Employment, Wages, and Prices
Most Districts reported that employment was holding steady or growing only slightly.
Several Districts including Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and Richmond noted a
softening in employment relative to expectations; upcoming layoffs were reported by
a defense contractor in the Boston District and by firms in sectors such as air
transportation, appliances, and business support services in the St Louis District.
Almost all Districts indicated that manufacturers were continuing to hire, albeit
modestly. Demand has been strongest for skilled manufacturing and engineering
positions, as well as for IT services. Contacts in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta,
Kansas City, and Dallas Districts all reported some difficulty meeting demand for
truck drivers.  Overall, upward wage pressure was reported to be very contained across Districts.
The Philadelphia and Chicago Districts both noted that despite little wage pressure,
some contacts reported upward pressures for medical benefits. Sources from Boston
and Atlanta mentioned that continuing demand was putting some upward pressure on
wages for highly-skilled positions in software, engineering, and information
technology. The San Francisco District also noted specialized IT positions as an
exception to generally limited wage growth. The Dallas District reported upward wage
pressure for truck drivers and construction workers, and the Minneapolis District
noted wage increases in areas with increased oil drilling.
Most Districts reported that overall prices for finished goods were relatively
stable despite somewhat increased input prices. Higher prices for grain and other
food commodities were cited by many Districts, primarily due to the drought. The
Cleveland District noted increased upward pressure on lumber prices, while contacts
in Boston, Philadelphia, and Minneapolis reported higher gasoline prices as a
potential concern. Chicago mentioned some pass-through of higher crop prices to
wholesale prices, while contacts in the Kansas City and Richmond Districts expected
to raise future prices in response to more expensive raw materials. 