-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District-- St. Louis .  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District has continued to expand at a
modest pace since our previous survey. Retail and auto sales in
July and early August increased over year-earlier levels.
Residential real estate market conditions have continued to
improve moderately. However, commercial and industrial real
estate conditions have been mixed. Recent reports of planned
activity from services firms have been positive. In contrast,
reports from manufacturing contacts have been mixed. Reports of
lending activity at a sample of large District banks during the
second quarter of 2012 were somewhat mixed.  Consumer Spending  Contacts reported that retail sales in July and early August
were up slightly, on average, over year-earlier levels. About 42
percent of the retailers reported increases in sales, while 33
percent saw decreases and 25 percent saw no changes. Half of the
retailers noted that sales levels met their expectations and
half noted that sales were below expectations. About 13 percent
of the retailers noted that their inventories were too high,
while 8 percent reported that their inventories were too low.
The sales outlook through the fall was generally optimistic: 70
percent of the retailers expect sales to increase over 2011
levels, 17 percent expect sales to decrease, and 13 percent
expect sales to be similar to last year’s sales.  Car dealers in the District reported that sales in July and
early August were up, on average, compared with last year’s
sales. About 67 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw
increases in sales, while 8 percent saw decreases and 25 percent
saw no changes. A third of the car dealers surveyed noted that
new car sales had increased relative to used car sales, while 13
percent reported the opposite. Roughly 29 percent of contacts
reported an increase in sales of low-end vehicles relative to
high-end vehicles, while about 13 percent reported the opposite.
Twenty-five percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that
their inventories were too low, while 17 percent reported that
their inventories were too high. The sales outlook for September
and October was generally optimistic: 67 percent of the car
dealers expect sales to increase over 2011 levels, 16 percent
expect sales to decrease, and 17 percent expect sales to be
similar to last year’s sales.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been mixed
since our previous report. Several manufacturers reported plans
to expand operations and hire new workers, while fewer
manufacturers reported plans to lay off workers. However, the
reported plans for layoffs usually involved a greater number of
workers relative to the reported hiring plans. Firms in
automobile, medical technology products, carbon and graphite
products, air purification equipment, electrical equipment,
automobile parts, metal can, nanotechnology, lifting equipment,
and industrial machinery manufacturing reported plans to expand
operations and hire new workers. In contrast, firms in air
transportation, chemical, appliance, wind turbine, and aluminum
manufacturing reported plans to lay off workers and close
plants.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector
have been positive since our previous report. Firms in
financial, medical,  information technology , business support,
transportation, home healthcare, and environmental consulting
services reported plans to open new facilities, expand
operations, and hire new employees. In contrast, firms in
information and education services reported plans to reduce
operations and decrease employment.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales increased throughout most of the Eighth District on a
year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2011,
June 2012 year-to-date home sales were up 13 percent in
Louisville, 7 percent in Little Rock, 10 percent in  Memphis , and
16 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction increased in
the majority of the District. June 2012 year-to-date single-
family housing permits increased in the majority of the District
metro areas compared with the same period in 2011. Permits
increased 42 percent in Louisville, 14 percent in  Little Rock ,
46 percent in Memphis, and 23 percent in St. Louis.  Commercial and industrial real estate conditions were mixed
throughout most of the District. A contact in northeast  Arkansas 
reported that except for Jonesboro and Paragould, overall
commercial real estate activity remains weak in the region. A
contact in Louisville noted that compared with the first five
months of 2012, the growth of office leasing activity has
slowed. A contact in St. Louis reported moderate improvement in
office real estate activity and strong demand in the industrial
real estate market. Commercial and industrial construction
activity improved throughout most of the District. Contacts
reported several commercial construction projects in Jonesboro,
Arkansas, and in  Bowling Green ,  Kentucky , while contacts in
Louisville noted new speculative construction plans in nearby
Jeffersonville,  Indiana .  Banking and Finance A survey of senior loan officers at a sample
of large District banks indicated moderate changes in overall
lending activity in the second quarter of 2012 compared with the
first quarter of 2012. During this period, credit standards for
commercial and industrial loans remained largely unchanged,
while demand for such loans increased moderately. Credit
standards for commercial real estate loans remained generally
unchanged, while demand ranged from moderately weaker to
moderately stronger. Credit standards for prime residential
 mortgage loans  also remained generally unchanged, while demand
ranged from unchanged to moderately stronger. Credit standards
for consumer loans ranged from basically unchanged to somewhat
eased, while demand was moderately stronger, especially for auto
loans.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Severe drought conditions have caused downgrades to forecasted
crop production. Annual 2012 production of cotton, soybean, and
corn in the District states is expected to fall from 2011 levels
by 12 percent, 18 percent, and 24 percent, respectively. In
contrast, annual production of rice and sorghum in the District
states is expected to increase by at least 12 percent. The
fraction of all crops rated in fair or better condition has
fallen in all District states since the previous report.
Similarly, the fraction of pasture rated in fair or better
condition declined in all District states. The District states’
year-to-date coal production for the end of July was 3.4 percent
higher compared with the same period last year. Meanwhile, the
District states’ coal production for July 2012 was approximately
on par with July 2011. 