-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District-- Chicago .  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded at a
moderate pace in July and early August, with the pace of growth
once again slowing from the prior reporting period. Contacts
reported heightened concern regarding the risks to the economic
outlook, notably the U.S. fiscal situation and weaker growth in
Europe and Asia. Business spending increased at a slower pace,
while consumer spending growth picked up some. Growth in
manufacturing production moderated further, while construction
activity continued to slowly increase. Credit conditions were
again slightly improved. Smaller anticipated corn and soybean
harvests due to the ongoing drought pushed crop prices higher
and raised the cost of feeding livestock, with some pass-through
to wholesale prices already taking place.  Consumer spending . The pace of growth in consumer spending
increased slightly in July and early August due in large part to
heavy discounting by retailers to clear inventory space for
back-to-school items. Store traffic was similar to last year at
this time; however, retail contacts noted that the recent
increases in  gas prices  were leading to less discretionary
spending. Sales of summer clothing and other seasonal items
remained strong. Sales of big-ticket items such as furniture
again were weak, although sales of electronics improved some.
Auto sales were little changed from the prior reporting period
and dealers reported that inventories were beginning to creep
up.  Business spending. Growth in business spending slowed from the
prior reporting period. Inventories were generally reported to
be at comfortable levels. However, retailers remained cautious
in their back-to-school and holiday season ordering and
manufacturers also expressed a desire to tightly manage their
inventories.  Capital expenditures  on software and equipment were
proceeding as planned, but contacts cited a greater degree of
restraint in new spending projects. Labor market conditions were
little changed on balance. Hiring remained selective in most
industries, with demand comparatively stronger for skilled
manufacturing and construction workers, information technology
specialists, and engineers. Several manufacturers reported
transitioning temporary employees into permanent positions, and
a staffing firm reported an increase in demand from the
manufacturing sector.  Construction/real estate. Construction activity continued to
increase at a slow but steady pace in July and early August.
Multi-family construction remained an area of strength, and
residential single-family construction increased slightly.
Homebuilders noted that credit was still tight for residential
projects, with lenders continuing to require large equity
commitments before extending financing. Demand for
nonresidential construction also continued to gradually
increase. Industrial building and highway projects rose further.
Elevated office and retail vacancy rates remained a drag on new
commercial construction, but contacts indicated that demand for
 office space  was slowly improving. That said, a commercial real
estate broker noted that companies lack the confidence to make
long-term real estate commitments, as many continue to negotiate
for contracts with opt-out provisions after two to three years
into their lease agreements.  Manufacturing. Growth in manufacturing production slowed further
over the course of July and early August, with contacts
expecting this slower rate of growth to persist throughout the
second half of the year. In the  steel industry , capacity
utilization fluctuated some during the reporting period, but was
roughly unchanged on balance. Metals manufacturers noted
continued volatility in their customers’ orders, as many were
closely monitoring their inventory levels. The  auto industry 
continued to be a source of strength for manufacturing. Demand
for heavy equipment also remained solid, with rental fleets
continuing to expand. Manufacturers of household goods and
building materials reported that activity had picked up some,
although it remained at low levels. The coal mining industry,
however, was a notable exception, as the low price of natural
gas has resulted in the substitution of natural gas for coal in
electricity production. Exporters noted weaker demand from
Europe and  Asia , but continued strength from other parts of the
world like  Mexico .  Banking/finance. Credit conditions gradually improved over the
reporting period. Credit spreads and volatility moved lower and
increased competition led to downward pricing pressure on small
business loans. Business loan demand continued to be mostly from
small and middle market firms and for the purpose of refinancing
existing debt as opposed to financing capital expenditures.
Banking contacts reported that many of their customers are
waiting to assess the impact of the upcoming election on tax and
healthcare policies. Consumer loan demand was steady. Mortgage
refinancing continued to increase and contacts noted the greater
availability of sub-prime loans for used autos. With overall
loan growth flattening out in recent months, a banking industry
contact noted that some banks are investing in municipal bonds
as a way to increase their earnings.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures were mixed in July and early
August. Prices fell for a number of commodities but rose for
materials like steel and lumber. Gasoline prices moved higher
and shipping costs were also noted to have risen. Retailers
reported that the spike in agricultural commodity prices
resulting from the drought, particularly its impact on higher
feed costs, was already starting to be passed through to
wholesale prices. Wage pressures continued to be moderate,
although several contacts cited upward pressure on healthcare
costs.  Agriculture. The drought has substantially reduced expected
yields for corn and soybeans, although the impact varied
considerably across the District. Scattered rains near the end
of the reporting period helped revive soybeans to some degree;
however, with the exception of some late-plantings, the
precipitation was too late to improve yields for most of the
corn crop. Crop insurance and higher prices will partially
offset lost revenue. However, some farmers face the prospect of
having to buy corn at market prices after selling ahead more
than they will likely harvest. Livestock pastures are in poor
shape as well, and fields with low corn yields were being
chopped for silage to feed livestock. With feed costs high,
livestock operations cannot cover their costs of production, and
operators have reduced their herds accordingly. Hog and cattle
prices were down from the prior reporting period, while dairy
prices were up as milk production dipped. 