-- U.S. Second-Quarter Second Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-08-29T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-second-quarter-second-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the  United
States  -- increased at an annual rate of 1.7 percent in the
second quarter of 2012 (that is, from the first quarter to the
second quarter), according to the “second” estimate released by
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  In the first quarter, real GDP
increased 2.0 percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete
source data than were available for the “advance” estimate
issued last month.  In the advance estimate, the increase in
real GDP was 1.5 percent (see “Revisions” on page 3).  The increase in real GDP in the second quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), exports, nonresidential fixed investment,
and residential fixed investment that were partly offset by
negative contributions from private inventory investment and
from state and local government spending.  Imports, which are a
subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased.  The deceleration in real GDP in the second quarter
primarily reflected decelerations in PCE, in nonresidential
fixed investment, and in residential fixed investment that were
partly offset by a smaller decrease in federal  government
spending , an acceleration in exports, and a smaller decrease in
private inventory investment.  FOOTNOTE.  Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally
adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise specified.  Quarter-to-
quarter dollar changes are differences between these published
estimates.  Percent changes are calculated from unrounded data
and are annualized.  “Real” estimates are in chained (2005)
dollars.  Price indexes are chain-type measures.  This news release is available on BEA’s Web site along with
the Technical Note and Highlights related to this release.  For
information on revisions, see “Revisions to GDP, GDI, and Their
Major Components.”  Motor vehicle output added 0.18 percentage point to the
second-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.72 percentage
point to the first-quarter change.  Final sales of computers
subtracted 0.09 percentage point from the second-quarter change
in real GDP after adding 0.02 percentage point to the first-
quarter change.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 0.8 percent in
the second quarter, 0.1 percentage point more than in the
advance estimate; this index increased 2.5 percent in the first
quarter.  Excluding food and energy prices, the price index for
gross domestic purchases increased 1.4 percent in the second
quarter, compared with an increase of 2.4 percent in the first.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 1.7
percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 2.4
percent in the first.  Durable goods were unchanged, in contrast
to an increase of 11.5 percent.  Nondurable goods increased 0.5
percent, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent. Services
increased 2.4 percent, compared with an increase of 1.3 percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 4.2 percent,
compared with an increase of 7.5 percent.  Nonresidential
structures increased 2.8 percent, compared with an increase of
12.9 percent. Equipment and software increased 4.7 percent,
compared with an increase of 5.4 percent.  Real residential
fixed investment increased 8.9 percent, compared with an
increase of 20.5 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 6.0 percent in
the second quarter, compared with an increase of 4.4 percent in
the first.  Real imports of goods and services increased 2.9
percent, compared with an increase of 3.1 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment decreased 0.1 percent in the second quarter, compared
with a decrease of 4.2 percent in the first.  National defense
decreased 0.1 percent, compared with a decrease of 7.1 percent.
Nondefense decreased 0.3 percent, in contrast to an increase of
1.8 percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment decreased 1.4 percent,
compared with a decrease of 2.2 percent.  The change in real private inventories subtracted 0.23
percentage point from the second-quarter change in real GDP,
after subtracting 0.39 percentage point from the first-quarter
change.  Private businesses increased inventories $49.9 billion
in the second quarter, following increases of $56.9 billion in
the first quarter and $70.5 billion in the fourth.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 2.0 percent in the second
quarter, compared with an increase of 2.4 percent in the first.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
1.4 percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of
1.8 percent in the first.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services
produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents --
increased 2.2 percent in the second quarter, compared with an
increase of 0.6 percent in the first.  GNP includes, and GDP
excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world,
which increased $16.6 billion in the second quarter after
decreasing $44.1 billion in the first; in the second quarter,
receipts increased $0.9 billion, and payments decreased $15.6
billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation’s
output of goods and services -- increased 3.3 percent, or $127.8
billion, in the second quarter to a level of $15,606.1 billion.
In the first quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 4.2 percent,
or $157.3 billion.  Gross domestic income  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output
of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in
the production of GDP, increased 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, compared with an increase of 3.8 percent in the first.
For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI may differ for
a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of largely
independent source data. However, over longer time spans, the
estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of
change.  Revisions  The “second” estimate of the first-quarter percent change
in GDP is 0.2 percentage point, or $6.5 billion, more than the
advance estimate issued last month, primarily reflecting a
downward revision to imports and upward revisions to personal
consumption expenditures, to exports, and to state and local
government spending that were partly offset by downward
revisions to private inventory investment and to nonresidential
fixed investment.  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with
inventory valuation and capital consumption adjustments)
increased $10.4 billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a
decrease of $53.0 billion in the first quarter.  Current-
production  cash flow  (net cash flow with inventory valuation
adjustment) -- the internal funds available to corporations for
investment -- decreased $11.3 billion in the second quarter,
compared with a decrease of $169.8 billion in the first.  Taxes on corporate income decreased $5.4 billion in the
second quarter, in contrast to an increase of $83.2 billion in
the first.  Profits after tax with inventory valuation and
capital consumption adjustments increased $15.6 billion in the
second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $136.2 billion in
the first.  Dividends increased $20.9 billion compared with an
increase of $9.2 billion; current-production undistributed
profits decreased $5.2 billion, compared with a decrease of
$145.5 billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations decreased $39.2
billion in the second quarter, compared with a decrease of $12.3
billion in the first.  Domestic profits of nonfinancial
corporations increased $30.4 billion in the second quarter,
compared with an increase of $7.3 billion in the first.  In the
second quarter, real gross value added of nonfinancial
corporations increased, and profits per unit of real value added
increased.  The increase in unit profits reflected an increase
in unit prices and a decrease in unit nonlabor costs that was
partly offset by an increase in labor costs.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits increased $19.2
billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of
$48.0 billion in the first.  This measure is calculated as (1)
receipts by U.S. residents of earnings from their foreign
affiliates plus dividends received by U.S. residents from
unaffiliated foreign corporations minus (2) payments by U.S.
affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus dividends
paid by U.S. corporations to unaffiliated foreign residents.
The second-quarter increase was accounted for by an increase in
receipts and a decrease in payments.  Profits before tax decreased $28.0 billion in the second
quarter, in contrast to an increase of $188.1 billion in the
first.  The before-tax measure of profits does not reflect, as
does profits from current production, the capital consumption
and inventory valuation adjustments.  These adjustments convert
depreciation of fixed assets and inventory withdrawals reported
on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to the current-cost
measures used in the national income and product accounts.  The
capital consumption adjustment decreased $1.3 billion in the
second quarter (from -$200.7 billion to -$202.0 billion),
compared with a decrease of $230.3 billion in the first.  The
large decrease in the first-quarter capital consumption
adjustment mainly reflected the expiration of bonus depreciation
claimed under the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance
Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010.  The inventory
valuation adjustment increased $39.7 billion (from -$23.7
billion to $16.0 billion) in the second quarter, in contrast to
a decrease of $10.8 billion in the first.  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry
estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases
are available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov.
By visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-
mail summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  Next release - September 27, 2012, at 8:30 A.M. EDT  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  