-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal Reserve Board’s
First District--  Boston .  Reports from business contacts in the First District are somewhat mixed. Tourism
contacts and some retailers cite strong results, but other merchants are more
downbeat. Manufacturers mostly report solid performance, but a couple have seen
sales fall compared with a year earlier. Software and IT services firms indicate
business is good, but somewhat slower than three months ago, while staffing firms
say recent results are below expectations. Commercial real estate conditions are not
much changed, with the Boston market said to be stronger than the rest of  New
England ; gradual recovery continues in most residential real estate markets around
the region. Business contacts say they are hiring only modestly; prices are
generally reported to be stable. Outlooks remain uncertain.  Retail and Tourism  First District retail contacts offer a very mixed take on economic conditions in the
region. Demand remains strong for adult clothing, but spending on durable items such
as furniture and electronics continues to be lower than earlier in the year. Some
companies cite disappointing sales during the last six weeks, while others report
some upside surprises. Sales results range from low single-digit declines to high
single-digit increases compared with a year earlier. Some contacts say that consumer
sentiment has become more negative, while others observe that consumers are “coming
back.” Retailers note wholesale prices remain flat so they are holding selling
prices steady. Respondents still express uncertainty about the direction of the  U.S.
economy  and say they expect little improvement over the next six to eight months.  The  tourism industry  continues to see growth. Contacts expect that overall 2012
performance will be strong, but express concern that performance will weaken over
the last few months of the year. While a rebound in business travel has fueled 2012
performance to date, weakness in  Europe  might slow this down. Moreover, rising gas
prices could have negative repercussions for leisure travel.  Manufacturing and Related Services  The general manufacturing picture in the First District continues to be mixed,
although contacts seem to be slightly more upbeat than earlier this summer. Of 12
contacted firms, only two report lower overall sales than a year earlier: A
manufacturer of semiconductors attributes the decline largely to industry-specific
cycles and a  software company  that sells mostly into the defense business says
slower sales reflect fears about impending sequestration. All other responding firms
report flat or rising sales.  On the employment front, while most contacts say they are hiring, none reports any
significant additions. A major defense contractor expects significant layoffs in the
coming months but attributes them largely to rationalization of operations in the
wake of a merger. A tool manufacturer blames weak demand for a 5 percent headcount
reduction but says they will concentrate most of the layoffs in Europe. On the plus
side, a luxury goods manufacturer reports that, for the first time since 2008,
workers are quitting to take better jobs with other firms. A firm in the  chemical
industry  indicates it is exceptionally profitable but is still hiring only
“selectively” to replace outgoing workers and fill specific needs.  Few manufacturers report revising their investment plans in recent months; several
note that they have plenty of cash available but don’t yet feel confident or see the
need for additional  capital spending . Several firms mention that merger and
acquisition activity is heating up. Some say they hope to pick up bargains but
others say that prices are too high. A contact in the chemical industry says that he
has done due diligence on several potential targets and each time he was outbid. A
respondent in the semiconductor industry reports that they were the target of
acquisition interest and a medical device supplier was recently acquired by Japanese
firm. Contacts say the pricing picture is much more benign than it has been in
recent years. A dairy business is the only respondent complaining of high input
prices, which are specifically related to the drought in the Midwest. A contact in
the chemical business reports that pricing of inputs to his processes is
exceptionally good, which he attributes to weakness in  China ,  Brazil , and  India .  Few manufacturing contacts have significantly revised their outlooks. The main
concerns remain the so-called “fiscal cliff” and the situation in Europe. Europe
does not seem to be as much of an issue as it has been in recent cycles, however,
with only four contacts specifically mentioning it and only one identifying it as a
major problem. Two respondents independently note that firms are paying bills on
time, which they say is a good sign about the state of the economy.  Software and Information Technology Services  New England software and information technology services contacts report flat to
favorable results in the second quarter of 2012, with year-over-year revenue
increases generally between 5 percent and 10 percent. Contacts report strong demand
in the banking and medical sectors as well as some new activity in the automotive,
telecommunications, and manufacturing sectors. However, these upticks in demand are,
for many contacts, tempered by the strong dollar and economic uncertainties,
particularly in Europe, which are having an increasingly negative effect on
revenues. Indeed, one contact reports that revenues from Europe fell more than 50
percent over the four quarters ended in Q2, as many clients delayed execution of big
license agreements. Most respondents continue to add to their headcounts, although a
few have slowed the rate at which they are hiring. Capital and technology spending
and selling prices have gone largely unchanged since February.  The outlook among software and IT services contacts is not appreciably different
from that of three months ago. Most are cautiously optimistic and expect current
growth rates to continue into 2013.  Staffing Services  New England staffing firms generally report lighter-than-expected volumes through
mid-August, with most contacts characterizing business as “slow” or “flat.” The May-
to-August dip reportedly reflects a softening of demand for office and clerical
assistants and light industrial workers. Nevertheless, year-over-year revenue
changes in the second quarter remained largely positive, bolstered by steady demand
from the engineering, legal, and IT sectors. The number of permanent and temporary-
to-permanent placements continues to grow slowly, with one contact noting that
clients are “definitely more willing to commit.” Labor supply has gone largely
unchanged since May. Contacts continue to have difficulty finding candidates with
high-end skill sets such as mechanical and electrical engineers, software
developers, and IT personnel; two contacts report that this shortage of qualified
labor is putting upward pressure on pay rates and recruiting costs. Looking forward,
staffing contacts are slightly less upbeat than they were 3 months ago. Most expect
only modest growth until 2013.  Commercial Real Estate  Commercial real estate fundamentals held roughly steady in recent weeks across the
First District. Boston continues to enjoy strong leasing demand in pockets of the
city and comparatively slow but steady activity in the Financial District. Leasing
activity remains light in Hartford, where the retail sector is seen as a weak point.
Activity in Providence is mixed across sectors and year-to-date has fallen short of
expectations as a result of vacancy shocks. In  Portland , office leasing activity is
up from earlier in the year, but rents have stayed roughly flat. Across the
District, a few contacts note that traditional downtown tenant types, such as law
firms and large financial firms, continue to reduce square footage of  office space 
per worker. These reductions are viewed as structural and suggest that future
employment growth in professional services may lead to less absorption than previous
norms of office space would imply.  Investor interest in Greater Boston commercial real estate remains high, especially
for multifamily rental properties, and interest rate spreads are lower than a year
earlier for comparable deals. Apartment construction extended its recent boom in the
city and some large build-to-suit office projects have broken ground in recent
months. One Boston-based bank lender notes an increase in small-scale (under $10M)
loan demand in recent months in the office and retail sectors. Outside of Boston,
construction and investment sales activity remain limited. A few contacts remark
that political uncertainty is putting a damper on business sentiment. In particular,
the threat of tax hikes (at all levels of government) is seen as a possible
restraint on economic activity in the coming months. By contrast, no contacts cite
significant upside risks to growth in the commercial property sector, although
Boston is expected to remain a magnet for investors.  Residential Real Estate  Sales of single-family homes and condominiums continued to grow year-over-year in
June and July throughout most of the First District. However, in  Connecticut , June
sales increased marginally in the single-family home market and declined year-over-
year in the condo market, but the latest reports for July suggest more substantial
increases in Connecticut home sales. Similar to previous reports, contacts cite low
interest rates and prices, in addition to pent-up demand, as significant factors in
improving sales activity. According to a contact in Greater Boston, rising
residential rents continue to spur interest in home ownership. Reports for July
suggest the median sales price of homes rose in five of the six New England states;
the exception was  Rhode Island , where prices continue to decline. Contacts outside
of Rhode Island cite declining inventory as the cause for modest price appreciation.
Several contacts in areas with low inventory levels note some potential sellers are
waiting for their homes to appreciate in value before listing them. Falling
inventories in Greater Boston have prompted concern among local real estate
professionals that potential homebuyers will be discouraged by an insufficient
variety of homes.  Consecutive months of year-over-year growth in sales have made contacts feel more
confident about recovery in the housing market. In areas where inventory levels have
been high for the past few years, concerns have been calmed by declining inventory
and increasing home prices. Most contacts predict year-over-year growth in sales,
albeit at a slower pace than recently, and anticipate modest increases in the median
sale price of homes in coming months. 