-- U.S. Lenders Provided More Than $10 Billion in Mortgage Aid
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-08-29T17:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-banks-provide-over-10-billion-in-loan-aid-under-settlement.html
The five largest U.S. mortgage
servicers say they have  given  about $10.6 billion in relief to
borrowers under terms of a $25 billion settlement over abusive
foreclosure practices, according to a court-appointed monitor.  Most of that aid, $8.7 billion, came in the form of short
sales, the Office of Mortgage Settlement Oversight said today in
a progress report on implementation of the accord. Lenders
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  also forgave
$749.4 million in mortgage debt, according to the report.  “There’s some evidence from this report that the banks are
beginning to do some significant work on consumer relief,”
Joseph A. Smith Jr., the former North Carolina regulator acting
as settlement monitor, said in a telephone interview. “I’m not
declaring victory, but I do think we’ve made a solid start.”  The  report , an unaudited estimate of banks’ efforts through
the end of June, isn’t a formal assessment of progress toward
meeting their obligation under the settlement. The pact reached
earlier this year requires lenders to spend $20 billion on
borrower relief and an additional $5 billion in payments to
states and the federal government.  “The banks in general are heading in the right
direction,”  Shaun Donovan , U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development secretary, said in a call with reporters.  Banks told the settlement monitor they had aided a total of
137,846 borrowers. Efforts varied widely:  Bank of America Corp .
reported that it hadn’t done any loan modifications or
refinancings under terms of the settlement by June 30.
Meanwhile, JPMorgan Chase & Co. reported spending $428 million
to reduce outstanding principal on loans.  Short Sales  Bank of America reported spending $4.8 billion on short
sales through June 30 and JPMorgan had $2.4 billion. While Bank
of America’s overall target for borrower relief is $8.6 billion
and JPMorgan’s is $4.2 billion, the short sales don’t count
dollar-for-dollar toward those totals.  That’s because short sales “are not as valuable as getting
principal reductions that keep people in their homes,” Donovan
said on the conference call.  Banks get credit toward the settlement for activities
including reducing amounts owed on loans and cutting  interest
rates . While the firms also get credit from forgiving debts in a
short sale, they get only 20 cents to 45 cents on the dollar for
short sales, and there’s a cap on how much credit can come from
those transactions, officials said during the call.  Additional Relief  Separately today, Bank of America said it had completed
about $3.2 billion more in relief since June 30. The  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based lender had forgiven about $1.65 billion in
home equity lines of credit, completed $1 billion in short sales
and $596 million in mortgage modifications from the end of June
through Aug. 21.  “You are seeing a faster start on short sales completed
under the agreement because that didn’t require a new process to
be built, compared to first-lien modifications and the refinance
program,” said  Dan Frahm , a Bank of America spokesman.
Eventually, most of the Bank of America credits will be loan
modifications, he said.  Under the settlement, at least 60 percent of the borrower
relief must be principal writedowns, according to Donovan, who
said he’s confident the banks will perform reductions agreed
upon in the deal.  All of the numbers are preliminary. Smith said his office
will scrutinize the aid the banks say they have provided and
apply formulas outlined in the settlement to determine how much
credit they have earned toward their total obligations.  ‘Early Days’  “It’s early days, but I am satisfied that we’re prepared
to do a proper job,” he said.  The settlement accord, filed in federal court in  Washington 
in February, was reached after  attorneys general  from all 50
states announced a probe of foreclosure practices amid
disclosures that banks were using faulty documents to seize
homes.  The banks, also including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY)  negotiated the agreement with federal agencies, including
the  Justice Department , and 49 states.  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan said in an e-mailed
statement that she is “cautiously encouraged” by the report.  “I will continue to monitor the banks’ efforts to fulfill
their obligations under this settlement, as my office continues
its work to hold banks and other financial institutions
accountable for the destruction they’ve caused in our
communities,” she said.  About $17 billion of the agreement will pay for mortgage
debt forgiveness, forbearance, short sales and other assistance
to homeowners. Servicers will also provide $3 billion in
refinancing to lower homeowners’ interest rates. The settlement
also sets new standards for servicing loans to prevent abuses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  