-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District-- Minneapolis .  The Ninth District economy grew at a modest pace since the last
report. Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending ,
tourism, professional services, construction and real estate,
while activity slowed slightly in the manufacturing and energy
sectors. Agriculture was mixed, while mining was steady at high
levels. Overall labor market conditions were steady since the
last report, and wage increases were modest. Prices were
relatively stable.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending grew since the last report. Same-store sales
at a Minnesota-based retailer increased 3 percent in July
compared with a year ago; a company representative noted that
back-to-school shopping activity has been positive. July same-
store sales at a Montana mall increased slightly compared with a
year ago. Recent same-store sales at a Minnesota-based
restaurant chain were up about 7 percent compared with a year
ago. New car and light truck registrations in  Minnesota  were
more than 10 percent higher recently compared with last year.
However, a higher-end retailer announced plans to close a
Minnesota store next year.  Summer tourism activity increased from last year. Fishing
license sales and visits to campgrounds and outdoor state parks
and recreation areas in South Dakota were on a record pace. A
resort in northwestern  Wisconsin  reported solid bookings.
Tourism activity in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan was up 10
percent to 20 percent. Visits to Glacier National Park and
Yellowstone National Park increased 20 percent and 10 percent,
respectively. Activity at several other Montana tourism
attractions was also tracking ahead of last year. Meanwhile,
strong attendance levels were reported at the  North Dakota  State
Fair in late July.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity increased since the last
report. The value of commercial building permits in the
Billings, Mont., area in July more than doubled from the same
period last year. Commercial permits in the  Sioux Falls , S.D.,
area more than doubled in value in July from a year earlier. New
industrial and warehouse building projects were in progress in
the Minneapolis area. Residential construction increased from a
year ago. The value of residential building permits in the Sioux
Falls area in July was up 39 percent from the same period last
year. Residential permits increased in value and number in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area in July; both single-family and
multifamily permits increased. Several counties in  Montana 
reported large increases in home building in 2012 compared with
2011, and the value of residential permits issued in July more
than doubled in Billings.  Commercial real estate markets continued to expand. Vacancy
rates for Minneapolis office and industrial properties declined
over the past year and were expected to decline further,
according to a real estate consulting firm. Several large
transactions were announced since the last report. Residential
real estate market activity was brisk. Home sales in early
August were up 20 percent from the same period a year ago in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was
down 30 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, July home sales were
up 29 percent, inventory was down 14 percent and the median
sales price rose 6 percent relative to a year earlier.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms grew somewhat
since the last report. According to a mid-August Minneapolis Fed
ad hoc survey, District professional business services firms
noted gains in revenue and profits over the past three months
and expect this to continue over the next three months.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity slowed. Surprisingly, a July survey of
 purchasing managers  by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed
a decrease in manufacturing activity in Minnesota and  South
Dakota  for the first time in three years; activity in North
Dakota increased, but at a slower pace than in recent months.
However, most respondents to a Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey of
manufacturers conducted in mid-August had a mildly optimistic
outlook for the near term. Several contacts indicated that
orders dropped in early July, but have returned to previous
levels. A long-planned beef-packing plant in South Dakota was
put on hold following reports that it would open soon. A
Minnesota manufacturer that makes equipment for the scrap metal
industry will reduce production due to a stagnant scrap metal
market and a glut of new steel.  Energy and Mining  The energy sector moderated somewhat. Oil and gas exploration in
North Dakota decreased in early August, while it increased
slightly in Montana; production remained at record levels.
Producers of wind-energy components reported slow demand
attributed to uncertainty over the renewal of a tax credit. A
Minnesota ethanol plant was idled because of high corn input
costs. A coal-fired power plant in South Dakota was also shut
down. Mining activity remained steady at high levels. Minnesota
iron ore mines and taconite producers continued to operate at
high capacity, although some operations were idled for standard
annual maintenance. Sand mines in western Wisconsin remained
very busy due to strong demand from oil and gas producers.  Agriculture  The  agriculture sector  was mixed. Preliminary results from the
Minneapolis Fed’s second-quarter (July) survey of agricultural
credit conditions showed that nearly 90 percent of lenders said
farm incomes increased or stayed the same in the past three
months, with similar results for household and capital spending.
While severe drought hit the Midwest, much of the District has
been spared relative to other areas. Most of the corn, soybean
and spring wheat crops in Minnesota and North Dakota were in
good or excellent condition. South Dakota and Wisconsin fared
somewhat worse. District cattle producers have been selling more
animals because of high feed costs. Margins also tightened for
dairy producers. Prices received by farmers in July increased
from a year earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans, hay, dry beans,
poultry, eggs, cattle and hogs; prices decreased for potatoes
and dairy products.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Overall labor market conditions were steady since the last
report, but tightening continued for some regions and
occupations. Bank directors noted that many District companies
have not adjusted their hiring plans for the second half of
2012. Manufacturers throughout the District continued to have a
number of welding positions open. A business process outsourcing
firm recently announced plans to locate up to 400 jobs in
Minnesota. A Minnesota manufacturer hired 250 workers over the
past seven months. In contrast, a Minnesota food retailer plans
to lay off 50 workers, and two North Dakota manufacturers are
holding back on hiring plans.  Wage increases were modest, with some exceptions. Wage rates in
the oil-drilling area of western North Dakota and eastern
Montana continued to climb. A Minnesota manufacturer noted that
workers with higher skills were getting some increases in wages,
while wages for lower-skilled workers were flat.  Prices were relatively stable. Metals prices were down somewhat
since the last report. However, mid-August Minnesota gasoline
prices were up about 30 cents per gallon from early July. 