-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District--Philadelphia.  Aggregate business activity in the Third District has continued
to grow slowly since the previous  Beige Book , although the pace
of growth has shifted in a few sectors. Manufacturing activity
declined further, but the rate of decline is tempering. Retail
sales have grown somewhat faster than was the case at the time
of the last Beige Book, while auto sales have continued to
increase at a consistent pace. Lending volumes at Third District
banks have continued to grow steadily, and  credit quality  has
continued to improve since the last Beige Book. Demand for new
 home construction  grew at a slightly faster pace than during the
previous Beige Book period, and brokers report steady growth in
sales of existing homes. Commercial real estate contacts report
more widespread growth, but overall demand remains modest. On
average, service-sector firms report more flattening of growth.
Price pressures have changed little in most sectors since the
last Beige Book.  The overall outlook appears slightly less optimistic relative to
the views expressed in the last Beige Book, as contacts
expressed uncertainty about the presidential election and the
fiscal policy decisions to follow. Expectations among
manufacturers, while still positive, have fallen further for
overall activity, anticipated hiring, and  capital spending  plans
over the next six months. Retailers, auto dealers, financial
firms, and other service-sector firms remain positive about the
near-term outlook but are increasingly cautious due to their
customers’ rising uncertainty. Real estate firms remain slightly
more optimistic with broader participation.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have continued to report overall declines in
shipments and new orders; however, the weak demand was less
widespread. Makers of lumber and wood products; stone, clay, and
glass products; and fabricated metal products have reported
gains - some seasonal - since the last Beige Book. Lower
activity was reported by makers of food products, primary
metals, industrial machinery, electronic equipment, and
instruments. Contacts report that many customers are delaying
purchases due to uncertainty stemming from the European crisis
and domestic fiscal policy.  Optimism among Third District manufacturers that business
conditions will improve or stay the same during the next six
months remains widespread, though slightly less pervasive than
reported in the last Beige Book. Among the major sectors cited
above, contacts at firms in the food and lumber industries
expect some growth, while contacts at fabricated metals and
industrial machinery firms expect some decline. Other major
sectors expect no significant change over the next six months.
Firms have slightly lowered their overall expectations of future
capital spending and future hiring since the last Beige Book.
Contacts mentioned ongoing demand for autos, power generation
utilities, and Marcellus shale gas as sources of growth and
optimism.  Retail. Third District retailers reported a pickup in year-over-
year sales for July compared with June. In early August, a
retail outlet operator reported stronger sales but softer
traffic counts. One contact noted that Olympic viewership
numbers were very strong and may have dampened traffic. Another
contact relayed the theory that the pervasive negative political
advertising will dampen sales until after the election by
displacing product ads and by creating a negative sales climate.
According to some contacts, children’s clothing is typically the
last retail category to experience declining sales in a
downturn. Sales of children’s clothing did not improve in July
after a surprising year-over-year decline in June. Despite these
various headwinds, retail contacts remain cautiously optimistic.  Auto sales remained moderate in  Pennsylvania  in July as in June,
while New Jersey dealers tended to report a repeat of their
strong June sales in July and early August. Strong demand and
lean inventories are helping to support dealer profits despite
weak demand for dealer services, parts, and repairs. The longer-
term outlook for sales remains positive. Contacts point out that
the average age of cars has risen to 11 years, generating strong
pent-up demand. However, dealers remain concerned that rising
consumer uncertainty will dampen sales for the second half of
the year.  Finance. Contacts from the Third District’s financial sector
have reported ongoing growth since the previous Beige Book.
Larger lenders reported loan growth in mortgages, personal
loans, small business loans, and C&I loans. Smaller lenders
continue to report increases primarily as gains in market share
in various lending segments from other banks - large and small.
Several small lenders reported increased activity in mortgages
and home refinancings. Most contacts report that the financial
health of households, businesses, and financial institutions
continues to improve. Although the overall outlook among lenders
was positive, there is an expectation of tempered growth until
after the election, and there are concerns about the impacts of
the fiscal decisions that will follow.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential builders reported a
modest increase in sales and a stronger increase in traffic - an
improvement since the last Beige Book - as they near the end of
their primary sales season. Large builders are shifting their
portfolios toward more multifamily products and more urban
locations. Some small builders are shifting into home renovation
work. Residential brokers reported continued improvement in the
sales of existing homes through July. Inventory levels are also
falling. As the traditional sales season draws to a close, an
anticipated surge of listings from the shadow inventory is not
expected until spring 2013, assuming existing home sales remain
relatively strong. Builders and brokers share a cautiously
optimistic outlook.  Overall, nonresidential real estate activity has continued to
grow slowly since the last Beige Book. As Center City
Philadelphia attracts more apartments and condos - new
construction and conversions - the remaining supply of office
and retail space has tightened somewhat. Moreover, the increased
population is attracting the interest of outside retailers.
Contacts also indicated some increased interest in commercial
properties in southern  New Jersey . The overall outlook for
nonresidential real estate remains one of slow growth, but it
has solidified and broadened throughout the Third District since
the last Beige Book.  Services. Third District service-sector firms have reported
little to no growth since the last Beige Book. Several contacts
reported that orders and activity have flattened out. Logistics
firms and carriers reported a relatively flat start to the
traditional “freight season,” which should have ramped up in
June. One contact reported that reduced crop yields from
widespread drought-stricken areas have generated an excess
supply of drivers and trucks, which may have siphoned normal
business from other firms. Staffing firms report no net new
orders. One large firm that had been extending temp contracts
has begun letting them expire. Hospitals report some growth,
which may reflect demand for elective procedures that were
deferred during the recession. Additional growth may reflect
expansions that garner greater market share. Advertising is a
rare bright spot. Revenue from the Olympics and election-year
advertising has surpassed expectations, on top of a positive
underlying trend. Overall, service-sector firms’ positive
outlook for growth over the next six months has been somewhat
tempered.  Prices and Wages. Price levels changed little overall, although
gas prices have risen a little since the previous Beige Book.
Cost factors have risen slightly among manufacturing firms since
the last Beige Book. One manufacturer reported that the drought
and heat conditions have contributed to relatively lower diesel
prices and to higher peak energy prices, respectively.
Homebuilders and retailers continue to report tight margins but
little additional escalation of the prices that they face.
Contacts from all sectors report little or no wage pressures,
other than for medical benefits. Many contacts report stabilized
 house prices  for lower-cost homes. Now, some contacts report
that the prices of homes in a few affluent areas are beginning
to stabilize as well. 