-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District--Richmond.  Overview. Fifth District economic activity improved somewhat in
most sectors since our last report, although manufacturing and
employment weakened. Retail sales improved, and non-retail
services providers reported a moderate increase in demand.
Tourism contacts generally indicated that summer business was
strong, and they anticipated a busy autumn season. Widespread
precipitation in July and August brought relief from drought
conditions, boosting expected crop yields. Residential real
estate activity inched up, while commercial real estate reports
were mixed. Lending activity also varied, and most mortgage
lending was for refinancing. Manufacturing activity softened as
orders declined. Weaker District hiring was led by a slowdown in
requests for temp workers, although demand for highly skilled
employees persisted. Price changes generally slowed in both the
manufacturing and services sectors, with the exception of a
small uptick in retail.  Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity continued to
decline since our last report. A manufacturer reported that
demand fell sharply for heating equipment components, with
domestic and European customers both reducing their orders. An
auto supplier also reported a significant drop in new orders in
the past two months. Another auto parts manufacturer stated that
earlier in the year, demand for his components was growing, but
now orders were “treading water.” He added that inventories were
rising and he expected to cut production. A food manufacturer
reported that power outages from recent storms resulted in a
one-week shutdown, and production did not return to normal for
over three weeks. According to our latest manufacturing survey,
growth in raw materials prices slowed over the past month, while
finished goods prices edged downward.  Retail. Retailers reported improved sales since our last report.
Merchants in several states had a successful “tax free weekend”
in early August. In addition, some department store contacts
said they were able to clear inventories of patio furniture and
other seasonal items. Several jewelry retailers also reported
increased sales. Record heat this summer helped to push air
conditioner sales, with one big-box store depleting its entire
inventory. An auto industry contact reported that District sales
grew at a somewhat slower pace in recent weeks, although demand
remained especially strong for mid-size vehicles. Used cars
remained in short supply, putting upward pressure on prices and
improving trade-in values. A number of apparel and furniture
contacts noted that inventories for the upcoming  holiday
shopping season  will be kept tight, since they expect to be able
to easily reorder as needed. Grocery executives expected price
increases in meat and dairy products, due to rising feed costs
caused by drought. The pace of retail price change rose
moderately, according to our most recent survey.  Services. Accounts from non-retail services firms were generally
positive in recent weeks. An executive at a North Carolina
healthcare system reported that demand for services had been
steady, adding that there were a few “sparks” from the arrival
of new businesses in an otherwise stagnant local economy.
Contacts at healthcare organizations expressed concern about
potential Medicare reimbursement cuts that will come with the
change to value-based metrics under the new healthcare
legislation. Ground freight firms reported solid demand and
higher shipping rates. A freight service executive reported that
retailers increasingly have moved to an online presence in
addition to in-store sales, contributing to growth in direct
shipping to customers through  internet sales . Technology
services continued to be in strong demand, particularly for
developing websites, mobile services, and cloud computing. On
balance, responses to our recent survey were that price
increases at services firms moderated since our last report.  Finance. Banking activity was little changed from the weak, but
somewhat mixed conditions that prevailed in our last report.
Most bankers said that very few new loans were made recently and
the number of loans in the pipeline was shrinking. An often-
cited exception was mortgage refinancing, as well as business
loans that were captured from other banks by offers of better
terms. However, several mortgage lenders noted some increase in
new home loans, especially in the mid-priced range, and one
official reported a modest increase in single-home construction
loans. A  Maryland  banker cited a sharp increase in small
business loans, but several other bankers stated that many small
business loan applications did not meet lending standards. A
lending officer in northern  Virginia  reported a slowdown in
industrial loans due to rising economic uncertainty. A banker in
 West Virginia  noted strength in industrial loans going into the
state’s energy sector, although he expected lending to decline
after the completion of current mining projects. While margins
continued to be squeezed, most bankers described loan quality as
stable following several quarters of steady improvement.  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity continued to
improve since our last report. A Realtor in the Richmond area
said that sales were up double digits over last year and pending
sales had increased sharply from a year ago. Moreover, his
company had seen a marked increase in prices. An agent in the
D.C. area also reported strong sales “inside the Beltway.” A
Realtor in the Fredericksburg area indicated that sales had
increased and traffic was very active for this time of year,
noting that the average sales price had risen by about $40,000
over last year. She mentioned that her firm had seen virtually
no listings of foreclosed properties in July, and she saw fewer
short sales. A West Virginia developer, who specializes in
second homes in the mountains, stated that there had been an
increase in inquiries and contracts for homes after four years
without any sales. Similarly, a contractor reported a solid
increase in home sales in the Charleston,  South Carolina  area,
with the average price of new homes sold rising slightly as
well. Commercial real estate activity remained mixed over the
last few weeks. A few Realtors pointed to companies that were
downsizing their space requirements as a cause for limited new
construction and high vacancy rates. An agent in the D.C. area
reported a recent drop in office leasing activity by as much as
half from year-ago levels. However, several Realtors noted that,
due to the lack of office construction, landlords had been
offering fewer incentives to capture or retain tenants at
existing properties. Retail leasing activity was mostly
described as weak, especially among small, locally owned
businesses. A contact in northern Virginia noted weakness in
many segments of the market, but notable exceptions included  car
dealerships , gas stations and doctors’ offices. A North Carolina
real estate agent reported that purchasing activity had picked
up markedly among his investment clients, which he attributed to
national firms being increasingly attracted to the region. A few
pockets of improvement in both leasing and construction activity
were noted in eastern South Carolina, which has benefited from
an expansion in the  aerospace industry , and in northern West
Virginia, where gains were driven by natural gas drilling.  Labor Markets. Labor market activity weakened since our last
report. Contacts at several employment agencies described demand
for workers as softening in the past six weeks. In Richmond,
several small retailers said that they did not hire summer
workers and they were not planning additional hiring for the
year-end holiday selling season. One agent noted that demand was
slightly below normal for this time of year, but he hoped to see
a rebound similar to the one that occurred late last summer.
However, a few pockets of strength persisted. For example, most
employment agencies continued to report strong demand for highly
skilled IT employees, as jobs created by new technologies drove
the market for those workers. Additionally, several contacts
noted an increase in demand for truck drivers. According to our
recent surveys, wages in both the manufacturing and service
sectors were growing at a slightly slower pace than a month ago.  Tourism. District resorts reported a very good summer season,
with rentals and hotel bookings up from a year ago. Local
restaurants and shops have been busy, and a contact on the Outer
Banks of  North Carolina  said that new businesses were opening to
serve vacationers. Cruise ships leaving the Port of Baltimore
have been fully booked, according to a contact there. In
 Washington , D.C., a contact observed more tour buses in recent
weeks and bigger weekend crowds on the National Mall. However,
according to a couple of Baltimore hotel managers, bookings for
conferences and leisure stays were mixed. Additionally, a hotel
contact in the Virginia Beach area said that bookings were
making “no great strides,” primarily as a result of government
travel cuts. Despite the lack of momentum in government travel,
most hoteliers said that they were able to raise rates slightly.
Looking ahead to late autumn, executives were optimistic about
bookings, as localities planned historical commemorations, music
programs, food festivals, marathons, and other social events. In
South Carolina, a hotel manager anticipated that a new carrier
at a nearby airport would provide solid bookings in the months
ahead.  Agriculture. Widespread precipitation since our last report
helped revitalize crops and pastureland in many areas of the
District. Rain in early August aided late summer peaches in
Maryland and West Virginia, and soybeans were responding to
improved weather conditions in Virginia. Cotton and peanut
growers in the District are also having a great year. In South
Carolina, the cantaloupe and watermelon harvest was virtually
complete by early August. Results of our recent agricultural
credit survey indicated that farmland values were above both the
previous quarter and year-ago levels. 