-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District-- Cleveland .  The economy in the Fourth District grew at a modest pace since
our last report. On balance, manufacturing output moved slightly
lower, while residential and nonresidential construction picked
up. Retailers saw a modest rise in sales during July, and motor
vehicle purchases held steady. Natural gas producers increased
production, though the demand for coal has softened. The
slowdown in freight transport volume, which began in the second
quarter, has leveled off. And the demand for business credit
showed a modest increase.  Little net hiring was reported across industry sectors.
Staffing-firm representatives said that the number of  job
openings  has declined during the past six weeks. Open positions
were found primarily in engineering, healthcare, and
manufacturing. Wage pressures are contained. Input prices were
generally stable, although concerns exist about the recent rise
in agricultural commodity prices.  Manufacturing. Representatives from District factories reported
that new orders and production were flat or down slightly during
the past six weeks, with inventories showing a slight uptick.
Relative to year-ago levels, output was mainly higher. The
outlook by manufacturers was mixed. While many contacts are less
certain about growth prospects than they had been a few months
earlier, others believe that the abundance of lower-priced
energy, especially natural gas, will boost manufacturing
activity in the District. A weakening in shipping volume by
steel producers and service centers was attributed to seasonal
factors, rising imports, and uncertainty. Demand for steel from
the energy sector remained solid, while demand from the
transportation sector softened. Most of our steel contacts do
not expect market conditions to change appreciably in the
upcoming months. Steel producers reported lowering their
inventories. District auto production showed a substantial
decline in July on a month-over-month basis, due to normal
seasonal retooling for model changeovers. Compared to a year
ago, production figures were unchanged for domestic producers,
while showing a sizeable increase for foreign nameplates. The
latter is attributable to the abatement of supply chain issues.  Many of our contacts reported reduced capacity utilization
rates, which they attributed to weakening demand.  Capital
spending  remains on track; however, some respondents intend to
cut back outlays during the upcoming months. Raw material prices
were either stable or declined. Several manufacturers and steel
producers reported reducing their prices to match the lower
material prices. Little change in payrolls was noted, although
attracting skilled workers remains difficult. Wage pressures are
contained.  Real Estate. Reports from home-builders on single-family housing
starts during July were mixed, although all of our contacts said
that activity had improved compared to a year ago. Sales
contracts were in all price-point categories. Homebuilders
anticipate only a modest increase in the construction of single-
family homes in the near term; however, opportunities for
rehabilitating old buildings into apartments and constructing
new apartments and special-needs housing are viewed as strong.
Selling prices of new single-family homes were up slightly
during the past six months, and rents increased in the low to
mid-single digits. The volatility seen in building material
prices over the past five months is beginning to subside,
although there is still upward pressure on lumber prices. In the
eastern third of the District, existing home sales (number of
units, average sales price, and volume) showed a modest to
moderate increase year-to-date relative to the same period in
2011. Similar results were seen in the southwest region of the
District.  Nonresidential contractors described current business conditions
as improving and better when compared to a year ago. However,
construction activity for small to medium-size builders is still
substantially below pre-recession levels, and profit margins are
tight. Project work is broad based, driven by industrial
(manufacturing and distribution), education, and healthcare
clients and multi-family housing. The short-term outlook is
fairly positive, but builders are concerned about the domestic
political climate, events in  Europe , and potential defense
cutbacks. Building material prices were stable. Even with the
pickup in work, residential and nonresidential builders are
reluctant to hire additional workers. Wage pressures are
contained. Some residential and commercial subcontractors have
attempted to raise their billing rates but were largely
unsuccessful.  Consumer Spending . Retailers reported slightly higher sales
figures for July relative to results seen in June. However,
several reports indicated that consumers, including those in
higher-income brackets, are becoming more cautious when buying
and are looking for value. One executive commented that
retailers are pushing back orders for the upcoming holiday
season. Retailers anticipate modest growth at best through the
end of the third quarter. Vendor prices were fairly stable, and
little change was noted in store prices. There is growing
concern about the rise in agricultural commodity prices and the
resulting impact on the cost of food products. Inventories
continued to rise modestly, but they were described as
manageable. Capital spending for the year remains on target,
with little change anticipated during the next 12 months.
Outlays are mainly for new store construction and technology
upgrades. No hiring is expected, other than at new stores, and
wage pressures are contained.  Little change was seen in the number of new-vehicle purchases
during June and July when compared with the same time period a
year ago. Dealers reported that sales of fuel-efficient vehicles
and SUVs are doing particularly well. New-vehicle inventories
are on the light side, which was attributed in part to model
changeovers and tight control by manufacturers. The outlook by
dealers for the remainder of 2012 is mixed, although none of our
contacts are expecting a substantial drop-off. Purchases of used
vehicles improved slightly during July relative to June levels.
Capital spending is limited to OEM-mandated remodeling and image
programs. Hiring for sales and service positions remains at a
very slow pace. Dealers have become more efficient at managing
labor needs since prior to the recession resulting in leaner
payrolls.  Banking. Bankers reported a modest increase in the demand for
business credit, mainly for refinancings and acquisitions. A few
contacts cited rising demand for industrial loans and financing
multifamily housing developments. Little change in  consumer
credit  was observed. Auto lending remains the bright spot on the
consumer side, although a few bankers observed some softening
since our last report. In the residential mortgage market,
demand was described as stable to very strong, with a high
percentage of applicants looking to refinance. Several bankers
expressed concern about the low interest rate environment and
compliance costs related to new regulations and their effect on
profitability. We heard a few reports about a moderate loosening
of lending guidelines. Delinquencies were steady or improved.
Core deposits rose. Bankers project little change in payrolls
for the remainder of this year.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production increased
since our last report, with higher production expected to
continue in the upcoming months. Some of the increase was
attributed to rising demand from electric utilities. Low
wellhead prices for natural gas were cited as a reason for a
decline in drilling conventional wells. Additional drilling rigs
are being moved to  Ohio  from  Pennsylvania  to take advantage of
the higher-priced wet gas found in the Utica shale. Coal
production this year is expected to fall below 2011 levels due
to reduced demand for thermal coal from domestic utilities and
slowing markets for metallurgical coal in Europe and  Asia . Spot
prices for steam coal have increased slightly, while prices for
export metallurgical coal declined further. Production equipment
and materials prices were flat in most categories, and capital
outlays remain at projected levels. Moderate layoffs were
announced by several coal producers, and conventional oil and
gas companies have trimmed back their payrolls.  Transportation. Most reports on freight volume indicated that
the slowdown which began mid way through the second quarter has
stabilized or started to turn around. The outlook for the
remainder of 2012 remains positive, but growth is not expected
to be as strong as had been forecasted at the beginning of the
year. Apart from fluctuating diesel prices, costs associated
with truck maintenance held steady. Some carriers are
maintaining their fuel surcharges and successfully negotiated
rate increases when contracts came up for renewal. Capital
spending for 2012 remained on plan. Outlays are allocated for
the replacement of aging units and adding capacity. A few
executives reported that rising prices for new trucks combined
with difficulty in obtaining credit is limiting growth
opportunities, especially for small carriers. Driver recruitment
remains difficult, resulting in some wage pressure. 