-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District-- San Francisco   Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at
a modest pace during the reporting period of July through mid-
August. Price inflation was limited for most final goods and
services, and upward wage pressures were quite contained. Sales
of retail items rose a bit further on net, and demand for most
business and consumer services continued to expand. District
manufacturing activity appeared to inch up on balance.
Agricultural output expanded, while activity continued to trend
up for providers of energy resources. Home demand in the
District strengthened a bit further, and demand for commercial
real estate was largely stable. Contacts from financial
institutions reported that overall loan demand was unchanged or
weakened slightly on balance.  Wages and Prices  Price inflation was limited for most final goods and services
during the reporting period. Prices increased for some energy
items, mainly crude oil, retail gasoline, and electricity, but
natural  gas prices  remained near historic lows. Contacts also
noted price increases for assorted food commodities,
particularly grains, although meat prices reportedly have
leveled off for the time being. For most products and services,
vigorous competition among firms and cost-conscious purchasing
behavior by consumers kept price inflation in check.  Upward wage pressures were quite limited overall. Wage increases
were noted for employees in some manufacturing sectors where
wages had been flat for several years; the reported increases
were moderate, in the 2 to 3 percent range. Wage gains also
remained significant for workers with specialized skills in the
application of information technology. Contacts in general
reported very limited hiring plans for the balance of the year,
suggesting that upward wage pressures will remain muted.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales expanded a bit further overall. Respondents in
general indicated that sales strengthened somewhat in July
compared with softness in May and June. Performance was stronger
for discount chains than traditional department stores,
particularly for online sales. At grocery stores, extensive
bargain hunting by shoppers caused sales revenues to weaken a
bit. The pace of auto sales slowed somewhat compared with the
prior reporting period, although it remained significantly above
the pace from the same period last year. Used vehicles have been
in short supply, raising their trade-in values and helping to
spur sales of new vehicles.  Demand for most business and consumer services expanded further.
Sales continued to grow for a wide variety of technology
services, with expectations for further rapid growth in selected
segments, such as cloud computing services. Advertising revenues
remained at high levels for radio and television broadcasters in
the District, but the slow drift of television production
activities away from District locales such as  Los Angeles 
continued. Providers of health-care services noted a drop in the
demand for discretionary medical services and a consequent
reduction in capacity utilization at medical care facilities.
Demand picked up further for restaurants and other food-service
providers. Contacts in the District’s travel and tourism sector
reported additional gains for business and leisure travel,
although the pace of growth has slowed of late in some areas
such as  Las Vegas .  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity was mixed but appeared to inch
up on balance during the reporting period of July through mid-
August. Production activity remained at high levels for makers
of commercial aircraft and parts. Demand continued to grow for
pharmaceutical manufacturers. Output and sales strengthened a
bit further for manufacturers of wood products. By contrast, the
slowdown continued for makers of  information technology 
equipment, with sales declines reported for some equipment
categories in recent months. Demand for steel was mostly stable
at low levels, while sales of processed scrap metal fell,
largely as a result of a decline in overseas demand. For
petroleum refiners, capacity utilization rates increased
somewhat, as growth in export sales for a range of refined
products offset weakness in domestic demand for gasoline.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Agricultural producers saw further sales gains, and extraction
activity of natural resources used for energy production
continued to expand. Orders and sales grew for many crop and
livestock products, and one report indicated that demand for
cotton was particularly strong. The persistent drought in parts
of the country has raised grain and feed prices, prompting
District cattle ranchers to reduce herd sizes. Extraction
activity for petroleum and natural gas remained at high levels
or expanded a bit further on net, although some producers have
been shifting operations away from natural gas in response to
continued high inventories and the consequent low price.  Real Estate and Construction  Home demand in the District continued to improve, while demand
for commercial real estate was largely stable. Although it is
still well below its historical average, the sales pace for new
and existing homes picked up further in many areas, and some
contacts pointed to pent-up demand that may spur additional
gains. Contacts also reported that the share of foreclosures and
short sales in overall home sales has been declining, and the
quality of the inventory of available homes has improved. In
some parts of the District, a shortage of lower-priced homes and
rental units has led to an ongoing increase in construction
activity, particularly for multifamily rental projects. Demand
for nonresidential space was largely stable overall, with
construction activity largely limited to various public projects
and remodeling of commercial and industrial space.  Financial Institutions  District banking contacts reported that loan demand was
unchanged or down slightly on balance compared with the prior
reporting period. Business loan demand appeared to drop a bit,
amid growing reluctance by many firms to commit to expansion
plans under current economic conditions. At the same time, the
reports continued to highlight ample liquidity and stiff
competition among lenders to provide credit to well-qualified
business loan applicants. Demand for  consumer credit  remained
relatively strong, reflected primarily in high lending activity
for automobile and home purchases. 