-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace over the
past six weeks. Manufacturing activity continued to expand,
demand for business services remained solid, and transportation
services activity increased. Respondents said retail sales edged
up, while automobile sales held steady. The housing and
commercial real estate markets remained healthy. Financial firms
noted softening loan demand. Energy activity remained robust,
and agricultural conditions improved slightly. Employment levels
were steady to slightly higher. Wage and price pressures were
modest. Most contacts noted that European debt issues and the
upcoming national elections added uncertainty to their outlooks.  Prices  Most contacts said prices held steady, although some
construction-related and vehicle manufacturers noted slight
increases, and accounting and staffing firms reported a modest
rise in billing rates. Paper product manufacturers and shipping
firms noted plans to implement price increases in the near term.
Overall, input costs were flat to up during the reporting
period. Prices for scrap metal, steel and grains rose. Contacts
reported that the rising cost of labor and land prices have
increased builders’ costs, and some were raising prices on new
homes. The price of WTI rose from $85 in early July to $94 in
mid-August. Natural  gas prices  remained depressed. The price of
diesel and gasoline climbed about 30 cents, and prices of
petrochemical products were flat to up over the reporting
period.  Labor Market  Employment levels edged up or held steady at most responding
firms. Staffing firms reported demand softened slightly from
high levels and noted rising demand for mortgage refinance
specialists, sales professionals and plastic product
manufacturing workers. Reports of slight employment increases
came from some automobile dealers, construction-related products
manufacturers, transportation equipment producers and
transportation service firms. A few respondents noted difficulty
filling vacant positions because of employment opportunities
available in the energy sector, and contacts reported delays in
housing starts because of labor shortages. Wage pressures
remained minimal, although upward pressure was reported for
construction workers, truck drivers and accountants.  Manufacturing  Overall demand for construction-related products held steady or
edged up since the last report, but outlooks were cautious. A
cement producer noted that increased residential construction
activity, particularly in South Texas, had improved demand.
Fabricated metals producers noted an uptick in orders, largely
stemming from both public infrastructure projects and private
construction activity such as high rise residential buildings
and warehouse facilities. Demand for primary metals was steady
over the past six weeks, and expectations were for business to
remain flat through year-end. High-tech manufacturers said
orders were flat to slightly up over the reporting period.
Contacts reported that conditions in the semiconductor industry
were better in the U.S. than in other parts of the world. This
is largely because U.S. production centers on logic devices that
are experiencing stronger demand than memory devices, which are
primarily produced outside of the U.S. Most respondents noted
that increased uncertainty will likely be a drag on demand
through year-end.  Demand for paper products remained steady, although contacts
were uncertain about what will happen over the next few months,
particularly with regard to potential tax changes after the
November election. Food producers said demand experienced a
seasonal increase over the past month, but sales were lower than
a year ago. Overall, transportation equipment manufacturers said
demand was flat to up over the past six weeks. Demand for
aviation equipment held steady at low levels. Outlooks were less
optimistic compared with the last report partly due to continued
weakness in demand for parts and repair of existing aircraft. A
producer of recreational vehicles noted a pickup in sales, and
an emergency vehicle manufacturer reported continued strong
demand.  Petrochemicals producers reported steady demand. Demand for PVC,
tied to residential construction, improved domestically, and
exports continued to be a major source of sales. Exports of
caustic soda remained strong as U.S. prices are very competitive
due to lower electricity costs. Chlorine demand edged up, while
demand for propylene weakened. Gulf Coast refiners said
operating rates remained high at 90 percent. Robust export
demand for gasoline and distillates kept inventories low, and
refiners’ margins remained healthy.  Retail Sales  Retail sales grew slightly over the reporting period and were up
from a year ago. Particular strength was seen in sales of
accessories, cosmetics and women’s and children’s apparel. Sales
growth in the Eleventh District remained stronger than the
nation, on average, according to two large retailers. Retailers
expect a seasonal pickup in demand in the fourth quarter,
although sales will likely be down from last year.  Automobile sales were mostly flat since the last report, but
were up from year ago levels. Inventories were lighter than
desired. Contacts said political uncertainty was hampering
 consumer confidence , and outlooks were cautious.  Services  Staffing firms said demand slowed slightly over the past six
weeks. Still, activity remained at high levels and business was
stronger compared with last year. Outlooks remained positive,
yet there was concern among contacts about uncertainty stemming
from the upcoming presidential election. Accounting firms noted
continued seasonal weakness in overall demand but said activity
related to the  energy industry  remained a bright spot, and
outlooks for energy-focused areas were particularly upbeat.
Legal firms reported a continued pickup in demand, with
sustained strength in intellectual property litigation, energy
and real estate-related services. Reports from transportation
service firms suggested a slight increase in activity. Trucking
firms said cargo volumes increased over the reporting period,
partly due to more oil and gas-related business. Railroads said
volumes increased since the last report. Contacts noted
shipments of two of the largest categories for rail cargo--grain
and coal--declined, while volumes for lumber, petroleum products
and motor vehicles increased. Container volumes and small parcel
shipments picked up during the reporting period, while air
freight activity declined in part due to a slowdown in
international cargo volumes.  Airlines noted slight softening in passenger demand in part due
to seasonality and a decline in travel to  Europe . Demand for
travel to  Mexico  picked up, while travel to  Latin America  and
 Asia  held steady. Domestic demand remained strong for both
leisure and business travel. Contacts expect weaker passenger
demand over the next few months but noted it will likely remain
near last year’s levels.  Construction and Real Estate  Housing activity remained strong since the last report. Contacts
said sales of new and existing homes continued at a good pace
and were well above expectations. Builders noted strong traffic
and reported rising backlogs, while realtors said shrinking
inventories had led to price gains. Apartment demand remained
strong, and contacts noted rising construction activity as
investors continue to be attracted to the market. Housing
outlooks remain positive.  Office and industrial real estate fundamentals remained healthy
over the past six weeks. Leasing activity continued at a good
pace and some contacts noted a pick-up in property sales.
Outlooks were optimistic but cautious. Since the last report,
there were a few signs that investors were becoming less
aggressive in pursuing commercial real estate deals, outside of
multifamily. Financial Services Overall, loan demand softened
somewhat during the reporting period. Corporate lending activity
remained weak, while residential real estate loan demand rose
strongly. Loan pricing remained competitive and deposits
continued to grow. The quality of outstanding loans continued to
improve slowly as nonperforming loans declined. Outlooks were
positive, but contacts expressed concern about European debt
issues, new regulations for community banks and the upcoming
national elections.  Energy  Respondents at energy-related firms said overall activity
remained at high levels, with long lead times and growing
backlogs. Drilling activity continued to shift from dry natural
gas to oil and natural gas liquids. While the shift has not
affected overall activity levels, contacts expect a plateau in
the growth of rig activity through year-end, in part due to
recent weakness in the price of natural gas liquids. Oil-related
activity continues to be strong, and contacts expect continued
improvement in offshore drilling.  Agriculture  Drought conditions improved slightly due to scattered rainfall
in July. Crops remained mostly in fair to good shape, with the
exception of dryland cotton crop in the Texas High Plains region
which suffered due to lack of moisture. Overall, crop conditions
were much better than a year ago. Drought in the Midwest has
caused grain prices to climb sharply, squeezing margins for
ranchers by driving up feed costs for livestock. 