-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Aug. 24 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-08-29T14:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-aug-24-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.4 million barrels per
day during the week ending August 24, 58 thousand barrels per
day below the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
91.2 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production decreased last week, averaging 9.2 million barrels
per day. Distillate fuel production decreased last week,
averaging about 4.7 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 9.5 million barrels per day last
week, up by 1.3 million barrels per day from the previous week.
Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged nearly
8.8 million barrels per day, 438 thousand barrels per day below
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 690 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 134 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 3.8 million barrels
from the previous week. At 364.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
1.5 million barrels last week and are in the lower half of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories decreased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories increased by 0.9 million barrels last week and are
below the lower limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 0.7 million
barrels last week and are above the upper limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 4.7
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 19.2 million barrels per day, down by 2.1 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged about 9.1
million barrels per day, down by 1.0 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
3.6 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by
6.2 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 3.8 percent lower over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  