-- Ukraine Rejects Tymoshenko Appeal Amid Rift With West
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-08-29T13:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/ukraine-rejects-tymoshenko-appeal-amid-rift-with-west.html
A Ukrainian court rejected the
appeal of jailed opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko , upholding a
seven-year prison sentence that has opened a rift between the
former Soviet republic and the West.  The High Specialized Court for Civil and Criminal Cases in
the capital, Kiev, announced today that lower court rulings
convicting the former premier for abuse of office “are lawful
and justified.” The verdict comes a day after the  European
Court  of Human Rights began its own hearing into the case.  A co-leader of the 2004 Orange Revolution, Tymoshenko
accuses President  Viktor Yanukovych  and his administration,
which backed her arrest and incarceration, of corruption and
violating democratic principles. The case caused an indefinite
delay of an Association Agreement with the European Union to
boost trade ties and advance economic integration.  “This verdict was an announcement of Yanukovych’s decision
to keep Tymoshenko, his main political opponent, in prison,”
her lawyer, Serhiy Vlasenko, told reporters after the court made
its ruling. “Yanukovych showed today that he doesn’t care about
anything in this country.”  The benchmark Ukrainian Equities Index, which has lost 33
percent this year, fell 2.63 percent today to 988.62 at 3:11
p.m. in Kiev. The cost of insuring government debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps is 820 basis
points, down from 849 at end-2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Ukrainian currency, the hryvnia, weakened today to 8.1165,
highest since January 2010.  U.K. ‘Disappointed’  The U.K. government expressed “disappointment” in the
decision and said in an e-mailed statement that it will continue
to press Ukraine to end “selective” justice.  “We have consistently drawn attention to independent
expert concerns about the conduct of Ms. Tymoshenko’s trial, and
that of other opposition figures,” Europe Minister David
Lidington said in the statement. “Progress on Ukraine’s
Association Agreement with the EU will remain difficult without
clear evidence that Ukraine is embracing democracy and the rule
of law.”  “We want to work well with Ukraine and these judicial
problems are not helping that,”  Michael Mann , spokesman for EU
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , told reporters today in
Brussels. “We stress the importance for the Ukrainian
authorities to take concrete steps to address the systemic
problems of the judiciary,” he said.  Tymoshenko was convicted of causing damages to the state
when she signed a natural-gas supply and transit accord with her
Russian counterpart  Vladimir Putin  in January 2009.  The 10-year accord, which links the price Ukraine pays
monthly for Russian natural gas deliveries to market energy
prices, sparked a dispute that disrupted deliveries to at least
20 European nations for two weeks amid freezing temperatures at
the beginning of 2009. Yanukovych says the contract has caused
$12 billion of losses in the last two years.  “This is a shameful decision,” Tymoshenko’s daughter
Eugenia Tymoshenko told reporters outside the Kiev court. “It
is impossible to find justice in Ukrainian courts.”  Exceeded Authority  Tymoshenko “deliberately exceeded her authority as prime
minister,” prosecutor Oksana Drohobytska said during an Aug. 21
court hearing. The investigation found Tymoshenko committed a
crime in January 2009 that caused losses to the state, she said,
adding that the crime was “premeditated.”  In March, the  human rights  court asked Ukraine’s government
to ensure Tymoshenko had adequate medical care. When guards
found her lying on the floor in pain, resisting transfer to a
hospital, she was wrapped in a blanket, beaten and forcibly
moved, her daughter said yesterday. Her lawyer, Vlasenko, said
he saw the bruises days later when he was allowed to meet her.  ‘Only Hope’  Nazar Kulchytskyy, a lawyer for the Ukrainian government,
denied Tymoshenko was mistreated, arguing she resisted efforts
to provide her medical treatment in prison. He also defended her
pre-trial detention as necessary to ensure she didn’t flee or
interfere with an investigation, and said round-the-clock
surveillance was necessary, not excessive.  The  European Court of Human Rights  is “the only hope”
against what she has described as the politically-motivated
prosecution aimed at muting the opposition before October
parliamentary elections, Vlasenko said.  Tymoshenko still faces separate charges over  tax evasion 
and embezzlement in a case that has been adjourned several times
because of her health.  Support for Tymoshenko has drawn level with Yanukovych’s
ruling Party of Regions, a recent poll shows. Tymoshenko’s
Batkivshchyna, or Fatherland party, had 19.6 percent backing,
compared with 19 percent for the Party of Regions, the  Razumkov
Center for Economic and Political Studies  said Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  