-- LulzSec Member Charged in Sony Pictures Computer Attack Case
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/lulzsec-member-arrested-for-sony-pictures-computer-attack-1-.html
The U.S. said a second alleged
member of the LulzSec hacking group was arrested for the 2011
attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc.’s computer system in
which personal data from customer accounts was stolen.  Raynaldo Rivera, 20, of Tempe,  Arizona , was taken into
custody yesterday in Phoenix, the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  said in a statement. He is charged with conspiracy
and unauthorized impairment of a protected computer, and faces
as long as 15 years in prison if convicted, according to the
statement.  A Phoenix man, Cody Kretsinger, was arrested last year in
connection with the attack and has pleaded guilty, the FBI said.  LulzSec in June of last year posted statements online
saying it had broken into SonyPictures.com and downloaded
unencrypted personal information, including passwords, e-mail
addresses and dates of birth from 1 million user accounts.  The attack followed earlier ones last year in which Tokyo-
based  Sony Corp. (6758)  had said more than 100 million accounts were
compromised after hackers broke into its networks. Sony
suspended operation of the PlayStation Network in the U.S. and
 Europe  for six weeks after the earlier attacks.  LulzSec, following the attack on Sony Pictures’ systems,
posted customer information online from what appeared to be
sweepstakes and loyalty-program databases, including one tied to
the long-running soap opera “The Young and the Restless.” The
group also took information from Sony music operations in
 Belgium  and the Netherlands, it said.  The group, which has also claimed credit for hacking into
websites of the U.S. Senate and Central Intelligence Agency,
said later in June 2011 that it was ending its cyber attacks.
The CIA’s public website was taken down on June 15, 2011.  Rivera made an initial appearance before a magistrate
judge in Phoenix yesterday and was ordered to appear in federal
court in  Los Angeles  on Sept. 14, the FBI said.  Susan Anderson, a federal public defender who represented 
Rivera at his court appearance yesterday, didn't immediately 
return a call to her office after regular business hours 
seeking comment on the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 