-- Lundin Says Pipeline Needed to Make Barents Sea Gas Profitable
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-08-29T06:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/lundin-says-pipeline-needed-to-make-barents-sea-gas-profitable.html
Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE) , which has
interests in eight licenses in the Barents Sea off northern
 Norway , said gas discoveries in the area may stay undeveloped
until a south-bound export pipeline is built.  Discoveries that aren’t profitable to develop because of
lacking infrastructure could be left in the ground, Chief
Executive Officer Ashley Heppenstall said yesterday in an
interview in Stavanger, on Norway’s western cost. “I’d be lying
if I said we didn’t wish for a pipeline to be built.”  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s biggest oil and gas producer, has
said it favors an expansion of its liquefied natural gas plant
which processes output from the Snohvit field, the first to be
developed in the  Barents Sea , over a pipeline. Companies such as
 Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR)  have also said that failing to build
pipes could strangle new gas finds in the Barents Sea.  Norway is moving into the waters off its northern tip to
boost output after oil production fell by half in the past
decade amid dwindling North Sea output. Companies including
Statoil and  Total SA (FP)  of France have over the past year made
commercial discoveries of oil and gas in the Barents Sea such as
Skrugard, the first in more than a decade.  Lundin and Det Norske share interests in the Skalle gas
find in the Barents Sea, and are drilling the Salina prospect in
the area. Det Norske CEO Erik Haugane said Aug. 15 he hoped it
would be an oil find so it could be developed profitably.  While Lundin might be “less aggressive” in the Barents
Sea if it knew it only had a chance of finding gas and not oil,
it believes further discoveries will force a solution for
exports, Heppenstall said.  “I’m a firm believer in market forces. If the resources
are there, there will be an export solution,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter  in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo on  at
 jbergman@bloomberg.ne  