-- Hurricane Isaac Pounds Louisiana as Energy Prices Drop
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-08-29T18:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/hurricane-isaac-lashes-louisiana-as-energy-prices-drop.html
Hurricane Isaac will linger over
Louisiana with heavy wind-driven rain for two days while
reducing the threat to offshore energy production.  Crude oil fell in New York after Isaac’s landfall eased
concern that the storm would damage platforms and rigs in the
 Gulf of Mexico .  “In the oil rig areas, the conditions there aren’t going
to let up until Friday,” said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of
 Weather Underground  in Ann Arbor, Michigan. “The winds over the
water are going to be stronger than over the land. They are just
going to have to wait. It’s going to be a patience game with
this storm.”  Isaac, pounding the  New Orleans  area on the seventh
anniversary of  Hurricane Katrina , was 45 miles (72 kilometers)
west-southwest of the city at noon local time, the National
Hurricane Center said  in an advisory.  Its top winds were at 75
mph, making it a Category 1 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale.  “It’s moving very slowly, it’s just drifting about the
south Louisiana coastline, so they’re just going to get pounded
with wind and rain for quite some time now,” said Dan
Pydynowski, a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College , Pennsylvania. “The areas that are getting hit hard
right now will continue to take a pounding through most of the
day today.”  Gulf Impact  Isaac has halted 95 percent of U.S. oil production in the
Gulf and 72 percent of natural-gas output, the  Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement  said today. Six Louisiana
refineries were shut and three were running at reduced rates,
idling 6.7 percent of U.S. capacity, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Enbridge Inc. declared force majeure on the Manta Ray and
Garden Banks offshore natural gas pipeline systems because of
Hurricane Isaac, according to a notice on the company’s website.  The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port  suspended all operations
from its offshore terminal and onshore storage, Barb Hestermann,
a company spokeswoman, said in a message posted on the company’s
website as of 10:30 a.m. local time.  Oil Futures  Crude oil for October delivery declined 93 cents, or 1
percent, to $95.38 a barrel at 2:19 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices also fell after stockpiles rose
unexpectedly.  The Gulf region is home to 23 percent of U.S. oil output, 7
percent of natural gas and 44 percent of refining capacity.  Refiners in the area will probably take little damage from
the storm, said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at
Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  “I believe it’s likely that the remainder of the energy-
production infrastructure across the northern Gulf will have
little in the way of damage from Isaac and should be up and
running by Friday,” Rouiller said.  Isaac unleashed  a storm surge  into southern Louisiana and
Mississippi that is raising sea levels to 12 feet (3.7 meters)
above normal. The rising water pushed over the top of a levee in
Plaquemines Parish.  Seven to 14  inches of rain may fall and some areas may
receive as much as 20 inches, the hurricane center said.  Storm Lingers  Pydynowski said that since the storm is lingering near the
coast, it will take some time to weaken. It may retain its
hurricane strength for hours because the swampy land of southern
 Louisiana  is full of warm water that can fuel a storm, he said.  A  hurricane warning  is in effect from Morgan City,
Louisiana, to the Mississippi-Alabama line, including New
Orleans.  Hurricane Katrina stuck New Orleans and the Gulf Coast on
Aug. 29, 2005,  swamping the city’s levees  and killing more than
1,800 people.  Tropical Storm Kirk, the 11th named Atlantic weather system
this year, is 1,220 miles east-northeast of the northern Leeward
Islands and no threat to land, the National Hurricane Center
said in a separate advisory. It has maximum sustained winds of
45 miles per hour and is moving at 9 miles per hour.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  