-- Hurricane Isaac Offers Little Hope for Drought Relief
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-08-29T20:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/hurricane-isaac-offers-little-hope-for-drought-relief.html
As Tropical Storm Isaac moves up the
Mississippi River Valley with drenching rain, it will probably
miss the drought-parched areas of the Midwest that need water
most while ruining crops in other areas waiting for harvest.  Flood warnings and watches reach across Louisiana, which
may get up to 20 inches (51 centimeters) of rain, and through
 Arkansas , where as much as 5 inches may fall, according to the
 National Weather Service . After Isaac begins to break up, its
remnants are expected to drift north into  Missouri  and then east
across Illinois and  Indiana .  “It may put a dent in it, but it isn’t going to relieve”
the drought, said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather
Underground  in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. “It may knock them down one
category.”  Drought gripped 63.2 percent of the contiguous 48 states as
of Aug. 21, according to the  U.S. Drought Monitor  in Lincoln,
 Nebraska . Of the four official categories of drought, the two
worst covered 23.01 percent of the 48 states.  The dryness has left 38 percent of U.S. soybeans in poor or
very poor condition, while 52 percent of corn was rated in the
worst categories, the Department of Agriculture said.  Terry Hayhurst, who farms in Vigo County, Indiana, 11 miles
south of  Terre Haute , spent most of this summer looking up at
the sky, hoping for rain.  Farm Impact  Now that Isaac is predicted to bring soaking showers to his
1,200 acres of corn, soybeans and sorghum-sudangrass, Hayhurst
said the rain will mostly just delay the harvest of corn and
feed for his cows.  “For the most part” the rain is coming too late, Hayhurst
said in an interview. “But we’ll take moisture this year,
however we can get it.”  The soybeans, which he feared could be a total loss a month
ago, could benefit from a deluge.  “Of course, we don’t want to get 20 inches,” he said.  For the rain to do the most good, it needs to fall slowly
and over a few days, said David Miskus, a meteorologist with the
 U.S. Climate Prediction Center  in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland . If the
rain falls hard and fast, most of it will run off and won’t be
absorbed by the soil.  Help Needed  “It’s definitely too late to help corn, and I am not sure
about soybeans, but we can definitely use the moisture no matter
what,” said Miskus, also an author of the U.S. Drought Monitor,
which will be updated tomorrow. “A slow, steady rain would be
nice for several days.”  The lack of rain across the Midwest has also caused the
shipping channel in the  Mississippi River  to shrink to where
less freight can be carried by barges on the nation’s largest
waterway and its tributaries, including the  Ohio River .  More than 566 million tons of freight valued at $180
billion moved through inland waterways in 2010, including 60
percent of U.S. grain exports, 22 percent of domestic petroleum
and 20 percent of the coal used to generate electricity, said
the  National Waterways Foundation  in Arlington, Virginia.  At 2 p.m. local time, Isaac was about 50 miles (80
kilometers) west-southwest of  New Orleans  with top winds of 70
miles per hour, 4 mph below hurricane strength.  Rain Lessens  As Isaac moves north, the amount of rain it brings will
fall, said Dan Pydynowski, a meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc. 
in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . When Isaac leaves Arkansas, it’s
forecast to drop 1 to 2 inches in Springfield, Missouri.  The heavy rain expected in Mississippi, Arkansas and
Louisiana may be more hindrance than help to farmers, said Joel Widenor, co-founder of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland. Beans, rice and cotton have yet to be harvested.  The rain can hurt the quality of cotton and gusty winds can
knock the bolls off the plant, he said.  “If it actually falls off, it may just be a total loss,”
Widenor said by telephone.  The rain in Louisiana also won’t affect the Mississippi
River because there aren’t any large tributaries in the area to
capture the flow, said Jeff Graschel, a service coordination
hydrologist at the Lower  Mississippi River  Forecast Center in
Slidell, Louisiana.  “All this rain that we are getting here falls into the
 Gulf of Mexico ,” Graschel said.  Heavy rain draining into the Ohio River is needed to help
shippers on the Mississippi. Graschel said that isn’t likely to
happen.  “It really does appear it will be a short-term situation
and not helping us in the long term,” Graschel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  