-- Hurricane Makes Campaigning `Tricky' for President Obama
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-29T20:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/hurricane-makes-campaigning-tricky-for-president-obama.html
President  Barack Obama  resumed a
swing state campaign trip today as Hurricane Isaac battered the
Gulf Coast, forcing him to switch between his official duties
and his role as a candidate for re-election.  The storm, hitting the coast on the seventh anniversary of
Hurricane Katrina and as Republicans hold their national
convention, complicates Obama’s plans leading up to his own
party’s gathering next week.  “It’s very tricky,” said political historian Julian Zelizer of Princeton University in New Jersey, referring to the
balancing act Obama must now play between his roles as candidate
and president.  “If disaster relief is required, Obama has some risk going
around the country looking as though he’s focused on November
2012 instead of August,” Zelizer said.  Opening his campaign rally in Charlottesville, Virginia,
today, Obama asked the crowd to keep the people living along the
Gulf Coast in their thoughts and prayers and promised that the
federal government is “doing every single thing we need to do
to make sure our friends down there are taken care of.”  Between events yesterday and today, Obama has conferred
with homeland security officials and gotten frequent updates on
the storm’s progress and relief efforts, White House press
secretary Jay Carney said.  Isaac’s Reach  Isaac, with winds extending 175 miles (282 kilometers) from
its center, is pounding parts of southern Louisiana, Mississippi
and Alabama with torrential rain and storm surges. It may
produce as much as 20 inches of rain during the next two days,
according to the National Hurricane Center.  The White House hasn’t announced whether Obama will travel
to the region.  “At this time, the president’s schedule has not changed,”
Carney told reporters this morning.  The storm also is hitting as energy prices are putting
pressure on a still sluggish U.S. economy. Companies halted 93
percent of oil production in the Gulf of Mexico and 67 percent
of natural-gas output as Isaac neared the Louisiana coast,
according to the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement.  Crude oil for October delivery declined 84 cents to settle
at $95.49 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The
Energy Department said earlier that U.S. crude stockpiles
increased 3.78 million barrels to 364.5 million and the threat
to offshore platforms and rigs abated.  Oil’s Advance  Oil has advanced 23 percent since reaching a 2012 low in
June as  stockpiles  fell and the U.S. and Europe tightened
sanctions against Iran. Rising prices have raised speculation
that Obama may release supplies from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve.  The last release was in June 2011 in conjunction with
International Energy Agency nations to replace supplies lost
during the uprising in Libya.  The U.S. joined other Group of Seven nations in a joint
statement yesterday calling on oil-producing countries to
increase output to ease the threat to their economies posed by
high oil prices and saying they are prepared to prod the IEA
“to take appropriate action to ensure that the market is fully
and timely supplied.”  Carney repeated earlier statements that “all options are
on the table” regarding oil prices.  Monitoring Prices  “We are, of course, constantly monitoring global energy
prices, global oil prices and their effect on the global
economy,” Carney said as Obama traveled to Virginia. “But I
have no announcements for actions that he might take.”  Kathleen Hall Jamieson, director of the Annenberg Public
Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania, said Obama
“should be able to campaign without penalty,” as long as there
is no evidence the federal government is failing to provide
hurricane relief and Obama clearly communicates the government’s
response.  After mentioning the storm at the start of his remarks,
Obama returned to the political pitch he made at previous stops
in Iowa and Colorado. He emphasized issues that the campaign
calculates will appeal to young voters -- developing alternative
energy, aiding education and supporting same-sex marriage --
while accusing Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  of being out of
touch.  “You guys have more at stake in this election than
anybody,” Obama told the mostly young crowd of about 7,000 in
Charlottesville, home to the University of Virginia.  Hurricane Severity  Campaigning in a time of crisis can backfire, depending on
how severe the hurricane proves to be, said Zelizer, who has
studied past U.S. administrations.  One example, he said, is President George H. W. Bush’s
response to Hurricane Andrew, which hit Florida in August 1992.  “The Bush administration was very slow to respond, and I
think he took a lot of heat for that,” Zelizer said. “It
contributed to this narrative of a stumbling leader who didn’t
have a grasp on domestic issues.”  Bush lost the election that November to Democrat Bill Clinton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  