-- Hurricane Tests Do-It-Yourself City of New Orleans
-- B y   D a n i e l   W o l f f
-- 2012-08-29T22:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/hurricane-tests-do-it-yourself-city-of-new-orleans.html
Hurricane Isaac pummeled  New
Orleans , with floodwaters surging and officials cautioning
against complacency. Yet this is a different city from the one
devastated by  Hurricane Katrina  seven years ago.  When that storm flooded New Orleans in 2005 -- or, more
accurately, when the federally built levees  failed  to contain
the storm surge -- people turned to their government for help,
with dismal results. The National Guard was slow to come to the
rescue; the country watched as residents waited on rooftops and
overpasses for excruciating days.  In the aftermath, desperately in need of relief funds,
people again turned to their representatives for help. Although
Congress apportioned the money fairly quickly, many residents
waited a year or more before receiving anything, and then the
aid fell far short of what they needed for  repairs . Residents
found yet more disappointment when they looked to government to
help with basic health care, crime prevention and infrastructure
repairs as the emergency continued.  Yet, on the seventh anniversary of Katrina, New Orleans had
come back, or at least  some version  of it. Those who returned,
who managed to rebuild their homes or settle into rentals,
overcame not just a disaster but also a deeply dysfunctional
political system. In reinventing their city, they quietly,
almost without notice, reinvented the idea of government  Government Failure  As  Abraham Lincoln  defined it, “The legitimate object of
government is to do for a community of people, whatever they
need to have done, but can not do, at all, or can not so well
do, for themselves.” A lot of the survivors of Katrina couldn’t
do for themselves, or thought they couldn’t. Part of the problem
was due to the flooding. But especially in low-income areas, it
had been years since the government had provided even the basic
services.  In the city’s  Ninth Ward , for example, health care had
always been a long ride away. Citizens hesitated to call the
police, thinking that incidents of hazing, domestic violence and
petty larceny would escalate if officers were too quick to reach
for their weapons. Sewage breaks, power failures and lax road
repairs were a regular part of life decades before the levees
failed.  But the floods made things worse and underlined that the
community, both residents and volunteers, had to do more for
themselves than ever before. The result has been a new brand of
self-reliance.  Although the city has proposed a massive new medical-
research center, it is still years off and not particularly
geared to the many low-income residents without adequate
insurance. Instead, a network of community-health centers has
sprung up, often volunteer-run in makeshift sites but offering
the kind of personal, local care that the pre-Katrina system
couldn’t.  Crime  continues  to be a problem in New Orleans, forcing
people to make their own adjustments: Neighbors watch out for
one another and organize to have derelict houses (where addicts
and criminals congregate) torn down -- or tear them down
themselves. On street after street, people have banded together
to remove trash, cut the grass on empty blocks and in parks, and
reconstruct one another’s homes.  Some of these efforts have been more formalized than
others. So, in the Ninth Ward, the Common Ground Collective
provided residents with free legal service and medical care,
organized volunteers to gut houses, and set out to replant
grasses in long-ruined bayous. Others organized a farmers
market, and the Holy Cross neighborhood established a community
garden. In defiance of both city-controlled public schools and
the charter movement that has brought in private administrators,
the Ninth Ward is home to an award-winning elementary school run
by its own principal, teachers and parents.  Distrust Remains  This do-it-yourself approach has helped revive the city,
but it has worried some, especially those in government. After
Katrina, the mayor of  New Orleans  appointed  Edward Blakely  to a
job popularly known as “recovery czar.”  Blakely immediately sought control of all funding and
decision-making. A year and a half after Katrina, he expressed
his concerns about the path that recovery was taking. “Defiance
is still in the air -- that people want to do things on their
own. And they don’t trust the system that they elected, or they
didn’t elect but was in place.” If residents formed their own
support systems, what did that leave for government to do? Not
to mention  czars .  Many in New Orleans didn’t trust the system before the
disaster, and with good reason. The government’s failure and the
people’s own success have only reinforced that position. Seven
years later, it remains to be seen how deeply the recovery in
New Orleans has undercut representative government -- and what
might emerge in its place.  (Daniel Wolff is the author, most recently, of “The Fight
for Home: How (Parts of) New Orleans Came Back” and is a
producer of Jonathan Demme’s film, “I’m Carolyn Parker: The
Good, the Mad and the Beautiful.” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Republicans’ racial bind ,
on  rethinking FAA rules for portable electronic devices  and on
 how central banks can avoid being politicized  and still be
effective;  Caroline Baum  on  falling off the fiscal cliff ;
 Michael Kinsley  on  whether the Republicans’ tent is big enough ;
 Ezra Klein  on the  merits of party platforms .  To contact the writer of this article:
Daniel Wolff at  ziwolff@optonline.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 