-- Usher Rocks Roundhouse, Erotic Picasso: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i   a n d   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-08-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/usher-rocks-roundhouse-erotic-picasso-london-weekend.html
Damon Albarn heads for  Africa .  The Blur singer is joining tonight’s gig by the Nigerian
drummer  Tony Allen , once the pillar of Fela Kuti’s rhythm
section. Martina Topley Bird will also perform. The concert
takes place in an unlikely venue: the Royal Opera House’s small
Linbury Studio Theatre.  It’s all part of an African culture weekend curated by
artist Yinka Shonibare and sponsored by Deloitte LLP.  Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk/about/deloitte-ignite .  Alternatively, you can watch the man who conducted Mr. Bean
during the Olympics opening ceremony.  Simon Rattle  will work his baton with the Berlin
Philharmonic tonight as they perform a Lutoslawski symphony and
Brahms’s 2nd piano concerto with Yefim Bronfman as the soloist.  Information:  http://www.bbc.co.uk  or +44-845-401-5040.  Saturday  The male midlife crisis is spectacularly showcased in a
free exhibition ending this weekend.  During the 1930s,  Pablo Picasso  -- in his fifties and
involved with much younger Marie-Therese Walter -- produced a
frenzied series of 100 etchings that became known as the Vollard
Suite (after dealer Ambroise Vollard). A complete set has just
been acquired by the British Museum.  The powerful ensemble is inspired by Greek myth and by the
prints of Rembrandt and Goya, which are helpfully exhibited on
the same wall. Yet as rampant old Minotaurs lustily eye naked
girls, the true subject of the etchings seems to be Picasso
himself: the man, the artist, the apparently tireless lover.  “Picasso Prints: The Vollard Suite” ends Sunday in Room
90 of the  British Museum . Information:
 http://www.britishmuseum.org  or +44-20-7323-8000.  Vintage punk rockers the  Buzzcocks  headline the 1-2-3-4
Festival in Shoreditch Park. The annual event keeps up the
practice of topping the bill with a cult-status act surrounded
by loads of up-and-coming names such as Crocodiles and Iceage.  Information:  http://the1234shoreditch.com/   Duke’s Brew & Que is a popular barbecue restaurant near
Shoreditch Park. Fans travel from across  London  for the pork
ribs and the pulled-pork sliders. There’s an American brunch at
weekends. Information:  http://c2839186.myzen.co.uk/  or
+44-20-3006-079.  Saturday Night  The James Bond author had an affair with a landowning belle
that’s now being re-enacted on the London stage.  “Volcano” -- a long-lost 1956 play by  Noel Coward  -- is
all about  Ian Fleming ’s tryst with a beautiful plantation owner,
and Coward wrote it while a tax exile in  Jamaica . He kept it
under wraps for a long time to avoid hurting friends’ feelings.  Besides the usual Coward love triangles and word plays,
there’s an added twist: an angry volcano whose eruptions
punctuate the serial adultery.  “Volcano” is at the Vaudeville Theatre, 404 Strand, WC2R
0NH, through Sept. 29. Information: +44-844-579-1975 or
 http://www.nimaxtheatres.com/vaudeville-theatre/volcano .  The Savoy Grill is across the Strand from the Vaudeville
and is the perfect spot for dinner before or after “Volcano.”
 Noel Coward dined here  with Fleming. These days, the restaurant
is run by  Gordon Ramsay . Information:
 http://www.gordonramsay.com/thesavoygrill/  or +44-20-7592-1600.  Sunday  Don’t be surprised if Hamlet accosts you on Sunday.  Fifty Shakespearean actors aged between 17 and 70 are
fanning out across the capital this weekend, playing the Bard’s
best-known characters. Looking like any other pedestrian at
first, they break into verse and start strange dialogues.  The event -- a celebration of the London 2012 Paralympic
Games, which run through Sept. 9 -- is the brainchild of award-
winning actor  Mark Rylance  and includes deaf and disabled
performers.  “What You Will: Pop-Up Shakespeare” takes place
throughout the weekend in unspecified locations around the
capital, and is sponsored by Mayor of London  Boris Johnson .  Information:  http://www.molpresents.com/surprises .  The iTunes festival at the Roundhouse, starting this
weekend, offers 30 nights of free music with more than 60
artists taking part. Tickets are free and shows can be viewed
for a limited time online after each performance.  Usher plays on Sept. 1 and Ed Sheeran stars on Sept. 2.
Performing on subsequent dates this week are Olly Murs, Plan B,
Emeli Sande and JLS.  Roundhouse, Chalk Farm Road, NW1 8EH. Information:
+44-844-482-8008,  http://www.roundhouse.org.uk  or
 http://www.itunesfestival.com .  (Farah Nayeri and Mark Beech write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
their own.)  To contact the writers on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net  or
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 