-- Is That iPad Now Ready for Takeoff?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-29T21:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/using-ipads-on-takeoff-landing-faa-should-consider-it.html
The  Federal Aviation Administration 
 announced  this week that it plans to review its rules governing
the use of portable electronic devices, such as tablet computers
and e-readers, during flights.  This is overdue, and we hope it can resolve a contradiction
at the heart of the current policy: If electronic devices are
truly dangerous, why aren’t officials taking them far more
seriously? And if they’re not dangerous, why can’t we simply be
left alone?  The study will gather mobile-technology manufacturers,
aircraft makers, passenger advocates, and pilot and flight-
attendant groups. It will re-evaluate the process for
determining which devices might interfere with planes’
instruments, consider new standards for aircraft-friendly
gadgets and recommend possible regulations for what emissions
new aircraft should be able to withstand, among other things. It
will issue results after six months of study.  Which is excellent news -- because what’s needed more than
anything on this issue is real data.  Under current policy, the FAA requires airlines to
determine whether radio-frequency emissions from a given device
cause interference before allowing its use during takeoff and
landing. This means that the airlines, without the capacity to
test an ever-proliferating variety of gadgets, typically ban
everything during these phases of flight.  Makes sense, no? Except that there’s no conclusive evidence
that any of these devices have caused dangerous interference.  No Evidence  A confidential survey conducted by the  International Air
Transport Association , an airline trade group, and  obtained by
ABC News  last year, found 75 incidents from 2003 to 2009 in
which an electronic device was suspected to have interfered with
a flight’s controls, communications or other equipment. The
report relied on anecdotal information from pilots and crews,
however, and didn’t confirm that any of the incidents was
actually caused by a passenger’s device. Given that 72,462,640
passenger flights departed from U.S. airports alone in that
period, according to the  Bureau of Transportation Statistics ,
this is hardly convincing evidence.  Which is probably why airlines don’t take the bans
particularly seriously, as you might have noticed when you
accidentally left your iPad on during a landing. Neither does
the  Transportation Security Administration , although surely an
enterprising terrorist could fire up a modified Kindle during
takeoff.  Neither, most critically, does the flying public. A 2006
study by IEEE Spectrum magazine found that on average at least
one passenger  uses a mobile phone  on every flight. (Mobile phone
use on planes is banned by the Federal Communications Commission
and won’t be considered in the FAA study.) Other electronic
devices are used much more: A  DePaul University study  this year
found that 28 percent of airline passengers used them during
flight in 2011, up from 18 percent in 2009. How many of those
people remembered to shut everything down in time for takeoff
and landing? How many will in the future, as the devices become
ever more common?  You may argue, correctly, that it’s no great sacrifice to
follow the airlines’ rules for a few minutes. It’s annoying to
stay disconnected while taxiing endlessly, and it means lost
productivity for frequent business travelers, but neither
concern is beyond the human capacity for suffering.  What we’re more worried about, however, is that millions of
passengers each year are forced to obey these mandates on flight
after flight without any data suggesting it makes sense. And
that millions more flout the rules every time they fly --
suggesting either widespread disaster waiting to happen or much
ado about nothing.  We suspect the latter, but would be relieved to have real
evidence.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 