-- Valero Says Ethanol Slump May Offer Buying Opportunities
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-08-29T21:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/valero-says-ethanol-slump-may-offer-buying-opportunities-1-.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the third-
biggest U.S. ethanol producer, said the downturn in the industry
may present an opportunity to buy distressed plants.  “We’re always exploring opportunities,”  Bill Day , the
company’s spokesman, said today in an interview at Valero’s
Albion, Nebraska, ethanol plant.  In 2009, Valero  paid  $477 million for seven ethanol plants
that had been owned by bankrupt producer VeraSun Energy Corp.
and then purchased three other distilleries, including another
bought out of bankruptcy from Renew Energy LLC.  Those plants are paid for and that allows the San Antonio-
based company to explore acquiring other mills, Day said.  Denatured ethanol for September delivery rose 2.6 cents, or
1 percent, to $2.606 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Prices have gained 18 percent this year.  Corn for December delivery climbed 2.3 percent to $8.135 a
bushel in  Chicago . One bushel makes at least 2.75 gallons of
ethanol.  Ethanol plants have struggled as the worst U.S. drought in
56 years scorches corn crops and boosts production costs for the
biofuel.  Output was 819,000 barrels a day in the week ended Aug. 24,
down 15 percent from a record 963,000 barrels a day in December,
an Energy Department report showed today.  Restarts Possible  Valero idled the Albion operation and its Linden, Indiana,
plant, in June, citing unprofitable margins to make the biofuel.
Day said he expects those distilleries to resume production
“relatively soon” as the corn harvest begins and corn prices
subside.  “By the end of this year, that’s my expectation as of
today,” Day said.  Producers are losing 40 cents on each gallon of ethanol
manufactured, based on the September contracts for corn and the
biofuel, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Plants can ease those losses by selling dried distillers
grains, a byproduct of ethanol production that can be fed to
cattle and livestock.  Valero has boosted nameplate capacity at each of its
ethanol plants to 120 million gallons a year from 110 million
gallon when it initially bought them, Day said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  