-- Vanishing ‘Middle Class’ Ice Sculpture Hits Conventions
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/vanishing-middle-class-ice-sculpture-hits-conventions.html
Just as Hurricane Isaac threatened
 Florida  last Sunday, a 2,500-pound ice sculpture appeared in
downtown Tampa.  Carved to spell “Middle Class,” the piece occupied Lykes
Gaslight Square Park, a stone’s throw from city hall and a
police station. As seen in a video, about 1,000 revelers watched
the 3-by-14-foot  sculpture melt  over 4 1/2 hours -- until
“Middle Class” was entirely gone.  “It’s a call to action,” said Marshall Reese, an artist
who created the work with longtime  collaborator  Nora Ligorano.
“If no one does anything, the middle class will disappear just
like the ice sculpture.”  Ligorano/Reese, as the conceptual-art duo is known, planned
to unveil the “Middle Class” sculptures on the opening days of
the Republican and Democratic national conventions.  With the hurricane looming, their first event had to be
rescheduled by one day.  “Thursday night we weren’t sure we would be able to make
it,” said Reese yesterday in a telephone interview. “If the
storm had tracked closer to Tampa we would never have been able
to do it.”  The duo has also melted ice sculptures spelling
“Democracy” and “Economy.”  Video Shot  The pieces are set in public spaces to engage an audience
and record the process. The video shot in Tampa shows the
letters melting drop by drop.  “For people to watch the middle class disappear in front
of their very eyes, there’s this aha moment,” said Ligorano.
“These artworks are monuments to what’s happening to our
country and our society.”  Brooklyn-based Ligorano and Reese frequently tackle social
and political issues in their art. Their 2004-05 “Line Up”
series used images of members of the George W. Bush cabinet in
mug shots as if it were a new form of portraiture.  They produced the “ Pure Products USA ” limited edition
series in 2001 to mark the anniversary of the  Supreme Court ’s
decision to name Bush president. The group included a Bible Bar
Energy Snack, Rumsfeld’s Liberty Spread Peanut Butter and
Homeland Security Nutrition Kit.  One of the items in the series was a snow globe with a bust
of then U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft. Its journey to
Ashcroft’s office was written up by the  New Yorker .  Adventurous Collectors  The artists paid for their ice happenings, which cost
between $10,000 and $15,000, with grants, a  Kickstarter.com 
campaign and the support of private collectors.  “We are lucky to know collectors who are adventurous
enough to sponsor something that disappears,” Reese said.  Prices for their works range from less than $100 to
$50,000. The next “Middle Class” melting is scheduled to take
place on Sept. 4, in Marshall Park in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
starting at 11:30 a.m.  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining, Hephzibah
Anderson on  books .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 