-- Venezuela in ‘No Hurry’ to Restart Oil Refinery After Fires
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o ,   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-08-29T16:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/venezuela-in-no-hurry-to-restart-refinery-after-four-day-fire.html
Venezuela  is carrying out an
“exhaustive” inspection of its biggest refinery before
attempting to restart processing after extinguishing a four-day
fire yesterday caused by an explosion that killed 48 people.  State-owned  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  is “in no hurry” to
restart the Amuay refinery and will allow for at least a one-day
cooling-down period, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  told reporters
yesterday in Falcon state near the plant.  PDVSA, as the company is known, continues to export oil and
petroleum products stored at Amuay’s dock and sees no disruption
to its internal or external shipping obligations, Ramirez said.
New York gasoline futures have retreated the last two days after
nearing a four-month high Aug. 27 amid concern the shutdown
threatened product supplies as U.S. Gulf Coast plants halted
operations with Tropical Storm Isaac heading toward the region.  “We’re carrying out a cooling process of all areas that
suffered intense heat generated by the fire,” Ramirez said.
“Because we are dispatching, because we have sufficient
storage, because we have all our plants in perfect shape, we
have no need to hurry to re-activate an operation.”  Production may restart in two to three days, Jesus Luongo,
head of the Paraguana refining complex said on state television
yesterday. Strong winds could cause the fires to reignite and if
that happens firemen will use foam to extinguish them, he said.  Hercules Planes  Hercules cargo planes were used to help extinguish flames
on two  storage tanks  at Amuay Aug. 27. A blaze at a third tank
flared up at least twice yesterday before being contained.  A gas leak that formed a cloud at the refinery exploded at
1:10 a.m. on Aug. 25, sending a ball of flame into the air and
destroying a National Guard post and damaging about 500 homes.
President  Hugo Chavez , who faces elections in October, declared
three days of mourning and ordered an investigation.  Amuay, which has the capacity to process 645,000 barrels a
day, is part of the Paraguana complex 240 miles west of Caracas.
While Ramirez described the situation as “chaos with fires
everywhere” when he first arrived on the scene Aug. 25, he said
damage was limited to 9 of 686 storage tanks.  Venezuela has stockpiles of 4.2 million barrels of gasoline
and other petroleum products and continues to produce 735,000
barrels of the motor fuel a day at plants, including nearby
Cardon, according to Ramirez. PDVSA shipped five tankers
carrying 876,000 barrels of  crude from Paraguana on Aug. 26, he
said yesterday.  ‘10 Days’  “This gives us 10 days of inventory,” Ramirez said. “On
top of that, the inventory presupposes you aren’t producing
anything. There’s no way we can have a problem.’  PDVSA’s benchmark dollar bonds have risen 1 cent to 88.95
cents on the dollar since markets opened after the explosion.
The yield on the Caracas-based company’s 8.5 percent bonds due
in 2017, with $6.15 billion outstanding, has fallen 28 basis
points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 11.38 percent this week.  If the fire burned through any piping, instruments or pumps
then resumption of production could take longer than PDVSA is
estimating, said Kevin Waguespack, vice president of Baker
O’Brien, a Dallas-based energy consulting firm.  Extent of Damage  “The longer a fire burns, the greater the possibility for
extensive damage,” Waguespack said in an e-mail. “Maybe we’re
talking a matter of weeks or a couple of months.”  PDVSA is the sole owner and operator of the refinery. The
blast is among the world’s deadliest at an  oil refinery . Fifteen
workers were killed at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Texas City refinery in 2005,
while more than 50 people died in a fire at Hindustan Petroleum
Corp.’s refinery in Visakhapatnam,  India , in 1997.  Amuay, Cardon and Bajo Grande form the Paraguana complex,
which has capacity of about 950,000 barrels a day. That’s second
in size to  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s Jamnagar refinery in
India, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. CRP, as the
complex is known, supplies 67 percent of gasoline to the local
market, according to PDVSA’s  website .  Luongo, the complex’s general manager, said that while
PDVSA has a clear plan for resuming production at Amuay, the
time line will change depending on what an inspection of the
plant reveals.  Cooling Period  “Based on the technical analysis, we will make the
decisions on re-starting the units,” he told reporters
yesterday. The cooling period may last into tomorrow, he said
today on state television.  Stella Lugo, governor of Falcon state in western Venezuela,
described the early-morning blast as similar to an earthquake.
Lugo told Union Radio on Aug. 27 that the death toll had risen
to 48 from a previous estimate of 39. There have been no other
official comments about a death toll since Aug. 26.  Gasoline for September delivery slipped 2.41 cents to
$3.102 a gallon at 11:50 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. The contract slid 0.91 percent yesterday after
reaching $3.205 on Aug. 27, the highest level since April 30,
amid concern the Venezuelan fire and Isaac would curb supplies.  PDVSA’s Ramirez said yesterday that the company’s
“accurate information” on the Amuay event means that there
hasn’t been any variation in  oil prices  from the explosion and
ensuing fires and that Hurricane Isaac has been the main driver.  BP and other companies suspended some crude and gas
operations in the  Gulf of Mexico . The area is home to 23 percent
of U.S. oil output and 44 percent of refining capacity,
according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Crack Spread  Other refineries that supply the Caribbean could stand to
benefit from a prolonged shutdown at Amuay, said Baker O’Brien’s
Waguespack.  “Refineries that can put product on the water might have a
physical advantage, but I would expect most refineries in the
general Atlantic Basin would benefit if gasoline shortages
become a concern,” Waguespack said. A rising gasoline crack
spread, or the profit for refiners for converting crude oil to
fuels, “would benefit many plants,” he said.  Valero Energy Corp (VLO)  and Phillips 66 stand to be the main
beneficiaries of a prolonged delay in resumption of production,
Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , said
in an e-mail.  Venezuela, one of the 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and  South America ’s biggest crude
producer, had an average output of 2.7 million barrels of oil a
day last year, according to BP  statistics . Its main export
markets are the U.S. and  China .  Fourth Largest  Venezuela was the fourth-largest source of crude for the
U.S. in May, after Canada,  Saudi Arabia  and  Mexico , at 821,000
barrels a day, based on data from the U.S. Energy Information
Agency. Venezuelan product imports from the U.S. nearly doubled
in the first five months of 2012 to 38,000 barrels a day from
23,000 in the year earlier period, according to the EIA. They
include gasoline, fuel additives and liquefied petroleum gas.  After a refinery accident the operator will often turn to
its trader to purchase products and cover supply ahead of any
spike in prices, Robert MacMinn, a principal at clean product
trader CAN-OP based in Thunder Bay,  Canada  said.  “This has played out as ‘refinery upset 101’ from a
transparency perspective,” MacMinn said in an interview. “Once
a refiner is covered then the full extent of the damage and more
realistic repair estimates typically surface. From a trading
perspective, full disclosure is problematic until you plug the
real or potential supply gap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  