-- Venus Williams Moves Past Denial to Deal With Disease
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/venus-williams-moves-past-denial-to-deal-with-autoimmune-disease.html
Venus Williams  spent most of the
past year in denial, refusing to accept her vulnerability on the
tennis court caused by an energy-sapping autoimmune disease.  Now she’s back to focusing on opponents and plotting her
return to the upper echelon of a sport she once ruled.  Williams, 32, advanced to the second round of the U.S. Open
yesterday with a 6-3, 6-1 win against fellow American Bethanie Mattek-Sands, a year after she dropped out of the season’s final
major tournament because of Sjogren’s syndrome.  “I feel like just this summer I’ve come to acceptance,”
Williams said in a news conference. “It takes a long time to
come to acceptance, especially when you’re an athlete. You see
yourself as this healthy person, that nothing can defeat you.”  Williams, a seven-time Grand Slam singles champion with
five Wimbledon titles and two at the  U.S. Open , was ranked No. 1
in the world on three separate occasions.  She was still ranked No. 5 at the end of 2010 before
slipping out of the top 100. She failed to reach the
quarterfinals of any Grand Slam tournament in 2011, and withdrew
from the U.S. Open before the second round. By the end of the
year, she was ranked No. 103.  “I didn’t even understand what I was going through last
year,” she said. “So it takes a while before you can kind of
see yourself as someone with flaws and chips in the armor. Now
that I have come to accept it, it helps me a lot in how I need
to prepare for my matches, the mindset I need to come into it.”  Syndrome Symptoms  Sjogren’s syndrome is a condition in which a person’s white
blood cells attack moisture-producing glands, causing dry eyes
and a dry mouth as well as often leading to extreme fatigue and
joint pain. The  Sjogren’s Syndrome Foundation  says on its
website that as many as 4 million Americans have the disease,
and 90 percent of them are women.  Williams dropped off the tennis circuit after the U.S. Open
last year while taking medicine for her condition. She has
continued to struggle in 2012, losing her opening-round match at
Wimbledon in June and falling in the second round at the  French
Open  in May.  “This summer, I just came to terms with it, I’ve accepted
that now I do have an autoimmune disease,” she told reporters.
“I think just after time, you still have the same symptoms over
and over and over and over again. After a while you start to
realize, ‘OK, I’m not making this up, it’s real.’”  The winner of 43 career singles titles, Williams has earned
more than $28 million in prize money in a professional career
that began in October 1994. She said she has only recently begun
to understand how to compete while dealing with her disease.  Learning Curve  “There comes a point when you have to start realizing you
can’t play through everything,” she said. “I’ve come a long
way mentally, emotionally, physically as well. I’m sure this is
just the beginning of learning.”  Williams, now ranked 46th and facing a U.S. Open second-
round match against  sixth-seeded Angelique Kerber  of  Germany ,
said she’s “looking forward to the top 10, all that great
stuff.”  “I’ve had an unbelievable lot,” Williams said in the news
conference. “I’m living my dream every day for the last 15
years, so I can’t complain. For me it’s about living life with
no regrets. If I have any small chance to hit the ball, I’m
going to go for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at the National Tennis Center,  New York  at
   rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  