-- Vietnam’s Stocks Rise After Valuations Slump to Three-Month Low
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-29T04:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/vietnam-s-stocks-rise-after-valuations-slump-to-three-month-low.html
Vietnam ’s  stocks  climbed, with the
benchmark index rising the most in Asia, as valuations fell to a
three-month low and concern of more arrests in the banking
industry eased.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  gained 1.7 percent to 392.44 as of 11:19 a.m.
in Ho Chi Minh City.  Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam  and
PetroVietnam Gas Corp. advanced at least 2 percent. A 21 percent
slump through yesterday from this year’s high on May 8 dragged
the VN Index’s valuation to 9.4 times estimated profit, the
lowest level since May 25, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The gauge slumped 12 percent from Aug. 20 to yesterday
after Nguyen Duc Kien, a founder of  Asia  Commercial Bank, was
detained for what the central bank called conducting “business
illegally.” The lender’s former Chief Executive Officer Ly Xuan Hai was subsequently arrested for alleged economic
mismanagement, according to a police statement, fueling concerns
of instability in the nation’s financial system.  “While the fundamentals of companies essentially haven’t
changed, their prices fell 20 percent,” Nguyen Hoai Nam, deputy
head of research at Kim Eng Vietnam Securities Co., said by
phone from Hanoi. “It’s now a good opportunity to take
advantage of such cheap valuations. Foreign investors have been
buying, which helped stabilize sentiment.”  Overseas institutions bought more Vietnamese equities than
they have sold each day since Aug. 20 except for yesterday, when
they divested $1.7 million, according to  Ho Chi Minh City 
exchange data compiled by Bloomberg. Foreigners bought a net
$16.4 million of stocks last week, the biggest weekly purchases
since the period ended March 30.  Sacombank Denial  Tram Be, deputy chairman of  Saigon Thuong Tin Commercial
Joint-Stock Bank (STB) , or Sacombank, denied rumors that he had been
summoned or detained by police, according to an e-mailed
statement from the bank today. The stock fell 1 percent to
19,800 dong extending its decline since Aug. 20 to 13 percent.  “The market will likely stabilize in next few days as
rumors about more arrests of banking executives turned out to be
unfounded,” Pham Ngoc Bich, managing director of institutional
sales at Saigon Securities wrote in a note to clients today.  Asia Commercial Bank (ACB)  gained 3.2 percent to 19,600 dong in
Hanoi trading. The stock had slumped 27 percent since Aug. 20 to
yesterday. Moody’s Investors Service lowered the lender’s credit
rating to B2 from B1 on Aug. 24 and put the company on review
for future downgrades following the “negative developments at
the bank,” it said.  Bank Liquidity  Fitch Ratings  also placed Asia Commercial Bank on review
for a possible downgrade, it said on Aug. 24. The lender’s long-
and short-term issuer default ratings may be cut if there’s
sustained weakening in the bank’s liquidity and reputation.  State Bank  of Vietnam Governor Nguyen Van Binh said Aug. 21
the monetary authority stands ready to ensure banks have
adequate cash after the detention of Asia Commercial’s Kien. The
central bank injected 13 trillion dong into the financial system
through open-market operations on Aug. 22, the most over a
seven-day period this year. It added 3.5 trillion dong
yesterday.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government is seeking to
shore up a banking system saddled with the highest bad debt in
 Southeast Asia  that credit-rating companies cite as a threat to
the economy.  Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade ,
the second-largest lender, climbed 3.2 percent to 19,600 dong.
The stock slumped 12 percent from Aug. 20 to yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  