-- Village of Prosperous Belies Irish Recovery Investors Chase
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-08-30T11:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/village-of-prosperous-belies-irish-recovery-chased-by-investors.html
For Ger Boland, the Irish village of
Prosperous is still a long way from living up to its name.  The 25-year-old has watched demand for his services filming
birthday celebrations and local sports events in the region west
of Dublin dry up as Ireland’s economy emerges from the worst
recession in its modern history.  “Business this year has been horrific,” said Boland, a
Prosperous native who is now preparing his application for a
U.S. visa. “A lot of my friends have gone. For me, there are
question marks about how long you keep going. I don’t have much
patience left to keep doing it.”  Founded in the 1780s on a  failed ambition  to become a
cotton manufacturing center, the neat, two-street village of
Prosperous today is a microcosm of the economic malaise still
gripping communities all over Ireland.  While yields on Irish  government bonds  suggest the worst is
over for the nation and point to recovery, it doesn’t feel much
like that in Prosperous. Buoyed by an influx of Dubliners during
the Celtic Tiger boom, the village of 2,200 people is now
grappling with the three hallmarks of the Irish economic
collapse: Plunging  home prices , debt and emigration.  “It’s a mirror image of everywhere else in Ireland; people
are drowning and under pressure,” said Sean Reilly, 66, whose
family runs an auctioneering and undertaking firm with an
adjacent antiques store in the village. “If you walk into a pub
and ask them, eight of 10 people would tell you they are more
worried than they ever have been in their lives.”  Better Numbers  Investors are more sanguine about the country, the second
after  Greece  to turn to the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  for a package of bailout loans. While  the economy 
has contracted 15 percent in four years, the government is
planning to wean itself off the rescue money by 2014.  Irish bonds are the second-best performing in the euro
region over the past year as the nation’s austerity efforts were
lauded by figures such as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  as an example for other indebted countries. Based
on the bond yields, Ireland now pays less than  Spain  to borrow.  Ireland’s economy grew 1.4 percent last year, expanding for
the first time since 2007. That was driven almost entirely by
exports and companies such as Google Inc. and  Intel Corp . with
offices in or around Dublin, meaning the trickle-down for the
local economy in places like Prosperous has been limited.  Disconnected  “That disconnect between the headline numbers, how the
world views Ireland and what it feels like on ground is going to
persist for some time,” said Juliet Tennent, an economist at
 Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin. “Consumers continue to be
faced with austerity, tight credit conditions, a weak  labour
market  and high  household debt .”  Located on the  main street in Prosperous  close to the Roman
Catholic church of Our Lady and St. Joseph, Reilly’s business
employed about 30 people across North Kildare at the height of
the boom. Now, it’s down to about 12, and his store, which sells
Victorian and Georgian era antiques, is advertising its biggest-
ever sale, with many items at half price.  “I don’t count myself as I’m not taking any salary
anymore,” he said. “The days of someone dropping into buy a
9,000 or 10,000 euro grandfather clock are gone.”  Surrounded by bogs and fields, the village flourished
during the early 2000s as Ireland’s economy notched up the
fastest growth of anywhere in Western Europe between 1997 and
2007. An influx of commuters to Dublin, 40 kilometers (25 miles)
to the east, pushed up property prices to about 320,000 euros
($402,000) for a three-bedroom home in the town.  Growing Prosperous  The population grew 27 percent between 2002 and 2006, and
the number of homes rose 30 percent to 845 as Prosperous enjoyed
the building boom, according to municipal authority figures.
About 553,000 houses were built in the 10 years through 2005 in
the country of about 4.5 million people, the government said.  Now, the same houses are selling for about 60 percent less,
according to  Reilly , whose red-and-blue “For Sale” signs are
dotted on homes and empty stores in Prosperous and nearby towns
of Clane and Celbridge.  Nationwide, residential property prices fell 13.6 percent
in July from a year earlier, according to a report from the
statistics office today. Prices are now 50 percent down from
their peak in 2007, the agency said.  “People were queuing for homes, suckered into believing
they had to get onto the ladder,” Reilly said. “A lot of
people bought to rent. There was a period where people felt they
weren’t part of the gang if they didn’t buy. People were playing
pass the parcel and hoping to God they didn’t caught.”  Unfinished Homes  With  unemployment  in Prosperous tripling to about 12
percent in the five years to 2011, about one in 12 homes are
empty, according to the  census  for that year. In all, about
1,850 unfinished housing developments pockmark the Irish
landscape, based on government figures.  The bust is apparent at the Brooke’s Mill estate, named
after the failed entrepreneur who tried to turn the town into a
manufacturing center more than 200 years ago.  Built around a tranquil green, much of the estate is fenced
off, blocking off access to about six empty homes. Through the
fencing, overgrown and weed-filled back gardens are visible,
along with signs apologizing for the inconvenience to residents
elsewhere on the estate.  ‘Pile of Ruins’  This isn’t the first time the town has been caught in an
economic storm after a boom collapsed. Lying close to the Grand
Canal, the town was founded on Brooke’s dream. About 200 homes
were built as well as manufacturing facilities.  “From the flattering prospect of success which grew with
the attempt, the town rather prematurely derived its name,”
according to an account from the mid-1800s in Lewis’s
Topographical Dictionary. In 1786, Brooke was turned down for a
grant from the U.K. Parliament and the business folded.  The town was described as “little more than a pile of
ruins” by 1836, before reviving as a residential center for
people working elsewhere in Kildare.  Now the town is adapting to post-boom life in the modern
era. Local take-away fast food store Frank’s is offering a half-
price second meal with every order, and offers to feed a family
for 20 euros, with hamburgers, chicken and fries. At the edge of
the town, McCormack’s garage is urging shoppers to give heating-
oil vouchers as a gift for Christmas.  Michael Nolan , the mayor of Kildare and a member of the
Fine Gael party that won elections last year and formed a
government, said the troubles in Prosperous are echoed
throughout the region and country.  People Pay  “No-one is escaping the frustration out there,” said
Nolan. “People bought into the economy, thinking it was built
on solid foundations and who is paying? The ordinary person.”  Since 2008, the Irish have made about 25 billion euros,
equal to 16 percent of gross domestic product, of combined
spending cuts and revenue increases, with another 8.6 billion
euros to come,  Standard & Poor’s  said. In Kildare, the local
municipal authority has cut spending on street-cleaning, roads
and housing, Nolan said.  “It’s going to be 10 years or maybe longer before we to get
back where we would be comfortable, to live without worry of
mortgages, bills, schools uniforms,” he said.  For Ger Boland, the videographer, much of his business used
to involve taping games for local  Gaelic Athletic Association 
clubs. That has disappeared, along with his work at 21st and
50th birthday celebrations.  “In the boom, the work was immense,” said Boland, who
this month helped organize a three-day music festival in
Prosperous aimed at restoring the village as a venue and giving
a fillip to local businesses. “Now, with the recession, I have
so much time on my hands.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Prosperous, Ireland, at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  