-- Visits to Assateague Seen Needing Ferries Due to Warming
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-08-29T19:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/visits-to-assateague-seen-needing-ferries-due-to-warming.html
Assateague Island National Seashore 
in  Maryland  may turn to passenger ferries as stronger coastal
storms and rising sea levels driven by  climate change  threaten
bridge access to the park, according to a report.  Access to Assateague Island and six other national
seashores on the East Coast is one area where global warming is
having an impact, according to a  report  today from the  Rocky
Mountain Climate Organization  and the  Natural Resources Defense
Council . Beaches, dunes and marshes are more vulnerable to
erosion, higher temperatures may make going to the beach
intolerable while wildlife and ecosystems are at risk.  The National Park Service “is for the first time saying
that they are going to prepare to transition from bridge and
road access,” Stephen Saunders, president of the Rocky Mountain
Climate Organization and co-author of the report, said on a
conference call with reporters. “They’re preparing for when
they do lose the bridge access.”  Average global sea levels rose about seven inches (17.8
centimeters) in the 20th century as a result of warming that is
now “unequivocal,” according to an Aug. 20  statement  from the
American Meteorological Society. Man-made emissions of carbon
dioxide are the dominant cause, the group said.  “Climate change is the greatest threat that our national
parks have ever faced,” Theo Spencer, senior advocate at the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , said. “If we don’t cut the
amount of heat-trapping pollution that we spew into the air,
these special places that Americans love will never be the
same.”  Cape Cod  The national seashores in today’s report include Assateague
Island, Cape Cod in  Massachusetts , Fire Island in New York, Cape
Hatteras and Cape Lookout in North Carolina, Cumberland Island
in Georgia and Canaveral in  Florida . More than 11 million people
visited the parks in 2011 spending more than $566 million.  The beaches are getting warmer with average annual air
temperatures climbing as much as 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit (one
degree Celsius) in the decade that began in 2001 compared with
the period from 1961 to 1990. By 2090, temperatures may be as
much as 6.5 degrees higher at Fire Island, making it as hot as
recent summers in Atlantic Beach,  North Carolina .  “Beaches are traditional spots for a break from the heat,
but a tipping point could be reached, with baking heat trumping
cooling breezes,” according to the report. “When temperatures
are in the 80’s and 90’s, going to the beach may offer relief.
But when temperatures are in the 100’s, the experience could be
a lot less enjoyable.”  Sea Levels  Climate change also is magnifying the natural forces of
wind and waves that shape coastal areas. Warmer sea surface
temperatures are fueling stronger coastal storms and higher wave
heights. Half of the land at Fire Island, Assateague Island,
Cape Hatteras, Cape Lookout and Canaveral are at a high risk of
being submerged this century if sea levels rise by one meter,
according to the report.  “The biggest threat ultimately to these seashores is that
they will be largely or even entirely covered by the ocean,”
Saunders said.  Wildlife impacts include a threat to sea turtles, which
nest from Assateague Island to Canaveral. The gender of a sea
turtle is influenced by the temperature of the sand in which
they nest and more females are hatched from eggs incubating at
higher temperatures.  Sea Turtles  “We’re having more female sea turtles born,” Saunders
said. “If this trend continues, we’ll have more and more
females and fewer and fewer males, and at some point we could
have nothing but females.”  At Assateague Island, climate-change driven impacts could
make it difficult for visitors to enjoy the seashore, according
to the park service, which manages the island. Beach erosion and
storm-driven flooding will make roads, parking lots and visitor
centers “increasingly more difficult and costly to maintain,”
according to a 2010 report on the impacts of climate change.  Park managers at Assateague are considering a shift to
commercial ferry service as the time needed to restore bridges
and roads after storms cut visitor access, according to a report
by the National Park Service.  “Climate change is impacting these places now,” Spencer
said. “I went to Assateague when I was a kid and it’s a lot
different then than it was now. The national park system is
something uniquely American and I think Americans can associate
with the issue of climate change better when its put in the
context of places they love.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  