-- Walker Calls on Romney to Offer Budget Specifics (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-08-29T16:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/walker-calls-on-romney-to-offer-budget-specifics-transcript-.html
Republican Governor Scott Walker of
Wisconsin said today at a Bloomberg/Washington Post breakfast at
the Republican National Convention in Tampa, Florida, that
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  needs to be more specific in
telling voters how he would deal with nation’s fiscal crisis.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT, BLOOMBERG NEWS: We thank you for coming. I can’t
tell you how - how pleased we are. Let me start off. You have, I
think, for months been very supportive of Governor Romney, but
said you’d like to see him be bolder. And I know you thought
that the Ryan pick certainly fit that bill.  But what else
particularly in the next couple days would you like to see that
would - that would fit your bill of a bolder candidate?  WALKER: Well, I think two things. I think, you know,
clearly in America, just like we have in Wisconsin, the issues
that people are concerned about is we face an economic and a
fiscal crisis.  You know, we faced it coming in. Most of the new
governors faced it coming in, certainly new president, if things
work out, would face that.  And I think tonight, with Paul, but particularly tomorrow
night with the governor, he’s got to lay out a very clear plan.
When it comes to the economy, he’s got a plan. He’s got a five-
point plan on that. But I think most Americans don’t know it.
Most Americans actually don’t know Mitt Romney.  Ann Romney ’s
speech last night I think was the beginning of being helpful in
that regard. All of us in politics and in the media, I think,
sometimes find that hard to believe, but I think in my state, at
least, most people know of Mitt Romney. They don’t know Mitt
Romney.  And so a little bit are beginning to know him, but I think
laying out not just the plan, but much like I and a number of
the governors did last night, where we told stories in my case
about a woman who was affected by a small business that added
jobs, while the other governors actually brought small-business
owners. But I think if Governor Romney lays out his plan and
uses examples of people who will benefit from that, that’s
something that I think can affect real people and real voters
out there.  And the other part I think he’ll touch on - and then I
think in the coming week or two will expound on, as well - is
tackling not just the economic crisis, but the fiscal crisis
that’s pending. I think that’s a pretty sharp contrast to the
president.  I mean, I remember on July 3rd, almost two months
ago now,  Paul Ryan  and I stood in Wauwatosa at a victory center
and pointed out that four years earlier, candidate Barack Obama
had said that adding $4 trillion to the national debt was
unpatriotic.  That was five - five-plus trillion dollars since. And I
think, you know, the indictment of the failure of this current
administration is abundantly clear. The question that most
voters will have is, what will you do differently? And I think
that’s got to be part of the equation.  And as much as I grumbled about it a few months ago, I
think the sentiment was if they came out with too many details
too early, by the time people started paying attention to the
election post-Labor Day, that when they did come out with it
again, people would say, well, we already heard that that’s old
news.  So I think it’s not just kicking off from the - what’s
being said tonight and tomorrow night, but even just the fact
that people are finally starting to pay attention. But it’s
going to be all economic and fiscal.  HUNT: Do you think - let me ask one question and then throw
it open to everyone here - do you think in those either Thursday
night or in the weeks following that - in addressing that fiscal
crisis that there’s a need now to be more particular, more
specific, to tell voters exactly how he’s going to cut spending
with more specificity and on the revenue side?  WALKER: Yeah, I - well, I think both in terms of a budget,
but I also think you’re going to hear - one of the things
(inaudible) in Washington is this assumption that it’s just
about either adding more revenue or making more cuts.  One of
the things I think is frequently left out of the debate - and I
hope they discuss at greater length - is growth, a pro-growth
agenda.  I mean, to me, there’s just no way you can solely cut your
way out of a - out of the fiscal crisis that we face. The
question then is, do you go with more revenue, i.e., more taxes,
or do you go with an agenda that drives revenues up, not by
adding to the tax rate, adding to the overall tax burden, but
that aggressively pushes more revenue, because of more growth in
the economy?  I mean, I’ll give you a good example of a comparison.
Illinois last year, like Wisconsin and nearly every state in
America, faced a huge  budget deficit . Illinois proudly
proclaimed in Springfield that they weren’t going to do what we
were doing in Wisconsin, and clearly they did not. They
attempted to balance their budget by raising taxes on
individuals 67 percent, 46 percent on businesses. A year later,
they still have a budget crisis. They’re cutting Medicaid by $1
billion. Governor Quinn has proposed closing 14 state facilities
that would affect thousands of public employees.  And their
economy has got a worse  unemployment rate  than the national
rate.  In contrast, we lowered the overall tax burden. Property
taxes went down for the first time in 12 years, so the overall
tax burden went down. We streamlined the regulatory process. We
did an abundance of other things to promote growth in our state.
And even though our tax burden is down, our revenues are up.  Why? Because more people are working. Personal income grew
during that time period. All those things were benefits of the
pro-growth agenda that we pursued, and it’s similar in other
states, particularly states led by Republican governors.  So for those who say, oh, you can’t do that, that’s
trickle-down economics, it hasn’t worked in the past, we’re
doing it right now. If you want to compare, you want to compare
the difference between four more years of Barack Obama, look at
Illinois - those policies are the same types of policies this
president’s pursuing - or what we’re doing not just in
Wisconsin, but other states are doing across the country, where
they elected new Republican governors.  The unemployment rate, if you look a month ago, last month,
the unemployment rate in states led by Republican governors
versus the unemployment rate in states led by Democrats in
Republican states is one point better. It’s one point lower
unemployment on average than those - because I think the
policies are different, and that’s the difference you get
between keeping this current president elected and a new one.  QUESTION: Governor, let me - let me follow up on one part
of this. Governor Christie in his speech last night talked about
the need to tell Americans hard truths and the  Republican Party 
is prepared to do this. From your own experience, how much
should Governor Romney tell people about some of the
controversial things that he’s prepared to do, not in a general
way, but specific, in the way that, you know, you now look back
on your experience and say you should have done more to prepare
people for some of the things you were going to do? What are the
things specifically that he needs to deal with so that if he is
elected, people will say that’s - oh, you didn’t tell me you
were going to do that?  WALKER: Right. Well, you’re going to get that no matter
what.  I mean, I pointed out that I would have spent more time
last January and February continuing to build the case, making
the example that for - in our case, before my reforms, most
school districts in my state had to buy their health insurance
from one company, a company that just happened to be affiliated
with the teacher’s union, and that cost them tens of millions of
dollars more than they had to.  Our reforms have now freed that
money up, put that in the classroom.  Yeah, in January and February, I would have spent more time
doing it, but just to be clear, two years ago, I told 1,000
superintendents, school board members, and others that I’m a
local official and that we need to reform the process for
collective bargaining and mediation arbitration in our state
and, in fact, reminded them again earlier this spring that I had
said that, to which even one of the local reporters pointed out,
yeah, actually, I was there, he did say that.  But to put that in context, did I say on February 11th of
2011 I’m going to introduce this bill at this time and do
exactly this? No. But I ran an ad that said I’m going to cut -
or I’m going to ask 5 percent roughly for pension contribution,
12 percent for health care, ran ads, and then I did that. And
then the unions act shocked that I actually did it. I think they
were shocked that I actually did it, not that I said I was going
to do it, but that we actually did it.  I think in Governor Romney’s case, I already think they’re
doing that. I think they can do more, but, I mean, think about
it.  When Paul Ryan got put on the ticket, what did they do? Did
they back down from discussion, debate about Medicare? No. He
came right out and said, hey, let’s cover the truth here. The
truth is, even in Paul’s plan, which is not necessarily exactly
the same as Mitt Romney’s plan, but even in Paul’s plan in the
House, if you’re retired or you’re near retirement, you’re not
touched. You’re not touched, despite all the scare tactics and
everything else out there.  But for somebody 55 or younger, somebody like me and my
generation, or for my kids, I presumed long ago that not just
Medicare, but  Social Security  is not going to be there, because
if we don’t do anything, it won’t be.  And so I think those are the sorts of truths. And I’ve said
and repeated on the campaign trail what Chris said last night,
which is, I think that voters, particularly seniors, like my
parents or like Paul’s mother, are open to that, not only
because they’re not touched, but they’re open to that debate,
because in the end, what do our parents care about more than
anything? Their grandchildren. Grandparents care more than
Medicare, more than Social Security, more than anything else,
they care about their grandchildren.  And that’s why I think, again, you’ve seen in my state and
other states - and I think he’s even done reasonably well in
Florida, for all the hype that Paul Ryan would be doomsday, you
know, being on the ballot in Florida - I don’t think that’s
true, because I think, if you have an honest, candid discussion
of what’s at stake - and in their case, obviously, it would help
to point out that, of all things, President Obama’s taking $716
million for Obamacare I think was certainly a wake-up call for a
lot of people out there, but I think in the end, they are having
that debate, they’ll continue to, you know, build off of that.
It’s not all going to come out at once, but I think they’re
going to continue to add to that, because I think that’s what
you get by putting Paul Ryan on the ticket.  Just one last aside. I don’t want to bog down - I don’t
want to filibuster here, but one other thing just in general
about Paul on that. You know, I get asked - and you can ask me,
you know, personal things about Paul, because I’ve known him for
years, too - but I get asked all the time, you know, what does -
what does this pick mean for Paul Ryan? And I say the most
compelling thing is not what it says about Paul Ryan, is what it
says about Mitt Romney.  And what I mean by that is, people knew, even if they were
undecided, you know, they look at his resume, and they say, OK,
this is a guy who was a CEO in the private sector. You know,
people can debate whether it’s good, bad. I would argue it’s
good.  I mean, he took companies that otherwise would have
failed, turned them around, thousands of people are working
today because of that.  Certainly, we’ve heard last month during the Olympics a lot
about Salt Lake City and the Winter Olympics. I think that’s
pretty - pretty clear, no matter what your politics, that he did
a pretty compelling job in turning those Olympics around. And as
a governor - something obviously I’m biased towards - you know,
balanced the budget, did it without raising taxes, jobs went up.
Those are all good things. So people said, yeah, Mitt Romney’s
got the resume to be president.  I think when he picked Paul Ryan, though, it went from just
being qualified to be president for a lot of us - and not just
conservatives and Republicans, but I think in my state even some
independent voters, swing voters, it said, this guy’s got the
courage and the passion to be an exceptional president. I think
in doing that, he said not just in the campaign, but this is a
guy who’s got the guts to put someone like Paul Ryan on the
ticket who’s actually willing to govern like he’s campaigning
and do things.  And amazingly, not only did the base get excited about
that, but in our state, for a lot of people like those voters
that had traditionally voted for Paul Ryan in the 1st District,
which is a pretty evenly split district, people are looking for
that kind of courage. They’re looking for leaders to stick their
neck out and make some tough choices.  QUESTION: Can we press you on that?  WALKER: Yeah.  QUESTION: Because you - I - I - you gave some examples of
the hard truths that you told voters in advance of the election
and ads that you ran. With all respect, I don’t actually hear
those hard truths from the Romney-Ryan campaign. It doesn’t make
them unique among politicians, but I hear a lot of soothing
promises.  If you’re a current senior, you won’t have - you
don’t have to worry about your Medicare, and it’s going to be
great in the future, too. Nothing about sacrifice. Same thing on
tax cuts.  We’re going to lower your rates, but we’re not going
to talk in any specifics about the deductions that you’re going
to take away.  So what am I missing, in terms of the hard truths that
they’re telling now?  WALKER: Well, I think, again, that’s part of what they’re
going to talk about tonight and tomorrow night.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  WALKER: What’s that?  QUESTION: I mean, can you point to any -  WALKER: No. No, I think, again, that’s where I think part
of the - the focal point of their speech and then the
discussions they’re going to have between now and Nov. 6 will
evolve around that.  QUESTION: Will evolve around -  WALKER: Evolve around laying out some of the things they’re
going to do, not just in terms of the economic crisis, but in
terms of the fiscal crisis.  QUESTION: So - so if we have breakfast Friday morning, will
you be able to look at me and say, “Ruth, I told you so”?  WALKER: I hope so. I haven’t - I haven’t previewed the
speech, but that’s my - that’s my belief. And it’s my belief not
just through this convention, but in the coming weeks, as well.  QUESTION: Have you had any chance to talk to Ryan about it?  QUESTION: Paul Ryan and also Governor Romney have suggested
(OFF-MIKE) Medicaid (OFF-MIKE) Ryan budget, the amount of
federal resources going to schools and sort of the discretionary
spending is not going to keep pace with what it has been. As a
governor, does that pose a hardship for you? Or do you think
you’re going to be able to make do with more limited resources
in the future? And how do you do that?  WALKER: If states - not only Medicaid, but in other areas,
including some of the ones you mentioned - were to be given
block grants, give us the flexibility, we could do things much
more efficiently, much more effectively, particularly cost -
effectively, and that’s not just a Republican issue. I mean,
clearly overwhelmingly it’s coming from Republican governors,
the request, whether it was required as it was under the Ryan
House plan or even making it permissive.  I mean, the amazing thing is, I got very frustrated in
discussions in the National Governors Association on this,
because just on principle, on principle, the NGA should be
behind block grants. I mean, just it’s - it is the essence of
the 10th Amendment.  And, in fact, if you listen to Republican and Democrat
governors alike talk about No Child Left Behind, there’s almost
universal acceptance that that is too much of a federal mandate
and greater flexibility should be given on education standards
to the states. In fact, a couple times I’ve listened to those
debates, wrote notes down from other governors, and then
repeated them when we come back to health care and Medicaid.  And so, well, that was a great argument. So why doesn’t it
apply to this?  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  WALKER: To Medicare - .  QUESTION: The flexibility (OFF-MIKE) the states? Because
right now, the Republican argument is that the president gutted
the work requirements for welfare reform. And, in fact, these
are letters from Republican governors asking for waivers (OFF-
MIKE) more flexibility in creating programs to train people to
work, so it’s a states’ rights kind of issue. And so on the one
hand, you want states’ rights for Medicare and some of these
other issues, but on welfare reform, suddenly the Republican
Party thinks that’s the most horrible thing that the Obama
administration has done.  WALKER: If - if - if the federal - if the federal
government in the larger context just gave all of that back to
the states, that would be our preference. The problem is they
don’t. Now, and - in terms of -  QUESTION: - with federal money, and it would be ideal if,
as a governor, if the federal government would just give you all
the money.  WALKER: Sure. Well, even if you look at education, you
talked about that before, I mean, if you give the money to the
states that didn’t have, you know, the abundance of bureaucracy
in Washington, that dollars could go right back into the
classroom.  If you talked about TANF, for example, and if those
dollars went in directly to the states and said, each of you are
going to get a block grant, that’s how it started out in 1996.
It’s been - gone through several variations of that since then.  But if we went back to what we had in ’96, which was
essentially a block grant that went right back without the
strings attached and said, here’s the money you get, now make a
go of it, it’s true on Medicaid, it’d be true on education, it’d
be true on other issues out there. Again -  QUESTION: But why - why are Republican governors seeking
waivers?  WALKER: Why are they? Because, again, it’s one of those
where you’ve got to seek conditions out there. And the concern
is, the way the legislation’s written - or the way they’re
invoking it is to say that they can’t make changes without those
waivers.  In essence, though, there’s nothing that guarantees that in
the - they’re claiming now that those waivers - to make them
more productive, but there’s nothing in the future, if they use
that interpretation, that wouldn’t allow other states to - to be
in a position where they didn’t have to have work requirements
in there. If they can grant it in one regard, they can grant it
in the opposite direction. I think that’s the concern that a
number of us have raised issues about with the welfare issue.  QUESTION: But isn’t that states’ rights -  WALKER: Well, again, if you - if you - if you want to do
the states’ rights, then do it entirely up to the states, not
just with the conditions.  QUESTION: Governor, let me ask you, if the Obama
administration is so anti-business and anti-growth, why are we
seeing so many record corporate profits and such a strong stock
market?  WALKER: Well, most of the problems that we see in our
states don’t relate to corporate. They’re not related to the
stock market. They’re small- and midsized businesses. That vast
majority of businesses in our state are not on the  New York 
Stock Exchange. They’re small businesses that have a handful of
individuals who are having tremendous concerns about  consumer
confidence  in this economy.  And in fact, in our state, in our growth, it’s not -you
know, occasionally you get a 500-, a 1,000-person bump in terms
of jobs, but in most cases, the jobs that we look at that we
find to be the most productive are under 100. And oftentimes,
it’s, you know, 15, 20, 25 jobs at a time that people add that’s
of much bigger concern to us, because as great as it is - and
certainly we draw a lot of attention - if you get a major
corporation that comes and brings new jobs to a state, that’s
not our bread-and-butter. And I think that’s true with most
states out there. It’s those small- and midsized employers that
really make the difference, and they’re the ones that aren’t -
you know, they’re not worried about the next quarterly dividend.
They’re worried about the next paycheck and making payroll.  QUESTION: Hey, Governor, I’ve heard governors - and you’ve
been one of them - both parties - complain a lot about
Washington and the leadership in Washington, particularly on the
fiscal crisis. And how much do you blame your own party for the
gridlock in Washington?  WALKER: Well, two different things. The difference between
gridlock or - or fiscal responsibility - I think in Washington
in general, there’s a whole lot of blame to go around, period.
The question is, who’s got a solution to get out of it? We
currently don’t have it - under the current administration, I
don’t see a plan. I see more of the same. And that isn’t
working.  I said last year in front of a - one of the committees
where I was at, where I supposed to be in for an hour, and it
ended up being three hours - which suggests to me that it’s
probably why I would never run for Congress, because to me as
governor I just got more things to actually get accomplished in
three hours than just talking about it.  But the - I said something that got taken, as you might
imagine, out of context. They talked about bipartisanship,
working together. And I said bipartisanship’s great if it’s done
for the right reasons. In our case, almost all the measures I
pushed in my jobs special session had bipartisan votes. If you
look at all the bills I signed into law last year, 96 percent of
them had votes from Democrats, as well as Republicans.  Most of those things were economic, job-related, things
that made it easier for small business. That’s great. But
bipartisanship by its nature is not necessarily a good thing if
it’s done for the wrong reason. And my example was, I said
historically in Washington, I thought both parties - maybe one
more than the other - but both parties had been a part of a
problem of ignoring the fiscal crisis we were facing in this
country.  And if together people worked together and they pursue
budgets, they pursue actions that just defer those tough
decisions, if both parties are doing it, that’s bipartisan, but
that’s not necessarily a good thing.  QUESTION: Governor, and to that point, my colleague, Mr.
Tackett, actually wrote a fairly interesting piece yesterday
about  Ronald Reagan . Would there be a place for Ronald Reagan in
today’s Republican Party? And he looked back at his economic
record, his record of compromise, some of the positions he took.
To sort of build that shining city on a hill that he talked a
lot about, he had to come across party, so - across party lines.  So when you look at Romney-Ryan, you look at the messaging
going out, where does Ronald Reagan fit in? Would there be a
place for Ronald Reagan in today’s Republican Party?  WALKER: Yeah, sure, I do. I mean, the - look - and Christie
talked about it last night, but Chris is about the most hard-
nosed, direct, in-your-face Republican we’ve got out there. And
yet Chris got his pension reforms through a Democrat-controlled
Senate and a Democrat-controlled General Assembly. And that’s
probably the best example out there.  Now, they don’t do everything he asked, and he has to work
hard for it, and sometimes he has to get their face (inaudible)
I mean, in fact, so much so, I love on the pension reform, when
they had not as many visitors as I had in my capitol, but Chris
sent me - one of the things I got framed in the capitol is a
sign that was from in their state capitol in  New Jersey  that
says, “Christie plus Sweeney,” their Senate president, a
Democrat of - a union guy, “Christie plus Sweeney equals
Walker,” because they were going after Sweeney for being a part
of that pension reform.  But that’s a good example where they got things done. But
you don’t begin the debate about saying where you ultimately
might end up. You defend - you begin it by saying, here’s what
we believe, here’s our path we’re going to pursue, and then
along the way, you’re right, President Reagan, instead of taking
100 percent, often took 75 percent or 80 percent, because he had
Tip O’Neill and the House Democrats that were the only way to
get things done.  QUESTION: But that doesn’t seem -  WALKER: He still got 75 percent of the things done.  QUESTION: But that doesn’t seem to be kind of the mood or
ethic of the Republican Party that - that we’ve seen over the
last couple of years, particularly in Washington, that the - the
idea of if we can get 70 percent of this, we’ll be happy with
that -  QUESTION: - much more rigid on that.  WALKER: Well, except if you start there, I mean, I don’t
get 100 percent of what I want, either, and I’m probably in that
same category as Christie, in terms of how people perceive us.
But you don’t get anything close to that. If you start out at
50, you’re probably going to get 25.  QUESTION: I don’t mean starting out, but I mean - I think
there’s a perception of the party as currently constituted that
it is more resistant to some of those kinds of compromises than
it used to be, than Ronald Reagan would have been.  WALKER: No, I - although, even with Reagan, I mean, I think
we’ve learned some things even from the president, who many of
us revere, who clearly - when Paul Ryan, for example, and Reince
Priebus and I grew up in south-central Wisconsin, a few miles
from each other, you know, in the ’80s, and were drawn into
public service by President Reagan, in large part because of his
optimistic outlook about the American people, you know, there’s
even things to learn from Reagan.  I mean, I think - you know, we - I look right now, and I
think about the economic recovery act that was signed in August
of 1981 out at the Reagan Ranch. It didn’t fully go into effect
until about two - a year-and-a-half later. In November and
December of 1982, we had 10.8 percent unemployment, which is far
greater than any we’ve had in the last few years in this
recession, and yet from ’82 on, we had the longest peacetime
economic boom in American history. What was it, 21 million new
jobs, I remember, right, about 5 million new businesses during
that timeframe? Great growth, not just in the economy, but
actually in revenues that came in, much like I mentioned in my
state.  What caused the deficit? In fact, I love it. My son, who’s
now - one of my sons, who’s now a senior - or actually my son,
who’s a freshman in college, had a textbook a couple years ago
that talked about the Reagan deficits and said it was all
because of the tax cuts. And I walked him through the economics,
and I said, it wasn’t about the tax cuts. It was about the
spending. It was about the spending after the fact that after he
got the Congress, he was able - in fact, after he gave his
address, the Congress and - I think at the point, the speaker
leaned over to the vice president and said, there’s your 40
votes, because he convinced enough of the Blue Dog Democrats to
join with the Republicans to get it passed. And, of course, the
Senate was Republican after the ’80 election. They got it
passed.  That was great. The problem, though, there wasn’t that kind
of willingness for those same folks to keep the spending
restraint in, so the deficits weren’t driven by the tax cuts.
They were driven by the spending that escalated during the
1980s.  So if anything we’ve learned from that is that - not that
tax cuts are bad - tax cuts help promote economic growth. But
with that -  HUNT: Can we - can we just -  WALKER: What’s that?  QUESTION: I said, have you gotten rid of those textbooks?  WALKER: Ha, no. But I gave my son another book to read in
contrast.  QUESTION: Governor, I wanted to ask you, you said you were
very critical of the recall election against you and said it was
an illegitimate effort to overturn the will of the people who
voted in November of 2010. So how was it legitimate for you and
other leaders of the party to call for Todd Akin to withdraw
from the race, just a few weeks after - after voters selected
him to represent the, you know, Republican Party in the -
against  Claire McCaskill ?  WALKER: Because we don’t have any legal recourse to force
him to get out. Just because - I can say whether - well, in that
case, or if there’s somebody else that I said something I didn’t
like, I could say they shouldn’t be a candidate. It doesn’t mean
I’m coming into Missouri and running a legal effort to force him
off the ballot.  QUESTION: But isn’t (OFF-MIKE) to be, you know, an
overriding of the will of the people who had selected him, in
the same way that you criticized the effort against you?  WALKER: No. No. Because, again, I think - in that case,
you’ve got people who had a discussion, had a debate, elected
someone, and then wanted to - in fact, it wasn’t even just
because of something that came up. I mean, literally, the
original recallscottwalker.com domain was purchased on Nov. 2,
2010.  So this wasn’t just because of our efforts. This was folks
who were wanting to have some excuse, some effort to try and
come in and counter what the voters had said in November of
2010, at least in our state, and then looked for the opportunity
to make it happen.  Now, in the end, it was - you know, even though we said
that, we ended up winning by more votes by a larger margin and
more votes than we had in 2010 in that election, so I think that
was validated.  QUESTION: How important do you think it is that Akin leave
the race?  WALKER: Well, I spoke out about it, even though I’m
obviously nowhere near Missouri, because to me, I look at not
just Wisconsin, but I look at other states across the country,
particularly in the Midwest, where not only Republican governors
came in, but where Republicans were elected in the majority in
the assembly and the state senates or their equivalents in those
states, and they actually were able to get big things
accomplished.  And, you know, for years, we’ve talked about divided
government. I don’t know that Americans are necessarily in love
with that, because what you see is what you asked, about
gridlock. My view is give people a shot. Right after the Nov. 2,
2010, election, I came in and spoke to all the legislative
Republicans, those in office, those newly elected, and said it’s
put up or shut up time. I said if we didn’t come in and we don’t
do the things we campaigned on, if we don’t make a fundamental
change from where we’ve been the last few years, when Democrats
controlled everything, if we’re just slightly less bad than they
are, two years from now, the voters have every right to kick us
out.  Now, obviously, we were different. I think other states are
different. I think it gives voters a real chance to see if I
vote for people with these ideals, with these sets of opinions,
here’s what will happen, and I either agree or disagree with
that.  To get back to your question, why I think that’s important
in the Senate case is, I think about the very real possibility
of electing Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan. I think it’s very
reasonable - although it’s not a given - foregone conclusions,
it’s very reasonable to expect - the House looks likely to
continue to be held by Republican majority, and it’s a razor-
thin margin, including in states like mine, where  Tommy
Thompson , if he stays on track, will be the next U.S. senator
from Wisconsin, although it’ll be very close.  We’re that close to 51 votes. I’d like to have the best
shot possible, not so much from a Republican standpoint, but
because to me, I actually believe in the things that I and Mitt
Romney and Paul Ryan and others talk about that we campaign on.
I’d like to see them put into action. I’d like to see the
American people see what happens when those kind of ideas are
put into place. And to me, if we fall one vote short in the
Senate, because of at best an ignorant - at best - completely
unscientific and ridiculous statement by that particular
individual, if that blocks that sort of a choice from happening
in Missouri and we fall one vote short there, that has an impact
not just to me, more importantly, it has an impact on Matt and
Alex, my two sons, who I think this is one of those critical
tipping points for them.  QUESTION: Tonight on the convention floor, the whole theme
is supposed to be about what could change under a Romney
administration. So can you get some specifics about what would
change? What programs would be eliminated under Romney? What -
what specifically? What’s going to happen to tax rates? Anything
else? I mean, it’s all about change (OFF-MIKE) need some
specific details.  WALKER: Well, I think you go through, in terms of the
economic crisis, of where we start, I mean, there’s even
specific changes there. They’re going to talk - I mean, they’ve
laid out a plan - I think going to put some more meat on the
bones tonight and tomorrow, as well, about the plan that
Romney’s laid out, particularly for small businesses. I think
you’re going to see an overall lowered tax burden. I think a
lower individual income tax would be helpful, because in my
state, like most places across America, most businesses don’t
pay corporate income taxes.  It goes back to the point about the Wall Street issue. Most
businesses in my state pay individual income taxes, and the LLCs
are (inaudible) I think most Americans don’t realize that. They
think that the top income tax bracket is only for the super-
wealthy. Most of our companies that are mid- to small-sized are
paying that there, so actually - I hear it all the time when I
visit. You know, instead of having a red sports car, they’ll
point to a piece of equipment and say, yeah, that’s what I
bought with the money I made last year so that I could put 20
more people to work or other examples of that.  So certainly the tax burden. I think, without a doubt, one
of the big issues I hear is on Obamacare, not just
philosophically, but I hear it from small businesses who are
very concerned about what the practical impact is to them,
because, really, even as states, we don’t fully know how it’s
going to be implemented. That’s a huge concern out there.  I think when you look at talking about North American
energy supplies, not just in the pipeline, but on - not just
picking and choosing winners or losers in that, but exploring
all possible options out there, I think those are going to be
fundamental changes.  And I think in general, they’ll talk about this overall. I
don’t know how specific they’re going to get tonight or tomorrow
on the regulatory process, but probably more than anything - at
least from what I hear from small businesses - is that more even
than taxes, it’s the cost of compliance with excessive
regulations at the federal, state and local level that’s a huge
cost and a huge hindrance from them, adding more employees and
being more productive.  And so to a certain extent, I think - at least I hope -
there will be some discussion about that. My view is, streamline
the process. You know, what you regulate, what you control
should be about enforcing common sense, not about what many
people believe - and I think accurately believe - is about
excessive bureaucratic red tape.  HUNT: Governor, as you -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: I’m sorry. Go ahead.  QUESTION: No, but in place - go ahead.  HUNT: I was going to follow up on your question, and then
you can then follow up on mine.  QUESTION: All right.  HUNT: That - you mentioned taxes, and you mentioned hard
choices. And you’re right. He’s proposed lowering the corporate
tax rate, lowering the top individual tax rate, lowering some
 capital gains  tax rates, lowering the estate tax, very specific.
He’s also said it won’t be a revenue-loser, and it’s not just
going to be growth. It’s going to be (inaudible) not a single
example yet. Should he tell voters, should he prepare voters by
saying, hey, here are some of the things we’re going to do on
the other side, on the base-broadening side?  WALKER: Well, I think those - again, I expect those are
things that they’re going to expound on when they talk about
budget issues between now and Nov. 6.  HUNT: So you expect more specificity on that?  WALKER: (inaudible)  HUNT: And what would you advise him would be some of the
base-broadening things that should be considered in order to
lower rates?  WALKER: Well, again, I’m not - I can tell you what we’ve
done at the state. I’m not - you know, Paul Ryan, even before he
was a candidate, obviously is the kind of person who’s good at
(inaudible) on that, but in our state, you know, we actually
went to things that drove growth. We not only lowered the
property tax burden - like, for example, we eliminated the
exemption on capital gains on investments made in Wisconsin-
based companies.  HUNT: Well, that’s all tax - tax reductions -  WALKER: We didn’t broaden - we actually just did things
that promoted growth.  HUNT: But he says he’s going to broaden the base. I mean,
should he, for instance, considering limiting the home mortgage
deduction? Should - how about - how about doing away with the
deductions for state and local taxes? Would that be a good
thing?  WALKER: Again, those are all things that are on the table.  HUNT: But would you like that?  WALKER: Well, it depends on how it was put. I mean, any of
this, it really varies by how much the rate reduction’s going to
be. If you’ve got a true flat tax and it was just across the
board and it was reduced, that would be one thing, but that’s -
again, those are things that are, for me, jumping the gun, in
terms of what his exact plan is, and I’m not one of his tax
advisers, so that’s - you know, it would be a little different
(inaudible)  QUESTION: But so Romney - Romney has a wide perception of
being a rich guy that hangs out with rich guys and is funded by
rich guys. And so if you lower the tax rate for businesses and a
lot of rich people and take away the first time millions of poor
people get health care, are you worried about what that’s going
to mean for the less rich people in this country and that that
could be a greater divide?  WALKER: Well, it’s an interesting perception. In our state,
we have over 90 percent of our people are covered under health
care. We had an actuarial firm that we used that was hired by my
predecessor that did some work on the federal plan that showed
in our state that actually a majority of people will pay more
under Obamacare for their health insurance.  So our question is not whether we provide health care for
poor people. We do already. We do it under Medicaid-funded
BadgerCare in our state. The question was whether or not you
make it affordable and long term whether or not you’re going to
control costs.  I mean, to me, there’s one of two extremes. It’s not in
there today, so I’m not - you know, going down a hysterical path
(inaudible) but immediately, under Obamacare and the Affordable
Care Act, if you’ve got a plan, if you believe that part of the
goal is to control costs in the future to continue to provide
access to affordable health care, you’ve got a plan that’s
driven largely by government-driven mandates, eventually the
only way you can control health care costs is to ration. It’s
just - it’s the logical conclusion then.  I believe you’ve got to go away to the other - the other
end of that. And the way that you truly control health care
cost, if you don’t ration, the other end of the spectrum is to
say you’ve got to have consumers, like me, like you, like
everybody here, more active participants in not just health care
costs, but in our actual health and wellness, and you only do it
if you have people with more skin in the game.  Now, the current system is not working. It’s not true free
market. It’s, you know, hybrid at best. And I always point out
the best example of a really true free-market concept is
corrective eye surgery, which for most people is outside of
their health insurance plan. But you think about it, years ago,
what it cost, thousands of dollars per eye, only the super-
wealthy could afford that. Today, you save up, most people can
probably afford to do that, if they see fit to. Why?  Because the free market dictated that instead of doing a
handful for, you know, thousands of dollars per eye, you could
do - maybe for $500, you could do a much larger volume, bring
more people in, but you’re certainly not going to get somebody
who does two eyes for $50 with a coupon from the phone book. So
you balance out quality and cost.  Back to your point about health care, I think we should go
a route that actually encourages greater transparency, greater
involvement in consumers, and something that is removed, but not
driven by the government in that regard, other than the
transparency requirement. And I think, at least in states like
ours, that would be more effective in helping the handful of
people in our state who aren’t currently covered under private
insurance or some sort of existing government-driven system.  And per your point about tax cuts, I mean, I love the
debate about the middle class. The middle class at the local,
state and federal level in this country has disproportionately,
overwhelmingly paid for the expansion of government. I mean,
that’s just a given. We see it in our states. We see it in the
federal government. They have disproportionately paid for the
expansion of government.  Lowering taxes on everyone is something that ultimately not
only benefits in terms of the lower tax burden, but
overwhelmingly for those businesses I mentioned that are small
businesses in states like Wisconsin, if you lower taxes on those
individuals who are - who have sub S corps or LLCs,
overwhelmingly they’re going to plow that money right back into
their businesses, and that’s going to put more people to work.
And the biggest beneficiaries of that are people today in the
middle class who are unemployed or underemployed.  QUESTION: Governor, you spoke a moment ago about the
tradeoffs inherent in reforming Medicare. You were more explicit
than politicians usually are. I think you said that seniors care
more about their grandkids than their benefits. Is that
something you think Mitt Romney has tried to obscure with the
way he’s approached Medicare?  WALKER: No. I mean, I - I think you’ve heard - I think -
heck, you heard his keynote speaker talk about it last night, as
well I’m talking about at some points in the past. I know
talking to my parents, I think Paul bringing his mother out,
talking about that, saying, yeah, hey, she’s dependent on - I
think the reason isn’t so much from a political standpoint to
point out that people that - you know, if you’re retired today,
you’re not going to have this affect you directly, it’s not just
because of the political dynamics out there, for which there’s
been an incredible tack and it’s been there for years, the
Mediscare, but it’s also the fact that legitimately, you know,
people have made decisions about how they were going to retire
based upon their expectations. It’s why -  QUESTION: - Medicare, why delay it for 10 years? The Romney
plan preserves traditional Medicare as one of the options. So
why wait 10 years? It’s a lot of lost savings.  WALKER: And that’s part of the nuances. I mean, there - you
know, that to me would be a point to consider, and that might be
part of the debate when it goes to the Congress -  QUESTION: But to go a step further, though, Romney didn’t
accept Ryan’s plan of keeping that $716 billion in Medicare
savings. I mean, in fact, he’s going and kind of shoveling more
money into the program. So doesn’t that sort of run counter to
exactly the tradeoff that you think seniors will accept and
would like to make?  WALKER: Well, I mean, again, that’s part of the nuance.
Those are part of the specifics.  QUESTION: That’s not very nuanced. I mean, it’s clear. He’s
going to roll it back in. And you’re saying - and I think as
Paul Ryan of two months would have said, that that’s not the
right thing to do.  WALKER: Well, I think in the end, whether - whatever the
particulars are, and how they get about that, obviously, are
details you have to leave up to the presidential -  QUESTION: These are details we know. I mean, adding versus
cutting is about as explicit a tradeoff as there could be. I
mean, it was one a minute ago that you made kind of matter-of-
factly and it kind of stands out. Is that something - I mean, do
you see Mitt Romney as going in a different direction than you’d
like to go?  WALKER: I’m just saying, those are things I’m willing to
talk about, and they’re things I think most voters, including a
lot of grandparents, are willing to talk about in terms of what
would happen in the future. In terms of his - you know, what
he’s proposing right now and where he’s headed, those are
specifics the campaign would have to talk about a little bit
more than what I’m just representing as myself here today.  QUESTION: Governor (OFF-MIKE) Simpson-Bowles commission,
would you have voted for the final product?  WALKER: As I mentioned with my congressional testimony
experience, I wouldn’t have dared be on that, because it’s just
- it’s one of those where it’s - the idea of bringing all those
folks together is great, but my belief is that, as messed up as
Washington is, is you’ve got to have leadership that just comes
in and says, here’s what we got to do, make the case to do it,
and probably, like Reagan did, use the bully pulpit and make it
convincingly around the country.  QUESTION: But you talked about the importance that
bipartisanship wasn’t an end in itself, but in the face of a -in
the service of a larger cause, right? So you don’t start out
where you want to end up, but you end up where you need to end
up. So with all due respect, you’re not answering my question.
If you had been on the commission -  WALKER: You’re right I’m not. I wouldn’t be on the
commission. It’s a false premise.  QUESTION: Well - well, I mean, well - was that not an - was
that an acceptable compromise to you or not an acceptable
compromise?  WALKER: No. I mean, I - I - and I’ve said this before - I
think I said it at the Christian Monitor, when you asked a
similar question about it, the - to me, I just think in
Washington today there’s too much of a belief that compromise
means revenue. And I just think even bigger than the fiscal
crisis we face is the economic crisis we face. And -  QUESTION: But do you believe that - are you convinced that
the problems that the federal government faces fiscally can be
solved without revenue?  WALKER: Yes.  QUESTION: You do?  WALKER: Not only do I believe it can be, I believe it has
to be. I believe the - when you’ve got 12 million unemployed,
when you’ve got -  QUESTION: But then - but nobody - nobody who has taken that
position - or very few people - has come out with a real plan,
an explicit plan on how you’d do that.  WALKER: Well, and, again, that’s part of the debate. Now,
I’m not running for president today, so I’m not - I’m not
running for president, period. I didn’t say today. But I -  (LAUGHTER)  QUESTION: Maybe tomorrow.  WALKER: You’re really get me in trouble for that and, most
importantly, when I get back to my hotel room.  (LAUGHTER)  (inaudible) will be the least of my worries (inaudible)  (CROSSTALK)  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) clear that he wants to run in such a
way that he would say he’s had a mandate to do tax reform once
he’s elected. So getting to Dan’s question and all of our
questions, really, driving - we’re driving at the same (OFF-
MIKE) and that is the lack of particulars and what he’s not
sharing with the voters. Do you think he can claim a mandate if
he has not told the voters what he would - what they would lose
in a tax reform package? If he’s not prepared them for one
single item, whether it’s mortgage deductions or reduction in
charitable deductions, anything, does he have to show some leg
on this in order to create a real mandate for himself, do you
think?  WALKER: No. And odd as it sounds, I’ll explain it, why it
makes a little more sense. I don’t think - you know, I’ll use my
election - my original election as an example. I talked about
the need to make pension and health care contributions by public
employees. I talked about wanting to reform collective
bargaining. I did not say this is how far I’ll go with this bill
at this point early on. That’s where the big rub was, at least
from some of my opponents, that he didn’t say that.  Well, if you ask voters - heck, if you ask particularly
local officials, they’d say, oh, but we heard him talk about
that. We heard him say that. But I did not say I’m going to go
and introduce a bill that eliminates collective bargaining for
everything except base pay with the CPI as an index on top of
that. And that’s exactly - so, yes, technically you had said,
did  Scott Walker  campaign on that? No, I didn’t campaign on a
bill that would eliminate collective bargaining to the point of
having the only thing left being base pay with a cap of the
 consumer price index .  QUESTION: So (OFF-MIKE)  WALKER: But if you ask most voters, they’d say, well, yeah,
I saw his ad. You ask about that, he thought about - so my point
-  QUESTION: So it’s not - for Governor Romney to say things
like we may look at mortgage, we may look at charitable -  (CROSSTALK)  WALKER: No. I - I think - I think the - I think, again,
between now and Nov. 6, I believe he’s going to lay out more
specifics.  HUNT: On - on base-broadening?  WALKER: I think on the whole spectrum of things. I think -  HUNT: But including that?  WALKER: I think on - further details on his economic plan,
which I’m almost certain you’re going to hear tonight and
tomorrow night. I think you’re going to hear more details about
budgets, fiscal crisis, and the reaction to that in general, not
just on what the base-broadening means, but on one of the things
he’s willing to consider.  My only point, in giving my personal example, is on whether
it’s - what is this deduction or is that deduction specifically
going to get - I don’t know that he’s going to go through and
present a full budget, you know, in advance of the election and
say, this is exactly what I’m going to do.  QUESTION: But provide some details short of a full budget,
some sense -  (CROSSTALK)  WALKER: Yes, I think so. Uh-huh.  QUESTION: Governor, can I switch a little bit and ask
whether people in Wisconsin are concerned about any aspect of
foreign policy? If so, what? And if so, what they want to hear
from (OFF-MIKE) or is it just (OFF-MIKE)  WALKER: I think - well, per your - you asked two parts. Are
they concerned about it? And is there a difference? As a
political issue, I don’t think it has - it has relatively
little, if any impact on the election. Are they concerned about
it? Sure. So it’s not that foreign policy is completely foreign,
but I don’t see it in any way having a significant impact on
driving the debate.  Honestly, I don’t see - for all the talk of - we were
talking about Missouri and other places. When they asked -
somebody asked me on one of the morning shows the other day, and
I said, it’s not an issue. I mean, we like to talk about it and
all that, but actually, honest to God, all I ever hear from
voters when they talk about my race and then now and since then
about the presidential race or U.S. Senate race in this state is
all about their worries about the economy. And if it’s anything
else, it’s fiscal, and it’s really only worries about - that
they drive about - about, oh, my God, are my kids - or, oh, my
goodness, are my grandkids going to inherit a country where, you
know, they can’t afford to pay for the debt we passed onto them?  Those are the - those are the things I hear about. It’s my
wife’s unemployed, my husband got laid off, my kid doesn’t have
a job and he’s 27, he’s still living at home, my neighbor down
the block was laid off from the plant two months ago. Those are
the concerns I hear. And, I mean, to me, again, it’s not that
they don’t care. You know, if you ask them, you know, what do
you think about what’s happening in the  Middle East  or what do
you think about - if anything in foreign policy, it’s sometimes
intermingled with concerns about our fiscal crisis here, because
they’ll talk about Greece and Spain and Portugal and things like
that, saying - more as a scare, that we don’t want to be like
that, but, really, I - all the other things that, you know,
occasionally come up here or there in the media in debates
really don’t ever come up from voters.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) it’s interesting. You’ve mentioned a
couple times that you and Paul Ryan are the different
generation. I am, too. We grew up as a generation where the
American dream was a given, that you grew up and you had the
opportunity to do better than your folks did, that you’d have a
better economic range of possibilities. Do you still believe
that’s the case? And do voters of Wisconsin still believe right
now, given what we’ve talked about, given what we’ve talked
about in the last 45 minutes, the state of the economy, the
state of politics and partisan politics, is the American dream
still alive?  WALKER: I do. I do, and that probably comes from coming of
age under Reagan, where there’s still that belief in the
American people. I think as much as people get frustrated with
politics, as much as there’s gridlock, as much as there’s other
problems, I think most people - at least in my state - I think
most Americans still believe that as screwed up as Washington
may or may not be is - that alone is not going to dictate their
destiny, that they still believe that they control their destiny
and that they may have concerns about how much encroachment
there is on those freedoms and those possibilities by the
government at the federal, state and local level. But I still
believe most Americans believe that.  I mean, I always remind Paul, when he appropriately has
pointed out, you know, that tipping point of how many people
were, you know, dependent on the government and so forth, and
that - and it - and it sounds fairly pessimistic, and it’s - you
know, it’s an imperative. It’s a dynamic, compelling case to be
made, but - which I don’t disagree with, but I remind him that
if you look at most of the polls out there of Americans, most
polls still show about 75 percent of the public still believes
in the American dream, and they still believe that dream is not
dependent on the government.  And so what it tells me is even people who are dependent or
somewhat leaning dependent today on the government don’t want to
be. And that to me would be a bigger tipping point, is if people
said, well, I can’t make it (inaudible) I can’t - I can’t live
the American dream. I’ve got to be dependent on the government
to sustain myself, that to me would be the tipping point I’d be
the most worried about.  So I still think that. But I do think people are - because
of the combination of the two, the overwhelming concern about
the economy and the feeling like it’s still not showing
significant signs of recovery yet, just in the eyes of most
voters, combined with, to a lesser extent, the fear that somehow
along with that there’s, you know, a real concern about, are we
in over our head? And, you know, that’s a huge - huge concern
for people.  HUNT: Dan?  QUESTION: Speaking of your home state, the most recent poll
I think showed the gap in Wisconsin tightening now, taking 49
percent for the president and 47 percent for Mitt Romney. What
do you think is the single-most important thing that Mitt Romney
- Mitt Romney, Paul Ryan can do over the next couple of months
in order to ensure a Republican victory in your state?  WALKER: I said it even before Paul was on, right after my
election. And I mentioned it as a line last night, but it really
came out of an interview, and it was a clever line I used, but
it was really just a response like, most of my best lines in
speeches come from interviews I do with folks like you, and I
go, oh, that actually sounds pretty good.  QUESTION: You’re welcome.  WALKER: But - but I said -  QUESTION: What’s - what’s your favorite this morning?  WALKER: Yeah, well, we’ll see what my speech is later
today.  QUESTION: I’m not running - I’m not running today.  (LAUGHTER)  WALKER: Right, yeah, period. But the - but the line was,
you know, in our state in particular, if he wants to win, he’s
got to show that the R next to his name doesn’t just stand for
Republican, it stands for Reform. And what I mean by that is
we’re - and it’s - I think it’s probably true in Iowa and
Michigan and Ohio and other Midwestern states, as well.  Just being Republican is - we saw my recall wouldn’t be
enough, because I can’t win statewide with just Republican or
conservative votes. Now not only how we won, but how we won by a
bigger margin is because enough independents and maybe even a
few discerning Democrats said, give this guy a shot.  And we found in our polling and we found anecdotally in our
visits was that the biggest indicator that we saw particularly -
it’s weird how you do polling and things like that, but you see
it personified when you make visits. And the last month when I
was out, particularly at dairy breakfasts in June, leading into
June around the state, I get people who’d come up to me - and
you get your fans, you know, pictures, sign this, sign that. I
get people who’d come up to me and go out of the way to tell me
they voted for my opponent two years ago, but they were voting
for me, or people at a factory that would say, I’m a Democrat,
my family’s Democrats, but I’m going to vote for you. And almost
every single time the reason was because I actually liked the
fact that you had the courage to take on these tough issues.  A lot of times they’d qualify it, they’d say, I don’t agree
with everything, I don’t agree with every way you did, but I
like the fact - so my -  QUESTION: But specifically what could he say about reform
that you think would actually be truly compelling to the voters
of Wisconsin, not just the notion of reform -  WALKER: Yeah. Well, I -  QUESTION: - but more specifically?  WALKER: And that’s where I - I think it goes to the heart
of the discussions we were having earlier. The more detail - and
I’m not prescribing all the detail of that, because the federal
government is not my domain - but the more - and I’m -  QUESTION: - understand the - the voters in Wisconsin better
than anyone in the world, so what specifically would you
advocate them saying to appeal to the voters in Wisconsin?  WALKER: I don’t know there’s a specific. And, again
(inaudible) I’ll explain why I mean that. In our case, you know,
we had a specific prescription for what we thought should
happen, and voters responded to it. I think the more meat he can
put on the bone about the budget in particular, he’s already
laying out the economic plan, the more meat he can put on the
bone, the better. I don’t think there’s one specific thing about
this component or that component that’s the difference-maker.
It’s the detail itself. It’s the willingness to put that out
there and, more importantly, the feeling that they’re willing to
act.  And here’s the example I give. Again, it’s not the same
thing policy - or specifically wise, but Paul Ryan in ’98 was
elected in one of the most competitive districts in the country.
Now it’s gotten a little bit more Republican over time, mainly
because of Paul, but it’s urban, rural, suburban. It’s, you
know, book-ended by two, blue-collar, working - former UAW-
driven union towns, and Paul - and it’s a district that Obama
carried four years ago - Paul wins every election since his
first by over 60 percent. The last two or three elections, he is
not just talking about his budget plan, his roadmap to
prosperity of Washington, he literally runs ads, he puts out
fliers. Voters in his district know about his plan just as much
as everybody in Washington. He lays the details out.  And he did largely because he felt, if he was going to
eventually get his colleagues to sign on - because, remember,
what, were there 12 co-sponsors the first time he put it out? To
get all but four to vote for it this last time, what he had to
do was show that in a district like his, you could actually run
and get elected on it, or re-elected.  I think in that district the reason why that was true, even
amongst folks who had voted for Obama and who’d voted for
Clinton in the past, was more than anything they respected the
transparency, the willingness to lead, the willingness to put
himself out there. And, of course, it doesn’t hurt that Paul
does it in a very pleasant, uplifting, optimistic way of laying
it out there, but I think voters in those districts responded to
that.  His district is really, in many ways, a microcosm of the
state of Wisconsin. So it’s not skirting the specifics, but
things like what he did with his roadmap would be the sorts of
things that would be compelling, I think, to independent swing
voters.  QUESTION: Governor, one of the reasons, though, that you
won that recall election was that there was an enormous amount
of passion on the ground in Wisconsin around your candidacy and
your governorship. And we’ve seen not a lot of evidence of that
around the Romney candidacy through most of this year. How is he
going to be able to generate that? Or how do you all try to
generate that in Wisconsin for him?  WALKER: I think the Ryan pick’s done it. I mean, I see it
in our state - for obvious reasons, he’s a homer. I mean, he’s a
cheesehead. He’s part of the cheesehead domination.  No, but, seriously, I mean, he - that helps, but I also see
it - I was in Michigan last week. I saw the excitement there
because of Paul Ryan. And it’s interesting. It’s different than
four years ago. It’s not just like the Palin selection was in
the sense that it revved up the base, but I don’t think it added
any stature to McCain. I think most people viewed it as a
political calculation to rev the base up.  In Ryan’s case, it revs up the base, but I think at the
same time instead of making McCain look smaller, it makes Romney
look bigger by virtue of being willing to put him on, say what
you might about his politics.  And so, you know, I mean, we had - we had 30 hours to put
together an event after Paul was picked in Waukesha, Wisconsin,
and there were 13,000 people outside of the expo center on a -
late on a Sunday afternoon. I mean, that was just exceptional.  And - and, I mean, that - people don’t remember this, but,
I mean, that was an event where not only Paul and Janet cried,
Mitt and Ann cried at it. I mean, you could just feel the raw
emotion when Paul came up there that people - I mean, this was
like, you know, one of your sons, one of your - you know, one of
your - one of your family members.  HUNT: Are you saying - as of today, how do you think
Wisconsin will go Nov. 6?  WALKER: I think we win.  HUNT: You do?  WALKER: I think momentum’s on our side, absolutely.  QUESTION: - different than ’00 and ’04, where you came
very, very close, the Bush people put in enormous amount -  WALKER: Ground game. Ground game. I mean, we made - between
the start of the - the official campaign early last year and
June 5th, we may 4.5 million voter (inaudible) 24 victory
centers across the state of Wisconsin, and we’re humming like no
other state out there. And I think that ground game, which, you
know, obviously, as you mentioned was motivated for me, but I
think with Paul on now, I think you - we saw even in the days
after the - the Ryan pick, the victory centers which were going
along all right, I mean, just lit up.  QUESTION: In terms (OFF-MIKE) Wisconsin (OFF-MIKE) talked
about Paul Ryan, isn’t the very strength of Paul Ryan the
specifics, the detail, the weakness so far of Mitt Romney,
because we haven’t seen (OFF-MIKE)  WALKER: And, again, that’s what I think you’re -you’re
going to see that, at least - when I pushed on this before, part
of the talk was, you know - two things. Give us a chance to lay
it out in greater detail when people are paying attention at the
convention, and give us a chance to do even more of it post-
Labor Day. And their feeling was, again, they honestly just
said, hey -  QUESTION: Did they push back on you when you talked about
that?  WALKER: Well, everybody pushes back when they - everybody
would prefer you’d say it in a campaign headquarters instead of
on TV, but -  QUESTION: - yesterday, some of us met - were meeting with
 Lindsey Graham , who talked about his concerns about the party
being in position to capitalize on the demographic shifts and
recognize that the country is changing in a way and making an
appeal to lots of different voters. Right now, Governor Romney
(OFF-MIKE) big gap with Latino voters (OFF-MIKE) African-
Americans is non-existent, and there have been some - obviously,
as you pointed out before, with condemnation of Todd Akin,
concerns about female voters. How do you - looking at that, how
do you -do you share those same concerns about the party’s
ability to diversify its reach?  WALKER: No. I mean, I don’t share the same concerns. It
doesn’t mean I don’t try to appeal to the same voters you just
mentioned. But the reason I say that is, as long as we don’t
silo, put voters into silos - I was talking about this on Sunday
at one of the morning shows. I think they’re - in politics,
amongst politicians, amongst people who cover politics, there’s
an overwhelming tendency to silo voters.  All voters in my state who are Hispanic or who are female
don’t think the same way. But I think there’s often this feeling
- and the first question I get asked on one of the morning shows
was - or not asked, the panel of us got asked, was, you know,
there’s this gap - this gender gap, which actually is not that
much different than it’s been in the past, but this gender gap,
isn’t that because of abortion?  I said, that’s just ridiculous. That’s just unbelievably
ridiculous. There’s not one female voter I’ve met this year who
talks to me about the election and brings up abortion. Not one
I’ve talked about in the presidential. Do they talk about, you
know, whether or not their family is able to balance their
budget? Do they talk about concerns about their kids, you know,
going on to college and getting a job? Do they talk about, you
know, long-term worrying about the kind of debt that we’re
incurring? Absolutely. Do they talk about, you know, whether or
not the education system is living up to their - to their
standards and expectations? Yeah.  I think we get into - as Republicans, we take on a huge
risk if we try to appeal to the voters you just mentioned within
a mindset of silos instead of making direct appeals on the
issues that they’re actually talking about in their household,
not necessarily in their category, but in their household. And I
think that’s where it’s compelling.  And in my case, even before I was governor, when I was the
Milwaukee County executive, I did exceptionally well in wards
that are traditionally overwhelmingly Hispanic. Did I do
anything about immigration? No. I talked about small businesses.
I talked about living the American dream. I talked about people
coming to my community, going to start up and live the American
dream and have their kids live a better life than they did, just
like every other immigrant group came in to that community, and
I didn’t target it based on issues that we were told were Latino
issues. I talked about issues that I found actually spending
time with those voters - with voters in those neighborhoods were
the most compelling to me.  HUNT: Yeah.  WALKER: So, you know, the answer to your question is I
think - I think there’s a way to make inroads with some of the
voting blocs that you said, as long as we’re addressing issues
that really are to the heart of things that we hear, if you sit
down in their kitchen -  QUESTION: John, did you have a question?  QUESTION: I just wanted to follow up. One big silo of
voters is white working-class voters, and Mitt Romney has
continued to struggle with them throughout the primary and
beyond. Isn’t that a huge problem (OFF-MIKE) state like
Wisconsin that is so dominated by working-class white (OFF-MIKE)
Ohio, Iowa?  WALKER: I think it is, but it’s - but, again, I think (OFF-
MIKE) tonight and tomorrow will help. I think following up with
getting the message out - I mean, you guys all covered the
finances. And, I mean, in our case, it’s a good example in
Wisconsin, there have hardly been any ads up since the primary,
since the presidential preference primary, which was months and
months ago. And yet he’s still competitive.  I think after this election, you’re going to see the
message that the president’s campaign and the DNC have matched
by the message from the Romney efforts, which I think puts them
in a competitive spot to reach out to all voters, but in
particular some of the voters you just talked about, and I think
part of it is, I think, an unfair perception that you brought up
earlier on the question on health care, that - that, you know,
the Obama campaign is pushing.  I guess, if I was them, maybe I would. If I had 42 months
of unemployment above 8 percent, if I had 12 million people
unemployed, if I had 44 of the 50 states seeing their
unemployment go up last month, I guess I wouldn’t defend the
president’s record, I wouldn’t defend the incumbent’s record. If
I was them, maybe I’d do that, if I was a political consultant.  But to me, they’re trying to win basically by creating a
caricature that I don’t think is accurate about Mitt Romney. And
I think the more people get to know him - I mean, think about
it. I bet you most voters, swing voters in my state, if they
listened to Ann Romney last night, had no idea that the first
place that the Romneys lived in was a basement apartment, where
they ate their dinner off of a foldout ironing board. I bet you
most people would have gone -  QUESTION: How does that help Romney?  WALKER: Because I think part of the - the misguided
perception is relatability, is this idea that somehow someone
needs to be able to relate to me and my circumstances and my
challenges in order to be an effective advocate for me in the
White House. And the reality is, one, I actually think if you
look at how Mitt Romney has lived, not just how he’s living
today, but how he’s lived throughout his life, it is more
relatable than most people would think. And the other part is, I
hope it’s not just about that. I hope it’s about substance,
saying whether you can relate or not relate, I think both
candidates probably can make a compelling case that they could
relate to people. But in the end, who’s got the policies that
are going to be the best to serve each of the voters
individually?  People say, OK, not just within my block, whether it’s, you
know, white middle-class, working-class voters, whether it’s
African-American voters, whether it’s Latino voters or female
voters versus male voters, in the end, most people are going to
say not what category am I in, but what concerns me the most?
And who’s going to be the most effective guy in the White House?  HUNT:  Governor Walker , thank you so much for being with us.
Dan Balz, thank you for getting Governor Walker. And for those
of you who aren’t here, privately the governor has said there
will be a trifecta, namely that Mitt Romney will win in
Wisconsin, that the Badgers will win the BCS Championship -  WALKER: BCS.  HUNT: - and the Pack will be back to win the  Super Bowl .  WALKER: Because it -  HUNT: That was a gutsy prediction, Governor.  WALKER: It is the Lombardi Trophy. It does belong in
Lambeau Field.  (LAUGHTER)  I said it’s not the Halas Trophy. It’s not the Allen
Trophy. It’s the Lombardi Trophy, right?  QUESTION: Thank you, Governor.  HUNT: Thank you very much.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.
 