-- Weakening Tropical Storm Isaac Eases Gulf Energy Threat
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-08-29T21:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/weakening-tropical-storm-isaac-eases-gulf-energy-threat.html
Hurricane Isaac was downgraded to a
tropical storm as it weakened over  Louisiana , where it will
linger with heavy wind-driven rain for two days while easing the
threat to offshore energy production.  Crude oil fell in New York after Isaac’s landfall reduced
concern that the storm would damage platforms and rigs in the
 Gulf of Mexico .  Isaac has halted 95 percent of U.S. oil production in the
Gulf and 72 percent of natural-gas output, the  Bureau of Safety
and Environmental Enforcement  said. Six Louisiana refineries
were shut and three were at reduced rates, idling 6.7 percent of
U.S. capacity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Even though Isaac is no longer a hurricane, life-
threatening hazards from  storm surge  and inland flooding are
still occurring,” the National Hurricane Center said.  Isaac, pounding the  New Orleans  area on the seventh
anniversary of  Hurricane Katrina , was 35 miles (56 kilometers)
south of Baton Rouge with top winds of 70 miles per hour, down
from 80 mph at landfall, according to  an NHC advisory  at 4 p.m.
local time. The system was moving northwest at 6 mph.  Crude oil for October delivery declined 84 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $95.49 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices also fell after stockpiles rose unexpectedly.  Gulf Energy  The Gulf region is home to 23 percent of U.S. oil output, 7
percent of natural gas and 44 percent of refining capacity.  “In the oil-rig areas, the conditions there aren’t going
to let up until Friday,” said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of
 Weather Underground  in Ann Arbor, Michigan. “The winds over the
water are going to be stronger than over the land. They are just
going to have to wait. It’s going to be a patience game with
this storm.”  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  declared force majeure on the Manta Ray and
Garden Banks offshore natural-gas pipeline systems because of
Isaac, according to a notice on the company’s website.  The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port  suspended all operations
from its offshore terminal and onshore storage, Barb Hestermann,
a company spokeswoman, said in a message posted on the company’s
website as of 10:30 a.m. local time.  Refiners in the area will probably take little damage from
the storm, said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at
Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  Production Outlook  “I believe it’s likely that the remainder of the energy-
production infrastructure across the northern Gulf will have
little in the way of damage from Isaac and should be up and
running by Friday,” Rouiller said.  Isaac unleashed  a storm surge  into southern Louisiana and
Mississippi that is raising sea levels to 12 feet (3.7 meters)
above normal. The rising water pushed over the top of a levee in
Plaquemines Parish.  Seven to 14  inches of rain may fall and some areas may
receive 20 inches, the hurricane center said.  “It’s moving very slowly, it’s just drifting about the
south Louisiana coastline, so they’re just going to get pounded
with wind and rain for quite some time now,” said Dan
Pydynowski, a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College , Pennsylvania. “The areas that are getting hit hard
right now will continue to take a pounding through most of the
day today.”  Threat Lingers  Pydynowski said that since the storm is lingering near the
coast, it will take some time to weaken. The swampy land of
southern Louisiana is full of warm water that can provide fuel,
he said.  All hurricane warnings and watches were dropped when Isaac
was downgraded. A tropical storm warning is in effect from
Cameron, Louisiana, to the Alabama-Florida line.  Hurricane Katrina stuck New Orleans and the Gulf Coast on
Aug. 29, 2005,  swamping the city’s levees  and killing more than
1,800 people.  Tropical Storm Kirk, the 11th named Atlantic weather system
this year, is 1,110 miles east-northeast of the northern Leeward
Islands and no threat to land, the hurricane center said in a
separate advisory. It has maximum sustained winds of 50 mph and
is moving west-northwest at 12 mph.  Forecasters are also tracking a large area of disturbed
weather that has a 60 percent chance of becoming a tropical
system within the next two days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  