-- WellPoint’s CEO Braly Resigns Amid Shareholder Criticism
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-29T13:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/wellpoint-s-ceo-braly-resigns-amid-shareholder-criticism.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health insurer, has started the search for a new chief
executive officer after Angela Braly, in the job for five years,
resigned yesterday under pressure from shareholders.  Investors are looking for a CEO who can right the
Indianapolis-based company’s financial performance and integrate
WellPoint’s recent  deals  to buy Medicaid insurer Amerigroup
Corp. and vision company 1-800-Contacts Inc.  Braly, 51, was ousted after investors, some publicly,
expressed discontent with her management. Over the past two
weeks, Jackie Ward, WellPoint’s lead independent director, and a
second board member met with shareholders to hear their
concerns, according to a person familiar with the discussions
who wasn’t authorized to comment because the talks were private.
The board met yesterday afternoon and reached an agreement with
Braly that she should resign, the person said.  “There’s a nice set of assets there,” said Robert Medway,
a partner in Royal Capital Management LLC, one of the investors
who publicly called for Braly’s departure, in a telephone
interview. “Now hopefully the board can find a candidate who
can bring these assets home,” estimating the insurer’s shares
may be worth 10 percent more with the right leadership and
integration.  WellPoint  gained  6.5 percent to $61.10 at 9:46 a.m.  New
York  time, its biggest intraday gain in a year. The company had
fallen 5 percent in the past 12 months through yesterday,
compared with a 19 percent rise for UnitedHealth Group Inc., the
biggest U.S. health plan.  Possible Candidates  Even before Braly’s resignation, investors had suggested
James Carlson, the Amerigroup CEO, David Snow Jr., the former
chief of Medco Health Solutions Inc., and Gail Boudreaux, the
head of the health plan division at  UnitedHealth, (UNH)  as possible
candidates to replace her, said  Jason Gurda , of Leerink Swann &
Co. in New York, and Thomas Carroll, of Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore.  Names touted from within the company included Chief
Financial Officer Wayne Deveydt and Kenneth Goulet, an executive
vice-president, the analysts said in telephone interviews.  John Cannon, WellPoint’s general counsel, will serve as
interim CEO while WellPoint searches for a permanent
replacement, the insurer said yesterday in a statement. Cannon
isn’t a candidate for the job, according to the statement.  WellPoint’s board has hired the executive search firm
 Heidrick & Struggles International Inc. (HSII)  to help find a new CEO,
according to a person familiar with the process who wasn’t
authorized to discuss it.  Quick Action  “They need a CEO who has demonstrated by his or her
experience that they have the expertise to run a company the
size that WellPoint will be, and they need them sooner rather
than later,” said  Erik Gordon , a professor at the  University of
Michigan ’s Steven M. Ross School of Business in  Ann Arbor .  During her tenure as CEO, Braly became a high-profile foe
of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul and, more
recently, sparked the ire of investors after WellPoint missed
earnings estimates and cut its  forecast  twice in four months.  While Ward and a second director had more investor sessions
scheduled this week, they decided they had heard enough and set
held the board meeting yesterday, according to the person
familiar with the timing.  “I have spoken with our board and we have agreed this is
the right action for WellPoint at this time,” Braly said in a
memo to company employees. “The board and I feel, though, that
the company will benefit from getting a fresh perspective on
ways we can improve execution across the company.”  Attempts to reach Braly were unsuccessful.  Royal Management  The Royal Management Group was one of the investors to
criticize Braly’s management publicly, calling for her
replacement in an Aug. 23 interview with  Bloomberg News . That
followed similar criticism from shareholders Orbimed Advisors
LLC, an investment fund, and hedge fund Omega Advisors Inc.  Medway yesterday said WellPoint will benefit from the
change, calling it “a pleasant surprise that boards of
directors sometimes do their jobs.”  WellPoint traded at a 2 percent premium to an S&P 500 index
of the top six health insurers when Braly took over as chairman
on March 1, 2010. As of yesterday, it changed hands at a 17
percent  discount , suggesting investors’ waning confidence. The
company has lost about  $9 billion  of its value during that time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Critics have cited a variety of issues with Braly’s
leadership since she took over as CEO in June 2007, including
difficulties forecasting medical costs and setting premium
prices. They also said she forced out executives who had
valuable expertise.  Buybacks Criticized  Investors have also been critical of WellPoint for spending
billions of dollars on share buybacks in recent years with no
gain in the stock value. The company bought back $493.7 million
in shares at an average price of $68.53 in the second quarter,
16 percent above yesterday’s closing price.  Before her resignation, Braly, who was one of 20 women
running Fortune 500 companies, had been backed by the board in
response to the criticism with two public statements.  “Now is the right time for a leadership change,” Ward,
named non-executive board chairman, said yesterday in the
company’s statement announcing the departure. “We believe the
remaining executive team is dynamic and strong, with great
potential to drive WellPoint’s future success.”  In June, WellPoint agreed to buy eye-wear provider 1-800-
Contacts Inc. for about $900 million. Last month, it announced
the $4.9 billion purchase of  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  to become the
biggest private  provider  of plans for Medicaid, the federal-
state program for the poor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  