-- Six German States Say August Inflation Quickened on Oil
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-08-29T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/two-german-states-say-august-inflation-quickened-on-oil-prices.html
Inflation in six German states
accelerated in August on higher energy costs.  The inflation rates in Bavaria rose to 2.5 percent from 2.2
percent in July, the state’s statistics office said today. Rates
also climbed in Hesse, Brandenburg, Baden-Wuerttemberg, Saxony
and North Rhine-Westphalia.  Economists forecast that  Germany ’s inflation rate,
calculated using a harmonized European-Union method, will rise
to 2 percent from 1.9 percent in July, the median of 22
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  shows. The Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden will release that report at 2
p.m. today.  Oil prices  have surged about 25 percent since the end of
June as storms in the  Gulf of Mexico  crimped output. At the same
time, the  European Central Bank  predicts that euro-area
inflation will slow to below its 2 percent limit next year and
is easing monetary policy to fight the region’s debt crisis.  “Rising oil prices are the main booster for inflation,”
said Stefan Muetze, an economist at Helaba in Frankfurt. “We
expect German inflation to be above 2 percent in 2013 unless the
debt crisis in the euro area deteriorates.”  In Bavaria, consumer prices rose 0.4 percent from a month
earlier, the statistics office said. Heating oil prices gained
2.1 percent from July and were 13.6 percent higher than a year
ago. The cost of fuel increased 4.1 percent in August and rose
9.9 percent from a year earlier.  Economists predict euro-area inflation will accelerate to
2.5 percent in August from 2.4 percent in July, according to the
median of 31 estimates in a separate Bloomberg  survey . Eurostat,
the European Union’s statistics office, will publish that report
on Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  