-- Wolters Kluwer to Boost China Workforce for Health, Legal Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-29T06:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/wolters-kluwer-to-boost-china-workforce-for-health-legal-growth.html
Wolters Kluwer NV (WKL) ,  Europe ’s largest
tax and legal publisher, will expand its China workforce by 17
percent in the next six months to seize opportunities presented
by the nation’s reforms of the health and legal industries.  The publisher will add about 50 people, including sales
staff and subject-matter experts such as physicians and legal
scholars, to the 300 now in the country, Chief Executive Officer
Nancy McKinstry said in an interview in Beijing today. “The
level of change around regulations, legal developments and
medicine continues to increase rapidly,” she said.  Wolters Kluwer is turning to faster-growing markets in
 Asia , such as China and  India , to counter conditions in Europe
that remain challenging, McKinstry said. The company, which in
July affirmed its outlook for a “low single-digit” growth in
 earnings per share  this year, plans to boost sales outside the
U.S. and Europe to more than 10 percent of the total within
three to five years, from 7 percent now, she said.  “The growth potential in Asia, in particular in China, is
huge,”  Peter Olofsen , an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets Inc., said in an e-mail on Aug. 24. “However,
relative to Europe and  North America , the business in Asia is
still small.”  Olofsen recommends holding Wolters Kluwer shares. He is one
of 10 analysts with that  rating , while 14 have the equivalent of
a buy recommendation and seven suggest selling the stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Professional Needs  Wolters Kluwer’s products including industry data will meet
the needs of professionals as China subsidizes improvements to
the health-care system, McKinstry said.  China’s government budgeted 850 billion yuan ($134 billion)
in April 2009 for a health-care overhaul to lower the costs of
essential drugs and provide more than 90 percent of the
population with basic health insurance. The spending in the past
three years exceeded 1.1 trillion  yuan , the official Xinhua News
Agency  reported  in March this year.  The State Council, China’s Cabinet, has proposed increasing
the education standards of general practitioners and having two
or three better-qualified doctors for every 10,000 residents by
2012, it said in June last year.  China has also implemented changes to the legal system,
including an overhaul of its 1979 criminal law for a second time
in March to add provisions to protect human rights as a
principle of law. Other amendments this year include omitting
the use of confessions obtained by torture or violence, and
removing restrictions on defense lawyers’ access to defendants.  Laggard Stock  Shares of Alphen aan den Rijn, Netherlands-based Wolters
Kluwer have gained 11 percent in the past 12 months, lagging
behind the 17 percent gain for the Amsterdam Exchanges Index.  “It’s difficult to see a significant re-rating for the
shares until the company can accelerate organic growth,”
 Claudio Aspesi , a London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
Ltd. with the equivalent of a hold rating on the stock, said in
a telephone interview. “They are overly exposed to businesses
with limited volume growth and limited pricing power.”  To bolster growth, Wolters Kluwer has sought partnerships
in China. The company entered a joint venture with drug-
information provider Medicom to deliver clinical-decision
support to doctors in the world’s most populous nation, it said
in January last year.  As Wolters Kluwer faces a decline in print products, it is
targeting online, software and service offerings as customers
migrate to applications for mobile devices, laptops and tablet
computers, McKinstry said.  Mobile Applications  In the past six months, the company has created
applications that can be accessed by tablet computers and
smartphones for 52 of its 300 medical journals, and the rest
will be available on mobile devices by 2013, she said.  Those apps are generating higher advertising revenue than
print publications because they provide Wolters Kluwer with more
data on readership patterns to give advertisers, McKinstry said.
The CEO didn’t provide revenue figures.  The financial and health divisions have “substantial
growth potential” that isn’t currently reflected in the stock
price, said Hans Slob, an analyst at Rabobank International in
Utrecht, the Netherlands, who recommends buying the shares. With
an estimated yield of 5.2 percent, Wolters Kluwer is “a great
dividend stock,” he said in an Aug. 24 e-mail.  To bolster the stock price, McKinstry will have to win back
analysts such as Tim Nollen at Macquarie Capital USA Inc.  “There is a big opportunity as the legal profession grows
and health care takes on more and more prominence” in  China ,
Nollen said in an e-mail on Aug. 25. “We have had outperform
ratings previously, but now are neutral due to the very slow
growth nature of the business.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  