-- World’s Best $9 Hamburger Comes From Parm: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/world-s-best-9-hamburger-comes-from-parm-ryan-sutton.html
You can get one of  New York ’s best
burgers at Parm, though you won’t see burger listed anywhere on
the menu.  Never mind that the patty isn’t all beef. The French-
trained chefs toss in veal, sausage, cheese and breadcrumbs.  The toppings are milky mozzarella and tangy marinara. No
watery tomatoes, no iceberg lettuce.  The misleading name of the sandwich is “meatball parm.”
But I know a burger when I bite into one. And this one bears no
relation whatsoever to the product sold at  McDonalds (MCD)  or  Wendy’s. (WEN)   Parm’s patty sits flat inside a sesame bun. The meat, pink
as a plastic flamingo, collapses silkily in the mouth.  The cost of this perfect burger is $9. That’s about $10
less than the going rate for lesser creations around New York.  The messy, two-handed affair is meant to be consumed on a
spinning stool while Billy Joel pumps through the sound system.
The Yankees are clobbering the Rangers on the flat screen TV and
you’re sucking a frozen scorpino through a bar straw. The mix of
vodka, lemon juice and prosecco is like an Italian ice, plus
buzz.  Cheap Dough  Such red saucery is the norm at this little gastro-diner in
 Manhattan ’s Nolita district, a brilliant sophomore effort by
chefs Rich Torrisi and Mario Carbone. The duo’s neighboring and
namesake flagship, Torrisi, is proof that great Italian-American
cuisine can command the same wallet-burning prices as fancy
French fare: Dinner for two  after wine pairings, tax and tip
runs $300-$600.  Parm, with most dishes under $15, happily offers just
opposite -- cheap, checkered-tablecloth food that can be good in
its own right.  Take pizza knots, typically a lead lump of hot bread and
rancid garlic. Parm lightens up the dough, tossing it in onion
powder, tomato powder, oregano and chili. They taste like
ultimate  Combos .  B&G peppers ($6), the official pickle of  Long Island ’s
South Shore, are deep fried and stuffed with rice and provolone.
The result is a gooey, spicy, stinky riff on jalapeno poppers.  That same incendiary condiment reappears on raw clams.
Buffalo cucumbers, with blue cheese and RedHot vinaigrette
coating the cool cukes ($6), would please Paula Deen.  Zeppo Marks  Grade A+ zeppoles are doused in sugar and have a toothsome
satisfying yeastiness.  Fried calamari is a must. The mix of tender squid, verdant
cubanelles and tabasco aioli is a paragon of flavor clarity. The
$12 dish feeds three; it’s reassuring that in the age of
individual appetizers, there are still cheap starters at good
restaurants that can nourish a family.  And that’s partly the lure of Parm. A number of the
heartier preparations belong to the Mission Chinese school of
portion control, where food is served in quantities providing
next-day leftover lunches.  For nine bucks, you’ll get one of the best turkey
sandwiches, with a concentrated poultry punch and a sweet honey
glaze. It has enough meat to feed 1.5 sumo wrestlers.  Or for $17 there’s the sausage and peppers platter, which
includes a side of killer baked ziti. Those who finish it should
get a plaque on the wall. The noodles are al dente, the
Bolognese is laden with beefy aromatics, the marinara is tart
and the burnt exterior is a heartwarming sign that Carbone and
Torrisi know when grandma’s tradition should trump technique.  Not Comfy  Too bad the chefs couldn’t invest in a few more creature
comforts. Only the genetically well-cushioned will find Parm’s
hard seats comfortable. And the lack of proper sound-proofing
means that screaming children (or misbehaving adults) can raise
the decibel count to ear-piercing levels.  As at Torrisi, wine remains the Achilles heel of Parm, with
room temperature reds poured into five-and-dime stems.  Stick with the scorpinos, or pair an Ommegang ale with your
fried chicken cacciatore -- a $25 blue plate special only
available on Mondays. A yogurt marinade keeps the bird
exceedingly tender; black-pepper flour imparts world-class
crunch.  Even better is the Tuesday-night Salisbury steak. Unlike
Swanson, Parm uses Worcestershire-bathed, dry-aged ribeye, which
is why the creamy chopped beef boasts an upscale mineral tang.
And it’s served on rye with provolone.  That’s a hamburger to me.  Rating: ** 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Everything $25 or under.  Sound Level: Shouty; sometimes over 80.  Date Place: You bet; lots of couples in the dining room.  Inside Tip: No reservations; come early or come late for
shortest wait.  Special Feature: Bar TV shows Mets, Yankees games.  Back on My Own Dime: Frequently.  Parm is at 248 Mulberry St. Information: +1-212-993-7189;
 http://parmnyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on movies and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 