-- Yankees Beat Blue Jays 2-1 as Hughes Allows One Run in 7 Innings
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-29T04:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/yankees-beat-blue-jays-2-1-as-hughes-allows-one-run-in-7-innings.html
Phil Hughes  recorded his sixth
straight home victory, allowing one run over seven innings as
the New York Yankees defeated the Toronto Blue Jays 2-1.  Hughes scattered four hits and had five strikeouts last
night at Yankee Stadium to improve his record to 13-11 on the
Major League Baseball season. Relief pitcher  Rafael Soriano 
threw a perfect ninth inning -- one day after blowing a two-run
lead -- for his 34th save.  The Yankees (75-54) maintained their 3 1/2-game lead in the
American League East over the Baltimore Orioles, who topped the
AL Central-leading Chicago White Sox 6-0 last night as Chris Tillman pitched seven shutout innings. New York is in second
place in the AL, two games behind the Texas Rangers, who beat
the Tampa Bay Rays 1-0 to improve to 77-52.  Nick Swisher  hit a run-scoring single in the third inning
and Steve Pearce, making his Yankee debut one day after being
acquired from the Houston Astros, scored in the fourth inning on
 Curtis Granderson ’s sacrifice fly.  The Yankees are playing without  Mark Teixeira , who strained
his left calf muscle this week. He’s expected to be out at least
a week, although  Derek Jeter  had a similar injury that sidelined
him for three weeks last season.  “One person’s pull is a week and another’s is a month,”
Teixeira told reporters. “That’s just the way it is.”  Adeiny Hechavarria hit his first home run of the season off
Hughes in the fifth inning.  Ricky Romero (8-12) surrendered two runs on five hits in
seven innings for the Blue Jays (57-71). His 11th straight loss
over a 12-start stretch set the longest single-season losing
streak in Toronto franchise history, according to the Elias
Sports Bureau.  The Orioles and  Oakland Athletics , both 71-57, head the
race for the AL’s two wild card playoff berths, 1 1/2 games
ahead of the Rays. The Athletics shut out the Cleveland Indians
7-0 yesterday.  The Washington Nationals, who lead the National League East,
had their losing streak reach five games with a 9-0 defeat
against the Miami Marlins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  