-- Yelp Surges as Growth Potential Counters Lockup Expiry
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-08-29T23:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-29/yelp-falls-after-lockup-expires-follows-facebook-groupon.html
Yelp Inc. (YELP)  surged as much as 23
percent as investor confidence in its growth prospects outshined
concern over stock sales by some of the largest investors in the
online review website.  San Francisco-based Yelp climbed 23 percent to $22.37 at
the close in  New York . The stock has  gained  49 percent since a
March 1 initial public offering. Inside investors are eligible
to sell about 53 million shares of the company 180 days after
its IPO, a period that extended through yesterday.  Yelp lets users post reviews of neighborhood businesses
ranging from plumbers to pet shops on the Web. As rivals Google
Inc. and Facebook Inc. boost local content, Yelp is adding
mobile features and using a partnership with Apple Inc. to
integrate local content into software for the iPhone and iPad.  “Yelp is on its way to becoming a household name because
of this Apple integration,”  Brian Blair , an analyst at Wedge
Partners Corp. in New York, said in an interview today.  Some investors speculated that Yelp would plunge following
precedents set by social network Facebook, coupon-provider
 Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and online-review compiler  Angie’s List Inc. (ANGI)  -- all
of which sank to record lows after stock-lockup expirations
earlier this month.  “There was exaggerated concern about Yelp selling off,”
Blair said. Instead, “the selloff into the lockup was creating
an opportunity.”  Shareholders who used so-called short sales to benefit from
an expected drop in Yelp’s stock after the lockup expiration
later bought back those shares -- in what’s known as a short
covering -- when the decline failed to materialize.  Sales Surge  In the second quarter, Yelp’s revenue rose 67 percent to
$32.7 million, the company said Aug. 1. That beat the $30.5
million average analyst prediction compiled by Bloomberg. The
company’s net loss was $1.98 million, or 3 cents a share.
Analysts on average were projecting a loss of 5 cents.  “It’s pretty strong revenue growth,”  Aaron Kessler , an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates in  San Francisco , after
Yelp’s earnings report. “Mobile is definitely helping drive
traffic.”  Yelp’s  revenue  is expected to more than double to $197.40
million next year from $83.3 million in 2011, according to the
average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s
2013 earnings excluding some items will be 8 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $1.12 a share Yelp reported last year.  San Francisco-based Yelp raised $107.3 million in its IPO,
pricing shares at $15 each. Bessemer Venture Partners and
Elevation Partners are among Yelp’s shareholders, regulatory
filings show. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc. and
Jefferies Group Inc. were the lead underwriters.  Facebook (FB) , operator of the world’s largest social network,
has lost about half its value since an IPO in May as it
struggled to make money from the growing slice of users who
access the service over mobile devices. Since IPOs in November,
Groupon has lost 78 percent, while Angie’s List has retreated 21
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  