-- 
‘American Idol’ Owner CKX Is Said to Get Unsolicited Bid From Gores Group

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-04-01T20:13:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/-american-idol-owner-ckx-is-said-to-get-unsolicited-bid-from-gores-group.html
Billionaire Alec Gores made an
unsolicited offer for “ American Idol ” owner  CKX Inc. (CKXE) ,
according to a person with knowledge of the bid.  The offer came in a March 23 letter from Los Angeles-based
Gores Group and was at a premium to CKX’s trading price at the
time, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the proposal isn’t public. The person declined to give a
specific price. At yesterday’s closing price, CKX had a market
value of about $392 million.  The Gores bid comes five months after CKX ended discussions
to sell the company or a controlling stake. The company held
talks last year with JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s One Equity Partners,
a person close to the situation said at the time. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Robert Sillerman resigned in May to
separately pursue a possible purchase of CKX.  CKX surged 43 cents, or 10 percent, to $4.65 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained
15 percent this year.  CKX referred inquiries to an outside spokesman, William Schmitt, who didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment. Michael Sitrick, a spokesman for Gores, declined to
comment.  Gores Group raised $2 billion in February for acquisitions,
including in the consumer sector. With his brother Tom, Alec
Gores made an unsuccessful bid for the Miramax film studio. Tom Gores runs  Beverly Hills , California-based buyout firm Platinum
Equity LLC.  CKX owns two-thirds of the “Idol” brand and co-produces
the show in the U.S. with Fremantle Media, owner of the rest,
according to the company’s annual report. CKX’s 19 Entertainment
has a global television and production agreement with Fremantle.
In 2005 CKX bought 19 Entertainment, which was founded by  Simon Fuller , the creator of the “Idol” series.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  