-- 
‘Mad Men’ to Return for Two More Seasons After Standoff With Creator Ends

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-01T01:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/-mad-men-to-return-for-two-more-seasons-after-standoff-with-creator-ends.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and
cable channel AMC agreed to bring back “Mad Men” for a fifth
and sixth season, ending a standoff with creator Matthew Weiner.  Weiner, the show’s creator, signed a long-term deal with
 Lions Gate  that includes a possible seventh season, said AMC, a
unit of Bethpage, New York-based  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , in
an e-mailed statement today.  AMC, which airs the program, pushed back the start of the
fifth season until early 2012 to give contract talks more time.
The delay leaves AMC without a program that won the Emmy for
best drama for three straight years. It also means “Mad Men,”
about the 1960s New York advertising industry, won’t air again
until after Cablevision plans to spin off its cable channels
later this year into a separate company called AMC Networks Inc.  Lions Gate, based in Vancouver and run from  Santa Monica ,
 California , is the show’s production company.  AMC sought to shrink each “Mad Men” episode by several
minutes to provide more commercial time and to cut two cast
members to save money, Deadline.com and News Corp.’s The Daily
reported March 28. Weiner objected to both proposals, the
websites said.  Weiner will retain his cast and will allow more
commercials, the New York Times reported today, citing two
people with knowledge of the contract. AMC may release the
longer versions on video-on-demand and DVDs, the newspaper said.  Lisa Rogen, a spokeswoman for AMC, and Peter Wilkes, a
spokesman for Lions Gate, declined to comment beyond providing
the statement.  Cablevision gained 28 cents to $34.61 today in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen 2.3
percent this year. Lions Gate fell 6 cents to $6.25 and has
declined 4 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  