-- 
Acer Sets Sights on Apple, HTC After HP Chase Stumbles

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-04-01T16:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/acer-sets-sights-on-apple-htc-after-ex-ceo-lanci-s-pursuit-of-hp-stumbles.html
(Corrects to remove erroneous phrase about new president’s
characteristics in second paragraph.)  Gianfranco Lanci tried to make  Acer
Inc. (2353)  the world’s largest laptop maker by outselling Hewlett-
Packard Co. The board says he should have set his sights on
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  instead.  The rift led to Lanci quitting yesterday as chief executive
officer of the Taiwanese computer maker, Chief Financial Officer
Tu Che-min said in an interview today. The company plans to name
a new president this month and Acer is seeking to be a leading
player in smartphones and tablets, he said.  As Acer reels from its worst weekly stock plunge in almost
a decade, the board faces the challenge of finding a leader able
to reinvent the company into a developer of products that can
challenge Apple and HTC from being a volume-driven maker of
commoditized computers. The shift in strategy means spending on
research and development will increase, Tu said.  “For Acer, and other PC makers in general, the way to
create value is to innovate and find new markets and
opportunities, and that’s a big challenge,” said Simon Ye, an
analyst at research company Gartner Inc. in  Shanghai . “Acer’s
problem is that it is commonly perceived as a brand that
competes on price, and that doesn’t help profitability.”  The shares fell 4.8 percent to close at NT$57.10 in Taipei
trading, capping a 22 percent rout since the company on March 25
slashed its first-quarter sales forecast. Brokerages from CLSA
Ltd. to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cut their ratings on the stock
to sell in the past week.  Tablets  As conventional laptops lose their appeal to new-generation
devices such as handheld computers with touch screens, companies
such as Acer may need to focus more on developing tablet
computers to boost profits, analysts said.  “There is a concern at Acer about profit margins,” said
Dean Lim, who rates Acer shares “reduce” at Mirae Asset
Securities in Hong Kong. “If they can increase sales of
tablets, that will help improve the profit margins.”  Chairman J.T. Wang will temporarily take over the chief
executive officer’s role from Lanci, the company said. Walter
Deppeler -- president of the  Europe , Middle East and Africa
operations -- and procurement head  Jim Wong  are frontrunners to
succeed Lanci, according to Macquarie Group Ltd. Acer’s Tu
declined to identify any candidates.  The Taiwanese PC maker is realigning its business to focus
on profitability, instead of sales volumes, spokesman Henry Wang
said today. Lanci quit after a slump in Acer’s stock this year,
the most in the MSCI AC Asia Pacific excluding Japan Information
Technology Index, as a focus on low-cost laptops eroded profit
margins.  Profit Margin  Apple, maker of the iPad tablet, iPhone and iMac computer
had a 21.5 percent profit margin in its last fiscal year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Acer had 2.3 percent.  “There is good consensus among the board members that the
tablet is the way to go,” CFO Tu said by phone today.
Previously, the company’s goal was to boost shipments of
 notebook computers  to increase market share, he said.  The board and Lanci “placed different levels of importance
on scale, growth, customer value creation, brand position
enhancement, and on resource allocation and methods of
implementation,” Acer said in a statement yesterday. Calls to
Lanci’s Taipei office yesterday weren’t answered and e-mails to
his Acer account bounced back.  Rising Costs  Acer in January reported fourth-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates after revenue fell 11 percent.  The company last month started sales of its Iconia tablet,
more than a year after the unveiling of the Apple iPad.  “We think Acer inevitably will see rising research and
development expenses,” Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst Eve Jung
wrote in a report today. “Acer plans to focus more on product
innovation to face growing competition from Apple’s iPad 2.”  Acer overtook  Dell Inc. (DELL)  as the world’s second-largest maker
of PCs in 2009 as the company boosted overseas sales through the
acquisitions of Gateway and Packard Bell.  Lanci, who had been president of the company since 2005,
also oversaw Acer as it capitalized on the boom in demand for
sub-$500 laptops, known as netbooks, after the worst global
financial crisis since World War II prompted consumers to buy
cheaper computers. Apple’s iPad starts at $499 in the U.S.  The focus on netbooks cost Acer last year as Apple’ iPad
gave consumers an alternative product to a low-end laptop.
Acer’s market share of the PC market fell to 12.7 percent in the
fourth quarter, down from 13.3 percent a year earlier, according
to estimates by research firm Gartner Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  