-- 
Afghans Protesting Florida Koran Burning Kill 7 UN Workers

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-01T19:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/afghans-protesting-florida-koran-burning-kill-8-un-workers-3-.html
Afghans protesting the burning of a
Koran in  Florida  last week stormed a  United Nations  compound in
the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif and killed four Nepalese
security guards and three other workers from Norway, Romania and
 Sweden , the UN said.  The crowd emerged from the city’s main mosque after Friday
prayers and marched on the UN office where they attacked the
guards with knives, seized their weapons and entered the
compound, Lal Mohammad Ahmadzai, a spokesman for the northern
region’s police force, said by phone.  The Nepalese guards were shot or stabbed to death and a man
and a woman on the UN staff were beheaded, the spokesman said.
Police opened fire on the crowd and 12 people were injured, he
said.  “It is cowardly attack which cannot be justified under any
circumstances,” UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said,
according to his press office in  New York . The UN press office
revised an earlier estimate that there had been eight
casualties.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  issued a statement condemning
the attack “in the strongest possible terms.” The UN’s work
“is essential to building a stronger Afghanistan,” Obama said.
“We stress the importance of calm and urge all parties to
reject violence and resolve differences through dialogue.”  Koran Burned  Florida Pastor  Terry Jones  oversaw the burning of a Koran
at his church in Gainesville, Florida, on March 20,  USA Today 
reported. The burning was done by Wayne Sapp, a colleague of
Jones, the newspaper said. Jones threatened last year to burn a
copy of the sacred book of Islam on the anniversary of the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the U.S.  “Such actions cannot be condoned by any religion,” UN
spokesman Farhan Haq said. “They contradict the efforts of the
 United Nations  and many people around the world to promote
tolerance, intercultural understanding and mutual respect
between cultures and religions.”  Jones, pastor of the Dove World Outreach Center, released a
statement calling the attack a “very tragic and criminal
action” that is “highly unacceptable” for the U.S.
government.  “The United States government and the United Nations
itself must take immediate action,” Jones said. “We must hold
these countries and people accountable for what they have done
as well as for any excuses they may use to promote their
terrorist activities. The time has come to hold Islam
accountable.”  Radical Element  The Obama administration should “take a close, realistic
look at the radical element Islam,” Jones said. “Islam is not
a religion of peace.”  UN member nations should takes steps to prevent “Muslim-
dominated countries” from spreading “their hate against
Christians and minorities,” Jones said. “They must alter the
laws that govern their countries to allow for individual
freedoms and rights, such as the right to worship, free speech
and to move freely without fear of being attacked or killed.”  About 100 protesters also gathered today at a traffic
circle near the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, the  Associated Press 
reported. One carried a sign that said “We want these bloody
bastard Americans with all their forces to leave Afghanistan,”
the AP said.  Crime Against Religion  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  last week issued a statement
calling the burning a “crime against a religion,” AP said. He
said it was a “disrespectful and abhorrent act” and called on
the U.S. and UN to prosecute those who burned the Koran,
according to the wire service.  Mazar-e-Sharif is the capital of the northern Balkh
province, bordering Uzbekistan.  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, issued a statement saying he
was “saddened and angered” by the UN workers’ deaths.  “We and the Afghan people owe a debt of gratitude to the
people who risk their lives to make  Afghanistan  a better
place,” Kerry said. “Instead, an angry mob took out its rage
on selfless public servants and innocent bystanders who had no
connection to the desecration of a Koran by a radical figure in
Florida.”  -- With assistance from Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul. Editors: Ann
Hughey, Steven Komarow  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  