-- 
Thai Banks, Refiners, Food Makers Drive SET Rally, SCB Asset’s Sopana Says

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-04-01T09:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/thai-banks-refiners-to-extend-set-s-quarterly-gains-scb-s-sopana-says.html
Thai stocks are set to extend the
longest-ever stretch of quarterly gains, led by “exceptional”
earnings growth for banks, oil refiners and foods producers,
according to the nation’s second-largest money manager.  The SET Index, which jumped to a 14-year high today, will
probably climb in the next three months and reach 1,200 later
this year, said Sopana Janeborvorn, chief investment officer at
SCB Asset Management Co., which oversees $17.6 billion. The
advance would be 15 percent from yesterday’s 1,047.48 close.  “Exceptional profit growth so far this year will drive
further gains for the equities this quarter,” Sopana said in a
phone interview today. “Thai companies are very resilient and
competitive, even with higher  oil prices  and a strong baht.”  The SET advanced 1.4 percent in the first three months of
the year, an eighth quarterly increase and longest rally since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1987. The index surged 41
percent in 2010 as corporate earnings jumped 32 percent to a
record 614.3 billion baht ($20.3 billion), bourse data show.  The gauge gained 1.6 percent to 1,064.35 today, its highest
close since October 1996.  Sopana correctly predicted on June 10 last year that
overseas investors would return to  Thailand  after political
unrest triggered a record monthly outflow of 58.7 billion baht
in May. Anti-government protests in Bangkok between April and
May in 2010 left at least 89 people dead.  Banks, Refiners  Investors bought a net 102.7 billion baht of the equities
between June 10 and Dec. 31, according to the stock exchange’s
data. The index surpassed Sopana’s year-end target of 900 on Aug.
27 and has climbed 38 percent since her June interview.  The fund manager today recommended shares of banks,
predicting accelerating loan growth and widening interest-rate
margins will boost earnings. She favored refiners and
petrochemical makers whose profit margins have increased since
 Japan ’s biggest-ever earthquake shut plants. Food producers are
set to increase net income as they raise production and product
prices with rising overseas orders, she said.  Sopana declined to specify stocks bought by SCB Asset.  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB) , the nation’s fourth-largest
lender, expects loan growth to exceed this year’s target as
corporate demand for new funds increases, President Kannikar
Chalitaporn said on March 16.  Election Rally  IRPC Pcl (IRPC) , a refiner and petrochemical maker, said yesterday
its average gross refining margin widened to about $9.8 per
barrel in the first quarter. IRPC will benefit from higher
prices of gasoline and petrochemical products after Japan’s
earthquake, the company said March 14.  Thai equities will rally ahead of an election as the
government accelerates spending on public works and other
programs to lure voters, said Andrew Stotz, a strategist at Kim
Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl, the nation’s largest stock
brokerage. Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has said he’ll
dissolve Parliament in early May to trigger an election about
six months before his term ends.  Abhisit pledged policies to help families cope with rising
fuel and food costs that threaten to undermine his party’s gains
ahead of the elections, according to a March 28 interview with
Bloomberg Television.  “With the election, we can go into a phase of more
political stability,” Stotz said by phone from Bangkok. “If
that’s a case, some overseas investors who have written off
Thailand for a long time would consider coming back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  