-- 
Thai Stocks Surge to 14-Year High on Economic Expansion, Reduced Tension

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-04-01T10:40:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/thai-stocks-surge-to-14-year-high-on-economic-expansion-reduced-tension.html
Thailand’s stocks rallied to the
highest level in more than 14 years on speculation an expanding
economy will boost corporate earnings and elections will ease
political conflict.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) , the nation’s only listed
oil explorer, climbed 2.5 percent to 184.5 baht after crude oil
rose to a 30-month high in  New York .  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB) ,
the nation’s fourth-biggest lender by assets, jumped 4.6 baht
after Asia Plus Securities Pcl raised the share-price estimate.  The SET Index climbed 1.6 percent to 1,064.35 at the 4:30
p.m. close, the highest since October 1996. Turnover surged to
48.3 billion baht ($1.6 billion), the highest since Dec. 8,
according to Stock Exchange of Thailand data. Shares have gained
as concern about political uncertainty eased, bourse President
Charamporn Jotikasthira told reporters today.  “Thai companies will continue to have high earnings growth
with strong domestic demand,” said Andrew Stotz, a strategist
at Kim Eng Securities ( Thailand ) Pcl, the nation’s largest stock
brokerage. “With the election, we can go into a phase of more
political stability.”  Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has said he’ll
dissolve Parliament in early May to trigger an election about
six months before his term ends. Abhisit pledged policies to
help families cope with rising fuel and food costs that threaten
to undermine his party’s gains ahead of the elections, according
to a March 28 interview with Bloomberg Television.  Overseas Investors  Overseas investors bought 8.28 billion baht more of Thai
stocks than they sold today, according to data from the Stock
Exchange of Thailand’s website. That was the largest net
purchase since Dec. 8.  Bangkok First Investment & Trust Pcl (BFIT)  surged 12 percent
after Malaysia’s OSK Holdings Bhd. said its investment banking
unit agreed to buy a 48.9 percent stake in the Thai company’s
brokerage unit.  Stock valuations remain “attractive” because of strong
corporate earnings growth, Charamporn said in Bangkok. Shares on
the index are valued at an average 12.6 times earnings, the
cheapest in  Southeast Asia  apart from Vietnam, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  