-- 
AIG Must Face Some Claims in Suit Over Employee Pension Losses, Judge Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-01T18:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/aig-wins-bid-to-dismiss-some-claims-in-employee-plan-suit.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer bailed out by the U.S. government, must face some
claims by current and former employees that it invested their
retirement funds too heavily in company stock.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  Manhattan  said
yesterday that AIG and some directors, including former board
member and Chief Executive Officer  Martin Sullivan , must defend
allegations of breach of fiduciary duty in a lawsuit filed in
2008. She dismissed claims by participants in a Puerto Rican
unit’s retirement plan.  The remaining plaintiffs can try to prove that they
sustained losses to their employee pension plans because the
defendants breached their duty by continuing to invest in New
York-based AIG in the face of risks the company was facing, the
judge said. The shares fell 97 percent in 2008.  “Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that AIG and the
director defendants were aware of the increasingly risky
financial position maintained by AIG, material weaknesses in
AIG’s financial health and the potential impending erosion of
the value of AIG’s stock,” Swain said.  The judge said the Puerto Rico defendants failed to
establish that they had standing to bring the suit or
experienced injury.  ‘Defend Vigorously’  “We’re pleased the court dismissed portions of the case and
will defend vigorously against the remaining claims,” Mark Herr,
an AIG spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  AIG said the pension plans mandated that company stock be
offered to participants as an investment option, and that
because no defendant had discretion to limit or cancel the
option, they had no fiduciary authority or responsibility with
respect to the “maintenance and continuation” of the fund, the
judge said, citing defense arguments.  Swain disagreed.  “Plaintiffs have alleged sufficiently that AIG had
discretionary authority under the plans that carried with it
fiduciary responsibilities,” she said.  The U.S. government’s rescue of AIG, initiated in 2008, is
valued at $182.3 billion. AIG fell 7 cents to $35.07 at 2:24
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
had dropped 27 percent this year before today.  The case is In Re American International Group Inc. 08-cv-
5722, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 