-- 
Morgan Stanley’s Pay Practices Lose Some Shareholder Support

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-05-18T17:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/morgan-stanley-s-pay-practices-lose-some-shareholder-support.html
Fewer Morgan Stanley shareholders
approved the firm’s executive compensation package for Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman  and other top management after
more than 90 percent voted in favor in the past two years.  Investors holding about 79 percent of outstanding shares
voted to approve the compensation policy in a non-binding
resolution, according to preliminary figures, Chief Legal
Officer Frank Barron said at the annual meeting today in
Purchase, New York. About 91 percent voted to make the so-called
say-on-pay approval an annual event, Barron said.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., a proxy advisory
company, recommended voting against the pay plans at both Morgan
Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , citing a “pay-for-
performance disconnect.” Gorman received a $14 million package
for his first year as chief executive officer, less than the $15
million he was awarded for 2009.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said in a letter to shareholders this month
that ISS used "flawed analysis" in making its recommendation.  Shareholder approval for Goldman Sachs’s compensation plan,
which doubled pay for Chairman and CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein,
dropped to 73 percent at the New York-based bank’s annual
meeting earlier this month, from 96 percent a year ago.  Morgan Stanley shareholders offered no proposals for the
first time in a decade. Last year, there were five proposals,
including one that called for an independent chairman of the
board. All five were rejected.  Each of this year’s 13 director nominees received at least
92 percent of the preliminary votes, Barron said. Shareholders
also approved 35 million additional shares to be used for
equity-based compensation during the next year. Morgan Stanley
said in its proxy that the shares are needed to address calls
from regulators that a greater proportion of pay be in stock.  Fewer than 50 outside shareholders attended the meeting,
which lasted about 40 minutes and was held at the headquarters
of Morgan Stanley’s wealth-management unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  