-- 
Malaysia Market Able to Absorb Railway Sukuk, Badlisyah Says

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-04-01T05:04:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/malaysia-market-able-to-absorb-railway-sukuk-badlisyah-says.html
Badlisyah Abdul Ghani, chief
executive officer of CIMB Islamic Bank Bhd., a unit of
 Malaysia ’s second-largest lender, comments on the government’s
plan to raise funds for a 48 billion ringgit ($16 billion)
railway project in Kuala Lumpur. He made the remarks in an
interview with Bloomberg TV today.  The government may sell ringgit-denominated Islamic bonds
to help finance construction of a mass railway system in Kuala
Lumpur, Prime Minister Najib Razak said on March 29. The project
will be the country’s single biggest infrastructure development,
said Najib.  On sukuk demand:  “All huge infrastructure projects in Malaysia have always
been funded by Islamic bonds, because Islamic bonds would
attract a wider investor base and therefore increase the
opportunity for any issuance to raise a larger pool of
funding.”  On where the demand comes from:  “From the typical investor base that comprises of takaful
companies, insurance companies, banks, whether it’s Islamic
banks or conventional banks, and you have corporates with large
treasury operations and the asset management companies, and
foreign investors that look at the ringgit market as part of
their  portfolio management . Islamic papers have proven to be
able to tackle the long-term nature of infrastructure projects.  “There’s always a concern whether or not the market can
absorb all the issuance but the market is mature enough.”  On sukuk sales from the Gulf Cooperation Council countries:  “This market in the  Far East  can make up for any shortfall
of issuance in the GCC. There are GCC issuances that will also
be tapping the Malaysian market. They may not be able to tap the
GCC market because of the unrest, but quality issuances from the
GCC are still looking at tapping the Malaysian market because it
is more established and mature market. Quite a number of them
are already slated to come to the market anytime this year.
Notwithstanding the unrest in GCC, sukuk activities continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  