-- 
AMR Flight Is Diverted to Ohio After Six Sickened by Partial Pressure Loss

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-04-01T20:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/american-airlines-says-partial-pressure-loss-sickens-six-people-on-flight.html
An  American Airlines  jet lost
partial cabin pressure in flight, sickening six people on board,
and made an emergency landing in Ohio.  Flight 547 had climbed to 28,000 feet from  Washington ’s
Reagan National airport en route to  Chicago  when two attendants
reported feeling dizzy,  Tim Smith , an American spokesman, said
today. The captain deployed oxygen masks as a precaution as four
passengers also reported feeling ill or faint, Smith said.  “We believe this is a cabin pressurization issue, which
can have multiple causes,” Smith said in an interview. A
recorder that tracks data from systems and instruments on the
plane was later removed and sent to an American maintenance base
in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , for analysis.  Pilots are trained to respond to any unexpected change in
onboard pressure by descending as quickly as possible to about
10,000 feet, said Bill Waldock, a professor of safety science at
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott,  Arizona .
Supplemental oxygen isn’t required at that altitude.  Two passengers and one attendant on the twin-engine Boeing
Co.  737-800  jet went to a hospital to be checked out,
accompanied by a third passenger, Smith said. A flight attendant
was admitted to the hospital for observation, he said.  Flight 547 landed without incident at Dayton,  Ohio , at 8:20
a.m., about an hour and 10 minutes after takeoff, Smith said. It
carried 126 passengers and six crew, he said.  The plane’s Washington departure was delayed by about 30
minutes after mechanics for  Fort Worth , Texas-based American
conducted an unspecified inspection, Smith said. He couldn’t
confirm whether the pressurization system was involved.  Gradual Leaks  Partial depressurizations happen “once or twice a month”
on commercial airliners as leaks develop gradually around seals
or in the pressurization system, Waldock said. The pressure loss
may be so minor that it doesn’t require a diversion and
emergency landing, he said.  “If it happens slowly, it feels kind of euphoric, like
you’ve had a couple drinks” of alcohol, he said. “Most people
recover pretty fast. Oxygen from the cabin masks is going to
help a lot. It feeds in oxygen that’s mixed with outside air and
it’ll help people breathe easier.”  An American MD-80 flown to Dayton picked up all of the
original passengers and departed for Chicago O’Hare at 12:57
p.m. local time. Mechanics flew on the plane to Dayton to check
out the affected 737-800.  American is a unit of  AMR Corp. (AMR)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  