-- 
Hawaii Drops Out of American Express ‘Anti-Steering’ Suit

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-08T20:36:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/amex-seeks-states-documents-in-antitrust-lawsuit-over-merchant-rules.html
The state of  Hawaii  dropped out of a
lawsuit accusing American Express Co. of violating federal law
by preventing merchants from steering customers to cheaper forms
of payment.  Hawaii dismissed its claim in a filing yesterday in federal
court in  Brooklyn ,  New York . The document didn’t state a reason.
The U.S. government and 17 other states accuse American Express,
the world’s biggest credit-card issuer by purchases, of
violating federal antitrust law.  “The decision was simply driven by a shift in resources to
attend to other antitrust matters,” Hawaii Deputy Attorney
General Rodney I. Kimura said in an e-mail today.  The U.S. government and seven states filed the antitrust
suit in October. Other states, including Hawaii, later joined as
plaintiffs. The suit also named  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ,
which reached a settlement with the U.S. Justice Department that
will let merchants reward consumers for paying with lower-cost
credit or debit cards. American Express, based in New York,
vowed to fight the suit.  Joanna Lambert, a spokeswoman for American Express, didn’t
return a call for comment.  Seeking Documents  In the suit, American Express is seeking documents from the
states on their role as credit-card customers, including their
card-acceptance practices.  “The states are just as much ‘merchants’ as the private”
companies that have sued separately, Kevin J. Orsini, a lawyer
for American Express, wrote in an April 4 court filing.  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, on behalf of the states,
on March 31 asked U.S. Magistrate Judge Ramon E. Reyes Jr. to
rule that they aren’t required to provide the documents unless
the state attorneys general themselves possess them.  Hawaii’s dismissal withdraws discovery requests against it,
including one for information about it as a credit-card
customer, according to that filing and DeWine’s.  The settlement with San Francisco-based Visa and Purchase,
New York-based MasterCard hasn’t yet been approved by the court.  American Express in October called the lawsuit “a
significant retreat” from previous U.S. Justice Department
efforts to promote competition in the payments industry.  The case is U.S. v.  American Express Co. (AXP) , 10-cv-4496, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 