-- 
Rafael Benitez Looks to Return to Premier League, Mail Reports: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-04-04T10:19:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/manchester-united-closes-in-on-40-million-ashley-young-signing-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Benitez Return?  Former Liverpool manager  Rafael Benitez  is trying to return
to the Premier League after losing his post at Inter Milan, the
 Daily Mail said .  While the coach has had offers since leaving  Italy  in
December, he’s turned them down to focus on the Premier League,
“because the style is better for me,” he said.  Rio May Face Blues  Manchester United  defender Rio Ferdinand may return from a two-month
recovery from a calf injury to face Chelsea in the Champions
League,  the Sun said.   The player trained twice last weekend and will have one
more full-contact session before heading to  London  for the
match, the newspaper said.  Jose Happy With Draw  Real Madrid coach  Jose Mourinho , who lost a home league
match this weekend for the first time in nine years, said a 0-0
draw with Tottenham in the Champions League tomorrow night
wouldn’t be a bad outcome,  the Guardian said .  Mourinho hadn’t lost in 150 home league matches before a 1-
0 loss to Sporting Gijon two days ago, the newspaper said. He
may play a defensive match against Spurs as his team may be
missing forwards Cristiano Ronaldo and Karim Benzema, the
newspaper said.  Rooney Trouble  Manchester United forward Wayne Rooney may face
disciplinary action after yelling obscenities to a live
television camera after scoring a hat-trick against West Ham
this weekend,  the Telegraph said.   Rooney apologized for the outburst after the 4-2 victory.
The Football Association may give him a written warning, but is
under pressure to take stronger action, the newspaper said.  Adebayor Unloved  Emmanuel Adebayor says he left  Manchester City  because he
didn’t get enough support from fans,  the Sun  said.  Adebayor, who went to Real Madrid on loan, had fallen
behind Carlos Tevez,  Mario Balotelli  and Edin Dzeko at City, the
newspaper said. He moved from Arsenal for 25 million pounds ($40
million) two years ago, but wasn’t often used by new City
manager  Roberto Mancini  and said “it went downhill” with City
fans, the newspaper said.  The 27-year-old said it was different in London because
Arsenal fans “loved me, I think even today they love me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  