-- 
Collahuasi Copper Production Cut by Rain in Chile, Anglo Says

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-04-01T22:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/anglo-says-collahuasi-copper-output-cut-by-heavy-rain-in-chile.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s
Collahuasi copper mine, the world’s third largest, was affected
by “tremendously heavy” rain in the first quarter of the year,
said John MacKenzie, head of Anglo’s copper business.  The mine’s output in January and February was “well below
target,” MacKenzie said yesterday in an interview in Santiago.
The unit that operates the mine is seeking to make up for the
lost output later this year, he said.  “Certainly we can see in the first quarter a negative
impact on Collahuasi production,” MacKenzie said. “It’s going
to be a push” to achieve the mine’s full-year production
target, he said.  Anglo and Xstrata are working to maintain output at
Collahuasi, even as the quality of ore is expected to drop this
year and next, MacKenzie said. Collahuasi’s output fell 6
percent last year to 504,090 metric tons because of a 33-day
workers’ strike, Anglo said in its 2010 annual report.  Above-average seasonal rainfall in the Andean Highlands
during the Southern Hemisphere winter made conditions at the
mine too dangerous for trucks to operate normally and clogged
crushers at the site with mud, MacKenzie said.  ‘De-Bottlenecking’ Plan  Collahuasi’s board, of which MacKenzie is a member,
approved a second “de-bottlenecking” plan last month that will
increase daily processing of ore to between 150,000 and 160,000
tons a day to mitigate the impact of lower ore quality, he said.
The first drive to boost processing will come online in August
this year, he said.  MacKenzie said expansions later this decade could increase
production at Collahuasi to between 800,000 and 1 million tons.
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida mine, the world’s largest,
produced 1.1 million tons last year.  Collahuasi’s operating company yesterday lifted force
majeure, a legal clause invoked when companies can’t meet supply
obligations because of circumstances beyond their control. The
mine declared force majeure in December after a ship-loader
collapsed at the mine port, killing three workers. Collahuasi
will boost shipments later this year, MacKenzie said.  Copper futures for May delivery fell 4.9 cents, or 1.1
percent, to close at $4.2585 a pound on the Comex in  New York .
The price rose to a record $4.6575 a pound on Feb. 15 amid a
growing shortage of the industrial metal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  