-- 
Manhattan Apartment Prices Drop as Buyers Favor Cheaper Co-Ops Over Condos

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-04-01T15:36:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/manhattan-apartment-prices-drop-as-buyers-favor-cheaper-co-ops-over-condos.html
Manhattan  apartment prices dropped
in the first quarter as condominium sales plummeted and new-
development deals made up the smallest share of the market in
almost seven years.  The median price of all properties that changed hands in
the quarter fell 9.9 percent from a year earlier to $782,071,
appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc.  and broker  Prudential Douglas
Elliman Real Estate  said in a report today. Total sales were
little changed at 2,394 as demand for co-operative apartments
offset the plunge in purchases of condos, which tend to be more
expensive, said Miller Samuel President Jonathan Miller.  “The co-op and condo market seemed to be polar opposites
this quarter,” he said in an interview. “The disparity between
the two forms of ownership is probably temporary, but clearly
was a primary cause of the overall decline in price indicators
compared to last year.”  Overall sales held steady as  New York  City’s jobless rate
stayed at 8.9 percent in February, unchanged from the prior
month and a percentage point lower than a year earlier. The
city’s private job count rose by 11,100 in February, as
employment in the financial industry increased, according to the
state Labor Department.  New Developments  The shift in apartment demand sent condo transactions down
24 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier to 964,
according to Miller Samuel and Prudential. Sales of co-ops
climbed 29 percent to 1,430. New developments, which are
primarily comprised of condos, accounted for 14.5 percent of the
sales market, the lowest since the third quarter of 2004.  Residents in co-ops buy  shares in a corporation  that owns
the building, rather than having a deed to the property itself.
Co-ops tend to be in older buildings and often are lower priced
because they are smaller-sized on average, and their boards
maintain more restrictive rules on who may purchase and how
those deals may be financed, Miller said.  “I’m not so sure it’s suggesting a change in buyer
sentiment, it’s just what happened,” he said. “I would
characterize this housing market as relatively stable but
fragile.”  Noah Rosenblatt, founder of  UrbanDigs.com , a real estate
analytics and consulting company in New York, said the decline
in condo sales was because of a lack of properties on the market
rather than falling demand.  “There’s just not as much condo supply as there was a year
ago,” Rosenblatt said. “If condo supply is down, of course
you’re going to see fewer condo sales. The pace of sales is
relative to the pace of supply.”  127 Days  The inventory of condos listed for sale fell 15 percent in
the quarter, according to  Miller Samuel , while co-op supply
increased 5 percent. Apartments on average stayed on the market
for 127 days, four days longer than a year earlier.  The absorption rate, or the length of time it would take to
sell all the inventory at the current pace of sales, was 9.5
months, down from 10.1 months in the year-earlier quarter.  “There’s more security for people with their jobs, overall
finances,’ said Pamela Liebman, chief executive officer of the
 Corcoran Group  brokerage. “A majority of people do not believe
that prices are going to go down any further. You’re just seeing
more people spending money again.”  Different Reports  Five reports issued today showed declines in closing
prices in Manhattan.  Brown Harris Stevens  and its sister firm,
 Halstead Property LLC , reported a median price of $787,500 for
apartments that sold in the quarter, a 4 percent decrease from a
year earlier.  The Corcoran Group said the median price fell 2 percent
from a year earlier to $800,000.  StreetEasy.com , a service that
compiles broker listings, put the median drop at 7.8 percent.  The reports from Brown Harris, Halstead and StreetEasy
showed a drop in sales in the quarter as buyers were no longer
motivated by incentives such as the federal tax credit that
expired in 2010. Wall Street cash bonuses, which are also linked
to housing purchases, fell 8 percent last year from 2009, New
York State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli said last month.  “Buyers don’t have that sense of urgency to purchase,”
said Sofia Song, vice president of research for StreetEasy.com
“Wall Street bonuses weren’t that great this year. And  mortgage
rates , they’re pretty stably low so there wasn’t any urgency for
buyers. They’re taking a wait and see attitude.”  Price Reductions  Listing discounts, which measure the amount of money
sellers subtracted from their last asking price to strike a
deal, fell to 4.5 percent in the first quarter from 5.3 percent
a year earlier, according to Miller Samuel and Prudential. About
60 percent of all price cuts in the period were for co-operative
apartments, whose prices were reduced on average by 6.2 percent,
the StreetEasy report showed.  Two-bedroom apartments comprised 38 percent of properties
that sold in the quarter, according to Miller. One-bedrooms
accounted for 36 percent of sales. Three and four bedrooms had a
13 percent share, as did studios.  The median sales price of luxury apartments, defined as the
top 10 percent by price, fell 14 percent to $3.95 million, even
as the number of sales climbed 1.7 percent to 239 deals,
according to Miller Samuel and Prudential.  “Buyers are buying when they perceive good value,” said
Hall Willkie, president of brokerage Brown Harris Stevens.
“There’s been a cultural change. The idea that it doesn’t
matter what they pay because it’s going to be worth more
tomorrow, people don’t feel that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  