-- 
Antimony, Rare Earths to Rally on China’s Extended New-Mine Ban

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-01T06:30:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/antimony-rare-earths-to-rally-on-china-s-extended-new-mine-ban.html
Antimony, tungsten and rare earths
may extend rallies in  China  after the government banned the
opening of new mines for a further year and lengthened a
prohibition on exploration, according to analysts.  The extension of the ban, announced yesterday, is “bullish
for prices of both the raw materials and their downstream
products,” said Yan Lei, an analyst at Guoyuan Securities Co.
Higher demand coupled with a “modest” increase in output may
also drive prices higher, according to Dongbei Securities Co.  China, the biggest holder of rare earths, has clamped down
on mining while cutting export quotas to conserve resources and
protect the environment. The initiative has boosted prices and
sparked concern among overseas users such as  Japan  about access
to supplies. Rare earths, 17 chemically similar elements, are
used in sonar systems, flat-screen televisions and computers.  The “government is very serious about tidying up this
industry in China, rationalizing it for Chinese use,” said Nick Curtis, chairman and chief executive officer of Lynas Corp.,
which is building a A$550 million (($569 million) rare-earths
project in  Australia . “China is going to turn into a net
importer of rare earths over the next four to five years,”
Curtis said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.  Higher prices will benefit companies from Hunan Nonferrous
Metals Corp., China’s largest tungsten producer, to Xiamen
Tungsten Co., the nation’s biggest tungsten-product maker.
Shares in Hunan Nonferrous rose 10 percent last year, while
Xiamen Tungsten’s have more than doubled.  New-Mine Ban  China’s Ministry of Land and Resources said new-mine
applications for rare earths, tungsten and antimony, which had
been halted until June 30, 2011, won’t be accepted until June 30,
2012, according to a statement yesterday. Output quotas were
raised, it said.  Among rare earths, prices of neodymium, lanthanum and
dysprosium were at all-time highs in  Shanghai  yesterday,
according to data from Shanghai Steelhome Information. Antimony,
used in  car batteries  and as a flame retardant, has been at a
record 112,000 yuan a metric ton since March 25 in Changjiang,
Shanghai’s biggest cash market, according to data on Bloomberg.  Tungsten concentrate traded at 129,000 yuan per ton last
week, according to data from industry publication Metal Bulletin.
The price of the metal used in light bulbs reached a record
129,500 yuan a ton in 2005, Guoyuan Securities’s Yan said today.  China’s 2011 production limit on rare earths was set at
93,800 tons from 89,200 last year; tungsten’s was raised to
87,000 tons from 80,000; and the ceiling on antimony output was
increased to 105,000 tons from 100,000, the ministry said.  ‘Drive Prices Higher’  “A modest rise in production and an acceleration of
downstream demand will drive prices higher,” Wang Xiahui, an
analyst at Dongbei Securities, said today. “The push towards
high-technology manufacturing will ensure consumption of these
materials remains high.”  China accounts for more than 95 percent of rare-earth
mineral production worldwide, according to the  U.S. Geological
Survey . The nation controls 90 percent global antimony output
and about 75 percent of tungsten production, Survey data shows.  China’s demand for rare earths will exceed 110,000 tons by
2015, said Curtis at Lynas Corp., whose shares have risen more
than 350 percent over the past year. “There will be a
structural deficit in this market for many years to come.”  A resource tax on rare earths was boosted from today,
China’s Ministry of Finance said March 24. The tax was set at 60
yuan a ton from 3 yuan on so-called mined light rare earths, and
30 yuan from 0.5 yuan on medium and heavy rare earths.  --Glenys Sim in  Singapore  and Xiao Yu in Beijing. Editors: Jake Lloyd-Smith, Jarrett Banks  To contact the reporters for this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Xiao Yu in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  