-- 
Apple, Intel-Backed Rules on Conflict Minerals Stall Exports

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-04-01T17:23:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/apple-intel-backed-ban-on-conflict-minerals-may-help-spur-exports-to-asia.html
Rules backed by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  to stop sales of minerals used in electronics from funding
war in Central  Africa  took effect today, forcing miners from the
region to seek new buyers in  Asia , according to exporters.  “There is a de-facto embargo, it’s very clear,” said John
Kanyoni, president of the mineral exporters association of North
Kivu, in the Democratic Republic of Congo. “We’re committed to
continue with all these programs. But at the same time we’re
traveling soon to Asia to find alternatives.”  Asian consumption is growing to feed booming manufacturing,
with copper demand in China, the biggest user of industrial
metals, seen rising an average 7 percent a year from 2010 to
2014, more than double the rate of  North America , RBS Global
Banking and Markets says. China’s mine investments have shifted
to Africa from Australia and  Canada , Ernst & Young LLP said.  Smelters are no longer buying from exporters in Goma, the
center of Congo’s tin ore trade, as miners are unable to comply
with the new rules yet, Kanyoni said in the provincial capital.  The Conflict-Free Smelter program applies to shipments of
tin ore, tungsten, gold and coltan from Congo and its neighbors
and demands mineral processors prove purchases don’t contribute
to conflict in eastern Congo. The regulations were developed by
the Washington-based Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition
and Global E-Sustainability Initiative in Brussels, representing
electronics companies including Intel and Apple.  Obama Signs Act  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will also issue
regulations to stem purchases of so-called “ conflict minerals ”
this month, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act signed by President  Barack Obama  in July.  U.S. companies will be required to audit mineral supplies
next year to identify purchases that may be tainted by the Congo
fighting, according to draft SEC regulations.  African traders want more time to implement programs to
track minerals before the new rules take effect, Kanyoni said.
An embargo may affect more than 200,000 artisanal miners in
Congo, according to Pact, a Washington-based development group
helping to implement mineral tracing programs in the region.  Asian manufacturers are unlikely to make up for declining
demand and the higher prices paid by producers in the West,
Jason Stearns, former head of a United Nations expert group
monitoring sanctions on Congo, said by e-mail today.  India  and  China   “There also may be challenges in separating domestic and
international supply chains in India and China to make sure that
minerals from eastern Congo do not enter products destined for
the U.S.,” Stearns said in response to questions.  Congo is struggling to cut links between armed groups and
the mineral trade that have fueled more than a decade of war in
eastern provinces. The country is the largest producer of tin
ore in Africa and has significant reserves of coltan, tungsten
and gold, almost all mined by independent diggers.  The government has been working with industry groups, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the UN
to develop tracing and certification programs. While there has
been some success in removing armed groups from mine sites,
Congolese soldiers are still involved in smuggling minerals in
the east, according to the Ministry of Mines.  President Joseph Kabila says he is seeking to replace
artisanal mining with industrial-sized operations to improve
government revenue and end the difficult working conditions and
human rights abuses that independent miners often face.  At the same time, a six-month ban imposed by Kabila on
mining in three eastern provinces that ended last month delayed
implementing mineral tracing programs, according to ITRI Ltd., a
tin industry group. The president said the ban was meant to root
out “mafia groups” that control the mineral trade.  Congo and the state-run  China Development Bank  agreed last
month to develop infrastructure in the African nation. The deal
will improve road and rail networks, as well as manufacturing
mining, energy and agriculture industries, according to an e-
mailed statement from Prime Minister Adolphe Muzito’s office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Kavanagh in Bukavu at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  