-- 
Marks & Spencer to Re-Enter Paris After Decade With Champs-Elysees Store

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-04-01T11:53:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/marks-spencer-to-re-enter-france-after-a-decade-s-absence.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the
U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, will re-enter  France  after a
decade-long hiatus by opening a store on Paris’s Champs-Elysees
and plans to add more outlets in and around the capital city.  The 1,400 square-meter (15,000 square foot) Champs-Elysees
store will open before Christmas, selling women’s wear, lingerie
and food, London-based Marks said today. The retailer, known for
fashion advertised by 1960s model Twiggy and premium-priced
ready meals, exited France in 2001 under then-Chief Executive
Officer Luc Vandevelde as he sought to rein in costs.  Marc Bolland , who became CEO last May, said Marks & Spencer
has “a place in customers’ hearts” in France and has had an
“enormous” number of requests to return there. The retailer
will introduce its first international website delivering across
the nation and will concentrate stores in Paris selling foods
like Scottish smoked salmon, tea and shortbread biscuits.  “It seems very brave,” said  Simon Irwin , a retail analyst
at  Liberum Capital . Locating the store on the Champs-Elysees
shopping and tourism boulevard “may be good for brand building,
but I would be skeptical about the commercial prospects.”  Marks & Spencer said it’s in “advanced talks” with SSP
Group Ltd., a U.K. franchise partner, about opening Simply Food
outlets in and around Paris. The retailer is also seeking a
“limited number” of larger Parisian stores offering both
clothing and food in shopping malls in the coming three years.  Conran Range  The store at 100 Champs-Elysees will be spread over three
floors, Marks & Spencer said. More than 500,000 people walk past
the outlet each day, the retailer said.  The French website, which is planned to be active before
the  Christmas shopping season , will offer household wares like
the new Conran range in addition to clothes.  The overall investment will be “relatively modest” and
will be “very quickly profitable,” Bolland said on a call to
journalists, without being more specific.  “We don’t expect the market to get too excited at this
stage,” said  John Guy , an analyst at Royal Bank Scotland Group
Plc. “There is a lot to do on the domestic front and over the
short term, a focus overseas may prove a costly distraction.”  Marks & Spencer rose 2.7 pence, or 0.8 percent, to 339.4
pence as of 12:06 p.m. in  London  trading.  ‘Hundreds of Letters’  Marks & Spencer had been in France for 26 years before
deciding to exit the market a decade ago as part of a plan to
close 38 stores in seven European countries. Unlike the European
business, the French stores had been profitable at the time of
the withdrawal, Bolland said today.  “It wasn’t just about France, it was about continental
 Europe ,” Marks & Spencer’s Executive Director of Food John Dixon said of the exit. “Customers want us back. We’ve had
hundreds of letters and e-mails.”  The retailer said it plans to concentrate on Paris for the
coming three-to-four years with 40,000-square-foot full-size
stores in shopping malls and Simply Food outlets.  Marks & Spencer has 697 U.K. Marks & Spencer stores and 358
outlets in 42 territories outside its home market. Bolland said
in November that he’s aiming for international sales excluding
Ireland of 800 million pounds ($1.29 billion) to 1 billion
pounds by 2014, compared with about 500 million pounds in 2010.  The retailer will focus its international strategy on
Europe, the Middle East,  India  and  China , the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 