-- 
Harper's Trade Pledge Shows Canada Firms Lowering Reliance on U.S. Markets

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-01T14:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/harper-s-trade-pledge-shows-canada-firms-lowering-reliance-on-u-s-markets.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s campaign pledge to complete free trade agreements with
 India  in 2013 and the European Union next year underscores how
the country’s exporters are lowering their reliance on U.S.
markets.  Completing trade negotiations with India and the EU would
give Canadian companies access to markets of 1.7 billion people,
Harper said yesterday in Halifax, Nova Scotia, while campaigning
for the May 2 election.  “We must diversify our trade beyond our southern border,”
Harper, 51, said against a backdrop of shipping containers at
the country’s largest port on the Atlantic Ocean. “Finally,
under this Conservative government, that has begun in earnest.”  The share of Canada’s exports to the U.S. shrank to the
smallest since 1982 at the end of last year, according to
Statistics  Canada  data. While the value of shipments to the U.S.
rose 7.5 percent during 2010, shipments to other countries rose
more than five times faster.  Non-U.S. trade helped Canada exit a global recession faster
than other Group of Seven countries, led by orders for
commodities such as copper, gold, and wheat. The prices of these
goods have increased 66 percent since the end of 2008 when they
plunged during the global recession, according to  Bank of Canada 
figures.  BRIC Shipments  Canada’s shipments to  Brazil ,  Russia , India and  China ,
known as the BRIC countries, rose to C$19.1 billion in 2010,
almost doubling from 2005. Meanwhile, exports to the U.S. came
to C$299 billion last year, compared with C$366 billion in 2005,
according to  Statistics Canada .  Coast Clear Wood Ltd. President Tom Sundher, 69, said in a
March 8 interview that he will benefit from Canada’s effort to
expand trade with India.  “My customers in the U.S., their business is down 60
percent, so there is little opportunity,” said Sundher, who
predicts a partial recovery over the next several years. “India
is a market that we are going to be able to develop, but it’s
going to take a little while.”  Even companies that don’t produce commodities are tapping
into new markets. Ottawa-based wireless equipment-maker
 DragonWave Inc. (DWI)  signed a joint venture with Himachal Futuristic
Communications Ltd. in October to enter the Indian market.  “We have been addressing markets outside the U.S.,” said
Alan Solheim, 52, vice president of corporate development at
DragonWave. “India is just the latest addition to that.”  World Cup  Work  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. and the law firm Heenan Blaikie LLP
sent a trade mission to Brazil last month seeking to bid on work
for the 2014 World Cup and the 2016  Summer Olympics .  “The diversification into non-traditional markets for me
is one of the most exciting things that has happened in the
Canadian economy,” Export Development Canada chief economist
 Peter Hall  said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Ottawa newsroom.  In February, Lawrence Eade, chief financial officer of  Wok
Box Fresh Asian Kitchen , joined two dozen  other  business leaders
on a  trade mission  to India led by the mayor of the Vancouver
suburb of Surrey.  Wok Box already has a franchise in  Beirut , and Eade wants
to expand in India after his U.S. expansion plans were delayed
by a recession. India “is such a big market that you can barely
scratch it,” Eade said in a telephone interview.  Harper’s government has signed eight free-trade agreements
since coming to office in 2006, and  negotiations  are under way
with about 50 other countries, according to the trade
department.  ‘Derail’ Talks  The global recession increased the need for new trade
partners while opposition leaders such as Jack Layton of the  New
Democratic Party  and  Michael Ignatieff ’s Liberals would
“derail” the talks, Harper said.  The U.S. “will be our principal trading partner for
certainly my lifetime,” Trade Minister Peter Van Loan, 47, said
in a telephone interview before the election was called. “What
we have been doing in Canada is aggressively expanding our
markets elsewhere.”  The Liberals will advance free trade if elected, Ignatieff
said, adding that Harper is wrong to tie Conservative campaign
fortunes to economic stability.  “He said if I don’t get a majority, Canada will never
conclude another free trade agreement with another country and
you will lose all your jobs,” Ignatieff said at a town hall
meeting in  London , Ontario.  “He’s like a kid I used to know when I was a boy who used
to say ‘If I don’t get my way I’m going to hold my breath until
I turn blue,’” Ignatieff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Winnipeg, Manitoba, at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 