-- 
Harper Says Canada to Wait for Province Reviews Before Ruling on TMX-LSE

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-04-01T18:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/harper-says-canada-to-wait-for-province-reviews-before-ruling-on-tmx-lse.html
Prime Minister Stephen Harper said
today the Canadian government will wait for provincial
authorities to complete reviews of  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc (LSE) ’s proposed purchase of  TMX Group Inc. (X)  before it issues a
decision.  Harper, speaking to reporters at an election campaign stop
in Moncton,  New Brunswick , said that while he didn’t want to
comment on the specific transaction, the merger proposal is a
“complicated one,” on which there is a “range of opinion.”  “Provincial opinion is an important criteria” in the
Canadian law that governs foreign investment, Harper, 51, told
reporters in French.  “The various provincial regulatory authorities and
provinces are going to have to take their own decisions, and so
we obviously will want to see the outcome of those
deliberations,” he said.  Industry Minister Tony Clement said March 23 the two
companies have yet to formally apply for a review of the deal,
which can take up to 75 days to complete.  Canadian financial-service companies have been debating the
merits of the proposed C$3.1 billion ($3.2 billion) all-stock
transaction.  Toronto-Dominion, along with Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, National Bank of  Canada , Casgrain & Co. and AltaCorp
Capital Inc., signed a letter March 9 voicing opposition to
London Stock Exchange’s proposed takeover of TMX Group, which
operates the Toronto Stock Exchange.  National Interests  Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal, the country’s
biggest and fourth-largest banks respectively, are in favor of
the transaction. Bank of Nova Scotia, the No. 3 bank, supports
the deal as long as governance and Canada’s national interests
are protected.  LSE’s bid came less than four months after Harper’s
government rejected a hostile takeover offer for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  following opposition from
provincial lawmakers. Harper today reiterated that the
government plans to review the process and rules under which
foreign investment is approved in Canada, adding the country is
“very open” to foreign investment.  The reasons for the government’s rejection of  BHP
Billiton ’s bid for Potash were “pretty plainly obvious,”
Harper said.  “There is not much doubt out there in the real world that
Canada is a very open place to do foreign investment,” Harper
said. “We don’t often turn down foreign investments and in a
couple of cases that it was done, I don’t think anybody has been
terribly surprised.”  ‘Net Benefit’  Harper’s government rejected BHP’s $40 billion bid on Nov.
3, saying the proposal didn’t provide a “net benefit” to
Canada. Following that decision, Harper said he would provide
guidelines on what sort of investments his government would
tolerate in the future.  Asked about whether the government plans to release new
guidelines, Harper said the existing net benefit test “is
actually detailed in some degree.”  More than half of the country’s top 15 companies by market
value, including  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and BCE Inc., are
prevented from being owned by foreigners. Canada restricts
foreign ownership in banking, insurance, telecommunications,
broadcasting, energy and airlines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 