-- 
Most Asian Stocks Advance as Materials, Energy Firms Climb on China's PMI

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-04-01T10:54:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/asian-stocks-decline-as-exporters-drop-on-rate-concerns-woodside-advances.html
Most Asian stocks advanced after raw
material producers climbed and as growth in China’s
manufacturing activity eased concern that monetary-policy
tightening will slow its economic expansion.  Industrial & Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the nation’s
largest lender, climbed 1.6 percent in Hong Kong.  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,  Australia ’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
increased 1.3 percent in Sydney after the Australian Financial
Review reported that Royal Dutch Shell Plc might be holding for
a sale of its 24 percent stake in Woodside. Honda Motor Co.,
which gets about 44 percent of sales from  North America , slipped
2.4 percent after a Federal Reserve official said  interest rates 
may need to be raised.  “The manufacturing number wasn’t a major surprise, but it
gave an impression that  China’s economy  is maintaining a certain
degree of momentum,” said Tim Leung, who helps manage about 1.5
billion at IG Investment Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “That’s good news.
It’s an indication that focused government policies have cooled
off certain sectors but other parts can maintain growth to
support the overall global economy.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed at 135.69 as
of 7:52 p.m. in  Tokyo , paring losses of as much as 0.4 percent
earlier. About 10 stocks rose for every nine that fell in the
index, which is set for a 1.1 percent advance this week. The
gauge last week had its biggest weekly gain since November as
 Japan  moved to stabilize nuclear reactors damaged by the
earthquake, and as companies from Cnooc Ltd. to Bank of China
Ltd. reported earnings that surpassed estimates.  China,  South Korea  Data  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average dropped 0.5 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.5 percent.  New Zealand ’s
NZX 50 Index increased 0.4 percent, taking its longest streak of
gains in five years to 13 days. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
advanced 1.2 percent.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 1.3 percent as the
nation’s manufacturing growth accelerated, easing concern that
monetary tightening may lead to a slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy. South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.7
percent to a record close as the country’s inflation climbed to
the highest level in 29 months and exports reached a record in
March, adding pressure for another interest-rate increase.  “Money is being attracted to emerging-market regions on a
continuation of the growth theme even in the face of ongoing
uncertainties,” said  Gavin Parry , managing director of Parry
International Trading Ltd. in Hong Kong.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China gained 1.6 percent to
HK$6.56. China Construction and Banking Corp., the nation’s
second-biggest lender, climbed 1.8 percent to HK$7.42. Smaller
rival Bank of China Ltd. increased 0.9 percent to HK$4.37.  Commodity Stocks Rally  Raw material producers gained on speculation demand from
China will increases as manufacturing growth accelerated for the
first time in four months.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the No. 1 producer of the
light-weight industrial metal, advanced 1.4 percent to HK$7.50.
 Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the country’s largest offshore oil explorer, jumped
4.6 percent to HK$20.50. PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest
energy company, increased 2 percent to HK$12.02.  Crude oil for May delivery climbed 2.4 percent to $106.72 a
barrel yesterday, the highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008,
in  New York  amid concern the Libyan conflict will prolong
production cuts.  Woodside Petroleum increased 1.3 percent to A$47.40 in
Sydney. Shell might be holding talks with BHP Billiton Ltd.,
Mitsui & Co. Ltd. and Mitsubishi Corp. for a sale of its 24
percent stake in Woodside, the Australian Financial Review
reported in its Street Talk column, without citing anyone.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.,  China ’s second-largest
insurer, jumped 4.8 percent to HK$82.60 in Hong Kong. Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. raised its share-price forecast to
HK$124.47 from HK$109.14 and maintained its “buy” rating.  Exporters Drop  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3
percent today. The index fell 0.2 percent yesterday after Fed
Bank of Minneapolis President Narayana Kocherlakota told the
Wall Street Journal that policy makers may have to lift rates to
fight inflation.  “Investors are sitting on the sidelines, waiting for the
U.S. jobs data due out tonight,” said Manpreet Gill, Singapore-
based Asian strategist at Barclays Wealth. “It’s premature to
raise interest rates in the U.S. as the labor market is
recovering very slowly.”  A Labor Department report today may show total U.S. non-
farm payrolls rose 190,000 in March and the  unemployment rate 
held at 8.9 percent, economists predict. The jobless rate fell
below 9 percent in February for the first time in 22 months.  Honda Motor declined 2.4 percent to 3,050 yen in Tokyo.
Nintendo Co., the maker of Wii game consoles that counts America
as its biggest market, slipped 1.4 percent to 22,160 yen.
Foxconn International Holdings Ltd., the world’s No. 1 contract
manufacturer of mobile phones, sank 2.4 percent to HK$4.56.  Tokyo Electric Slumps  Tokyo Electric Power Co., operator of the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant, slipped 3.7 percent to
449 yen. Japan’s government hasn’t ruled out the possibility of
investing in Tokyo Electric, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
said.  The company faces claims of as much as 11 trillion yen
($131.5 billion), if the crisis lasts two years, that could lead
to nationalization, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch report said
this week.  China Railway Group Ltd. (390) , the country’s No. 2 heavy
construction company, dropped 5.4 percent to HK$4.75, the worst
performer on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. JPMorgan lowered its
rating to “underweight” from “overweight.” China Railway
Construction Corp., the country’s third-largest heavy
construction company by market capitalization, dropped 4.5
percent to HK$7.72, its lowest level since October 2008, after
also being downgraded to ‘underweight’ by JPMorgan.  Acer Inc. (2353) , the world’s second-largest maker of personal
computers, tumbled 4.8 percent to NT$57.1. The company said
yesterday said Chief Executive Officer Gianfranco Lanci resigned
after clashing with board members over the company’s strategy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .;
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 