-- 
ASX Says It Doesn’t Know Whether FIRB Will Extend Deadline

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-04-01T06:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/asx-says-it-doesn-t-know-whether-firb-will-extend-deadline-1-.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX) , Australia’s biggest bourse
operator, said it has no knowledge of whether the country’s
Foreign Investment Review Board will extend the deadline for
approving  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s takeover bid.  ASX spokesman Matthew Gibbs made the comments in a
telephone interview today after Reuters reported today that
Chief Executive Robert Elstone indicated he expected FIRB to
extend the initial 30-day assessment period.  “The timing is entirely a matter for FIRB,” said Gibbs.
“We’re prepared for either. We continue to promote the benefits
of the merger.”  Singapore Exchange, which runs the city’s securities and
derivatives market, offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash and
share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion ($8.7 billion). The bid
still requires the support of Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan,
the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Australian Securities &
Investments Commission and parliamentarians, several of whom
have opposed the sale.  Singapore Exchange offered on Feb. 15 to give more board
seats to Australians in a concession aimed at overcoming
opposition from lawmakers in Canberra to the deal, which won
approval from Australia’s competition regulator on Dec. 15.  The bid also received a boost in February when Europe’s
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  agreed to merge, and after
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  said it would buy Canada’s  TMX
Group Inc. (X) , increasing pressure on rival exchanges to expand.  Even if the takeover wins all regulatory approvals in
Australia, laws amending the Corporations Act will need to be
passed in both houses of Australia’s parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 