-- 
Maurel Fails to Get Takeover Offers, Oil Explorer’s CEO Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-04-01T15:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/maurel-fails-to-get-takeover-offers-oil-explorer-s-ceo-says.html
Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Henin, the largest
shareholder of the French oil explorer, said he’s failed to
attract a reasonable offer for the company, which has also tried
to list in  London .  “We are talking to people every day,” he said at a news
conference in Paris today. “Since 2006 we have been approached
regularly. Outside one or two ridiculous offers, we have never
had a firm offer that would allow us to go to shareholders and
advise them to sell.”  Maurel mandated Citigroup Inc. and BNP Paribas about a year
ago to search for partners for exploration permits held by the
company, Henin said. Maurel announced yesterday the sale of 50
percent of its stakes in five Colombian permits to Pacific
Rubiales Energy Corp.  “We tried three times over the past two years to list the
company outside  France  through partnerships with small
companies, a sort of reverse takeover,” he said. The failed
attempts would have been for listings in London, he said.  Maurel, which reported a widening of full-year loss
yesterday on higher exploration costs, has struggled to raise
oil production since selling Congolese fields to Eni SpA in
2007. At the time, Henin said output would be halved after the
disposal and returned to pre-sale levels within two years,
helped by new wells in Gabon. The explorer is about half-way to
the target and has announced a series of dry wells.  “I would never accept an offer for the shares held by
Pacifico that isn’t made to all shareholders,” said Henin, who
owns 24 percent of the company through Pacifico SA.  Higher Reserves  Maurel reported a 2010 loss of 139 million euros ($197
million) compared with a loss of 51 million euros the previous
year and a 74 percent increase in certified P1 and P2 reserves
to 288 million barrels of oil equivalent.  Output from onshore Gabon and  Nigeria  fields accounted for
about three quarters of total revenue of 346 million euros and
was 14,618 barrels a day from Gabon and 3,570 barrels a day from
Nigerian fields, the company said in a statement yesterday.  “Weak results as expected, but strong outlook,” Bertrand
Hodee, an analyst at Kepler Research who has a “buy” rating on
the stock, wrote in a note to clients today. The company has a
“strong production outlook and lower cash burn on exploration”
in coming years, he said.  The company is changing strategy to spend less on
exploration and more on developing reserves and raising output,
Henin said today.  “We have accumulated sufficient reserves and quasi-
reserves that we can lower our level of exploration because we
don’t need it,” he said, adding that Maurel may acquire more
reserves onshore Nigeria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 