-- 
Australia Boom Means Men Without Degree Earn More Than Bernanke

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-04-01T09:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/australia-boom-means-men-without-degree-earn-more-than-bernanke.html
Travis Marks, a 24-year-old with no
college degree, is hitting pay dirt as Australia’s mining
bonanza fuels demand for workers. Already making triple the
nation’s average salary, he expects to get even richer.  “With what’s going on in the industry, there’s lots of big
jobs coming up,” said Marks, who earns A$220,000 ($227,150) a
year -- more than Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
$199,700. His job as a rigger for a company providing
construction and maintenance services to the resources industry
is “a really good way to get ahead as a young bloke,” he said.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens faces a
developed-world rarity: wage pressure in an economy near full
employment. While he paused in raising  interest rates  this year
to gauge the impact of the nation’s most expensive natural
disaster, HSBC Holdings Plc projects an increase in the third
quarter.  “The concern for central bankers is what happens for
inflation expectations,” said Paul Bloxham, chief economist at
HSBC in Sydney and a former Reserve Bank official. “The big
concern is that you start to see signs of some sort of wage-
price spiral.”  Rate Outlook  With incomes rising for Australians like Marks, National
Australia Bank Ltd. says markets underestimate the likelihood of
higher rates to contain inflation. Traders are betting Stevens
won’t boost borrowing costs at the next policy meeting April 5
or for the rest of the year and see only about a 50 percent
chance of an increase in February 2012, according to bank bill
futures.  In a research report this week, National Australia Bank
said investors should bet on three-year swap rates rising to
5.75 percent from about 5.3 percent. It sees the nation’s
currency appreciating to a record $1.05 in June from $1.0342 at
6:30 p.m. in Sydney today.  Australia’s economic growth is extending into sparsely
populated areas as Chinese and Indian demand drives export
revenue from raw materials to a record. Perth-based  Mineral
Resources Ltd. (MIN)  said in March it exported the largest manganese
shipment from an Australian port when a 74,000 metric-ton
Panamax carrier departed Port Hedland, in the northwest of
 Western Australia .  737 Service  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , based in Sydney, started a passenger
service March 14 using Boeing Co. 737s to help workers reach job
sites in Western Australia’s Shire of East Pilbara. The region,
where 10,500 people live in an area the size of  Germany  and
summer temperatures reach 46 degrees Celsius (115 Fahrenheit),
is also the home of Mt. Whaleback, the world’s biggest open-cut
iron-ore mine, owned by Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company.  HSBC estimates the total value of Australian mining and
resource projects proposed or under construction at $777 billion,
or about 60 percent of gross domestic product.  Wages grew 3.9 percent in the three months through December
from a year earlier, the fastest pace since the first quarter of
2009, according to government figures. When the central bank
decided March 1 to keep its official cash rate at 4.75 percent,
it said wage growth had returned to levels reached before a 2009
decline.  “Guys that were asking for A$150,000 in November are
asking for A$180,000 and getting it,” said Damien Lee, general
manager of Professional Recruitment Australia, which supplies
workers to companies including  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Leighton
Contractors and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   RBA’s Threshold  The Reserve Bank has had a threshold of about 4.5 percent
for wage growth -- a combination of 2 percent productivity and
the 2.5 percent mid-point of the central bank’s inflation target
range, according to  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at
Nomura Australia Ltd. in Sydney. That limit now is likely 4
percent or lower, as productivity slows to less than 1 percent,
he said.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes today shows investors expect consumer
prices will rise an annual 2.97 percent for the next five years,
the fastest among eight developed nations tracked by Bloomberg.  “For industries like construction, incentives to move to
mining sites will increase and put pressure on wages in capital
cities,” Roberts said. Wage growth already is near the central
bank’s “line in the sand,” where increases become inflationary
and unions may exert more pressure, he said, predicting the
central bank will raise rates later this quarter.  Unions Respond  Unions see an opportunity to lock in higher compensation as
unemployment hovers around 5 percent, about half the rate in the
 euro zone .  The Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union,
 Australia ’s biggest in the building industry, sought pay
increases in February of as much as 24 percent over four years.
The Communications, Electrical and Plumbers Union is seeking
annual pay rises of 5 percent over the next three years, almost
double the inflation rate.  “Industry has the capacity to pay,” Dave Noonan, national
secretary of the CFMEU’s construction division, said in an
interview.  Unions contend that cost-of-living pressures for workers
are higher than reflected in the nation’s consumer price index,
which rose 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter from 12 months
earlier, the smallest gain in a year.  Inflation-Wage Gap  The gap between the central bank’s weighted median measure
of inflation and the annual wage-price index, based on Feb. 23
statistics bureau figures, is the widest in six years.  Torrential rains in Queensland during December and January
have compounded concerns about labor shortages. The storms
flooded about 30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut rail lines
and damaged crops. An area the size of  Egypt  was declared a
disaster zone, including parts of the state capital, Brisbane.  Reconstruction is expected to cost A$20 billion, according
to Melbourne-based Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
and it will take two years and 34,000 tradesmen to rebuild
Brisbane homes, said Graham Cuthbert, executive director of
Brisbane-based industry group Master Builders Queensland.  Queensland already was experiencing high demand for civil
engineers after the state was hit by floods a year earlier and
that will only intensify after the latest deluge, said Simon
Bristow, regional director at Hays, a recruitment firm.  “The market is tightening,” Bristow said.  Help Wanted  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion, are proceeding near Gladstone, a port in Queensland.
 Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil producer, and  BG
Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-biggest gas producer, will start
hiring the first of more than 10,000 construction workers needed
for the projects later this year.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard said in February the resource
industry could be short 36,000 workers in the next four years
and the government will have to introduce measures to encourage
older Australians and parents to rejoin the workforce. She also
plans to relax restrictions on skilled migration.  Labor availability and rising wages are the biggest concern
of 55 percent of Western Australian businesses this year, up
from 42 percent a year ago, according to a survey released
yesterday by  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and the state’s
Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  So far, the Reserve Bank has relied on consumer spending
restraint and higher household savings to cool inflation in
recent quarters and allow it to delay rate increases.  GDP Expansion  With incomes rising in an economy forecast by the bank to
grow 4.25 percent in 2011, when measured from the fourth quarter
of 2010 to the final three months of this year, surging wages
could force Stevens to boost a benchmark rate that’s already the
highest in the developed world.  “At some stage, households will be comfortable with the
war chest of savings built and throw caution to the wind,” said
Jarrod Kerr, director of Australia rates strategy at Credit
Suisse in  Singapore . “The RBA is lying in wait for this moment
and will restrain households if spending accelerates too much.”  Marks, the rigger who works for  Monadelphous Group Ltd. (MND) ,
expects to move closer to home in northern Queensland as mining
and energy projects swing into gear, he said in a telephone
interview from Perth, the capital of Western Australia. Friends
often ask him how they can get into the resources businesses,
too.  “It’s hard work, but for the money it’s worth it,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  