-- 
Austar Denies Report Foxtel, Liberty Agreed on $1.96 Billion Takeover Bid

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-04-01T03:25:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/austar-denies-report-foxtel-liberty-agreed-on-1-96-billion-takeover-bid.html
Austar United Communications Ltd. (AUN) 
denied a report in the Australian Financial Review that said
pay-television operator Foxtel agreed to offer A$1.9 billion ($2
billion) for the company. Austar shares pared gains.  Foxtel has reached an accord with billionaire  John Malone ’s
 Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , which owns 54 percent of Austar, to bid
A$1.49 for each Austar share, the Financial Review said, citing
unidentified people close to the talks. A formal proposal hasn’t
been submitted to Austar’s directors, according to the newspaper.  “Today’s speculation is uninformed and inaccurate,”
Austar said in a regulatory statement. “No agreement has been
reached between Liberty Global Inc. and Foxtel, including with
respect to price.” Austar said it discussed the matter with
Liberty.  Austar, which climbed as much as 6.5 percent before the
statement, traded 3.8 percent higher at A$1.37 as of 1:50 p.m.
in Sydney.  The company said March 2 that Foxtel talked to Liberty
about a possible takeover. There’s no guarantee discussions will
lead to a proposal, it said in today’s statement. A purchase
would help Foxtel, which focuses on metropolitan areas, expand
in rural regions where Austar dominates.  “The Austar transaction speculated about in some media has
been talked about for years and years,” Foxtel said today in a
statement. “Our practice has always been not to comment on such
stories.”  Telstra Corp. owns 50 percent of Foxtel, with the remaining
stake split between James Packer’s Consolidated Media Holdings
Ltd. and Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ; 