-- 
Senior Bank Bond Risk Tumbles After Ireland Rules Out Haircuts

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-04-01T13:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/bank-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against losses
on European banks’ senior debt fell to the lowest in more than
five months after Ireland ruled out forcing bondholders to share
the cost of rescuing its lenders.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers fell 7 basis points
to 136 as of 2 p.m. in  London , the lowest since Nov. 19,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Contracts insuring Portuguese
and Spanish  government bonds  also fell, while swaps on Irish
debt stayed lower after the nation’s rating was cut.  Ireland said yesterday it won’t impose losses on holders of
senior bank bonds even as it revealed it may need to inject 24
billion euros ($34 billion) into the financial system. Investors
were concerned Ireland would set a precedent for burden sharing
as it grapples with banks’ mounting loan losses following the
bursting of a real-estate bubble.  “There are to be no haircuts on unguaranteed, senior-
unsecured debt of Irish banks for now, which in the short term
we see as very bullish,” said Ivan Zubo, an analyst at BNP
Paribas SA in London. The commitment to protect senior
bondholders will also help “other senior peripheral bank debt,
including  Portugal  and  Spain ,” he said.  Credit-default swaps protecting Irish sovereign debt
declined 14 basis points to 629, according to CMA.  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the country to BBB+ from A-, citing concern it
may need to borrow more while backing the “credibility” of the
bank stress tests.  Allied Irish Bonds  Credit-default swaps tied to the senior bonds of Allied
Irish Banks Plc dropped 2.5 percentage points to 16 percent
upfront and 5 percent a year, according to CMA. That means it
costs 1.6 million euros in advance and 500,000 euros annually to
protect 10 million euros of the bank’s debt for five years.
Contracts on Irish Life & Permanent Group Holdings Plc fell 3.5
percentage points to 16 percent upfront.  Irish lenders’ bonds rose, with Allied Irish Banks Plc’s
1.5 billion euros of senior unsecured floating-rate notes due
September 2011 climbing 1.8 cents on the euro to 93.7, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The Dublin-based bank’s 650.3 million euros of 12.5 percent
subordinated bonds due June 2019 increased 1.2 cents to 23.4
cents on the euro.  Bank of Ireland Plc’s 1.465 billion euros of senior
unsecured floating-rate notes maturing in September 2011 rose
2.4 cents to 94.9, while its 747 million euros of subordinated
10 percent notes due February 2020 climbed 6.2 cents on the euro
to 52.7, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show.  Confidence Improves  Confidence in banks across  Europe  improved, with Markit
Group Ltd.’s index of default swaps linked to subordinated
financial debt dropping 5 basis points to a one-week low of 259.  Contracts on Portuguese sovereign bonds fell 11 basis
points to 570 after climbing to a record yesterday, CMA prices
show. That’s even as the nation’s borrowing costs surged at a
debt auction today to get some of the money it needs to avoid a
bailout.  Even if Portugal follows Greece and Ireland in requesting
international aid, “it appears likely at least senior
bondholders will be fine,” said Zubo of BNP Paribas.  Credit Agricole SA strategist Harpreet Parhar in London
said the auction “should help alleviate some of the concerns of
a 2011 default.”  U.S. Payrolls  Debt-insurance costs for European banks, companies and
sovereigns extended their declines after a Labor Department
report showed the  U.S. economy  added more jobs than forecast in
March, reinforcing confidence in the strength of America’s
recovery. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly dropped to a two-
year low of 8.8 percent.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments fell 2 basis points to 172,
while contracts on Italy declined 5 basis points to 145 and
Spain was 4 basis points lower at 230. A drop signals an
improvement in investor perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps on 40 mostly
junk-rated European companies fell 5 basis points to 378, the
lowest in almost two weeks. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
125 companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 1.5 basis
point to 99.5, JPMorgan prices show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt from default for
five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  