-- 
Bank of China Cuts Interest Rate on Record Deposits of Yuan in Hong Kong

-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-04-01T10:20:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/bank-of-china-cuts-interest-rate-on-record-deposits-of-yuan-in-hong-kong.html
Bank of China  Hong Kong  Ltd. cut its
interest rate for yuan deposits in Hong Kong after money held in
the accounts rose to a record in February, reflecting increased
demand for trade and investment in the currency.  The lender, the city’s sole clearing bank for yuan banking
services, cut the annual rate to 0.629 percent from 0.865
percent, spokeswoman Angel Yip said yesterday. Deposits climbed
10 percent in February from the previous month, or more than
fivefold from a year earlier, to a record 407.7 billion yuan
($62.3 billion), the Hong Kong Monetary Authority reported.  “People have been converting Hong Kong dollars into yuan
because of expectations China’s currency will appreciate, and
we’re slowly having growth of yuan investment products,” said
 Gavin Parry , managing director of Parry International Trading
Ltd. in Hong Kong. “If the deposits continue to increase at a
faster pace than existing investment opportunities, rates could
fall further as banks can’t find many uses for deposits.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is seeking to promote use of the yuan as
an alternative to the  U.S. dollar  in global trade and
investment, without adding to appreciation pressure. The
People’s Bank of China said last week it will broaden cross-
border use of the yuan and facilitate the repatriation of
overseas yuan funds.  “The move is to boost yuan liquidity in Hong Kong so that
enough capital is available to be invested in yuan-denominated
financial products in the near future,” Bank of America Merrill
Lynch economist Lu Ting wrote in an emailed note today.  The yuan gained 4.1 percent in the past year and touched
6.5452 per dollar today, the strongest level since the country
unified official and market exchange rates in 1993. The currency
traded at 6.5479 in  Shanghai . Non-deliverable forward contracts
show expectations it will climb 2 percent in the coming year.  Approved Programs  The central bank earlier this month expanded trial use of
yuan for international trade settlement to the entire country
from 20 provinces. The settlement amount reached 506.3 billion
yuan last year, according to the central bank data. The program
started in July 2009. China also approved 29.2 billion yuan of
quotas for five foreign institutions to invest in its interbank
 bond market  as of December.  The lower rates were unlikely to change the trend of rising
deposits given the expectations of yuan appreciation and the
dominance of the city’s exports to China in local-currency
settlement, Citigroup Inc.’s Hong Kong-based economists Adrienne Lui and Cheng-Mount Cheng wrote in a report today.  HSBC Holdings Plc. reduced the top range of rates on yuan
time deposit accounts to 0.6 percent from 0.76 percent, said
Mark McCombe, the lender’s chief executive officer for Hong Kong
at a briefing today. The London-based bank kept the rate on
regular saving accounts at 0.45 percent “to encourage customers
to continue to save in the currency,” McCombe said.  Trade Settlement  Hong Kong’s trade settlement denominated in yuan rose
“significantly” to a monthly average of 95 billion yuan in the
first two months of 2011, Peter Pang, deputy chief executive at
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said in a transcript published
on the regulator’s website March 25. That compared with a
monthly average of 57 billion yuan in the second half of 2010,
he said.  People will need more better-yielding products to keep the
currency as deposits, said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest man, is planning to sell
shares in a Chinese real-estate investment trust in Hong Kong’s
first yuan-denominated initial public offering, according to a
sales document obtained by Bloomberg last week.  Regulators may also start to let foreign companies invest
yuan raised offshore in the nation’s financial markets within
months in a program dubbed the mini-qualified foreign
institutional investor, three investment firms said in January.  Fiduciary Account  Separately, BOC Hong Kong, a unit of China’s third-largest
bank, said it will allow lenders involved in yuan settlement in
Hong Kong to deposit the currency in a special account with
China’s central bank, starting from April 8. It said China’s
central bank will cut the interest rate offered to the clearing
bank to 0.72 percent from 0.99 percent, effective today.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said such fiduciary
accounts for yuan settlement are designed to address the issue
of credit limits on funds placed with the clearing bank, which
had to account for them on its balance sheet.  Bank of China 
faced risks that one of its customers would go bankrupt before
it could settle trades, leaving it with losses.  “The custodian account is a big step forward as it
eliminates the banks’ difficulty on parking excessive yuan
liquidity,” Becky Liu, a fixed-income strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in a phone interview. Some banks have been
investing such funds into the yuan bond market in Hong Kong.  Dim Sum Bonds  Sales of yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong, known as dim
sum bonds, totaled 17.4 billion yuan in the first quarter of the
year, compared with zero in the same period of 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Abundant idle renminbi cash that keeps funding costs low
will continue to attract renminbi bond issuances this year,”
Citigroup’s economists Lui and Cheng wrote.  The average yield for yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong
has fallen to 1.958 percent from a high of 2.28 percent on Dec.
31, according to data compiled by HSBC. That’s less than half
the 4.097 percent average yield paid by government-linked
companies in  China , according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
China Quasi-Government Index.  HSBC, the top-ranked underwriter of dim sum bonds this
year, expects sales will more than triple to between 120 billion
and 150 billion yuan in 2011 on rising demand for China’s
currency outside the country.  Unilever sold 300 million yuan of debt in Hong Kong this
month at a yield of 1.15 percent, the first European consumer
company to issue in the market. The yield reflects investor
expectations that returns will be boosted by yuan appreciation.
The yuan is a unit of China’s currency, the renminbi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  