-- 
Berkshire’s Abel Advances in Buffett’s ‘Top 4’ After Sokol Exit

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A p r i l   L e e
-- 
2011-04-01T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/berkshire-s-abel-advances-into-buffett-s-top-4-managers-after-sokol-exit.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Gregory Abel, considered a candidate to succeed Chief Executive Officer
 Warren Buffett , got a promotion and the prospect of greater
visibility with the resignation of his mentor,  David Sokol .  “I perceive him as stepping into that top-four circle of
potential successors,”  David Kass , a professor at the
University of  Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith School of Business,
said yesterday in an interview. “He is very much a contender.”  Buffett, 80, is sizing up executives at Berkshire’s more
than 70 subsidiaries in search of a successor. Abel, 48, joined
Berkshire in 2000 and helped Sokol expand the company’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings. In 2008, Sokol stepped back from
daily operations and Abel took over as CEO of the unit. On March
30, Sokol resigned amid revelations about his stock dealings,
and Buffett named Abel chairman of MidAmerican.  “That’s a notch up the ladder in the hierarchy,” said
Andrew Kilpatrick, who wrote “Of Permanent Value: The Story of
Warren Buffett.” Abel is “sort of new on the scene of being in
this very, very top mix, but he’s definitely there. He’s been
below the radar because Sokol was so ahead of him.”  Buffett disclosed this week that Sokol had purchased stock
in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  while helping to negotiate Berkshire’s 
takeover of the company. The stock purchases, executed in
January, may have given Sokol a profit of about $3 million,
according to disclosures by Buffett and data compiled by
Bloomberg. Both Sokol and Buffett said the trades were legal.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating, said a person with knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public.  ‘Dave and Greg’  Buffett introduced Abel to Berkshire shareholders in the
billionaire’s 2002 annual letter, calling the manager Sokol’s
 “key associate.”  In subsequent letters, Abel’s name always
followed Sokol’s as Buffett praised “Dave and Greg” for their
work expanding the energy business.  Sokol said in an interview last year that Abel began
working with him at MidAmerican in the early 1990’s when the
company was independent. Sokol, previously MidAmerican’s CEO,
sold the company to Buffett for about $9 billion. Sokol said it
was his idea to promote Abel three years ago.  “I went to Warren and said, ‘Greg is doing a fantastic
job,’” Sokol said on Aug. 16 at Bloomberg headquarters in  New
York . “Warren said ‘If that’s what you think is the right thing
to do, then that’s fine.’ So I turned the CEO title over to
Greg.”  CEO Candidates  Berkshire said in February it has four candidates to
succeed Buffett as CEO, without identifying them. Kass, who has
accompanied students to meet Buffett in Omaha,  Nebraska , said
top candidates may be Abel, railroad CEO Matt Rose, reinsurance
head Ajit Jain and Tony Nicely, chief of Geico Corp. Buffett is
also Berkshire’s chairman and biggest shareholder.  Abel helped Sokol expand MidAmerican under Berkshire
through the acquisition of a natural-gas pipeline and power
producers in  California  and the U.K. Profit at the unit gained
5.6 percent to  $1.13 billion  last year. Berkshire posted $13
billion of net income last year, up 61 percent from 2009.  “I think Greg Abel was really the hands-on, day-to-day
manager at MidAmerican,” Philip Smyth, senior director and
utility credit analyst at  Fitch Ratings , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s my understanding that his focus was and is on
MidAmerican.”  Abel’s Compensation  Abel’s total compensation over the past five years amounted
to $57.3 million, according to MidAmerican regulatory filings.
His salary increased to $1 million from $775,000 in 2008, the
year he was promoted. Abel has retained a minority stake in
MidAmerican.  Buffett relied on Sokol, 54, as a manager and a dealmaker
for more than a decade. The billionaire sent Sokol to  China  to
scout an investment in carmaker BYD Co. and tasked the executive
with the turnaround of NetJets Inc., Berkshire’s luxury-flight
unit. In 2007, Buffett wrote the foreward for Sokol’s self-
published book, “Pleased, But Not Satisfied.”  Sokol’s Lubrizol stake as reported by Buffett would have
been worth about $9.92 million on Jan. 7, based on the closing
price on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have risen
about 30 percent to $133.96 since Buffett’s deal was announced,
boosting the stake, if Sokol still owns it, to $12.9 million.  “I don’t believe that I did anything wrong,” Sokol told
CNBC in a televised interview. “I can understand the appearance
issue, and that’s why we made it public.”  Abel is on the  Drake University  board of trustees, the
executive board of the Mid-Iowa Council Boy Scouts of America
and the board of the American Football Coaches Foundation,
according to a  biography  posted on MidAmerican’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
April Lee in New York at 
 alee355@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Reichl at   dreichl@bloomberg.net  