-- 
Bernanke Cash Drives Junk Bond Frenzy as JPMorgan Faces Record Competition

-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-04-01T04:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/bernanke-cash-drives-junk-bond-frenzy-as-jpmorgan-faces-record-competition.html
An unprecedented number of
investment banks are vying to underwrite a record amount of  junk
bonds  as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  succeeds in
driving cash to the neediest U.S. borrowers.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  led 42 firms helping companies to
issue speculative-grade debt this year, up from 39 in the first
quarter of last year and 14 in the first three months of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. High-yield bond sales
have reached about $88.3 billion in 2011, on pace to exceed last
year’s record $287.6 billion, the data show.  The Fed is in the midst of buying $600 billion of
Treasuries in an attempt to pump cash into the financial system
and encourage investors to wade into riskier debt. The strategy
is allowing high-risk borrowers to cut interest expense, extend
maturities and avoid missing debt payments. Moody’s Investors
Service says the default rate in the U.S. tumbled to 3 percent
in February from a peak of 14.7 percent in November 2009.  “They’re all out there and they’re all pitching hard,”
said Douglas Coltharp, the chief financial officer at
Birmingham, Alabama-based  HealthSouth Corp. (HLS) , the nation’s
largest provider of inpatient services. “Banks go where the
activity and the opportunity is.”  HealthSouth has issued about $650 million of bonds with B
ratings since the end of September, compared with about $915
million of notes in the previous seven years, Bloomberg data
show. Debt rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at
 Standard & Poor’s  is considered speculative grade, or junk.  Reducing Costs  The company has earmarked about $75 million of the
financing to repay more expensive bonds, reducing the coupon
paid on the debt by 3.25 percentage points annually, according
to a March 24 company presentation.  With yields on government and other investment-grade debt
hovering at about record lows because of the Fed’s policies,
bondholders are clamoring for higher payouts. Investors poured
$14.4 billion into global high-yield mutual funds in the first
two months of the year, compared with $31.5 billion in all of
2010, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  Yields on speculative-grade bonds fell to 7.4 percent on
average this week from a peak of 20.8 percent in March 2009,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The drop saves a
borrower $13.4 million a year in interest on every $100 million
of bonds.  Returns on junk bonds of about 88 percent since the end of
2008 are more than double those of the S&P 500 stock index,
including reinvested dividends, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  ‘More Leverage’  The universe of high-yield bonds will expand, even as
financing rates rise when the Fed stops stimulating the economy,
said Alberto Gallo, a credit strategist at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  in  New York .  “The number of issuers is growing,” Gallo said. “There
will be new issuers and there will be maybe more leverage going
forward.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II
index tracks 2,164 bonds with a par value of $1 trillion, up
from 1,321 valued at $344 billion a decade ago. This year, 195
companies have sold debt rated below investment grade, up from
155 during the same period of 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Virginia Beach, Virginia-based ADS Tactical Inc., Hooters
Inc. of Atlanta and Family Dollar Stores Inc. in Matthews,  North
Carolina , have turned to bonds for the first time this year,
according to the data.  Loans Dwindle  Junk bond sales are also rising as banks become less
willing to offer loans amid new requirements from the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision that they hold more capital
against risky assets, according to Gallo.  Commercial and industrial loans at America’s banks totaled
$1.4 trillion as of March 16, down from a peak of $1.62 trillion
in October 2008, according to the Fed.  Fed officials purchased $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt and
Treasuries through March 2010 to pull the U.S. out of the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression. They voted in
November to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries in a
second round of a policy known as quantitative easing that will
run through June.  The initiative, called “QE2” by economists and investors,
initially pushed down yields on government debt, allowing
companies to issue bonds with record low yields.  Diminishing Share  As junk bond sales increase, the market for underwriting
the debt has become more fragmented. The three most-active
underwriters of the securities this year claimed the smallest
share since at least 1999.  New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
in Charlotte, North Carolina, and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  of
Zurich managed 36.4 percent of new high-yield debt sales, down
from 37.6 percent in all of last year and 41.3 percent in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In 2000, when companies issued less than half the volume of
speculative-grade notes that they sold in this year’s first
quarter, the three top underwriters managed about half of all
high-yield debt sales.  “There’s a lot of qualified banks that want to
participate,” said Kolja Rockov, chief financial officer of
 Linn Energy LLC (LINE) , a Houston-based acquirer of producing oil and
gas facilities. “We picked our partners based on the
relationships that we’ve had for a long period of time.”  No More Left  Linn Energy sold $1 billion of 10.5-year debt in September
with a coupon of 7.75 percent, Bloomberg data show. In February,
it offered to repurchase outstanding notes with coupons of 9.875
percent.  The Houston-based company has no outstanding bank debt left
to refinance, so proceeds from additional sales will go toward
buying oil and gas wells, Rockov said. “Odds are the
acquisition market is very robust and we’ll be back in the
market.”  JPMorgan has a 14.2 percent share of the market, followed
by Bank of America at 11.8 percent and Credit Suisse at 10.4
percent. New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the U.S. bank that
received the largest taxpayer bailout, fell to seventh from
third in the same period of 2010, as its share dropped to 6.5
percent from 12.2 percent.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  of  London  showed the biggest jump of the top
10 underwriters, increasing to No. 6 from 8 as its share jumped
to 8.5 percent from 5.6 percent. The other top 10 banks this
year, in order, are Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , New York-
based Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  -- also located in New York
--  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  of  San Francisco  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  in Zurich.  ‘Variety of Banks’  Securities firms are expanding into junk bonds after the
collapse of the structured finance market. Unlike corporate
debt, sales of mortgage bonds, asset-backed securities and
collateralized debt obligations have yet to rebound.  “There are a variety of banks actually willing to work
with you,” said Mark Wetzel, the chief financial officer of
data-center developer  DuPont Fabros Technology Inc. (DFT)   Washington-based DuPont Fabros used seven underwriters when
it sold $101.3 million of hybrid notes this month that pay
interest at a rate of 7.625 percent. “Everything is better,”
he said. “We were able to tap the market at what we think is
pretty attractive rates for us.”  Some banks are finding it hard to compete. LaBranche & Co.
in New York shut its credit-brokerage business in July.
Chapdelaine Credit Partners closed after an agreement to receive
capital from Primus Financial Holdings Ltd. fell through, people
familiar with the matter said in January.  ‘Natural Cycle’  “The market will always be competitive and there will be
firms that are either trying to gain market share or pulling
back and doing less,” said Peter Toal, the head of Americas
leveraged finance syndicate at Barclays in New York. “Today it
feels like more of the former than the latter. It’s a natural
cycle. More banks are getting into the lending game.”  Sales of speculative-grade debt company debt in the U.S.
dwindled to $65.9 billion in 2008, the year Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc. filed for bankruptcy protection and as banks wrote
down $1.1 trillion of losses worldwide, Bloomberg data show.
That led to pent up demand, fueling $450.3 billion of issuance
in the following two years.  It is surprising “that the markets got to be as ebullient
as they are so quickly,” HealthSouth’s Colthard said. “I don’t
think it could get much better.”  HealthSouth’s newest bonds are unsecured, freeing the
company to use assets to back other types of financing that are
easier to get during a less-liquid economy, he said.  Investors are more willing to accept looser terms after
non-financial companies boosted cash holdings to almost $1.9
trillion at the end of last year, according to Fed data. Moody’s
projects the default rate will continue dropping through this
year, to 1.7 percent in February 2012.  “Corporate America has been stockpiling a lot of cash,”
said Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst at North Palm
Beach, Florida-based Bankrate.com, in an interview earlier this
month. “From the standpoint of access to credit markets, they
look like a pretty good risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  