-- 
Blackstone-Backed Senrigan Said to Grow Assets to $1 Billion

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-04-01T07:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/blackstone-backed-senrigan-said-to-grow-assets-to-1-billion.html
Senrigan Capital Group Ltd., backed
by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , became one of the first Asia-focused
hedge fund startups since 2009 to reach $1 billion in assets,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Hong Kong-based event-driven hedge fund founded by
former Citadel Investment Group LLC executive Nick Taylor
attracted $55 million of new capital from investors this month,
they said, declining to be identified as the information is
private. The inflows brought total assets to $1.01 billion, the
people said.  Senrigan benefited from demand for funds that profit from
events such as mergers amid market uncertainty and investor
preference for large, experienced managers following the global
financial crisis and a series of hedge fund scandals. More than
80 percent of the $55.5 billion net inflows into the global
hedge fund industry went to firms managing $5 billion or above,
according to Chicago-based data provider Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “Many international investors have been attracted to the
Asian event-driven story, due to trends such as natural resource
consolidation in  Australia  and the increasingly acquisitive
nature of Chinese companies on the international market,” said
Frederick Ingham, Neuberger Berman Group LLC’s Hong Kong-based
head of hedge-fund investments in the Asia-Pacific region.  The Senrigan fund returned more than 9 percent from
inception in November 2009 to February, said the people. Taylor,
Senrigan’s chief investment officer, couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  $1 Billion Mark  Hong Kong  and  Singapore  are home to a combined 18 hedge
fund houses that manage $1 billion or more each, according to a
March 28  statement  of London-based data provider Hedge Fund
Intelligence.  Morgan Sze, a former global head of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s principal strategies proprietary trading desk, started
his own hedge fund today. He has attracted more than $1 billion
of commitments for the fund, though the final initial
subscription amount won’t be known until later, two people with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Senrigan was the largest Asia-focused independent hedge-
fund startup since May 2007 when it started trading in 2009 with
$150 million. The amount included $45 million from its own
partners and a $100 million installment of $150 million
committed by the world’s biggest buyout firm Blackstone, said
the people.  Hedge Fund Startups  Senrigan told potential investors in November when its
assets approached $750 million that it would soon stop taking
money from non-existing investors, the people said.  About 49 Asia-based  hedge funds  opened in 2009 with an
average of $23.6 million and have since expanded assets to about
$50 million, according to HFR data.  “Those able to allocate bigger tickets may place emphasis
on factors such as whether a manager is at a crucial mass, the
stability of the business, the pedigree of the investment team,
the quality of the investment process and especially the risk
management,” Ingham said.  Senrigan invests in companies whose valuations are affected
by announced or possible events, such as mergers.  Investors added $765 million to Asia-focused event-driven
funds last year in expectation of revived corporate activities
and returns less tied to general market direction. That’s more
than the total inflows into the regional hedge fund industry as
other strategies lost assets, HFR said.  Event-Driven Funds  Pending and completed mergers and acquisitions globally
rose 27 percent to $2.2 trillion last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Event-driven hedge funds returned 11.7 percent in 2010,
beating the returns of the HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index
for the second year in a row.  Taylor oversaw more than $1 billion for Modal Capital
Partners, a hedge fund of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  that he helped
set up in 1999, and for Citadel.  He assembled a team of 11 people at Senrigan’s outset that
has since grown to 21. Nine of the people worked together since
their Modal days, said the people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  