-- 
Blockbuster Said to Get Bids From Icahn, Dish, SK Telecom

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-01T22:46:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/blockbuster-s-landlords-business-partners-object-to-proposed-asset-sale.html
Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ)  has bids from
investor Carl Icahn,  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and SK Telecom Co. to
compete with a $290 million offer from a group of lenders at a
bankruptcy auction of the movie-rental chain, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The bids are slightly higher than the offer from the group
of secured creditors, said the person, who declined to be named
because the talks are private. Corporate liquidators Gordon
Brothers Group LLC and Hilco Merchant Resources LLC are also
among the bidders, the person said. The bankruptcy auction is
set for April 4.  The company’s lawyers and advisers currently are reviewing
the bids, as are lawyers and advisers for the secured creditors,
the person said. The first $125 million of a successful bidder’s
money would go to pay the most senior secured creditors in full,
leaving little for other creditors unless an offer is larger
than expected, the person said.  Icahn didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment, nor
did Gordon Chief Executive Officer Michael Frieze. Francie Bauer, a Dish spokeswoman, declined to comment, as did Hilco
executive vice president Richard Kaye.  SK Telecom CEO Ha Sung-Min didn’t immediately return an e-
mail requesting comment outside regular business hours in  Seoul .
The company said earlier today it may bid for Blockbuster.  ‘Multiple Bids’  “There were multiple bids received, and the debtors are
analyzing it,” a lawyer for the creditors, Richard S. Kanowitz,
said in a phone interview today, following yesterday’s deadline
to submit competing bids.  Blockbuster, once the world’s largest movie-rental chain,
has a “stalking-horse” offer, or lead bid, from Cobalt Video,
a venture between lenders including  Monarch Alternative Capital
LP . The $290 million bid compares with Blockbuster’s $630
million in senior secured notes, indicating bidders are steeply
discounting the company’s assets.  Icahn, a Blockbuster lender and former director, has long
invested in media companies ranging from Time Warner Inc. to
 Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. SK
Telecom may want Blockbuster to boost video content for mobile
devices and Web-connected televisions, said Kim Hong Sik, an
analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co.  Content is the “biggest issue” for Dish CEO Charles Ergen, said Wells Fargo Securities LLC analyst  Marci Ryvicker .  “I don’t know if he needs Blockbuster’s stores, but at
least he would have rights to the content, and that’s what he’s
likely gunning for,” she said.  Administratively Insolvent  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland , who will oversee the
auction, said at a March 10 hearing to approve the revised offer
from Cobalt that the company still appeared to be
administratively insolvent, or unable to pay its priority claims
and the cost of its bankruptcy.  Kanowitz and Michael Freitag, a Blockbuster spokesman,
declined to comment on the number of bids received.  Blockbuster hasn’t proven that it or a buyer can pay
amounts still owed under contracts, landlords and business
partners including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , T-Mobile USA Inc. and Yahoo!
Inc. said in objecting to the bankrupt company’s proposed sale.  Smaller creditors filed more than 50 objections in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan  in the past two days to the way
Blockbuster intends to transfer old contracts to a new owner
during the sale. The Dallas-based company reported a $27.5
million operating loss in February.  ‘Vague Promise’  “Given the number of contracts and business relationships,
a number of people were expected to inquire about their cure
amounts,” Kanowitz said. The objections shouldn’t be an
obstacle to a sale, he said.  The Cobalt group’s “statement that it will obtain funding
commitments prior to the auction which will enable it to perform
under the leases is at most a vague promise,” a group of
objecting landlords said. The group, including Aston Properties
Inc. and  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , asked that the sale be
delayed until Blockbuster and proposed buyers can give financial
assurances that the landlords will be paid.  T-Mobile, which licenses intellectual property to
Blockbuster, said it is owed about $29,513 and Blockbuster has
proposed paying it nothing while having the buyer assume their
contract. Too little is known about the buyer to assign the
agreement, said T-Mobile, a  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  unit.  ‘Competent Evidence’  Blockbuster owes Yahoo about $263,105, not about $187,965
as listed in a March 26 court document, lawyers for the
Sunnyvale, California-based  Internet company  wrote. Blockbuster
has said it expects to have enough funding by the time of the
auction to pay off money owed under its contracts.  “As of this date, Yahoo is unaware of any competent
evidence submitted in support of this representation,” Yahoo
said in a March 31 court filing.  Microsoft said Blockbuster owes it about $155,842 for data
and messaging services support, not about $98,627 as asserted by
the company. Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , said it
doesn’t know the auction’s winner so can’t yet say whether it
will continue its contracts with Blockbuster’s buyer.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported the bids from  Dish
Network  and investor  Carl Icahn , without saying how it obtained
the information.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  