-- 
Bovespa Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Gain Since February on Economic Data

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-04-01T21:13:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/bovespa-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-gain-since-february-on-economic-data.html
Brazilian stocks climbed for a
fourth day, posting the biggest weekly advance since February,
after industrial production data showed the economy remains
robust and as U.S. unemployment fell to a two-year low.  Confab Industrial SA (CNFB4) , a Brazilian maker of steel tubes used
in the oil and gas industries, gained as industrial output
expanded. Banks rallied, with the MSCI Brazil/Financial Index
posting its biggest weekly gain since July, on speculation
 interest rates  will increase less than expected.  The Bovespa index gained 1 percent to 69,268.29 at the
close of Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, erasing
most of this year’s decline. Fifty-two stocks climbed on the
index, while 15 fell. The measure advanced 2.2 percent this
week, the biggest weekly gain since the five days ended Feb. 18.
The real strengthened 1.5 percent to 1.6070 per  U.S. dollar .  “Lower unemployment in the U.S. and higher industrial
production in  Brazil  signals economic growth here and there may
be stronger than we thought,” said  Felipe Casotti , who helps
manage 1.2 billion reais ($744 million) at Maxima Asset
Management in Rio de Janeiro. “But I’m not sure if the positive
effect on the equity markets will last long. Stronger growth may
also mean the U.S. will lift interest rates sooner than expected
to curb inflation.”  Brazilian stocks reached their highest level in more than
two months after the national statistics agency reported that
February industrial production rose at the fastest pace in 11
months. Output gained 1.9 percent from January and 6.9 percent
from the same month a year earlier, the agency said.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a monthly gain of
0.9 percent and an annual rise of 5 percent. February’s output
results compare with January’s 0.2 percent monthly gain and 2.5
percent year-on-year rise.  U.S. Jobs  The  U.S. economy  added more jobs than forecast in March and
the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to a two-year low of
8.8 percent, a sign the labor-market recovery is gathering
speed. Payrolls increased by 216,000 workers last month after a
revised 194,000 gain the prior month, the Labor Department said
today in  Washington . Economists projected a March gain of 190,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Brazil’s central bank said March 30 it will postpone a plan
to bring inflation down to a 4.5 percent target until 2012.
Policy makers said the costs of meeting that goal through
interest rate increases this year would be too high, spurring
speculation borrowing costs will rise less than expected.  Financials Gain  The 12-member MSCI Brazil/Financials Index gained 1.4
percent. It advanced 8.6 percent this week, the most since July
17.  Confab jumped 6.8 percent to 4.70 reais.  Iguatemi Empresa de Shopping Centers SA (IGTA3) , a Brazilian mall
operator, fell 1.6 percent to 39.25 reais after it was cut to
“neutral” from “buy” at Bank of America Corp., which cited
reduced margins and project delays in a note to clients today.  The Bovespa fell 0.1 percent this year through yesterday as
homebuilders and banks fell on concern faster inflation will
limit growth, outweighing gains in oil and steel producers. The
index trades at 10.7 times analysts’ earnings estimates,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to
a ratio of 14 for the Shanghai Composite Index, 7.5 for Russia’s
Micex, and 17.8 for  India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  