-- 
Brazil Said to Study Scrapping Plan to Tax Iron-Ore Exports

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-04-01T20:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/brazil-said-to-consider-scrapping-plan-to-tax-iron-ore-as-vale-ceo-ousted.html
Roger Agnelli’s ouster as chief
executive officer of  Vale SA (VALE3)  may prompt Brazil to drop plans for
a tax on iron-ore exports, a government official familiar with
the discussion said.  The government was considering imposing a levy on iron-ore
shipments to force the world’s largest producer of the mineral
to step up investments in steel production, said the person, who
asked not to be named because they are not allowed to discuss
the matter publicly.  Vale’s controlling shareholders are seeking to replace
Agnelli after he was criticized for not spending enough on some
Brazilian projects. His ouster follows months of speculation
about his position under President  Dilma Rousseff  after the
government criticized Vale for not investing more in the
country, including in steel production.  The government may consider other measures to boost steel
production after Agnelli’s replacement, the person said.  Vale rose as much as 0.6 percent in Sao Paulo trading after
the news on the possible scrapping of the tax, paring losses of
as much as 0.7 percent earlier. It lost 0.5 percent to 47.17
reais at 3:04 p.m.  New York  time.  The controlling group hired an international recruitment
consultant to help draw up a list of three possible candidates
to succeed Agnelli, 51, once his term expires in May, Vale said
in a statement late yesterday.  Controlling Group  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale is controlled by Valepar SA.
Previ and Funcef, the pension funds of state-run banks  Banco do
Brasil SA (BBAS3)  and Caixa Economica Federal, hold 49 percent of the
holding company along with Petros, the retirement fund for
government-controlled oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   Other shareholders of Valepar include  Bradespar SA (BRAP3) , the
holding company of  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Mitsui & Co. and BNDESPAR,
a subsidiary of the Brazilian state-owned development bank.  In addition to the BNDES stake and the ruling Workers
Party’s ties with management of the pension funds, the
government owns 12 so-called golden shares in Vale that give it
veto powers over decisions including the location of the
company’s headquarters. The golden shares stem from the 1997
privatization of Vale, founded by Brazilian dictator Getulio Vargas in 1942 to supply steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA
as part of drive to industrialize the country.  Government Pressure  Former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  and cabinet
members repeatedly argued in the past two years that the company
should spend more in the steel, shipbuilding and fertilizer
industries to create jobs instead of focusing on supplying  iron
ore  and other raw materials to  China .  “I’m not irritated with Vale,” Lula said in an interview
with Brazilian financial daily  Valor Economico  in September
2009. “I’ve insisted, systematically, that Vale builds
steelworks in Brazil. Vale can no longer afford the luxury of
just being an iron-ore exporter.”  President Rousseff also complained about Vale’s focus on
selling raw materials abroad as Lula’s cabinet chief, saying
that the company should be subject to government “controls.”  “I cannot agree with the fact that Vale exports iron ore
to China at the same time that we import crude steel and
products,” Rousseff told Epoca magazine last year. “That’s not
a relationship that interests us as a nation,” she said.  Vale reacted to the government’s demands by increasing some
investments in the steel and fertilizers businesses. The company
opened a steel joint venture in Rio de Janeiro state with
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  in June and will start developing two new steel
projects later this year. The company also spent $5.8 billion
during 2010 buying fertilizer assets as part of a plan to almost
triple potash and phosphate rock output by 2015.  Political Risk  “It appears this saga has taken one step closer to an
end,” Jonathan Brandt, an equity analyst at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
in New York, said in a note to investors today. “While the
noise surrounding a potential CEO change will abate, the
political risk surrounding Vale has increased and will most
likely remain at a heightened level for some time,” he wrote.  Vale plans to invest a record $24 billion this year, about
64 percent of it in  Brazil , as it seeks to boost iron-ore
production to 522 million metric tons by 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  