-- 
Brazil Real Gains Beyond 1.62 Level in Biggest Weekly Advance Since June

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-04-01T21:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/brazil-real-gains-beyond-1-65-level-in-biggest-weekly-advance-since-june.html
Brazil ’s real posted its biggest
weekly gain since 2009 on speculation the government is
prioritizing efforts to slow inflation over its fight against a
stronger currency.  The real advanced 1.5 percent to 1.6070 per dollar at 5:02
p.m. New York time, from 1.6318 yesterday. The real surged 3.4
percent this week, the most since the period ended July 17,
2009, and rose to its strongest since August 2008.  The central bank said March 29 the economic costs are “too
high” to cut inflation to its 4.5 percent goal this year from a
more than two-year high of 6.13 percent currently. Investors are
now speculating the government will shift strategy and allow the
real to strengthen as a counterweight to inflation, said Mariano Cirello, who manages 5 billion reais ($3.1 billion) as chief
investment officer at Mapfre Investimentos in  Sao Paulo .  “Rumors have been circulating that the government
abandoned the floor of 1.65 reais, and that now the value would
be 1.60 reais” per dollar, Cirello said in a telephone
interview today.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , after saying in September
that a global “currency war” is cutting into Brazilian
exporters’ profits, has boosted taxes on some investments to
stem the real’s advance. This week he slapped a 6 percent levy
on international debt sales and loans with an average minimum
maturity of up to 360 days, after tripling in October a tax on
foreigners’ purchases of fixed-income securities.  Global Economy  Optimism on the prospects for global growth also is
boosting demand for developing-world assets, said Felipe Brandao, emerging-markets strategist at ICAP Brasil, the third-
largest currency broker on the BM&FBovespa SA exchange. The  U.S.
economy  added more jobs than forecast in March and the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to a two-year low of 8.8
percent, a report showed today.  “The payroll today came in above expectations and this is
favoring risk assets,” Brandao said in a telephone interview.  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contracts climbed
after the country’s industrial production rose more than
economists expected in February. The yield on the contract due
in January, the most traded today in Sao Paulo, rose 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 12.15 percent.  Brazil’s industrial production rose 1.9 percent in February
from the month-ago period, the national statistics agency said
today in a report distributed in  Rio de Janeiro . That compares
to a median forecast of 0.9 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 28
analysts.  “Industrial production came in high,” Ures Folchini,
vice-president of fixed-income at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA in
Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “Everyone is
uncomfortable with the level of inflation and activity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  