-- 
Bright Food May Raise $916 Million Selling Bonds in China, Listing Unit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-01T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/bright-food-may-raise-916-million-selling-bonds-in-china-listing-unit.html
Bright Food Group Co., Shanghai’s
biggest food and dairy company, may raise as much as 6 billion
yuan ($916 million) this year by selling bonds and listing a
unit to fund acquisitions and boost production capacity.  A  Hong Kong  initial public offering of unit Yunnan Yinmore
Sugar Co. may raise 2.5 billion yuan to 3 billion yuan, Chairman
Wang Zongnan said in an interview yesterday. A bond sale in
China may raise another 3 billion yuan, he said.  Bright Food may also list its food assets as a group in
Hong Kong in three years as it seeks to buy overseas companies
in industries including sugar, dairy, and food production and
distribution, Wang said.  The Shanghai-based company  aims to
boost revenue from outside China to as much as 30 percent of
sales in five years from 5 percent now, he said.  “We want to become a first-class Chinese company with
global influence within five years and overseas expansion is a
must,” Wang, 55, said at the company’s headquarters in central
 Shanghai .  Bright Food, which is at least partly owned by the Shanghai
government, plans to sell the bonds with a 5 percent coupon,
Wang said. The company has a total of about 8 billion yuan in
bonds maturing by 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The maker of Chinese candy brand “Big White Rabbit,” with
interests that span farming, food and beverage production and
retailing, was established by combining four state-owned
companies in August 2006, according to its website.  Yoplait, GNC  Bright Food lost a bid to buy 50 percent of French yogurt
maker Yoplait last month. General Mills Inc. said March 18 it
was in exclusive talks to buy the stake.  The company inquired last year about acquiring GNC Holdings
Inc., the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-based retailer of vitamins
and supplements that raised $360 million in an initial public
offering.  Bright Food is interested in forming a joint venture with
GNC to sell the U.S. company’s products in  China , Wang said. It
won’t buy publicly traded  shares of the U.S. company, he said.  The two companies last year reached an initial agreement to
form such a venture.  Bright Food has the most market share of convenience-store
operators in China at 15.6 percent last year, more than double
that of second-ranked Brilliance Group Co., according to
Euromonitor International.  Profit Growth  Wang’s company has four domestically traded units: Bright
Dairy & Food Co., Shanghai Jinfeng Wine Co., Shanghai Haibo Co.
and Shanghai Maling Aquarius Co.  Bright Dairy fell 0.4 percent to 10.03 yuan in Shanghai
trading. The stock has lost 2.4 percent over the past year,
compared with a 5.7 percent decline for the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index.  Bright Food’s 2010 profit increased 45 percent to 3.2
billion yuan as sales rose 22 percent to 61.8 billion yuan, it
said Jan. 26.  “Bright” is a brand created by Shanghai Yimin Foods Co.,
one of the four companies that merged to form Bright Food, soon
after the Communist Party took power in 1949. One of the
engineers at Yimin shortly after it was formed was former
Chinese leader  Jiang Zemin .  -- Michael Wei . With assistance from  John Liu  in Beijing and
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai. Editors: Frank Longid, Vipin Nair  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  