-- 
Brown Measures Take Aim at California Pension ‘Spiking’ and Other Abuses

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-04-01T17:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/brown-measures-take-aim-at-california-pension-spiking-and-other-abuses.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown , who
resisted some Republican demands for an overhaul of state
retirement plans during unsuccessful budget talks, proposed
bills to end pension abuses and said he’s exploring a hybrid
between traditional plans and 401(k)-style accounts.  Brown, a Democrat, offered seven measures yesterday that
among other things would prohibit employees from pension
“spiking” by manipulating overtime, unused vacation and
special compensation to create an inflated benchmark for future
benefits. Other bills would ban retroactive benefits and forbid
workers from purchasing additional service credits.  Brown conceded earlier this week that he was unable to get
enough Republican support for a June referendum on the
cornerstone of his  deficit-cutting  plan, extending $9.3 billion
of expiring taxes. The pension bills he proposed include much of
what Brown and Republicans had agreed upon before talks broke
down.  “These pensions will bankrupt the state of California
unless we have some reform,” said Senator Tony Strickland of
Moorpark, co-chair of the Republican-led  Taxpayers’ Caucus .
“These are very important issues and I commend the governor for
addressing them.”  Strickland said the proposals are a step in the right
direction, though he stopped short of a wholesale endorsement,
saying “the devil is in the details.”  Brown said he’d push through the pension bills with or
without Republican support. The bills are written with a so-
called urgency clause allowing them to take effect immediately.
Passing a bill with an urgency clause requires a two-thirds vote
in the Legislature, and Democrats are a total of four votes
short of that supermajority.  Ballot Measure  During budget negotiations, Republican lawmakers sought a
ballot measure that would dismantle the existing pension system
that guarantees benefit levels regardless of investment returns,
replacing it with a hybrid that includes elements of a
traditional plan and a 401(k) account, where beneficiaries bear
more of the  investment risk .  Brown said he’ll develop a bill that would give government
workers the option of such a hybrid plan, though he didn’t
provide details.  “Governor Brown’s proposal assumes public employees will
volunteer for lower benefits, which ignores reality,” Senate
Republican Leader Bob Dutton of Rancho Cucamonga said yesterday.  Dutton said Brown’s plans fall short because they would be
enacted by legislation that can easily be undone later by
lawmakers. He wants the pension issues put to a vote that can
only be undone through a referendum or ballot initiative.  Republican Negotiations  After budget negotiations broke down March 25, Senate
Republicans asserted that Brown had refused proposals for
splitting pension costs equally between employers and employees,
and for increasing eligibility standards for retirement, among
other measures.  Brown said yesterday he’s also putting together a plan to
deal with the growing gap between assets and expected
obligations of the  California  State Teachers’ Retirement System,
the second-largest public pension in the U.S.  Calstrs’ so-called unfunded liability grew to $56 billion
at the end of June, according to a report released yesterday.
The 38 percent increase will require the state to boost its
annual contribution by $140 million to $150 million, according
to the pension fund. California paid $573 million toward teacher
retirements last year.  Service Credits  Since 1999, teachers have been  allowed  to purchase up to
five years of service credit to retire early and collect a full
pension. Brown would repeal that benefit beginning in July.  Brown said he intends to set a maximum on the pension that
a retired state worker can receive. He also wants to ban so-
called double-dipping, when a retiree who is collecting a
pension takes another government job.  Californians for Health Care and Retirement Security, a
union-backed coalition that claims 1.5 million public employees
and retirees, issued a statement criticizing Brown’s proposal.
The group’s chairman, Dave Low, who is executive director of the
California School Employees Association, said unions already
agreed to concessions that saved state and local governments
hundreds of millions of dollars.  “These unilateral changes fly in the face of collective
bargaining law and amount to a breach of agreements that state
government has made with millions of workers,” Low said in a
statement. “California’s policymakers need to take a careful
look at the billions of dollars in tax breaks for the wealthy in
our state budget before they launch an assault on California’s
middle class.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  