-- 
Calipari’s NCAA Basketball Title Bonus Tops VCU Coach’s Entire Salary

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-04-01T16:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/calipari-s-ncaa-basketball-title-bonus-outstrips-vcu-coach-s-annual-salary.html
John Calipari, coach of the
 University of Kentucky  basketball team, will earn a bonus larger
than the annual base salary of  Virginia Commonwealth University 
coach Shaka Smart with the Wildcats’ eighth national title.  Calipari will receive a $375,000 bonus if  Kentucky  wins the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  tournament, as compared
with Smart’s $325,000 base annual salary. The Rams play  Butler
University  in the first semifinal in Houston tomorrow, followed
by the game between the  University of  Connecticut  and Kentucky.  “John is the caretaker and CEO of one of the greatest
traditions in all of college basketball,” Kentucky Athletic
Director Mitch Barnhart said in a telephone interview. “It is
an enormous responsibility.”  Jim Calhoun will earn an $87,499 bonus if the Huskies win
its third national title, and Smart would get an additional two
months’ salary, roughly $54,000 dollars, if the Rams advance to
their first-ever NCAA final, according to contracts obtained
through open-records requests. Private schools aren’t required
to release financial information, and Butler spokesman James
McGrath declined in an e-mail to discuss any details of coach
Brad Stevens’s contract.  VCU spokesman Scott Day and UConn spokesman Mike Enright
didn’t respond to voicemails seeking comment.  Kentucky paid $5.76 million in salary last year to the 52-
year-old Calipari and his staff, the most of all 53 public
schools in the six biggest conferences -- the Big Ten, Big 12,
Big East, Southeastern, Atlantic Coast and Pac-10.  Motivational Tools  Andrew Zimbalist , a professor of economics at  Smith College 
in Northampton,  Massachusetts , said large performance-contingent
bonuses isn’t what motivates coaches.  “They know that keeping their jobs depends on success and
that the next contract they get will be a richer contract if
they go to the Final Four,” Zimbalist said in a telephone
interview.  The Wildcats are playing in their first NCAA semifinals
since 1998, when coach Tubby Smith led the team to its seventh
national championship. Kentucky, which spent more on recruiting
last year than any other public school in a major conference,
has the most wins (2,052) and NCAA tournament appearances (51)
in Division I history.  Calipari is 64-11 with two SEC Tournament championships in
his two seasons at the school. According to his contract, he has
earned $4.13 million so far this season -- of which $325,000 is
from performance-related bonuses -- and could receive an
additional $375,000 bonus if the Wildcats win.  “John has been a tremendous promoter of our program in
terms of visibility, and how that impacts everything we do from
recruiting to on-floor competitiveness,” said Barnhart, 51.  Five-Year Extension  Last year Calhoun signed a five-year extension that pays
him $350,000 in base salary and $1.95 million this year in
consulting and media fees. Calhoun has already earned a $58,333
bonus for taking the Huskies to the Final Four. Should UConn win
its third national championship on April 4, Calhoun would earn
an additional $29,167.  Now in his 25th year as coach, the 68-year-old Calhoun has
taken his teams to four NCAA semifinals and won two national
titles in 1999 and 2004.  Smart, 33, signed a six-year contract at VCU last June with
an annual base salary of $325,000. He earned a bonus of one and
a half month’s salary, roughly $41,000, for securing a bid to
the NCAA tournament. Smart has already secured roughly $163,000
in bonuses for taking the Rams to their first Final Four, and
stands to earn an additional $54,000 if the Rams win their sixth
tournament game against Butler.  The Rams finished their regular season with four losses in
their final five games and received an at-large entry into the
NCAAA tournament.  Academic Bonuses  Smart and Calipari have academic-performance bonuses built
into their contracts; Calhoun does not, although he would lose
other bonuses if his team fails to meet NCAA minimum academic
requirements. Smart gets a $4,000 bonus for every player that
graduates on time; Calipari would receive a $50,000 bonus if the
Wildcats maintain a graduation rate of 75 percent or better.  Zimbalist said that instead of paying coaches large rewards
for reaching the postseason, the money might be better spent to
increase the incentives for higher graduation rates or team
grade point averages.  “The reason they don’t do that is because everybody knows
what the coaches are hired for,” Zimbalist said. “That is to
win.”  -- With assistance from Michelle Steele in  New York . Editors:
Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 