-- 
Canadian Currency Reaches Strongest in Three Years Amid Growth Speculation

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-01T21:13:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/canadian-dollar-reaches-strongest-in-3-years-after-u-s-payrolls-increase.html
Canada ’s dollar reached the
strongest level in more than three years versus its American
counterpart as job growth in the U.S., the nation’s biggest
trade partner, fueled bets the global recovery is quickening.  The currency strengthened for a fifth straight day, the
longest rally in three months, as stocks and commodities rose.
It gained versus most major peers as crude oil, Canada’s biggest
export, touched a 30-month high after Chinese economic data
spurred speculation demand will expand in the world’s biggest
energy user.  “The global economy is more robust than we might have
thought, and it lends itself toward supporting the Canadian
dollar,” said  David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto. “The U.S.
data seems to suggest that our major trading partner is doing
better, which is helping the Canadian dollar.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.8 percent to
96.32 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.06
cents yesterday. It touched 96.26 cents, the strongest level
since Nov. 15, 2007. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0382.  The loonie reached the strongest level since it was first
allowed to float in 1950, 90.58 cents, on Nov. 7, 2007, as the
collapse of the U.S. subprime-mortgage market disrupted
financial markets and weakened the greenback.  The currency gained 2.8 percent over the past three months,
its third straight quarterly advance.  Bonds Fall  Government bonds  declined, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 3.37 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security
maturing in June 2020 fell 15 cents to C$101.05.  The top performers today against the U.S. dollar included
the Brazilian real, the loonie, the  Mexican peso ,  Norway ’s krone
and the  New Zealand dollar . All are currencies of nations that
produce commodities for export.  Canada’s dollar appreciated as much as 1.1 percent against
the euro, the biggest intraday jump since Feb. 14, to C$1.3592
before trading at C$1.3714. The loonie rose as much as 2.5
percent versus the yen, the largest intraday gain since March
18, when Group of Seven central banks intervened to stabilize
the Japanese currency after it surged following a record
earthquake. Central banks intervene by selling or buying
currencies to influence prices.  The Canadian dollar strengthened 2 percent over the past
six months in the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, a measure of 10 developed-nation currencies. The euro
fell 0.8 percent and the yen tumbled 5.3 percent, while the
greenback lost 4.2 percent.  Weekly Gain  The Canadian currency was gained the most in a week against
the greenback in five months, 1.8 percent, as commodities and
equities gained.  Crude oil for May delivery rose as much as 1.6 percent to
$108.47 a barrel in New York, the highest since September 2008.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials  gained
0.4 percent. Raw materials, including oil, account for about
half of Canada’s export revenue.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5 percent, and
the MSCI World Index increased 0.5 percent.  U.S. payrolls increased by 216,000 workers last month after
a revised 194,000 gain the prior month, the Labor Department
said today in  Washington . Economists projected a March gain of
190,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The jobless rate dropped to a two-year low of 8.8
percent, from 8.9 percent in February.  ‘Strong Risk Story’  “What’s good for the U.S. is good for Canada,” said Rahim Madhavji, president at Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange Inc. in
Toronto. “It’s a strong risk story, a strong commodity story,
that’s causing the Canadian dollar to creep higher.”  The data bolstered speculation, encouraged by some policy
makers, that the U.S. Federal Reserve may curtail stimulus
efforts. Fed Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said
today a stronger rebound in growth or inflation could require
the bank to begin withdrawing stimulus. St. Louis Fed President
 James Bullard  also said this week it may need to be cut back.  “It’s certainly a possibility” the central bank may have
to raise  interest rates  before the end of this year, Plosser
told reporters after a speech in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .  The Fed, which meets April 27, is buying $600 billion of
Treasuries through June to spur the recovery. It has kept the
U.S. benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “The data this week has been consistent with the hawkish
rhetoric coming from the Fed and validates what we’ve heard,”
said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington at
Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage.  Bank of Canada   The Bank of Canada, which meets April 12, has kept its
benchmark rate at 1 percent since September after raising it
three times last year. Policy makers reiterated on March 1 after
their last meeting that “considerable slack” remains in the
economy. Exporters face “considerable challenges” from a
 currency trading  near a three-year high, they said.  European Central Bank officials have said they may raise
their key rate on April 7 from 1 percent to fight inflation.  China ’s Purchasing Managers Index rose to 53.4 in March
from 52.2 in February, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement on its website today. It’s the
first time in four months manufacturing growth has gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandra Harris in  New York  at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  