-- 
Cattle Struggling to Survive in Fukushima as Radiation Taints Soil, Water

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-04-01T11:02:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/cattle-struggling-to-survive-in-fukushima-as-radiation-taints-soil-water.html
Cattle in  Japan ’s Fukushima
prefecture are struggling to survive as radiation leaks from a
crippled nuclear power plant contaminate soil and water and
force farmers to evacuate the area.  “Farmers must make a very tough decision -- running away
from their farms to protect themselves or staying there to take
care of their livestock,” Kenzo Sasaki, 70, who raises 25
cattle in Irisabara village in Fukushima, said in an interview.
“Animals in the evacuation zone are probably dying without food
and water as growers in the area have no option but to flee.”  Cattle futures surged to a record in Chicago yesterday on
speculation demand for U.S. beef would increase in Japan after
radiation from the stricken nuclear plant contaminated food
supplies. Tyson Foods Inc., the top U.S. meat processor, said
the country may increase imports.  Hazardous radiation levels have been detected in areas
outside an evacuation radius around the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
plant, site of the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl. The
 United Nations ’ nuclear watchdog agency said that a potential
uncontrolled chain reaction at the plant could cause further
radiation leaks and increase the risk to human health.  Sasaki’s farm is near Iitate village, about 40 kilometers
(25 miles) from the plant, where the government discovered
163,000 becquerel per kilogram of radioactive cesium and 1.17
million becquerel of radioactive iodine in soil. Iitate is
outside the 20-kilometer evacuation zone.  Iitate Village  Iitate is a farming region in Fukushima for wagyu cattle --
a breed genetically predisposed to intense marbling, producing a
high percentage of oleaginous unsaturated fat. Sasaki’s herd
does not include wagyu.  Fukushima is the 10th biggest producer of beef cattle in
Japan, representing 2.7 percent of the total. Japan exported 677
metric tons of beef, including wagyu, in the year to March 31,
2010, government data show.  Vietnam  was the top buyer with 433
tons, then  Hong Kong  with 119 tons and the U.S. with 81 tons.  Radiation in beef produced in Tenei village in Fukushima
prefecture was found to be within legal limits after re-testing
today, the health ministry said. The ministry earlier said that
beef from the village, about 70 kilometers from the Fukushima
plant, had a combined 510 becquerel per kilogram of cesium-134
and cesium-137, exceeding the limit of 500 becquerel.  Tainted Products  Countries from  Australia  to  China  limited food imports from
Japan amid concern products may be contaminated by radiation.
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has restricted milk and vegetable
shipments from Fukushima and neighboring prefectures after
tainted produce was discovered through random testing.  Some 137 products, including milk, beef, and vegetables,
were found to be contaminated in  Tokyo  and five prefectures to
its north and east as of late yesterday, up from 99 as of late
March 26, according to a health ministry statement.  Sasaki, who produces about 200 kilograms of raw milk a day
from his 20 cows, is destroying everything since the government
imposed restrictions on shipments from Fukushima on March 19.  He spends about 400,000 yen ($4,785) a month for feed, but
can no longer earn money from raw-milk shipments, which brought
him 1 million yen a month previously.  “I was told by my cooperative that the organization will
pay for the lost income from next month as it will seek
compensation from Tokyo Electric,” Sasaki said yesterday.  Fewer Eggs  Damaged reactors at the Fukushima nuclear plant may take
three decades to decommission and cost operator Tokyo Electric
Power Co. more than 1 trillion yen ($12 billion), analysts said.  Fukushima is the 13th largest grower of dairy cows with
17,600 animals in 567 farms, or 1.2 percent of Japan’s total.  “It is still unknown how many of them were killed by the
earthquake and tsunami,” said Hirofumi Yoda at the livestock
department of the Fukushima prefectural government. “We cannot
say how many are affected by the nuclear-plant accident as the
crisis is still going on.”  Japan’s biggest earthquake on record and tsunami that hit
the Fukushima plant on March 11 also destroyed feed production
facilities in the northeast, reducing supplies to livestock
farmers in the region, said Yoshitaka Mashima, vice chairman for
the National Confederation of Farmers Movements, which groups
about 30,000 producers nationwide.  “Farmers in the quake-hit areas have reduced the amount of
feed to their animals because of supply shortage,” Mashima said
in an interview yesterday. “The reduction will lead to
decreased production of milk, eggs, pork and beef eventually.”  Cattle futures on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange rose to a
record of $1.21 per pound yesterday and climbed 7.2 percent last
month, the biggest gain since November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  