-- 
Cerberus’s Freedom Group Withdraws Plans for IPO

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-04-01T21:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/cerberus-s-feinberg-withdraws-ipo-of-remington-arms-owner-freedom-group.html
Freedom Group Inc., the firearms and
ammunition company controlled by  Stephen Feinberg ’s buyout firm,
called off its plans for an initial public offering.  The Madison,  North Carolina , company filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission today to withdraw the
registration statement for the stock sale. According to the
filing, Freedom may hold a private offering instead.  Feinberg’s Cerberus Capital Management LP formed Freedom by
acquiring competing arms manufacturers, including Remington Arms
Co., and melding them into a single company. Freedom filed for
the IPO in October 2009, only to experience several setbacks
since then, including a slower gun market in 2010 and the
September departure of Chief Executive Officer Theodore Torbeck.  “It was not going to happen until they re-staffed that
position,” Bret Jordan, a senior research analyst with
Nashville-based Avondale Partners LLC, said of the IPO. Jordan,
who follows gun manufacturers such as Smith & Wesson Holding
Corp., said Freedom’s decision to move some manufacturing
operations “adds much more complexity to the story.”  Robert Nardelli , the former CEO of Chrysler LLC and Home
Depot Inc., stepped in as temporary head of Freedom in October
while the company searched for a permanent replacement for
Torbeck. Nardelli had run Chrysler for Cerberus until 2009, when
the carmaker filed for  bankruptcy protection .  Cerberus, a private-equity and hedge-fund firm with about
$22 billion in assets under management at the end of last year,
began forming Freedom in April 2006 through the purchase of
Bushmaster Firearms International LLC, a manufacturer of
sporting rifles.  $200 Million Target  In the October 2009 filing for its IPO, Freedom said it
would seek to raise as much as $200 million. Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner & Smith, a unit of  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America Corp., and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
had planned to underwrite the IPO.  “At this time, the company has determined not to proceed
with the initial public offering,” Freedom said in today’s
filing. Fredric Roth, Freedom’s general counsel, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  Freedom said in today’s filing that it “may undertake a
subsequent private offering” through Rule 155c of the
 Securities Act  of 1933. The SEC adopted this rule in March 2001
to allow companies to switch to a private offering when a public
stock sale is no longer as attractive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  