-- 
China Manufacturing Grows at Faster Pace as Economy Withstands Tightening

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-01T05:56:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/china-manufacturing-grows-at-faster-pace-as-economy-withstands-tightening.html
China ’s manufacturing growth
accelerated for the first time in four months, easing concern
that monetary tightening may lead to a slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 53.4 in March from
52.2 in February, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement on its website today. The reading
compared with the median forecast of 54 in a Bloomberg News
survey of 17 economists. A separate PMI released by HSBC
Holdings Plc also gained.  Today’s data indicate that Premier  Wen Jiabao  is succeeding
in sustaining economic growth while cracking down on inflation
that topped the government’s 4 percent target in the first two
months of this year. The central bank will boost  interest rates 
again this quarter, according to all 20 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey on March 22.  “The economy is still expanding at a good pace,” said
Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd., who formerly worked for the  International Monetary
Fund  and the  European Central Bank . “More tightening is
necessary to contain inflation pressure.”  The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.4 percent as of 1:36
p.m. local time.  An Indian manufacturing index was unchanged at 57.9 for
March, HSBC and  Markit Economics  said today.  Export Orders   Manufacturing in the U.S. may have expanded at about the
same pace in March as in February, which was the strongest month
in almost seven years, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  Institute for Supply
Management  will release the data today.  Readings above 50 for the PMIs indicate expansions.  Today’s data from China’s logistics federation showed
output, orders and export orders grew at a faster pace in March
than in February. Input prices rose at a slower pace, the survey
suggested. The PMI released by HSBC and Markit Economics rose to
51.8 in March from 51.7 in February.  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch economist Lu Ting said the
data was distorted by migrant workers returning to their jobs
after a weeklong Lunar New Year holiday and high inventory
levels may point to a looming slowdown in manufacturing. Nomura
Holdings Inc. also cited “the seasonal factor.”  ‘Not Too Worried’  Central bank adviser Xia Bin said that the sooner that
China raises rates the better, the China Securities Journal
reported today. In contrast, Deputy Governor Yi Gang said March
23 that rates are at a “comfortable” level and he’s “not too
worried” by inflation because the pace of price increases will
slow in the second half of the year.  The benchmark one-year deposit rate is 3 percent and the
lending rate is 6.06 percent.  The manufacturing survey released by the logistics
federation and the  National Bureau of Statistics  covers more
than 820 companies in 20 industries, including energy, metals,
textiles, automobiles and electronics. The HSBC PMI covers more
than 430 companies.  The central bank has boosted interest rates three times and
raised banks’ reserve requirements six times since mid-October.
Inflation held at 4.9 percent in February, compared with the
government’s 4 percent target for the full year.  China’s economy  is expanding at “a stable and relatively
rapid pace” and growth in  money supply  and credit is “moving
in the expected direction,” the People’s Bank of China said on
March 28 after a monetary policy meeting.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  