-- 
China May Raise Rates If ECB, Fed Do, Ex-PBOC Adviser Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-01T09:39:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/china-may-raise-rates-if-ecb-fed-do-ex-pboc-adviser-says-1-.html
China  may be “more likely” to
raise borrowing costs if the  European Central Bank  and the U.S.
Federal Reserve do so first, former China central bank adviser
 Fan Gang  said today.  A decision by the ECB to raise its benchmark refinancing
rate from a record low of 1 percent when it meets April 7 would
make it easier for Chinese authorities “to think about a
further increase,” Fan Gang, a former academic member of the
People’s Bank of China monetary policy committee, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today in Cernobbio,  Italy .  The world’s fastest-growing major economy has raised
interest rate three times and increased bank’s reserve ratios
six times since mid-October to curb inflation and reduce asset
bubble risks that are fuelling social discontent. Concern that
higher savings rates will boost capital inflows has left policy
makers more reliant on quantitative tools to rein in inflation.  The reserve requirement ratio reduces the amount of money
banks have available to lend by forcing them to keep more of
their deposits at the central bank. It has been “a key policy
instrument in the Chinese central bank’s quantitative controls
and the interest rate has been so far secondary,” Fan said
today.  Interest rate differentials with other countries may
contribute to boosting capital inflows, China’s State
Administration of Foreign Exchange said in a  report  today after
revising its 2010 capital account surplus to $226 billion from
an initial $165.6 billion announced in January.  Ample Liquidity  China’s benchmark one-year lending rate is 6.06 percent and
the savings rate is 3 percent. The  Federal Reserve ’s benchmark
interest rate stands at a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  China’s policies to contain inflation are working and the
current monetary condition is “tight”, Fan said today.
Liquidity is still ample and the growth in China’s foreign
exchange reserves, which stood at a record $2.85 trillion at the
end of 2010, means the central bank still needs to undertake
more sterilization, Fan said.  To keep the yuan from rising too quickly, the central bank
buys foreign currency from the country’s commercial banks and
exchanges them for yuan. To prevent those funds entering the
economy, it mops up the extra liquidity it’s created by issuing
treasury bills to financial institutions through weekly auctions.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has urged the
Chinese government to allow its currency to appreciate faster
which would help curb inflation by lowering the price of imports
that are priced in dollars, such as oil and iron ore.  The yuan has been allowed to gain about 4 percent since the
government ended its peg to the dollar in June last year as the
financial crisis waned.  China’s gradual approach to appreciation suits the nation’s
“economic growth agenda” and won’t change, Fan said.  --Zheng Lifei,  John Liu , Ryan Chilcote. Editors: Nerys Avery,
Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  