-- 
China's Smaller Cities Lead Home Prices Higher, Defying Government Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-01T08:03:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/china-s-smaller-cities-lead-home-prices-higher-defying-curbs.html
China’s  home prices  rose 0.6 percent
in March, led by smaller cities, said  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
raising doubts that government measures to control the risk of
asset bubbles are effective.  Residential prices rose in 82 of 100 cities tracked by
SouFun from February, with average values climbing to 8,738 yuan
($1,335) a square meter (10.76 square feet), SouFun, the
nation’s biggest real-estate website owner, said in an e-mailed
statement today. Home prices increased 0.5 percent in February
from January, the slowest pace in six months.  About 40 Chinese cities said last month they will cap new
home prices below annual economic and disposable per-capita
income growth after local governments were ordered to submit
home price control targets by the end of March. The Chinese
government is intensifying efforts to keep housing affordable
after prices gained for 19 consecutive months to December and
climbed in all but two of the 70 cities the government monitors
in February.  “Prices in small cities without purchase restrictions
remained quite strong,” said Danny Bao, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Ltd.  China  has this year raised the minimum down payment for
second-home purchases and introduced taxes on residential
properties in  Shanghai  and Chongqing. Chinese cities including
the capital Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou also announced
restrictions on home purchases last month, responding to
measures imposed by the central government.  Shares Rise  A gauge tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index rose 2.4 percent at the 3 p.m. close, the most since March
23 and the best performer among the five industry groups on the
benchmark measure, which increased 1.3 percent.  Home prices in Shanghai were little changed last month,
while in Beijing they rose 0.6 percent, SouFun said. Baoding, a
mid-sized central city, posted a 2.6 percent gain from February,
the biggest advance, while the eastern city of Dezhou fell 0.9
percent, the largest decline.  It might take at least three to six months to see if the
government’s property measures are working, said Bao, who
expects a possible decline in home prices in the second half.
The slowdown in February might have been due to the week-long
Lunar New Year holidays, analysts said at the time.  Hold Off Curbs  SouFun, based in Beijing, started compiling the monthly
home data of 100 cities in July and usually releases them before
national statistics bureau figures. Government indexes of new
and existing homes for March are due on April 18.  The government will probably hold off on further property
measures to control home prices because the current restrictions
on purchases are the most severe so far, Pan Shiyi, chairman for
Soho China Ltd., said today in a conference call.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March 5 that China will
“resolutely” press ahead with controls on the  property market 
to curb speculation, reiterating a promise to keep housing
affordable. The government will “severely punish”
irregularities in the real-estate market, implement
differentiated credit and tax policies, and hold local officials
accountable for maintaining stable home prices, he said.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  