-- 
China's Stocks Rise Most in Four Weeks After Manufacturing Growth Quickens

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-01T07:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/china-s-stocks-rise-on-manufacturing-growth-extending-quarterly-rally.html
China ’s stocks rose, driving the
benchmark index’s biggest rally in four weeks, as growth in
manufacturing signaled the economy is withstanding increases in
interest rates and other tightening measures.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. surged to a record high, leading
increases for energy producers, after factory growth accelerated
for the first time in four months. China Merchants Bank Co. and
Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second-biggest developer, gained
more than 1.5 percent as investors speculated banks and property
developers are cheap relative to the outlook for earnings.  “Manufacturing growth shows the economy hasn’t yet been
hurt by the tightening measures, easing concerns over a possible
slowdown,” said Tu Jun, a strategist at Shanghai Securities Co.
“It’s a boost to investors’ confidence.”  The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 39.3, or 1.3 percent,
to 2,967.41 at the 3 p.m. close, narrowing the week’s drop to
0.3 percent. The measure rose 4.3 percent last quarter. The CSI
300 Index advanced 1.5 percent to 3,272.73. China’s markets will
be closed April 4 and 5 for national holidays.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 53.4 in March from
52.2 in February, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement on its website today. The reading
compared with the median forecast of 54 in a Bloomberg News
survey of 17 economists. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Output, orders and export orders grew at a faster pace in
March than February, data from the logistics federation
indicated. Input prices rose at a slower pace, the survey
suggested. The data indicate Premier  Wen Jiabao  is succeeding in
sustaining growth while cracking down on inflation that topped
the government’s target in the first two months of this year.  Coal Stocks  Yanzhou Coal surged 7.2 percent to 36.97 yuan, the highest
since its debut in July 1998. China Shenhua Energy Co., the
largest producer, advanced 1.8 percent to 29.62 yuan.  Investors should buy shares of coal producers and other
companies that rely on economic expansion for profits in the
second quarter as growth is expected to accelerate, Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities analysts led by Ling Peng wrote in a report.  A gauge of financial stocks in the CSI 300 advanced 2.6
percent, the biggest gain since Feb. 14. It climbed 4.8 percent
in the first quarter after falling 27 percent last year. Even
with today’s gain, the index trades at 10.5 times estimated
earnings, compared with 14.8 times for the broader CSI 300.  Merchants Bank , the nation’s sixth-largest lender, rose 1.7
percent to 14.33 yuan. Net income for 2010 rose 41 percent from
a year earlier to 25.8 billion yuan as lending margins widened
and income grew from loans and fee-based services.  Developers Rise  China Citic Bank Corp., the banking unit of the nation’s
largest investment company, added 1.1 percent to 5.73 yuan after
saying profit surged 50 percent to 21.5 billion yuan last year
as interest rate increases helped boost lending margins.  Poly Real Estate led gains for developers, jumping 5.1
percent to 14.11 yuan, the most since Jan. 11.  Gemdale Corp. (600383) 
rose 3 percent to 6.99 yuan.  Erwin Sanft, head of China and  Hong Kong  research at BNP
Paribas SA, said in a Bloomberg television interview developers
are “very, very cheap.”  Khiem Do, the head of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring
Asset Management’s Asia unit in Hong Kong, said he’s buying
banks and property stocks on the prospect rate increases may
slow after the central bank raised borrowing costs three times
since October to cool inflation. Technology and consumer
companies are attractive, said Mark Konyn, chief executive
officer at RCM Asia Pacific Ltd.  Buying Stocks  “We are adding China names to regional portfolios and have
been doing so over the past month believing that the market had
started to form a base,” Konyn, who helps manage more than $15
billion at RCM in Hong Kong, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Inflation is likely to “level off” about mid-year
and RCM has “positioned portfolios accordingly,” he said.  The central bank boosted  reserve requirements  for lenders
nine times since the start of last year and pushed the benchmark
one-year lending rate to 6.06 percent to counter inflation.  Consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in January and February,
exceeding the government’s full-year target of 4 percent, after
hitting a 28-month high of 5.1 percent in November. All 20
economists in a Bloomberg News survey this month forecast
another rate increase by the end of the second quarter.  March consumer prices may have risen more than 5 percent,
the Shanghai Securities News said in its front page today,
citing analyst reports. The statistics bureau is due to release
March economic data on April 15, including inflation and first-
quarter gross domestic product.  Inflation Outlook  The central bank may raise rates by 0.25 percentage points
around April 10 as a step against inflation, Caijing magazine
reported on its website today, citing Fan Jianjun, a researcher
at the Development Research Centre under the State Council.  The People’s Bank of China may also increase the reserve
requirement ratio for commercial banks by 0.5 percentage points
to absorb liquidity around April 20, according to the magazine.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., China’s second-biggest
insurer, advanced 3.6 percent to 51.23 yuan. The company will
boost fixed-income investments this year to tap rising yields
and may “slightly” lift equities in the portfolio as it turns
more optimistic on stocks, President Alex Ren said in an
interview.  --Irene Shen, Zhang Shidong. Editor: Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  