-- 
China to Cut Nuclear Goal After Japan Reactor Crisis

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-01T08:49:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/china-to-cut-nuclear-goal-after-japan-reactor-crisis-correct-.html
(Corrects official’s title and spelling of his name in
second paragraph of story published March 31.)  China , the world’s biggest energy
consumer, will cut its 2020 target for nuclear power capacity
and build more solar farms following  Japan ’s atomic crisis, said
an official at the National Development and Reform Commission.  The country will reduce its nuclear capacity goal of 80
gigawatts, Ren Dongming, director of the renewable energy
development center under the economic planner’s energy research
institute, said at a Beijing conference today, without giving a
new target. The goal for solar-power capacity will increase from
the current target of 20 gigawatts, he said.  “We can see delays in some projects, but in the longer
term, I don’t see how they can change the program they have in
place without facing drastic power shortages,”  David Lennox , an
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, said by telephone. “It’s
difficult to see what their alternatives to nuclear are.”  Radiation leaks from the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
station following Japan’s record March 11 earthquake have
prompted other countries to review their nuclear development.
NDRC Vice Chairman  Xie Zhenhua  said yesterday China won’t alter
its atomic energy plans, even as the Cabinet had stopped
approving new nuclear plants, pending safety checks.  Shares of nuclear plant-equipment maker Shanghai Electric
Group Co. and Dongfang Electric Corp. both slumped 2 percent in
 Hong Kong  trading. The benchmark  Hang Seng  index rose 0.3
percent. Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science & Technology Co.
advanced 1.8 percent on the Shenzhen exchange.  Safer Reactors  The crisis in Japan will encourage “healthy development”
of the Chinese nuclear industry in the long term as the
Fukushima accident will prompt China to take additional safety
measures, Cao Peixi, chairman of  Huaneng Power International
Inc. (902) , said at a media briefing in Hong Kong today.  China’s biggest electricity producer won’t alter its
nuclear plans because of Japan, Cao said. The Chinese government
approved on March 1 a proposal by parent China Huaneng Group to
develop a 4,000-megawatt atomic plant in Shandong province, said
Cao, who’s also president of the group.  The country, building more reactors than any other,
currently has at least 14 atomic units in operation, according
to data from the  World Nuclear Association . The world’s fastest-
growing major economy is constructing at least 27 reactors and
has 50 more planned, according to the association. The country
started operating its first commercial nuclear plant in 1994.  “We do see in three to five years a significant uptake in
safer reactor technology,” Fat Prophets’s Lennox said. “When
we make a step towards safety, bigger nuclear plans may then
come from countries.”  Public Health Concerns  Public health worries escalated in China in the week
following the Fukushima accident, with shoppers clearing shelves
of salt, perceived as a defense against  radiation exposure .
China has since released the daily results of its nationwide
radiation checks to allay concern.  The Ministry of Environmental Protection and National
Nuclear Safety Administration may start a nationwide inspection
of nuclear plants that may last for several months, the 21st
Century Business Herald said March 25, citing Yu Jun, a deputy
head of the ministry’s department of nuclear safety management.  The 1986 nuclear disaster at Chernobyl in Ukraine sparked
protests in Hong Kong against the Daya Bay plant in the mid-
1980s. The station in  Guangdong province , 50 kilometers (31
miles) from Hong Kong’s Tsim Sha Tsui district, had two
radiation leaks last year that owners  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2)  and
China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co. said didn’t pose a
danger to human health.  China aims to increase the share of renewable sources,
including nuclear and solar power, in its energy mix to 11
percent over the next five years from 8 percent, data from the
National Energy Administration show.  --Chua Baizhen. With assistance from  Wang Ying  in Hong Kong and
Shen Feifei in Beijing. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Jane Lee .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7561 or
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Feifei Shen in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7528 or
 Fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 