-- 
China Three Gorges Hydropower Project Proceeds as Planned After Protests

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-01T11:28:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/china-three-gorges-hydropower-project-proceeds-as-planned-after-protests.html
China Three Gorges Corp. , operator
of the world’s largest dam, said its Xiangjiaba hydropower
project in southwestern  China  will continue as planned after
local residents ended a five-day protest this week.  “The Xiangjiaba project is progressing as planned,” Yan
Fei, a spokeswoman for China Three Gorges, said in a text
message sent by mobile phone today. “There has been no notice
of changes to the plans.” The hydropower facility will have
total capacity of 6.4 gigawatts and is expected to start
electricity generation in June 2012, according to China Three
Gorges’ website.  More than 2,000 residents of Suijiang county in China’s
Yunnan province protested for five days, blocking local roads,
over compensation offered them for relocating because of the dam,
the China Daily newspaper reported today. China has moved more
than a million people to make way for hydropower projects as the
government seeks to ensure the energy supplies needed to fuel
the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Construction of the Xiangjiaba hydropower project will
require the relocation of  20,000 people  living in Suijiang
county by June 2012, when the reservoir created by the dam puts
50,000 mu (8,237 acre) of land under water, according to the
China Three Gorges’ website.  Protesters Disperse  Protesters in Suijiang gathered on March 25 and dispersed
by March 29,  China Daily  said, citing the county government.
Police weren’t used to disperse the protestors, the newspaper
reported. Five calls to the county government’s news department
weren’t answered today.  Suijiang county  is home to 160,000 people, according to the
local government’s website. The Xiangjiaba project is located
north of the county at the border between Yunnan and Sichuan
province, on the upper reaches of the  Yangtze River , according
to China Three Gorges’s website.  The National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top
economic planning agency, also gave approval today for the
Nuozhadu hydropower project in Yunnan province, according to a
statement on its website. The facility, with a capacity of 5.85
gigawatts, is on the Lancang river, which becomes the Mekong
river in  Southeast Asia .  --Chua Baizhen. Editor:  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7561 or
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  