-- 
Wheat Soars as La Nina's Persistence Threatens Harvests From China to U.S.

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-04-01T08:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/china-u-s-wheat-harvests-face-serious-trouble-from-la-nina-bws-says.html
Wheat crops in  China , the world’s
biggest producer, and the U.S. are threatened by continuing
drought as La Nina persists, weather forecasters said.  The countries will be the last to emerge from the dry
weather linked to La Nina, a cooling of the Pacific Ocean, and
the conditions may linger for two more months, said British
Weather Services and Telvent DTN Inc. Wheat may average $8.50 a
bushel in  Chicago  from now to June 30, said  Abah Ofon , an
agricultural commodity analyst at Standard Chartered Bank in
Singapore. That’s 12 percent more than the price today.  Wheat climbed 5 percent yesterday as grain prices soared
after U.S. corn stockpiles dropped to 6.52 billion bushels at
the beginning of March, the lowest for the date since 2007,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Global food
costs climbed to a record in February, the United Nations
estimates, contributing to unrest in northern  Africa  and the
Middle East and helping oust leaders in Tunisia and Egypt.  “If it takes another two months, we’re going to be in
serious trouble,” said  Jim Dale , a senior risk meteorologist at
British Weather, in an interview. “Time is of the essence. If
you lose time, you’re losing money, quantity and quality.”  Sustained dry conditions in China and the U.S. will parch
crops that have already deteriorated in Texas and  Oklahoma  and
that are developing in northern China, BWS and DTN said.  Futures Climb  “Weather is going to be key,”  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an
analyst at  Barclays Capital , said in an interview in  Singapore 
yesterday. “Even if we have a move-up in acreage, it doesn’t
automatically translate to an increase in production.” So-
called winter wheat represents 71 percent of the U.S. crop area
and is harvested from June, according to the USDA.  Wheat futures jumped yesterday even as the USDA estimated
that the area planted by the nation’s farmers will increase 8.2
percent from a year earlier to 58 million acres (23.5 million
hectares). The May-delivery contract dropped 0.3 percent to
$7.6075 a bushel today.  Texas, the second-largest winter-wheat growing state in the
U.S., is having its worst drought in 44 years, according to the
state climatologist, and the dry weather is stretching to
Oklahoma,  Colorado  and Kansas.  Southeastern Oklahoma into most of central and eastern
 Texas  is having extreme drought conditions, which could
intensify “if rains don’t materialize soon,” according to the
weekly Drought Monitor report released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska  for the week to March 29.  Plowing Up Fields  The wheat crop in the U.S. southern plains is “likely to
be reduced because of acreage abandonment -- farmers plowing up
ground that has virtually nothing for production -- and yields
on the wheat that is harvested will likely be low as well,”
 Bryce Anderson , an agricultural meteorologist at DTN, said in an
e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions. “The wheat areas of
the U.S. and China are in line to be the last to recover.”  China produced about 115.1 million tons last season,
representing 17 percent of the global harvest, USDA  data  show.  “There is no sign in China yet of prolonged rain that will
help with the drought there for the next 10 days,” said Dale,
who correctly predicted  Argentina ’s drought and the U.K.’s
coldest December on record. “China and the U.S. are likely to
come out of it last,” he said, referring to La Nina.  The weather event may resurface after eight months,
threatening the next plantings, Dale said yesterday.  “We have got to be guarded,” he said. “La Nina is not
dead. It’s just going to sleep for a time. We’re not sure if its
nap is going to be prolonged.”  ‘Dangerous Levels’  A return of La Nina may derail efforts by farmers to ramp
up production of corn, wheat and other crops, triggering another
rally in prices. Wheat jumped 62 percent in the past year,
climbing to a 30-month high in February. Corn more than doubled
in the same period, while soybeans advanced 49 percent.  Prices of corn, soybeans, wheat and rice climbed to the
highest since 2008 this year, when surging costs spurred riots
from Haiti to  Egypt . About 44 million people have been pushed
into poverty since June by the “dangerous levels” of food
prices, World Bank President Robert Zoellick said in February.  U.S. corn acreage this year will be about 92.178 million
acres, the second-largest since 1944, as farm profits rise while
growing demand for food and biofuel cuts world stockpiles.  “The new crops are not expected to replenish inventories
to any meaningful extent, keeping prices in the new season
high,” according to a Rabobank Agri Commodity Markets Research
report e-mailed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  