-- 
Barry Callebaut Net Rises on Chocolate Sales to India, China

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-04-01T05:39:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/chocolate-maker-barry-callebaut-s-profit-advances-on-emerging-market-sales.html
Barry Callebaut AG (BARN) , the world’s
largest maker of bulk chocolate, said first-half profit rose,
helped by sales in emerging markets such as China and India.  Net income in the six months through February rose 9.2
percent to 159 million Swiss francs ($173 million), Zurich-based
Barry Callebaut said on its  website  today.  The Chinese chocolate market expanded 8.2 percent in the
previous fiscal year, compared with 2.7 percent growth in the
U.S. and 0.9 percent in western Europe, the company said in
November. Barry Callebaut today said it bought the 40 percent
stake it didn’t already own in a Malaysian unit, expanding in
Asia.  Barry Callebaut said it has been purchasing more cocoa from
other sources outside of the  Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest
supplier, amid political conflict there. The chocolate maker
said it expects to be able to meet commitments in its contracts
this year.  The company has contracts to supply Nestle SA,  Kraft Foods
Inc. (KFT)  and  Hershey Co. (HSY)  with chocolate that those companies sell
under their own brands.  First-half revenue rose 3.1 percent to 2.74 billion francs,
weighed down by exchange-rate movements such as the euro’s
decline against the franc. Excluding currency shifts, sales
climbed 13 percent.  Growth in earnings before interest and taxes will on
average at least match shipment growth of 6 percent to 8 percent
in the four years through August 2013, excluding currency
shifts, the Swiss company reiterated.  Barry Callebaut has gained about 10 percent in Zurich
trading in the past year, compared with a 7 percent gain for the
Bloomberg  Europe  Food Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 