-- 
Commodities to Raise Food-Company Costs, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-01T11:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/commodities-to-raise-food-company-costs-morgan-stanley-says-1-.html
Higher commodity prices will
increase food companies’ costs by 9 percent to 11 percent this
year on average, potentially curbing profitability, Morgan
Stanley said.  Most margin pressure will come in the first half as price
increases trail cost inflation, London-based analyst Michael
Steib said in a report dated today. Brewers face “margin
headwinds’” from higher prices for barley and packaging in
2011, he said.  Twenty of 21 commodities tracked by Bloomberg have gained
in the past 12 months, led by cotton and corn, which more than
doubled. Wheat, sugar, soybean oil, beef and pork all climbed
more than 20 percent. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of
raw materials is up 15 percent in 2011, on course for a third
annual climb in a row.  Pricing “is likely to be difficult, given the weak trading
environment in the U.S. and  Europe , and will likely take the
shape of scaled-back promotions in these regions,” Steib said.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the maker of KitKat chocolate bars, and Danone
SA, the world’s biggest yogurt company, should be able to
maintain their “core” operating margins for the full year,
according to Steib. So should Unilever, the maker of Ben &
Jerry’s ice cream and Dove soap, he said.  Carlsberg, SABMiller  Of brewers tracked by Steib, commodities “should have the
highest impact” on Carlsberg A/S after last year’s drought in
 Russia , the analyst said. Russia banned all grain exports in
August after a crop-wasting drought, boosting cereal prices.
Carlsberg owns the largest Russian brewer and gets more than
half its earnings from eastern Europe.  Barley costs represent about 4.4 percent of sales at
Carlsberg and  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the brewer of Grolsch beer,
according to Morgan Stanley. That compares with 4.6 percent at
 Heineken NV (HEIA)  and 4.8 percent at Budweiser brewer  Anheuser-Busch
Inbev NV (ABI) , according to Morgan Stanley. Aluminum, glass, paper
and hops each account for a smaller part of costs.  Rising costs for oil-derived chemicals “indicate sustained
pressure” for makers of home- and personal-care products,
according to Steib. Henkel AG, which makes Right Guard deodorant
and Soft Scrub cleaners, is “the most-exposed” in Europe, he
said.  Natural oils and oleo alcohols “appear to have come off
their peak,” meaning a lower impact for cosmetics makers, Steib
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 