-- 
Construction Spending in U.S. Decreased More Than Estimated in February

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-04-01T14:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-decreased-more-than-estimated-in-february.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
fell more than forecast in February, indicating the economic
recovery has not yet spread to the building industry.  The 1.4 percent drop was the third in a row and brought the
value of all projects down to a $760.6 billion annual rate, the
lowest since October 1999, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. The median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey called for a 0.2 percent decline.  Outlays on home building dropped during the month as new-
home prices and sales continued to fall. In addition, deficit-
strapped state and local governments are restricting funding for
public works.  “The housing sector still looks to be in pretty dire
straits,”  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in St Petersburg,  Florida , said before the
report. “We’re seeing prices still weakening at this point. If
we get much better job growth, we’ll have better results in the
housing sector.”  Another report today showed employers added 216,000 workers
to payrolls in March, and the jobless rate dropped to a two-year
low of 8.8 percent, beating the median projection of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Private employment, which excludes
government agencies, climbed by 230,000 after a 240,000 February
increase, marking the biggest back-to-back gain since 2006.  Estimates for the construction figures of 49 economists
ranged from a drop of 1.2 percent to an increase of 2.5 percent.
The Commerce Department revised the January reading down to a 1.8
percent from a previously estimated decline of 0.7 percent.  14-Year Low  Private construction spending fell 1.4 percent in February
from the prior month to a $468 billion annual pace, the weakest
since April 1997. Homebuilding outlays decreased 3.7 percent.  Spending on public construction slid 1.3 percent, the fifth
consecutive drop, the report said. Federal construction spending
increased 0.7 percent, while outlays at state and local agencies
fell 1.5 percent.  Faced with declining home prices and the swelling supply of
unsold properties, residential real estate developers are
reluctant to increase construction. Housing starts in the U.S.
declined more than forecast in February to the slowest pace since
April 2009 and building permits slumped to a record low, the
Commerce Department said March 16.  Residential real-estate prices dropped in the 12 months to
January by the most in more than a year, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values. In 20 cities, prices fell
3.1 percent, the biggest year-over-year decrease since December
2009, the group said earlier this week.  Builder Concern  Home sales haven’t recovered for the U.S. spring selling
season, usually the busiest time for buyers,  Stuart Miller , chief
executive officer of homebuilder  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , said during a
conference call with investors March 29.  “The long-awaited selling season of 2011 has not yet
defined itself as the beginning of a recovery cycle,” Miller
said. “We’ve all seen evidence of a sluggish recovery in the
reported national sales numbers for both existing homes and new
homes and we have clearly seen the same on a real time basis in
the field. We continue to believe that the housing recovery will
take time and patience and will be inconsistent and uneven.”  Miami-based Lennar, the second-most profitable U.S. builder
last year, unexpectedly reported net income for the first quarter
after booking a lawsuit settlement and adding income from its
distressed-investing unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  