-- 
Czech Policy Makers Say Inflation Is Well Anchored, Demand Weak

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-04-01T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/czech-policy-makers-say-inflation-is-well-anchored-demand-weak.html
A majority of Czech policy makers
see inflation expectations as well-anchored and a lack of
demand-driven pressures on prices, according to minutes from the
central bank’s March 24 policy meeting.  The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka board voted 5-1 to
keep the two-week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent, a quarter-
point below the  European Central Bank ’s main rate, last week.
 Eva Zamrazilova  was the only board member who voted for a
quarter-point increase, the minutes posted on the bank’s website
today showed.  “The prevailing opinion among the bank board members was
that the current situation, characterized by lower-than-forecast
GDP, inflation and wages and higher-than-forecast unemployment,
was not signaling the existence of any demand-pull inflation
pressures from the domestic economy,” the minutes said.  The Czech central bank has kept the benchmark interest rate
at a record low since May as inflation hovers below its target
and an economic recovery slows following a recession. The risks
are “heading upwards with regard to the future path of interest
rates,” the central bank, which does not present an official
policy bias, said in the minutes.  Inflation unexpectedly slowed to 1.7 percent in January
from 2.3 percent in December, and the February reading of 1.8
percent remained less than the central bank’s 2 percent target.
The bank  estimates  price growth will match its 2 percent target
in the first quarter of 2012 and accelerate to 2.1 percent in
the following three months.  The main pro-inflationary risk in the Czech economy is the
government’s plan to change the value-added tax next year, the
minutes said.  “However, the prevailing opinion was that inflation
expectations were well-anchored and that the rise in headline
inflation due to the VAT changes would be only temporary, as
evidenced by historical experience,” the minutes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  