-- 
Deutsche Boerse Drops in Frankfurt After Nasdaq, ICE Make Rival NYSE Offer

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-01T15:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/deutsche-boerse-drops-in-frankfurt-after-nasdaq-ice-make-rival-nyse-offer.html
Deutsche Boerse AG fell in Frankfurt
trading after  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. (ICE)  trumped the Frankfurt Stock Exchange operator’s bid for
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  with a rival offer.  Nasdaq and ICE bid $42.50 in cash and stock for each NYSE
Euronext share, or about $11.3 billion, according to a statement
released today. That is more than the $9.53 billion value of
Deutsche Boerse’s all-stock offer on Feb. 15. The shares
declined 74 cents, or 1.4 percent, to 52.81 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of Frankfurt trading.  Deutsche Boerse, by taking over NYSE Euronext, seeks to
create the world’s largest operator of stock and derivatives
exchanges. Nasdaq and IntercontinentalExchange’s offer may force
the German company to increase its bid to seal a deal or risk
coming out empty-handed, said Thilo Mueller, a portfolio manager
at MB Fund Advisory GmbH in Limburg.  “The counter bid, should it be successful, raises the
question of strategic perspectives for Deutsche Boerse in the
future,” said Mueller, who manages 120 million euros ($170
million) in assets. “The bid makes alternatives for Deutsche
Boerse more difficult. Nasdaq and ICE benefit from being in a
consortium and it certainly makes things more expensive for
Deutsche Boerse.”  Acquisitions  Deutsche Boerse, in a statement, said it continues to
“strongly believe that the envisaged merger of  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext is the best possible combination for both
shareholder groups.”  Exchanges have announced more than $20 billion of exchange
acquisitions in the past five months as venues in  North America ,
 Europe  and Asia try to cut costs and offset declining profits
from equity trading with options, futures and derivatives.  NYSE Euronext was formed when the operator of the New York
Stock Exchange bought Europe’s second-largest exchange in 2007.
It now owns exchanges in Amsterdam, Lisbon, Paris and Brussels,
as well as London-based Liffe, Europe’s second-largest
derivatives market.  The company also runs three U.S. stock exchanges: NYSE
Arca, NYSE Amex and the New York Stock Exchange, two options
platforms and the NYSE Liffe U.S. futures exchange, which will
trade contracts linked to  interest rates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 