-- 
Disney, Shanghai Park Partner Plan April 8 Groundbreaking

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-04-02T00:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/disney-said-to-plan-shanghai-park-groundbreaking-on-april-8.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and its partner in a
proposed theme park in Shanghai scheduled an April 8
groundbreaking for the project, according to people with
knowledge of the plans.  Disney scheduled an event, with government-owned partner
Shanghai Shendi Group Co., in an e-mail today, without
elaborating. Construction begins that day, said the people, who
weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  The start of construction marks a milestone in a five-year
process involving negotiations with city and central government
officials. Chief Executive Officer Robert Iger and Parks &
Resorts Chairman Thomas Staggs will attend, said one of the
people. The park’s size, investment commitments and final
approval from Beijing’s central government will be announced as
well, the people said.  Iger said at the shareholder meeting on March 23 that
Disney, the world’s largest theme-park operator, was close to
receiving final approval for its first resort on mainland  China ,
the world’s most-populous nation. A public-comment period on the
plans ends on April 6.  The Magic Kingdom will open in “about five years,” Staggs
said at an investor meeting on Feb. 17. The first phase calls
for an investment of 24.5 billion yuan ($3.7 billion), Han Zheng, Shanghai’s mayor, said in March.  The website Hexun.com reported earlier today the companies
may start construction this month.  Tourist Zone  Shanghai has designated a 7-square-kilometer (1,730 acres)
tourist zone that will include the Disney park. The first phase
will also include hotels, car parks, a lake and commuter
stations, according to a blueprint posted on the Shanghai city
website last month.  Iger declared Disney’s intention to build a  Shanghai  resort
in September 2005, as he was about to become CEO. The company
received an initial government approval to build the park in
2009. The company signed a contract in November with Shanghai
Shendi to build the facility.  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , fell 24 cents $42.85
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
added 14 percent this year.  Shanghai also plans to spend 4 billion yuan on a 9.2-
kilometer (5.7-mile) subway line for the complex in the city’s
Pudong area. Construction will begin in September and the line
is scheduled to open by July 2015, according to a Jan. 18
government statement.  The city government started building infrastructure for the
project last year, Jiang Shujie, deputy director of the city’s
construction and transport commission, said on Jan. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  