-- 
Dudley Says ‘We Don’t Want to Overstate’ Strength of Economic Recovery

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-04-01T17:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/dudley-says-we-don-t-want-to-overstate-strength-of-economic-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley comments on the  U.S. economy . He
spoke to reporters following a speech today in  San Juan ,  Puerto
Rico . His remarks came after the Labor Department reported that
the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.8 percent in March and
employers added 216,000 jobs, more than economists estimated.  “The recovery looks to be better than six months ago but
not as good as a month ago,” Dudley said. “The payroll numbers
were really the missing ingredient in the picture in terms of
the sustainable economic recovery,” he said. Still, “we don’t
want to overstate how far we’ve come.”  On inflation:  “We’ve seen some commodity-price pressures” and those
“are probably going to cause headline inflation to drift up
further,” Dudley said. “Those have virtually nothing to do
with U.S. monetary policy.”  “We’re in a little bit of a bubble for commodity-price
pressure,” he said. Even so, the “Fed should be very
comfortable looking through that as long as inflation
expectations are stable.”  On the Fed’s exit strategy:  “It’s too soon to say what we will or will not have to
do,” Dudley said. “The important thing that I would emphasize
is we have the ability to exit when the time comes,” and “the
fact that we embarked on QE2,” in “no way impairs our ability
to exit when the time comes.” The Fed’s $600 billion bond-
purchase program is known as QE2, for the second round of so-
called quantitative easing.  The benefits of additional easing have “diminished a
bit,” Dudley said. The need for quantitative easing “has
fallen because the risk of deflation has diminished
considerably.”  On recent comments by Fed policy makers:  “It’s important to not overstate the degree of
disagreement” on the  Federal Open Market Committee , Dudley
said. “Whenever the economy comes to a turning point, obviously
there’s going to be discussion about the appropriate time and
way to exit,” he said.  “I don’t think the disagreement is as deep as people are
representing.”  “All the FOMC members share a commitment to ensuring the
exit occurs in a timely and effective way,” though “people
have slightly different views on the economic outlook.”  On the Fed’s mandates for full employment and  price stability :  “I’m happy to operate under a dual mandate,” Dudley said.
“The consequences for monetary policy would be very, very
small” if the Fed focused on prices alone, Dudley said.
“Achieving price stability over the long run is a necessary
condition to achieving full employment.”  The timing of a switch now would be “harder to motivate”
because the Fed isn’t equally far away from its two objectives,
Dudley said. “We’re pretty close to our inflation mandate.
We’re pretty far away from our full employment mandate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  