-- 
Dudley Sees No Reason to Pull Back on Fed Stimulus Amid ‘Tenuous’ Recovery

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-04-01T18:45:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/dudley-sees-no-reason-to-pull-back-on-fed-stimulus-amid-tenuous-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said he expects the central bank to
complete its bond-buying and sees no case yet for reversing
record monetary stimulus in a “still tenuous” recovery.  “I don’t see any reason to pull back from that yet,”
Dudley said in response to questions from reporters after a
speech today in  San Juan ,  Puerto Rico . “I would be surprised if
we didn’t finish the full QE2,” he said of the Fed’s plans to
buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June in a second round of
so-called quantitative easing.  Dudley’s caution is probably shared by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and trumps several days of comments from colleagues on
the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee , such as
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , who seek tighter
credit, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York.  “The talk we’ve had over the past week has been dominated
by the hawkish end of the spectrum, and a lot of people took
that as representative of where the committee was,” said
Feroli, a former Fed researcher. Dudley, who serves as the
FOMC’s vice chairman, may have been trying “to sort of set the
record straight,” Feroli said.  U.S. Treasuries reversed losses after Dudley’s remarks,
pushing down the yield on the 10-year note to 3.453 percent as
of 2:39 p.m. in New York from a high of 3.52 percent today. The
yield was 3.47 percent yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.7 percent to 1,335.36.  ‘Still Tenuous’  “Economic conditions have improved in the past year,”
Dudley, 58, said in his speech. “Yet, the recovery is still
tenuous. And, we are still far from the mark with regard to the
Fed’s dual mandate” from Congress for full employment and price
stability. “In particular, the  unemployment rate  is much too
high.”  Dudley said he wished the U.S. were making faster progress
on reducing unemployment. He spoke less than two hours after a
Labor Department report today showed the economy added 216,000
jobs in March, more than forecast, and the jobless rate
unexpectedly declined to a two-year low of 8.8 percent. The rate
was 5 percent in December 2007, when the 18-month recession
began.  “We must not be overly optimistic about the growth
outlook,” said Dudley, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economist who became the New York Fed’s chief in 2009. “A
stronger recovery with more rapid progress toward our dual
mandate objectives is what we have been seeking. This is welcome
and not a reason to reverse course.”  His comments contrast with those from other Fed officials
this week.  Exit Ramp  Plosser, who dissented twice from decisions to lower
borrowing costs in 2008, said in a speech earlier today in
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , that an increase in growth or
inflation expectations may “suggest that it is time to begin
taking our foot off the accelerator and start heading for the
exit ramp.”  Dallas  Fed President Richard W. Fisher, a five-time
dissenter in favor of tighter policy in 2008, told reporters in
Dallas today that the central bank is moving closer to a period
where reversing its easy-money policies “makes a lot more
sense” as the unemployment rate falls.  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said in an
interview yesterday with the Wall Street Journal that “it’s
certainly possible” that the Fed’s near-zero benchmark interest
rate would be raised by more than 0.50 percentage point this
year is underlying inflation rises, the newspaper said in an
article.  Rotating  Slots  Plosser, Fisher and Kocherlakota hold rotating voting slots
on the FOMC this year and supported the January and March
decisions to retain the plans for $600 billion in Treasury
purchases. The FOMC next meets April 26-27 in  Washington .  Their recent comments suggest that some officials may be
more likely to vote against FOMC decisions later this year than
cause a shift in policy, said Conrad DeQuadros, senior economist
at RDQ Economics LLC in New York.  “It’s not very likely at the April meeting, but further
down the road if some of these guys feel more strongly that the
Fed should be taking some measures towards an exit from these
extremely accommodative policies, then maybe you’ll see a
dissent,” said DeQuadros, who founded the research firm with
 John Ryding , a fellow former Bear Stearns Cos. economist. “But
I think that’s about it.”  Mortgage Debt  DeQuadros said he expects the Fed to continue its policy of
reinvesting payments on mortgage debt it holds into Treasuries
after June, when the $600 billion of purchases are completed.  In addition, Dudley’s remarks indicate that Kocherlakota’s
comments “probably aren’t consistent with the way Dudley was
talking about the economy,” Feroli said.  The Fed in November embarked on its program of Treasury
purchases to support prices and create jobs, and policy makers
reaffirmed that goal in March. The strengthening economy has led
some central bankers to argue that the stimulus isn’t needed.  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig , who dissented from
all eight FOMC decisions last year, including the start of QE2,
said today that the stimulus “was unnecessary” and could lead
to excessive asset prices and inflation.  “My concern would be if there were any further easing into
a recovery, is that you do accelerate imbalances that then cost
you dearly later,” Hoenig, 64, who will retire Oct. 1, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview in  London .  ‘Sorely Needed’  Dudley, by comparison, reiterated his view that he would
like to see “faster progress” toward achieving the central
bank’s dual mandate. A “substantial pickup is sorely needed”
in job growth, and “even if we were to generate growth of
300,000 jobs per month, we would still likely have considerable
slack in the labor market at the end of 2012,” he said.  Even so, monetary and fiscal stimulus have helped the
economy show “more signs of life,” he said.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in March at close to the
fastest pace in seven years, reinforcing signs the industry will
propel growth in the world’s largest economy, another report
today showed.  The Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management
said its manufacturing index was little changed at 61.2, after
February’s 61.4 reading that was the highest since May 2004.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Household Demand  Dudley said economic indicators are showing “a broadening
and strengthening of demand by households and production by
firms” that should sustain growth at around a 3 percent annual
rate in the first quarter.  The U.S. has also benefited from increased demand for the
nation’s goods and services as emerging market economies have
been “growing strongly,” Dudley said in the speech  “The recovery looks to be better than six months ago but
not as good as a month ago,” he said during about 20 minutes of
questions and answers with reporters. “The payroll numbers were
really the missing ingredient in the picture in terms of the
sustainable economic recovery,” he said. Still, “we don’t want
to overstate how far we’ve come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  