-- 
Duke Lacrosse Players' Suit Over False Rape Claim May Proceed, Judge Says

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-01T02:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/duke-lacrosse-players-suit-over-false-rape-claim-may-proceed-judge-says.html
Three former Duke University
lacrosse players, falsely accused of rape in a case that cost a
district attorney his law license, can move forward with part of
their claims against the former prosecutor and the city of
Durham,  North Carolina , a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge James A. Beaty Jr., in a ruling today,
refused to dismiss the former students’ claims that their
constitutional rights were violated through malicious
prosecution, concealment of evidence and fabrication of false
evidence. The judge dismissed their separate conspiracy claim
and their intentional infliction of emotional distress claim.  “The intentional use of false or misleading evidence
before a grand jury to obtain an indictment and arrest without
probable cause is exactly the type of unreasonable search and
seizure that the Fourth Amendment was designed to protect
against,” the judge said.  The players in October 2007 sued Mike Nifong, the former
prosecutor, the city, police officers and lab personnel in
federal court in Durham, calling the case “one of the most
chilling episodes of premeditated police, prosecutorial and
scientific misconduct in modern American history,” according to
their complaint.  James Craven III, a lawyer for Nifong, and Reginald
Gillespie Jr., a lawyer for the city, didn’t immediately return
calls to their offices after regular business hours.  Stripper’s Accusation  The prosecution of players David Evans, Collin Finnerty and
Reade Seligmann began with a stripper’s accusation that she was
attacked after she danced at a team party in 2006. The
authorities mishandled the investigation and withheld evidence
that supported the athletes’ denials, the three men said in
their complaint.  The athletes claim the officials violated their rights
under the Fourth Amendment, which requires probable cause to
issue warrants, and the 14th Amendment, which guarantees equal
protection of law. They used a law that lets people sue public
officials in federal court for violating their constitutional
rights.  The players have asked the court for unspecified damages
and for a monitor to be appointed to oversee the Durham police
for 10 years. Duke is located in Durham.  Nifong was running for re-election in March 2006 when the
dancer, a black woman named Crystal Mangum, then 27, reported
that she was raped by white team members at a party in a rented
house where she went to perform.  Photo Lineups  The players were arrested and indicted on charges that
could have sent them to prison for as long as 20 years. The
arrests were based partly on photo lineups criticized by defense
lawyers because they contained only pictures of team members.  In March 2006, the  district attorney  conducted almost 100
media interviews in which he said he had “no doubt” that three
members of the team had engaged in a vicious, racially motivated
rape, according to the complaint. The players’ lawyers said the
district attorney was using the woman’s false allegations to win
the election.  During a Dec. 15, 2006, court hearing, the director of the
DNA lab Nifong used admitted he and the prosecutor agreed to
withhold evidence that probably would show that none of the team
members raped the woman.  Nifong dropped the rape charges, leaving accusations of
first-degree sex offense and first-degree kidnapping.  ‘Rush to Accuse’  State Attorney General Roy Cooper took over the case in
January 2007 and dropped the charges that April. The players
were caught in a “tragic rush to accuse,” and no crime
occurred, Cooper said.  Nifong was removed from the practice of law in 2007 for
unethical conduct in the investigation.  He argued that the complaint failed to state a claim
against him and that he was immune from the suit because he
acted in his official capacity as a prosecutor.  The city also argued it was immune from liability. The
athletes’ lawyers were using “novel legal theories” to
“impose on Durham taxpayers untold millions of dollars in
damages for plaintiffs who were publicly exonerated and never
spent a moment in jail,” its lawyers wrote in a January 2008
court filing.  The city’s lawyers said Nifong worked for the state, not
the city.  Beaty today also upheld and dismissed various counts in two
separate lawsuits filed by other members of the 2006 Duke
lacrosse team.  The case is Evans v. Durham, 07-00739, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of North Carolina (Durham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   rovella@bloomberg.net  