-- 
Healthpoint Gets U.S. Complaint Over Unapproved Skin Drug

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-04-01T16:35:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/healthpoint-gets-u-s-complaint-over-unapproved-skin-drug-1-.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  filed a
complaint against  Healthpoint Ltd.  accusing it of seeking
reimbursement from Medicare and Medicaid for an unapproved
prescription skin-care drug.  The complaint said  Fort Worth , Texas-based Healthpoint, a
unit of closely held DFB Pharmaceuticals, submitted false
statements about the regulatory status of  Xenaderm , an ointment
used to treat bedsores, the Justice Department said today in a
statement. The complaint was filed yesterday in Boston federal
court as part of an existing suit brought under the  False Claims
Act , the U.S. whistle-blower statute.  The company began distributing Xenaderm in 2002 without
Food and Drug Administration approval, the Justice Department
said. An active ingredient in the drug is trypsin, which is
supposed to function as a “debriding agent” to remove dead
tissue from around a wound.  The FDA in the 1970s determined that trypsin was
ineffective as a debriding agent and canceled market approval
for products that used it as such, making them ineligible for
reimbursement under Medicaid and Medicare, according to the
statement.  Not Approved  The government said Healthpoint claimed that Xenaderm was
eligible for reimbursement while knowing the drug was unapproved
and disregarding FDA notices about trypsin’s lack of
effectiveness, causing “tens of millions of dollars” in
Medicaid and Medicare payments.  Mark Mitchell, a spokesman for Healthpoint, declined to
immediately comment. A  statement  on the company’s website said
Xenaderm is “no longer eligible for reimbursement with federal
funds.”  “Healthpoint disagrees with, and is in the process of
challenging, FDA’s determination,” according to the statement.  The  False Claims Act  lets private citizens file whistle-
blower suits to provide the government with evidence of
wrongdoing. The U.S. can recover three times the amount the
government lost to a false claim, plus a sum for each false
claim filed. Whistle-blowers can share in that recovery.  The case is U.S. ex. rel. Conrad v. Healthpoint Ltd., 02-
11738, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 