-- 
ECB’s Bini Smaghi Says Irish Credit Ratings ‘Behind the Curve’

-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-04-01T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ecb-s-bini-smaghi-says-ratings-behind-the-curve-on-ireland-1-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said rating downgrades of
Ireland are “behind the curve” because they don’t reflect the
nation’s efforts to restore the health of its banks.  The “stress tests have shown the willingness of Ireland in
particular to recapitalize the banks, put them on a new footing
so they’re able to go back to the markets,” Bini Smaghi said in
a Bloomberg Television interview from Cernobbio,  Italy ,
yesterday. “That’s a very positive development” and the
“rating agencies are a bit behind the curve.”  Ireland’s credit rating was cut one level by  Standard &
Poor’s  and put on watch for a possible downgrade by Fitch
Ratings yesterday after the cost of rescuing Irish banks reached
as much as 100 billion euros ($141.5 billion). After carrying
out stress tests, Ireland’s central bank this week ordered four
lenders, including the largest, Bank of Ireland Plc, to raise 24
billion euros in capital.  The country, which agreed to an 85 billion-euro bailout in
November, can sustain mounting debt levels if it fixes its
lenders and maintains economic growth, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said this week.  Asked if the ECB, which has suspended the minimum credit
rating threshold on Irish debt used as collateral for central
bank loans, will continue to support Ireland, Bini Smaghi said
that “we’ve done it so far and will continue to do it but it’s
of course conditional on the program.”  Credibility Issue  Bini Smaghi said it would be detrimental for Ireland not to
follow the bailout conditions.  “They lose credibility in the market and they will be
unable to go back to borrow again,” he said. “It would make it
very difficult for them to support the development of the Irish
economy. The alternative scenario is much worse.”  On  Portugal , which is being pushed to the brink of a
requiring a bailout by surging financing costs, Bini Smaghi said
that investors “need to be convinced that Portugal will
implement a sound fiscal policy” and “they need to convince
the markets that this is the way going forward even after the
elections.”  The country will elect its next government on June 5 after
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned on March 23 in the wake of
a defeat in parliament by opposition parties which rejected his
deficit-cutting plan. The program aimed to prevent Portugal from
following Greece and Ireland in seeking a European Union rescue.  Portuguese and Irish securities were the two worst
performers in the first quarter of 2011 among the 26 sovereign-
debt markets tracked by indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.
Spanish debt performed best among euro-region members, the
indexes show.  Spain ’s bond yields performing better than Portugal’s
“shows that if you move ahead of the curve and take the
measures before the pressure of the markets, that’s more
effective,” Bini Smaghi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Chilcote in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  