-- 
Lee Apologizes for Abandoning Vowed South Korea Airport Construction Plan

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-04-01T03:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/lee-apologizes-for-abandoning-vowed-south-korea-airport-construction-plan.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak , who took office three years ago after heading the country’s
largest construction firm, apologized for canceling an election
pledge to build a new airport.  “I feel sorry for not keeping my promise on the project,”
Lee said in a televised broadcast today. “Still, I couldn’t
pursue a plan that will burden the country with expected losses
over generations.”  The international airport near South Korea’s second largest
city of Busan is the latest construction project canceled by
Lee, the former chief executive officer of Hyundai Engineering &
Construction Co. During his 2007 campaign Lee vowed to boost
growth through building projects including a 17 trillion won
($15.5 billion)  “Great Waterway”  network of canals, which was
abandoned in 2009.  “This will cut Lee’s political power and fuel opposition
in the southeast,” said Kang Won Taek, a professor of political
science at Seoul National University. “That’s one of the
biggest support bases for Lee and his ruling party.”  South Korea  scrapped the plan to build the airport because
it was too expensive and would not attract as many passengers
are originally projected, the  Ministry of Land, Transport and
Maritime Affairs  said in a statement on March 30. Constructing
of the airfield in the southeast of the country would cost as
much as 14 trillion won, the statement said.  Existing Airports  The government will continue to examine ways to utilize
existing airports in the area to meet demand and carry out rural
development, Lee said.  “After repeated collapses of big projects it seems even
the country’s contractors no longer expect they’ll benefit from
the Lee’s pledges,” said Baek Jae Wook, a construction industry
analyst at KTB Securities Co. in  Seoul .  Lee’s single five-year term ends in February 2013. The
president’s approval rating fell to 36.8 percent in a poll of
5,000 people taken March 21-25 by Seoul-based Realmeter, down
from 39.8 percent in a survey published March 4. The poll had a
margin of error of 1.4 percentage points.  Lee also reiterated he’s open to a summit meeting with
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  if the communist nation
apologizes for sinking a naval ship and a South Korean island.  An international panel concluded a North Korean torpedo
sank a South Korean warship in March of last year, killing 46
sailors.  North Korea  shelled the South Korean island of
Yeonpyeong near a disputed sea border this year, killing four
people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  