-- 
Telkom South Africa Sells Nigerian CDMA Business, Retains Fixed-Line Unit

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-04-01T14:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/telkom-south-africa-agress-to-sell-loss-making-nigerian-unit-to-visafone.html
Telkom South  Africa  Ltd. agreed to
sell its CDMA-technology business in Nigeria and keep its fiber-
optic division to benefit from a possible surge in demand for
data and fixed-line services in Africa’s most populous country.  Telkom will sell the CDMA business of Multi-Links for $52
million to Visafone Communications Ltd., the Pretoria-based
company said in a statement today. Africa’s largest fixed-line
telephone operator will retain Multi-Links’ fixed-line and
fibre-network operations as it refocuses on its “core
competencies,” Telkom said.  “That’s a good strategic decision,” Chris Gilmour, an
analyst at Johannesburg-based Absa Asset Management Private
Clients, said in a phone interview. “There are not many fixed
telephones going around in Nigeria. For a growing economy like
 Nigeria ’s, it’s well worth keeping the fibre asset.”  Telkom shares jumped as much as 1.50 rand, or 4.1 percent,
to 38.50 rand, and traded at 37.67 rand as of 4:05 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Multi-Links hasn’t made a profit since Telkom
purchased it for $410 million in 2007. Nigeria’s economy, the
second-largest in sub-Saharan Africa, may expand 8 percent this
year, Finance Minister Olusegun Aganga said in February.  The proceeds for Telkom will be net of the existing
liabilities of the Multi-Links CDMA business, Telkom said.
Telkom spokesman Pynee Chetty declined to comment further.  Telkom on Nov. 22 said Multi-Links has 7,000 kilometers
(4,351 miles) of fiber-optic cable, 2,000 kilometers of which is
shared with MTN Group Ltd. and Nigeria’s Globacom Ltd. CDMA, or
code division multiple access, refers to radio technology used
in data phones and networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  