-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise to Highest Since June 2008 on Growth

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-01T10:30:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-highest-since-june-2008-on-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fourth day, sending the benchmark index to the highest level
since June 2008, as manufacturing growth in  China  and surging
exports in South Korea spurred confidence in the global economy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.7 percent to
1,179.19 at 11:03 a.m. in  London , heading for the highest
closing level since June 6, 2008. The  Shanghai  Composite Index
advanced 1.3 percent, while South Korea’s won strengthened 0.5
percent against the dollar to lead gains in developing-nation
currencies. Ivory Coast’s dollar bonds extended the best week
since they began trading in April 2010 after fighters loyal to
the President-elect moved to oust the incumbent leader.  China’s manufacturing growth accelerated for the first time
in four months and South Korean exports rose more than
economists predicted in March. Manufacturing in  Poland  topped
the median economist estimate in a Bloomberg survey, spurring a
0.8 percent gain in the WIG20 Index. The Micex Index rallied 1.1
percent after Russian equity mutual funds attracted $608 million
during the week ended March 30, according to EPFR Global data
cited by UralSib Financial Corp.  “The growth numbers are positive for the markets,” said
Jason Chong, who helps manage about $1 billion of assets as
chief investment officer at Manulife Asset Management ( Malaysia )
Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur.  The MSCI emerging-market index extended this year’s gain to
2.4 percent. Developing-nation equity funds attracted inflows of
$2.6 billion in the week to March 30, the most since the period
ended Jan. 5, Citigroup Inc. analysts said in a report today,
citing data compiled by EPFR.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined 5 basis points to 2.56
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default
swaps for emerging  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa  was little
changed at 194, according to data provider CMA in London.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. surged 7.2 percent to a record high
in Shanghai, leading gains for coal producers, after the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said the Purchasing
Managers’ Index rose to 53.4 in March from 52.2 in February. The
shares also rallied after Shenyin & Wanguo Securities
recommended coal companies amid a pick-up in economic growth.  Technology stocks had the biggest gains among the MSCI
index’s 10 industry groups. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, advanced
2.9 percent in  Taiwan  and Samsung Electronics Co.,  South Korea ’s
biggest exporter of chips, flat screens and mobile phones,
climbed 0.9 percent. South Korean exports rose 30.3 percent from
a year earlier, a government report showed.  U.S. Jobs Report  U.S. employers probably added 190,000 jobs last month, the
sixth month of gains, economists in a Bloomberg survey said
before the Labor Department’s report today.  Ivory Coast’s defaulted dollar bonds climbed 6.3 percent,
extending this week’s gain to 29 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Fighters loyal to President-elect
 Alassane Ouattara , a former deputy managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund , entered Laurent Gbagbo’s last
stronghold in Abidjan to oust the incumbent leader.  The fighters said they seized the state broadcaster and
attacked Gbagbo’s residence and presidential palace as fighting
continued today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  