-- 
Energy Future Bonds Soar as Company Seeks Default Rejection

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-04-01T19:36:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/energy-future-bonds-soar-as-company-seeks-default-rejection.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp. bonds
soared and the cost of protecting the utility’s debt plunged
after the company asked lenders to change the terms of its debt
agreement to reject a claim it defaulted on a loan and to push
out maturities.  The former TXU Corp. said that “based on private
negotiations,” it expects lenders holding more than 50 percent
of the loans and commitments under its senior secured credit
facilities will approve the amendment, according to a regulatory
filing today.  Energy Future, taken private in 2007 by KKR & Co. and TPG
Capital in the largest leveraged buyout in history, is asking
that creditors acknowledge the debt complies with the credit
agreement. That would resolve a claim made in February by hedge
fund Aurelius Capital Management LP that intercompany borrowings
weren’t completed at a so-called “arm’s-length basis,” meaning
they may not have been made in good faith.  The company is also offering creditors “the right to
extend” the first-lien term loans by three years to October
2017 and increase the interest rate by 1 percentage point,
today’s filing said. The Dallas-based electricity provider wants
to move out the revolving credit line maturity by three years to
October 2016.  Energy Future’s $1.87 billion of 10.25 percent bonds due in
November 2015 rose 7.25 cents to 67 cents on the dollar as of
3:03 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Its $1.4 billion of 10.5 percent notes due in November 2016
climbed 14.25 cents to 69.5 cents on the dollar, Trace data
show.  Credit Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting against a default
by Energy Future dropped 4.4 percentage points to a mid-price of
34.1 percent upfront as of 2:59 p.m. in New York, according to
London-based data provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5
percentage points a year, meaning it would cost $3.41 million
initially and $500,000 annually to insure $10 million of the
company’s debt for five years. The contracts had surged as high
as 48.3 percent on March 14, CMA data show.  Swaps on unit Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Co. also
dropped, declining 6.5 percentage points to 41.5 upfront,
according to CMA.  Energy Future will pay 50 basis points to lenders that
consent to the amendment by 12 p.m. April 7 in New York. If the
extension becomes effective, it will give 3.5 percentage points
upfront to lenders that agree to push out the maturities on
their loans by April 12. The company will be required to sell
senior secured notes to satisfy the terms of the extension, it
said in the filing.  ‘Paying the Banks’  The company will sell as much as $1.875 billion of new
first lien senior secured notes to repay a portion of its credit
facilities, according to people with knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified because the details have not been
disclosed.  “The company has shifted from dismissing our claims to
paying the banks to waive them,” Mark Brodsky, chairman of New
York-based Aurelius, said in an e-mail. “What we have learned
in the interim confirms our view that an event of default has
occurred.”  The allegations are “utterly meritless,”  Robert Walters ,
general counsel of Energy Future, said in a February telephone
interview.  “We are taking advantage of the current markets,” Lisa Singleton, an Energy Future spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s just another step in trying to improve our
balance sheet.”  Extra Yield  Energy Future is rated Caa2 by Moody’s Investors Service
and CCC+ by Standard & Poor’s. High-yield, high-risk bonds are
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Speculative-grade companies raised $149 billion of loans,
the most since the three months ended December 2007, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Borrowers used $87 billion of the
proceeds to refinance debt, a quarterly record, according to
 Standard & Poor’s  Leveraged Commentary and Data.  The extra yield investors demand to own  junk bonds  instead
of Treasuries has narrowed to 477 basis points from 541 basis
points at the end of 2010, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s US High Yield Master II Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  