-- 
Mets Said to Anticipate Bidder Interest in Coming Days

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-04-01T19:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/mets-said-to-anticipate-bidder-intent-for-minority-stake-in-baseball-team.html
The  New York Mets  expect to receive
letters of intent in the coming days from potential bidders for
a minority stake in the baseball team, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Major League Baseball has determined that 12 to 15 parties
are qualified to receive access to confidential financial
information from the Mets, said one of the people, who declined
to be identified because the process isn’t public. The Mets’
owners, the Wilpon family, have discussed selling a 25 percent
stake, though may consider selling as much as 49 percent, the
person said.  Any letters of intent should be in by next week, the person
said. They are likely to include rough estimates of how much a
bidder is willing to pay for a stake in the Mets contingent on
further due diligence, according to the person.  Issues such as whether a buyer would get board seats remain
to be determined, said one of the people.  Patrick Courtney, a spokesman for  Major League Baseball ,
and Jay Horwitz, a spokesman for the Mets, declined to comment.
The New York Post reported on the bidding process earlier this
week.  Some potential bidders have held back and not sought major-
league approval, waiting to see if a majority stake in the team
is eventually put on the block, said one of the people familiar
with the matter. It is not clear how many parties will make
bids.  The Mets are worth $747 million, 13 percent less than a
year ago, Forbes magazine said March 23 in its annual analysis
of major-league team valuations. A sale of 25 percent to 49
percent would be worth $187 million to $366 million, based on
the Forbes figures.  Money Sought  Trustee Irving Picard, who is liquidating the business of
jailed  Ponzi-scheme  operator Bernard L. Madoff, wants to recover
$300 million in alleged phony profits made by Sterling Equities
Inc., which owns the Mets, and as much as $700 million in
principal, his lawyer,  David Sheehan , said on Feb. 11.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to fraud charges, is serving 150
years in prison for the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, Picard has said.
Authorities have collected almost $10 billion for victims.  Mets owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz said March 20 in an
e-mailed news release that Picard concocted his allegations
against them to force a settlement, describing the accusations
as a “work of fiction.”  Former New York Governor  Mario Cuomo , father of the state’s
current governor,  Andrew Cuomo , was appointed Feb. 10 to mediate
the dispute between Picard and the Sterling defendants. The
mediation process is ongoing.  Some Interested  Those who expressed interest in buying the Mets outright
after the Wilpons in January announced plans to sell a piece of
the team were billionaire real-estate developer  Donald Trump  and
Michael Repole, the co-founder of Glaceau Vitaminwater sports
drink, which was sold to Coca-Cola Co. for $4.1 billion in 2007.
Repole said in a March 6 interview that he wouldn’t consider
bidding for a stake without have a say in the team’s operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 