-- 
EU Carbon Emissions Increase 3.5% in 2010, First Advance in Three Years

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-04-01T17:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/eu-emissions-in-2010-rose-for-the-first-time-in-three-years-gaining-3-45-.html
Emissions from factories and power
stations in the European Union carbon market rose 3.5 percent
last year as freezing weather boosted energy consumption,
according to preliminary data.  Emissions increased to 1.754 billion metric tons in 2010, 
the first gain in three years, from 1.695 billion tons for the
same installations in 2009, according to data published today on
the  EU website . While the advance exceeded the 2.7 percent
median estimate of nine analysts surveyed last month by
Bloomberg, EU carbon prices were little changed today.  “The numbers give us no cause to revise our price forecast
for the coming years,”  Trevor Sikorski , a London-based analyst
at Barclays Plc, said today in a note to investors. The EU
market has surplus allowances of about 455 million tons for the
five years ending in 2012, he estimates, so slightly higher-
than-forecast 2010 emissions are “neither here nor there.”  The latest figures show that the EU allocated more permits
than emitters needed for 2010. The program had an oversupply
amounting to 1.9 percent of the total in 2010, down from 4.8
percent in 2009. About 13,000 participants in the six-year-old
EU program, the world’s biggest greenhouse gas market, are
required to turn in permits to match the carbon figures
published today, or face a fine of 100 euros ($142) a ton.  Carbon permits for December fell 0.3 percent to 17.23 euros
a ton on London’s ICE Futures  Europe  exchange as of 5:30 p.m.
They have jumped 21 percent this year, helped by speculation
that demand for fossil fuels and emission allowances will
increase as Europe reduce its reliance on reactors in the wake
of this month’s nuclear disaster in  Japan .  Power Industry  EU emissions from the power industry rose 0.4 percent in
2010, excluding facilities that distribute heat, according to an
estimate from Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London based on
today’s data. That compares with its forecast of 0.3 percent.  The economic recession curbed EU emissions by 11 percent in
2009. The recovering economy and cold weather helped boost
output last year. December was the coldest on record in the
U.K.,  according to the Met Office . France temperatures were 3.1
degrees Celsius (5.6 Fahrenheit) below average in January last
year, according to the nation’s electricity grid operator.  The preliminary EU emissions figures, which are 90 percent
complete, follow yesterday’s report from the U.K. showing its
emissions, including those not under the EU program, rose 2.8
percent in 2010, the biggest gain in at least two decades.  German factories and power stations in the carbon market
boosted emissions by 6 percent, while those in  Poland  rose 4.4
percent. Installations in Portugal and  Spain  had the biggest
declines, 15 percent and 12 percent respectively.  German Reactors  EU emissions may rise at 3.6 percent this year, according
to the Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Germany  closed seven
reactors following radiation leaks at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant. That will probably increase burning of fossil fuels in
the bloc.  Verified emissions were below the cap in the European
trading system, known as the ETS, for the fifth year out of the
six, Sandbag, a London-based climate lobby group, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “Europe’s flagship climate policy has great potential, but
it currently risks becoming an environmental hindrance,” Damien
Morris, senior policy adviser, said in the e-mail. “If
politicians have the courage to tighten the cap, then the ETS
could help pave the way for a low-carbon Europe.”  The iron and steel sector has accrued a 212 million-ton
surplus of allowances so far because the bloc’s governments gave
away too many permits, Sandbag estimated. Those allowances are
worth about 3.4 billion euros at current prices, equivalent to
Europe’s annual financial support for renewable power, according
to the statement.  Sikorski of Barclays said the ETS is succeeding in reducing
emissions. The EU report for 2010 shows power-sector emissions
rose at 2.1 percent, while consumption of electricity increased
2.6 percent, he said. “The EU emissions trading system is
greening the EU.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  