-- 
EU Appeals WTO Ruling Finding U.S. Aid to Boeing Was Illegal

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-04-01T13:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/eu-said-to-appeal-wto-ruling-finding-boeing-u-s-support-illegal.html
The European Union appealed a World
Trade Organization ruling that found  Boeing Co. (BA)  got at least
$5.3 billion in illegal U.S. aid, less than the EU had alleged.  WTO judges in Geneva yesterday confirmed previously
confidential findings that the U.S. provided subsidies to
Chicago-based Boeing through federal research grants and state
support in developing aircraft including the 787 Dreamliner.
Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. has said
the aid to Boeing cost it $45 billion in lost sales from 2002 to
2006. The U.S. has five days to appeal the report.  The ruling came nine months after the WTO concluded Airbus
had received billions of euros in low-interest government loans
from European governments. EU Trade Commissioner Karel  De Gucht 
yesterday called the ruling against Boeing a “clear” win for
the European side.  “The EU’s victory in this case against Boeing remains very
clear for all to see,”  John Clancy , De Gucht’s spokesman, said
by e-mail from Brussels today. “However, the EU has chosen to
quickly appeal technical elements of the ruling for legal
strategic reasons -- including to reduce what has been a growing
time gap between the two parallel aircraft disputes.”  The U.S. will decide “in the coming days” whether to file
its own appeal of the ruling, said Nefeterius McPherson, a
spokeswoman for Trade Representative Ron Kirk.  ‘WTO Inconsistency’  “The panel found three instances of WTO inconsistency and
we are reviewing the panel report to determine an appropriate
response,” she wrote in an e-mail from  Washington  today. “We
have not yet taken a final decision on filing what would be a
‘cross appeal.’”  The EU decided to challenge the ruling to clarify some
legal points and because the illegal aid to Boeing was less than
what the 27-nation bloc had targeted. The EU asserted that
Boeing benefited from $10.4 billion in unfair assistance from
both  NASA  and the U.S. Defense Department from 1989 to 2006. It
also claimed another $8.7 billion illegal aid to Boeing by
states including Washington, Kansas and  Illinois .  Judges found  that Boeing got at least $5.3 billion in
illegal subsidies between 1989 and 2006 and was slated to get $3
billion to $4 billion in incompatible future aid based on
Washington state tax measures.  This includes NASA research and development programs worth
$2.6 billion in subsidies between 1989 and 2006,  Department of
Defense  programs with aid as high as $1.2 billion in the same
period, three Washington state tax breaks worth up to $4 billion
from 2006-2024 and foreign sales corporation export subsidies
valued at $2.2 billion until 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  