-- 
European Factory Growth Slows as Global Economy's Momentum Relies on China

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-04-01T10:44:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/european-factory-growth-slows-as-global-economy-s-momentum-relies-on-china.html
Factory growth from  Germany  and
 Switzerland  to the U.K. slowed in March as the region’s recovery
struggled to keep momentum, leaving the global economy reliant
on emerging markets to drive expansion.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-member euro region fell
to 57.5 from 59 in February, London-based Markit Economics said
in an e-mailed report today. Measures for the U.K., Switzerland
and the  Czech Republic  weakened and economists forecast the U.S.
index due later today will also show slowing. By contrast,
manufacturing growth in China,  India  and Russia picked up.  Europe’s economy faces headwinds from surging energy costs
burdening businesses and households, and a spate of government
austerity measures. Faster inflation may prompt the  European
Central Bank  to raise  interest rates  next week, pushing the euro
higher and hampering the region’s exporters by making their
goods more expensive.  Today’s data adds to signs “that in the developed world
growth in the manufacturing and trade-led cycle is petering
out,” said David Owen, chief European economist at Jefferies
International in  London . “These countries will have to
strengthen domestic demand to offset the falloff in exports. The
euro exchange rate certainly doesn’t help exporters, even within
the euro area, as Chinese goods are much cheaper.”  ECB policy maker comments that they intend to raise
interest rates for the first time in almost three years next
week has driven up the euro almost 6 percent in the past three
months. The European single currency was trading at $1.4155 at
11 a.m. in London.  ISM Report  An index of manufacturing growth in the U.S. may have
dropped to 61 from 61.4 in March, according to the median
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
Institute for Supply Management will release the data today at
10 a.m. Washington time.  China ’s manufacturing growth accelerated for the first time
in four months with the index rising to 53.4 from 52.2, while
India’s manufacturing grew for a 24th straight month and the
index remained at 57.9. Russia’s factory output gauge increased
to 55.6 from 55.2, the highest almost five years.  In Europe, the index in Germany, Europe’s largest economy
and the region’s manufacturing powerhouse, dropped to 60.9 from
62.7 while the gauge of U.K. manufacturing growth fell to 57.1
in March from 60.9. In Switzerland the indicator dropped to 59.3
from 63.5 and in the Czech Republic it fell to 58.6 from 59.8.  “The good news is that we expect the global recovery to
proceed, led by emerging markets,”  Naoyuki Shinohara , deputy
managing director of the  International Monetary Fund , said March
30. “But the not so good news is that it will remain a multi-
speed recovery with considerable downside risks.”  ‘Strong Level’  At the same time, while the euro area manufacturing sector
is slowing, that is “from a rather strong level,”  Ken Wattret ,
chief euro area economist at BNP Paribas in London, said in a
note today.  European manufacturers have driven the region’s expansion
as government austerity measures curbed household spending. A
gauge of confidence among euro-area manufacturers remained
unchanged in March from the previous month while consumers and
builders grew more pessimistic about the outlook, a European
Commission survey showed on March 30.  Daimler AG (DAI) , Audi AG and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
three largest luxury carmakers, plan to add thousands of
workers. HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third-largest maker of
cement based in Heidelberg, Germany, on March 17 forecast higher
sales and earnings for 2011.  ECB Signal  The ECB has signaled it may raise its main lending rate
from a record low of 1 percent next week to fight increasing
price pressures even after Japan’s March 21 earthquake and the
ensuing nuclear disaster. Crude-oil prices have surged 15
percent this year, pushing euro-region inflation to 2.6 percent
last month.  Even so, Pacific Investment Management Co. said a lack of
growth in Europe may make it difficult for the ECB to push
through a series of interest-rate increases.  “It looks very likely that the ECB will raise interest
rates next week and we think it’s very unlikely they’ll raise
interest rates once as a gesture,”  Andrew Balls , Pimco’s
London-based head of European portfolio management told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.” Still, “We
don’t see a strong growth outlook in  Europe , so the ECB hiking
rates makes us a little bit skeptical that they’re actually
going to be able to deliver the expected path of rate hikes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  