-- 
European Stocks Advance for Second Week; Bank of Ireland, Randgold Rally

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/european-stocks-advance-for-second-week-bank-of-ireland-randgold-rally.html
European stocks climbed for a second
week, recouping the losses that followed  Japan ’s March 11
earthquake and tsunami, as better-than-forecast U.S. jobs data
bolstered confidence in the global economic recovery.  Bank of Ireland Plc jumped 18 percent after the lender
outlined plans to avoid state control following stress tests by
regulators. Randgold Resources Ltd., a miner of the metal in
West Africa, surged the most in a year amid speculation the
political crisis in  Ivory Coast  may soon end. Alcatel-Lucent SA
led technology shares higher as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
upgraded the stock.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 1.5 percent
this past week, extending last week’s 3.1 percent jump. The
gauge has climbed 6.8 percent from this year’s low on March 16
amid speculation the global economic recovery will withstand
Japan’s worst earthquake on record and popular revolts in the
Middle East and north  Africa .  “It generally seems to be accepted that the recovery is
happening, perhaps not quite at the speed that some would
like,” said  Richard Hunter , head of U.K. equities at Hargreaves
Lansdown Stockbrokers in  London . “There are definite signs of a
recovery taking place.”  Data this week showed U.S. employers added more jobs than
forecast in March and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly dropped
to a two-year low of 8.8 percent, a sign the labor-market
recovery is gathering speed.  U.S. Economy  Payrolls increased by 216,000 workers after a revised
194,000 gain the prior month, beating the median economist
forecast of 190,000. Separate figures showed U.S. manufacturing
expanded in March at near to the fastest pace in almost seven
years.  National benchmark indexes climbed in all 18 western
European markets, except  Greece  and Italy. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
gained 1.9 percent to breach the 6,000 level for the first time
in almost a month.  Germany ’s DAX increased 3.4 percent and
France’s CAC 40 rose 2.1 percent. Greece’s ASE lost 5.9 percent.  Banks in peripheral countries limited gains after Moody’s
Investors Service said it couldn’t rule out further credit
downgrades for the euro-area nations, saying last week’s
agreement by the European Union on a permanent bailout fund
failed to go far enough.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded Portugal and Greece’s debt
ratings, saying the EU’s bailout rules may mean both nations
will eventually renege on their debt obligations. S&P also cut
Ireland’s credit rating, while  Fitch Ratings  put the country on
watch for a possible downgrade.  Irish Banks  Irish banks advanced even as regulators instructed the
country’s four largest lenders to raise 24 billion euros ($34
billion) in capital following a series of stress tests.  Bank of Ireland jumped 18 percent after the lender said it
plans to raise capital from existing shareholders after being
ordered to boost reserves by 5.2 billion euros.  Allied Irish Banks Plc rose 14 percent even as the
government prepares to increase its 93 percent stake in the
company. The central bank said it requires 13.3 billion euros of
additional capital. Rival Irish Life & Permanent Plc plunged 77
percent to a record low amid concern it will be unable to avoid
state control.  Randgold Resources soared 9.8 percent as forces backing
Ivory Coast election winner Alassane Ouattara entered the
capital, Abidjan, boosting speculation that incumbent leader
 Laurent Gbagbo  may be overthrown. The mining company also
reported an increase in reserves and forecast production gains
and lower costs over the next five years.  Vedanta, Alcatel  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  jumped 10 percent after Morgan
Stanley reiterated an “overweight” rating, saying its
acquisition of Cairn India Ltd. will contribute to growth.  Alcatel-Lucent jumped 9.2 percent after Goldman Sachs
upgraded France’s largest telecommunications-equipment maker to
“buy,” saying it sees 46 percent “upside potential” to the
shares.  Continental AG rose 5.6 percent after  Schaeffler Group  sold
1.8 billion euros of shares in Europe’s second-largest
tiremaker, increasing Continental’s free float to 39.7 percent
from 24.9 percent.  Among declining shares, BP Plc fell 2.8 percent after
people familiar with the matter said U.S. prosecutors may pursue
manslaughter charges against the company’s managers for
decisions made before the Gulf of Mexico oil-rig explosion last
year that killed 11 workers and caused the world’s largest
accidental oil spill.  H&M, Dixons Decline  Hennes & Mauritz AB dropped 3.8 percent after Europe’s
second-largest clothing retailer reported first-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates.  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  plunged 26 percent after the U.K.
electronics retailer warned that full-year earnings will miss
most estimates. Fitch Ratings revised the company’s debt-rating
outlook to negative.  Logitech International SA sank 17 percent after the world’s
biggest maker of computer mice also lowered its sales and profit
forecasts.  Sonova Holding AG lost 7.4 percent as its chief executive
officer and finance head resigned after an investigation into
possible  insider trading  at the Swiss hearing-aid maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  