-- 
European Stock Futures Advance Before U.S. Employment Report

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-04-01T06:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/european-stock-index-futures-advance-before-monthly-u-s-employment-report.html
European stock-index futures gained
as investors awaited the U.S. government’s monthly payrolls
report for indications on the strength of the world’s largest
economy. Asian shares and U.S. futures fluctuated.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of Ireland Plc may be
active after regulators instructed four of the nation’s lenders
to raise 24 billion euros ($34 billion) of additional capital.
 Logitech International SA (LOGN)  might move after cutting its forecast.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  may gain as Citigroup Inc. named the
company as its top airlines pick.  Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index expiring in June rose
0.2 percent to 2,850 at 7:24 a.m. in  London , while FTSE 100
Index futures were little changed. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures gained less than 0.1 percent today and the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index slipped 0.1 percent.  “Today’s non-farm payrolls report will be the big focus in
the coming hours,”  Ben Potter , market strategist at IG Markets
in  Melbourne , wrote in an e-mail.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1 percent
yesterday, halting a six-day winning streak. U.S. stocks fell,
trimming the biggest first-quarter rally for the  S&P 500  since
1998, as Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said  interest rates  may need to rise.  Payrolls Report  The U.S. Labor Department’s report at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington  may show payrolls increased by 190,000 last month
after a 192,000 advance in February that was the biggest in nine
months, according to the median forecast of 83 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Manufacturing in the U.S. may have expanded at about the
same pace as in February, the strongest month in almost seven
years, a report from the Tempe, Arizona-based  Institute for
Supply Management  due at 10 a.m. New York time may show.  In  China , manufacturing growth accelerated for the first
time in four months, easing concern that monetary tightening may
lead to a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index from the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing rose to 53.4 in March from 52.2 in
February. A separate PMI by HSBC Holdings Plc also gained.  Portugal  will elect its next government on June 5, just 10
days before its last bond redemption of the year, as surging
financing costs threaten to push the country to the brink of
requiring a bailout. Portugal announced an “extraordinary”
auction of one-year notes for today, saying it has “specific
demand” for the securities.  Irish Banks  Allied Irish, the largest bank during the nation’s decade-
long economic boom, may move after the central bank in Dublin
said late yesterday it requires 13.3 billion euros of additional
capital after a  stress test . Bank of Ireland must get 5.2
billion euros, while Irish Life & Permanent Plc needs 4 billion
euros and EBS Building Society should raise 1.5 billion euros.  Logitech may move after the maker of computer mice trimmed
its forecasts for the fiscal year. The company now expects sales
in the range of $2.35 billion to $2.37 billion, compared with a
previous forecast of $2.4 billion to $2.42 billion, and
operating income of $140 million to $150 million, down from an
earlier estimate of $170 million to $180 million.  Lufthansa may rise after Citigroup named the Cologne,
Germany-based carrier its top airlines pick. Lufthansa has the
strongest balance sheet of the flag carriers and is least
affected by rising oil prices, the analysts wrote.  Nokia shares may fall as Nomura Holdings Inc. downgraded
the mobile-phone maker to “reduce” from “neutral.”  France Telecom SA (FTE)  may drop as  UBS AG (UBSN)  cut the stock to
“sell” from “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  