-- 
Europe March Manufacturing Growth Slows More Than Estimated

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-04-01T09:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/european-manufacturing-growth-slows-more-than-estimated-in-march.html
European manufacturing growth slowed
more than initially estimated in March as output weakened from
 Germany  to  Italy  and  France , suggesting the euro-area economy is
losing some strength.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro region fell
to 57.5 from 59 in February, London-based Markit Economics said
in an e-mailed report today. That’s below an initial estimate of
57.7. A reading above 50 indicates growth. A gauge of output
growth in Germany, the region’s biggest economy, fell to 60.9
from 62.7, Markit said.  Europe ’s recovery is losing some momentum, with surging
energy costs sapping earnings and purchasing power as
governments toughen austerity measures. Economic confidence
worsened in March after the  European Central Bank  signaled it is
ready to raise borrowing costs, indicating officials are more
concerned about price pressures than risks to the economic
outlook.  “Manufacturing activity grew strongly in the first quarter
of 2011 and remained pretty well placed going into the second
quarter,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS
Global Insight in  London . Companies “will be hoping that global
growth holds up and that economic activity is not hit
significantly” by rising energy costs.  A gauge of services advanced to 56.9 in March from 56.8 in
the previous month, while a composite index of manufacturing and
services probably slipped to 57.5 from 58.2. Markit will release
the final numbers on April 5.  Manufacturing Confidence  European manufacturers have driven the region’s expansion
as government austerity measures curbed household spending. A
gauge of confidence among euro-area manufacturers remained
unchanged in March from the previous month while consumers and
builders grew more pessimistic about the outlook, a European
Commission survey showed on March 30.  Daimler AG (DAI) , Audi AG and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
three largest luxury carmakers, plan to add thousands of workers
this year.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest maker
of cement based in Heidelberg, Germany, on March 17 forecast
higher sales and earnings for 2011.  In Italy, a gauge of manufacturing growth dropped to 56.2
from 59 in February, while the French indicator slipped to 55.4
from 55.7, Markit said. Sub-indicators measuring companies’
output, new orders and new export orders weakened.  Price Pressures  Global output growth is showing few signs of slowing down.
In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, business activity
expanded at a faster pace than forecast in March, while Chinese
manufacturing growth accelerated for the first time in four
months. U.K. output growth slowed last month.  The ECB has signaled it may raise its main lending rate
from a record low of 1 percent next week to fight increasing
price pressures even after  Japan ’s March 21 earthquake and the
ensuing nuclear disaster. Crude-oil prices have surged 15
percent this year, pushing euro-region inflation to 2.6 percent
last month.  A gauge measuring manufacturers’ input prices remained
close to February’s record, while factory-gate prices rose at
the fastest pace since data were first compiled in November
2002, Markit said in today’s report. Markit Chief Economist
 Chris Williamson  said in the statement that the “record jump in
average prices charged for goods will further encourage the ECB
to increase interest rates sooner rather than later.”  “Both growth and inflation have become again significantly
positive and in this new context it seems difficult to  me to
say that this very, very low level of official rates of 1
percent is still appropriate,” ECB council member  Guy Quaden 
said in an interview on March 30. “A cautious increase of the
official  interest rates  from that very low level cannot hamper
the economic recovery.”  Quaden’s term as head of  Belgium ’s central bank ended last
month. The ECB will hold its next rate meeting on April 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  