-- 
European Unemployment Fell in February, Led by Germany, Italy

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-04-01T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/european-unemployment-fell-in-february-led-by-germany-italy.html
European unemployment fell in
February as companies from  Germany  to  Italy  added workers to
meet reviving global demand, offsetting job cuts in debt-
burdened Spain.  The 17-nation euro region’s seasonally adjusted jobless
rate fell to 9.9 percent from a revised 10 percent in January,
the European Union statistics office in Luxembourg said in an e-
mailed statement today. At 20.5 percent, Spain had the highest
jobless rate and the Netherlands the lowest, with 4.3 percent.  European companies may be reluctant to boost hiring as the
euro-region economy shows signs of slowdown. Economic confidence
dropped in March and manufacturing growth weakened. While a
rebounding global economy has spurred earnings across the
region, surging energy costs are sapping consumers’ purchasing
power just as governments cut spending to narrow budget gaps and
the  European Central Bank  prepares to raise borrowing costs.  About 15.7 million people were unemployed in February, down
77,000 from the previous month, today’s report showed. In the
27-nation EU, unemployment fell to 9.5 percent in February from
9.6 percent. Thirteen EU member states reported a drop from a
year earlier, while 12 had an increase in unemployment.  In Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, unemployment fell to
6.3 percent in February from 6.5 percent in the previous month,
while Italy’s jobless rate dropped to 8.4 percent from 8.5
percent.  The statistics office had previously reported a January
reading of 9.9 percent. In the U.S., unemployment was at 8.9
percent and  Japan ’s jobless rate at 4.6 percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  