-- 
Ex-Qaddafi Spy Chief Koussa May Spill Libyan Terror Secrets

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-04-01T23:15:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ex-qaddafi-spy-chief-koussa-may-share-many-valuable-secrets.html
Moussa Koussa, the Libyan foreign
minister and former intelligence chief who flew to  London  on
March 30, may spill secrets of Libya’s trail of terror,
including the 1988 Lockerbie bombing, as he tries to gain
favorable treatment from the U.K., former intelligence officials
said.  Koussa, saying he would no longer represent Qaddafi’s
regime, flew to London this week, after crossing from Libya to
Tunisia by land. He’s since been sequestered at an undisclosed
location for questioning, U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague 
 said .  “He certainly knows backward and forward what Libyan
intelligence has been doing for the last several decades,” said
Bruce Riedel, a former U.S. intelligence officer who negotiated
with Koussa to dismantle Libya’s nuclear and chemical weapons
programs. “He probably knows exactly what happened to Pan Am
103 and may well have his own fingerprints on that.”  Koussa also may have knowledge about the workings of
Qaddafi’s inner circle, now thought to be composed primarily of
the dictator’s family, Riedel said in an interview.  “He will be able to provide a picture of what’s going on
in Tripoli inside the inner circle of the regime that is quite
timely and useful for coalition planners -- who is calling the
shots and what the tone is like,” Riedel said.  Terror Attacks  British, U.S. and French officials want to ask Koussa about
terrorist acts linked to the Qaddafi regime. They include the
1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103, which exploded over Lockerbie,
 Scotland , killing 270; the 1989 bombing of French UTA flight 772
over  Chad , which killed 171; the 1986 bombing of the LaBelle
discotheque in Berlin that killed three, including two U.S.
soldiers; and the 1984 killing of London police constable Yvonne
Fletcher by a gunman in the Libyan Embassy during a
demonstration, said Matthew Levitt, a former U.S.
counterterrorism official.  Saudi Arabia  cut ties with Libya over a 2003 attempt to
assassinate Crown Prince Abdullah.  Koussa may seek to protect himself from retribution by U.K.
courts. In 1980, Koussa told the Times of London he supported
killing Libyan dissidents in Britain, though his government
later said he’d been misquoted. Koussa oversaw Libya’s relations
with terrorist groups when the country was supplying arms,
including Czech-made Semtex plastic explosives, to the  Irish
Republican Army  in Britain’s province of  Northern Ireland .  Diplomatic Initiatives  “My guess would be that Moussa Koussa will tell us it was
all Mr. Qaddafi’s work and it was a product of Qaddafi’s own
hand,” said Riedel, now a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington.  Koussa helped negotiate the payments to the Flight 103
victims’ families that helped Libya restore diplomatic relations
with Western countries. A Libyan intelligence agent, Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi, was the only person convicted for the attack.
He was freed in 2009 by the Scottish government on the grounds
that he would die from prostate cancer within months. He
returned to Libya to a hero’s welcome and is still alive.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said March 31 the
Lockerbie case “is still open” and Scottish authorities,
who’ve asked to interview Koussa, are “entirely independent”
of the national government. He said Koussa hadn’t been offered
immunity from prosecution in exchange for coming to Britain.  Families of the UTA bombing victims  called  yesterday for
Koussa to be interviewed by Paris counter-terrorism magistrates.  French Interrogation  Jean-Louis Bruguiere, a French investigator, questioned
Koussa for seven hours in Tripoli in 1996, and determined that
Congolese dissidents, hired by Libyan intelligence, smuggled the
bomb onto the plane. Six Libyans were tried in absentia by a
Paris court and convicted in 1999.  Libya  settled with  France  in
2008.  “After seven hours of muscular questioning, we concluded
we didn’t have the grounds to pursue him,” Bruguiere said of
Koussa in an interview this week. “I’m sure he was aware of
things, but I concluded I couldn’t prove that he was directly
involved. I put some tough questions to him, he defended himself
well.”  Disclosing details of the Lockerbie plot would be
“suicide,” said Bob Ayers, a 30-year veteran of U.S.
intelligence services who debriefed defectors in  South Korea  and
now works as an international security consultant. Koussa will
be calculating “how much do I have to tell you to be able to
stay here” without getting into trouble, Ayers said.  Qaddafi’s Assets  Koussa may help locate assets Qaddafi has stashed abroad
and may be using to pay supporters and mercenaries, said Levitt,
now a counterterrorism expert at the  Washington  Institute for
Near East Studies.  “He knows where key installations are, how stressed
Qaddafi is, where his accounts are abroad, and how Qaddafi might
be trying to get gold out of Libya to convert it to money,”
Levitt said.  He’ll also have collected significant intelligence about
Islamic extremists in eastern Libya, the stronghold of the
rebels fighting Qaddafi, Levitt said.  The allies can’t assume Moussa will be truthful, said
Geoffrey Robinson, a British lawyer and former president of the
Special Court for  Sierra Leone , which tried former Liberian
President  Charles Taylor  for  war crimes .  ‘Infinite Treachery’  “He’s a man of infinite treachery and we can’t trust his
words,” Robinson said in a BBC interview. “The idea he’s
spilling the beans, I think, needs to be taken with a pinch of
salt.”  Libyan television said Koussa was a very ill man, and said
he’d been allowed to leave for  Tunisia  for medical care.  Koussa’s arrival isn’t necessarily a sign that Qaddafi is
ready to leave for another country, Riedel said.  “Cooler minds and perhaps more sane minds are deserting
the ship because they can see the ‘great leader’ and his sons
are determined to fight it out, probably to their own death,”
Riedel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  