-- 
Ex-StanChart Bankers Start Credit Hedge Fund as Market Grows

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-04-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ex-stanchart-bankers-start-credit-hedge-fund-as-market-grows.html
Sentosa Capital Pte, run by former
bankers who started  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s fixed-income and
capital markets businesses, is setting up a hedge fund to trade
Asian debt as it targets an “underserved investment segment.”  The Singapore-based firm is starting Sentosa Asian Credit
Fund today with about $40 million, said Chief Executive Officer
Brad Levitt, who was previously the global head of capital
markets at  Standard Chartered  in the city-state.  Fixed-income strategies accounted for about 6 percent of
new hedge funds in Asia last year, while long-short equities
represented almost 48 percent, according to Singapore-based GFIA
Pte. The continuing growth of the region’s economies and debt
markets will provide trading opportunities, especially in local-
currency bonds, Levitt said.  “We see a fundamental growth story in  Asia  as well as the
capital markets’ development,” Levitt, 50, said in an
interview. “There’s not a large number of credit or fixed-
income managers in the alternative investment space, especially
compared with Europe and the U.S.”  Sentosa Capital invests in bonds denominated in Asian
currencies, dollars, euros and yen sold by governments and
companies in Asia outside Japan. While the fund focuses on
investment-grade bonds that are easily traded, it will also buy
“high-quality” securities that are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s ,
Levitt said.  Highly Liquid  These bonds have been liquid even during “distressed”
periods, Levitt said. Investors could easily buy and sell them
during the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and 1998, and the
global financial crisis from 2007 to 2009.  “We’ve seen what happened during the crisis in
liquidity,” Levitt said. “The high-quality, high-grade space
usually has relatively high liquidity both onshore and
offshore.”  The fund will use credit-default swaps, which insure debt
against non-payment, to hedge, said Chief Investment Officer
Charlie Wang, formerly the global head of credit trading at
Standard Chartered.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is the manager’s prime broker and LaCrosse
Global Fund Services is its fund administrator, he said. The
fund’s initial capital comes from a seed investor, family and
friends.  The bond markets in Asia outside of Japan
“disproportionately” represent less than 8 percent of global
debt markets, according to Sentosa Capital.  Growing Market  Asia’s local-currency bond markets have grown at a compound
annual growth rate of more than 25 percent, “but are still
relatively small compared to Asia’s international economic
footprint and high growth rate,” the firm said in a statement
sent to Bloomberg News.  There are currently more than $350 billion of bonds
denominated in dollars, euros and yen in the region’s debt
markets outside of  Japan  and  Australia , and at least $5 trillion
of local-currency securities, according to Sentosa Capital.  More banks are seeking to participate in the Asian currency
bond markets, boosting liquidity, Wang said.  The London-based bank, which earns most of its profit in
Asia, was the second-busiest arranger of Asian local-currency
bond sales from 2006 to 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Levitt started Standard Chartered’s fixed-income business
in Asia,  Africa  and Middle East in 1998, he said. From 2006 to
2008, he was responsible for the bank’s global capital markets
business, including sales, trading, origination and structuring
of bonds, loans and structured credit products.  Wang, 44, most recently managed the bank’s credit trading
teams in more than 25 countries, after starting Standard
Chartered’s capital markets credit trading business, he said.  Anton Martin, previously the global head of investor sales
for Standard Chartered’s capital markets group, is Sentosa
Capital’s head of  investor relations  and business development.
Martin, 44, was responsible for setting up the bank’s loan-
trading business, according to his biography. All three were
based in  Singapore  with Standard Chartered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  