-- 
Fed’s Dudley Says Recovery ‘Tenuous’ With High Unemployment

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-04-01T14:58:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/fed-s-dudley-says-u-s-recovery-is-still-tenuous-with-high-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President  William Dudley  said the U.S. economy’s recovery is
“still tenuous” and “far from the mark” of the central
bank’s goals of full employment and price stability.  “We must not be overly optimistic about the growth
outlook,” Dudley said in  San Juan , Puerto Rico today after the
Labor Department reported the unemployment rate fell to a two-
year low. “A stronger recovery with more rapid progress toward
our dual mandate objectives is what we have been seeking. This
is welcome and not a reason to reverse course.”  The Fed in November embarked on a plan to buy $600 billion
of securities through June to support prices and create jobs,
and policy makers reaffirmed that goal in March. The
strengthening economy has led some central bankers to argue that
the stimulus isn’t needed. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said today that “it is time to begin taking our foot
off the accelerator and start heading for the exit ramp.”  Dudley, who is vice chairman of the policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee , reiterated his view that he would like to
see “faster progress” toward achieving the central bank’s dual
mandate. Monetary and fiscal stimulus have helped the economy
show “more signs of life,” he said.  ‘Sorely Needed’  A “substantial pickup is sorely needed” in job growth,
Dudley said. “Even if we were to generate growth of 300,000
jobs per month, we would still likely have considerable slack in
the labor market at the end of 2012,” he said.  The economy added more jobs than forecast in March, and the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to 8.8 percent from 8.9
percent a month earlier, today’s Labor Department report showed.
Payrolls increased by 216,000 workers after a revised 194,000
gain in February.  “The coast is not completely clear -- the healing process
in the aftermath of the crisis takes time, and there are still
several areas of vulnerability and weakness,” Dudley said.
Housing remains “unusually weak,” state and local governments
are “under stress” and “shocks” from the Middle East and
 Japan  may also affect economic growth, he said.  Dudley said economic indicators are showing “a broadening
and strengthening of demand by households and production by
firms” that should sustain growth at around a 3 percent annual
rate in the first quarter.  Increased Demand  The U.S. has also benefited from increased demand for the
nation’s goods and services as emerging market economies have
been “growing strongly,” Dudley said.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in March at close to the
fastest pace in seven years, reinforcing signs the industry will
propel growth in the world’s largest economy, another report
today showed.  The Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management
said its manufacturing index was little changed at 61.2, after
February’s 61.4 reading that was the highest since May 2004.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Puerto Rico ’s recovery has “taken longer to get off the
ground,” than the U.S. overall, “but now shows signs of
firming,” Dudley said. “On the mainland and in Puerto Rico,
unemployment remains stubbornly high, but many indicators
suggest that conditions are in place for stronger employment
growth in the coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  