-- 
Fed’s Fisher Says Tighter Policy Makes Sense on Jobs Data

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-04-01T15:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/fed-s-fisher-says-tighter-policy-makes-sense-on-good-jobs-data.html
The  Federal Reserve  is moving closer
to a period where reversing its accommodative policies “makes a
lot more sense” as the unemployment rate falls, said Federal
Reserve Bank of  Dallas  President Richard W. Fisher.  Job figures showing that unemployment declined in March to
8.8 percent “are good numbers,” the 62-year-old regional bank
chief, who votes on monetary policy this year, said to reporters
after a speech today in Dallas. “We have, in my opinion, a
self-sustaining economy.”  The jobless rate has dropped nearly a percentage point in
the past year, from 9.7 percent in March 2010. It fell to a two-
year low last month, with payrolls increasing by 216,000, the
Labor Department said today in  Washington . Traders increased
bets that policy makers will boost borrowing costs this year.  “We are clearly in an economic juncture where
normalization makes a lot more sense,” he said after remarks to
the Real Estate Council. “Before you tighten you have to stop
accommodating” and “I will be upfront and center when the time
comes to tighten,” Fisher said.  Fed funds futures show a 43 percent chance the central bank
will increase its target at the December meeting, compared with
35 percent odds yesterday.  Fisher declined to respond to comments made yesterday by
colleague  Narayana Kocherlakota , head of the  Minneapolis Fed ,
who said policy makers may need to lift the target rate for
overnight loans between banks by more than 50 basis points later
this year if his inflation forecast holds out.  ‘Formulaic Solutions’  “I’m not going to get into formulaic solutions,” Fisher
said. Yet “monetary policy has to stay ahead of the curve.”  Recent economic data reflect “good news” and “the key to
me is not overstaying our welcome,” he said.  The Fed is purchasing $600 billion in  Treasury securities 
through June as part of a second round of quantitative easing to
help the economy. Policy makers are continuing to review the
efficacy of the program and a third round “will not happen,
barring some unforeseen macroeconomic debacle,” the Dallas Fed
president said.  The Fed’s emergency programs in response to the financial
crisis were successful in helping the economy and now the
central bank is at risk of overdoing it, Fisher said in his
remarks to the Real Estate Council.  The central bank “opened the floodgates” and “it
worked,” he said. “We reliquefied the economy. In my opinion,
we might have done too much.”  Kocherlakota, in an interview published today in the Wall
Street Journal, said he is expecting a “big upward movement”
in inflation, excluding food and energy, and that it’s
“certainly possible” the fed funds rate will need to rise this
year.  Fisher told reporters that an “inflationary dynamic” is
building worldwide. “The question is, ‘How much pricing
pressure is there?’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  