-- 
Plosser Says Inflation May Prompt Fed to Raise Rates in 2011

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-01T14:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/fed-s-plosser-says-stronger-rebound-may-call-for-stimulus-exit.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said an increase in growth or
inflation could require the Fed to begin withdrawing record
monetary stimulus and possibly raise its main interest rate by
the end of this year.  “Signs that inflation expectations are beginning to rise
or that growth rates are accelerating significantly would
suggest that it is time to begin taking our foot off the
accelerator and start heading for the exit ramp,” Plosser said
today in a speech in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  “It’s certainly a possibility” that the Fed will need to
raise rates before the end of 2011, Plosser told reporters after
the speech. “In my mind it’s definitely on the table but it
will depend on how things play out over the next few months.”  As Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  near the completion of a $600 billion bond buying
program, some central bankers are focusing on the strategy and
timing for shrinking the Fed’s record $2.63 trillion balance
sheet and eventually raising interest rates above the zero to
0.25 percent range that has been in place since December 2008.  “We should not be too sanguine in believing that such a
time is a long way off or that the process will only be
gradual,” he said. “A stronger rebound in the economy or
inflation than some now expect could require policy actions to
be taken sooner and more aggressively than many observers seem
to be anticipating.”  At the FOMC’s last meeting on March 15, Plosser, 62, joined
the rest of the committee in unanimously reaffirming plans to
buy Treasuries while saying the recovery is gaining strength and
that the effects of higher energy prices will be “transitory.”  Second Round of Easing  The Fed is scheduled to complete its $600 billion of
Treasury purchases in June under the second round of so-called
quantitative easing. Central bank officials have given little
indication what they will do after that. In speeches and
testimony over the past two years, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has
listed the Fed’s tools for tightening credit, including raising
rates, draining reserves and selling assets, without committing
to the timing, sequence or pace of the stimulus withdrawal.  “The committee reassessing the stance is the appropriate
thing to do,” Plosser said when asked if he would consider
stopping the Fed’s bond buying short of $600 billion. “I am
willing to reevaluate it, but I am going to wait for the meeting
before making a decision,” he said.  Plosser said “I’m more nervous now than I was a few months
ago” about the path of inflation and inflation expectations.
“Expectations of inflation are going to be critical to how I
asses the stance of where we are,” he said.  ‘Behind the Curve’  “Allowing monetary policy to fall behind the curve can
only result in greater inflation and more economic instability
in the future,” Plosser said to the Harrisburg Regional
Chamber, a group of business leaders in the Pennsylvania state
capital.  Answering an audience question on inflation, Plosser said,
“I would like to see those  price levels  stop rising quite so
fast but they still might be high.”  “If monetary policy permits it, they will keep rising
along with everything else,” he said.  In a speech last week in  New York , Plosser outlined his own
strategy for the central bank’s return to normal monetary
policy. The Fed should set a pace for selling its mortgage and
Treasury holdings in conjunction with raising interest rates, he
said. Plosser suggested selling $125 billion for every 0.25
percentage-point rise in the benchmark rate to almost eliminate
$1.5 trillion in bank reserves.  ‘Having a Plan’  “Important for us to think in terms of having a plan,”
Plosser said. “That’s where I’d like to see a discussion. The
markets would welcome it and the public would welcome it.”  The cost of living in the U.S. climbed more than forecast
in February, led by the highest food prices since 2008 and
rising fuel costs. The  consumer-price index  increased 0.5
percent, the most since June 2009, figures from the Labor
Department showed last month.  “As the recovery continues to pick up steam and firms
become more convinced that increases in demand will be
sustained, they will feel more confident that they can pass
through price increases and have them stick,” Plosser said,
adding he expects inflation of about 2 percent over the next
year and annual growth of about 3.5 percent over the next two
years.  Economy Grew  The consumer price index increased 2.1 percent in February
from a year earlier, the Labor Department said. The economy grew
3.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010, according to the
Commerce Department.  “It is imperative that we have the fortitude to exit as
aggressively as necessary to prevent a spike in inflation and
its undesirable consequences down the road,” he said.  Plosser spoke before the Labor Department’s report today
that the  U.S. economy  added more jobs than forecast in March and
the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to a two-year low of
8.8 percent, a sign the labor- market recovery is gathering
speed.  “Prospects in labor markets have improved in recent
months,” Plosser said, predicting unemployment will fall to
between 7 percent and 8 percent by the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  