-- 
Fidelity Debt Rating May Be Cut by Moody’s as Market Share Lost

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-04-01T19:56:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/fidelity-debt-rating-may-be-cut-by-moody-s-as-market-share-lost.html
Fidelity Investments ’ corporate
parent may have its  credit rating  cut by Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited “erosion” of the firm’s market share in
the mutual-fund business.  Moody’s lowered the outlook for FMR LLC, the parent company
of Fidelity, to “negative” from “stable,” according to a
statement today. The rating on the senior unsecured debt of the
Boston-based firm remains at A2, Moody’s said.  Fidelity’s debt rating may be cut if the firm is unable to
stem investor redemptions, lower the proportion of debt to
income before taxes, or increase profit margins, Moody’s said
today. Investors pulled $25.4 billion from Fidelity’s domestic
stock funds last year, as the funds trailed 42 percent of their
peers in 2010. Vanguard Group Inc. passed Fidelity to become the
largest U.S. mutual fund company by assets, a distinction
Fidelity had held for more than two decades.  “Today’s outlook change reflects the relatively weak
performance of Fidelity’s equities funds, which has led to a
loss of market share,” Moody’s Vice President Dagmar Silva said
in the statement. “And while the company has leading market
positions in retail brokerage and defined contribution plans,
these businesses have lower margins than its asset management
businesses.”  Closely held Fidelity reported a 17 percent increase in
operating income last year, to $2.9 billion, as market gains
more than offset redemptions. Assets rose 6.3 percent to $1.6
trillion.  Vincent Loporchio , a spokesman for Fidelity, said in an
interview today that the revised outlook has no impact on the
company’s strategy.  “Fidelity is healthy and well-positioned for the future,
and we had one of our best years ever,” Loporchio said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Sree Vidya
Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 