-- 
Foreign Banks Tapped Fed’s Secret Lifeline Most at Crisis Peak

-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-04-01T17:53:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/foreign-banks-tapped-fed-s-lifeline-most-as-bernanke-kept-borrowers-secret.html
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s two-year fight to shield crisis-squeezed banks from
the stigma of revealing their public loans protected a lender to
local governments in Belgium, a Japanese fishing-cooperative
financier and a company part-owned by the Central Bank of Libya.  Dexia SA (DEXB) , based in Brussels and Paris, borrowed as much as
$33.5 billion through its  New York  branch from the Fed’s
“discount window” lending program, according to Fed documents
released yesterday in response to a Freedom of Information Act
request. Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc, taken over in 2007 by a
German real-estate lender later seized by the German government,
drew $24.5 billion.  The biggest borrowers from the 97-year-old discount window
as the program reached its crisis-era peak were foreign banks,
accounting for at least 70 percent of the $110.7 billion
borrowed during the week in October 2008 when use of the program
surged to a record. The disclosures may stoke a reexamination of
the risks posed to U.S. taxpayers by the  central bank ’s role in
global financial markets.  “The caricature of the Fed is that it was shoveling money
to big New York banks and a bunch of foreigners, and that is not
conducive to its long-run reputation,” said  Vincent Reinhart ,
the Fed’s director of  monetary affairs  from 2001 to 2007.  Commercial Paper   Separate data disclosed in December on temporary emergency-
lending programs set up by the Fed also showed big foreign banks
as borrowers. Six European banks were among the top 11 companies
that sold the most debt overall -- a combined $274.1 billion --
to the Commercial Paper Funding Facility.  Those programs also loaned hundreds of billions of dollars
to the biggest U.S. banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup Inc. and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   The discount window, which began lending  in 1914 , is the
Fed’s primary program for providing cash to banks to help them
avert a liquidity squeeze. In an April 2009 speech, Bernanke
said that revealing the names of discount-window borrowers
“might lead market participants to infer weakness.”  The Fed released the documents after court orders upheld
FOIA requests filed by Bloomberg LP, the parent company of
Bloomberg News, and News Corp.’s Fox News Network LLC. In all,
the Fed released more than 29,000 pages of documents, covering
the discount window and several Fed emergency-lending programs
established during the crisis from August 2007 to March 2010.  Public Outrage  “The American people are going to be outraged when they
understand what has been going on,” U.S. Representative Ron Paul, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House
subcommittee that oversees the Fed, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  “What in the world are we doing thinking we can pass out
tens of billions of dollars to banks that are overseas?” said
Paul, who has advocated abolishing the Fed. “We have problems
here at home with people not being able to pay their mortgages,
and they’re losing their homes.”  David Skidmore , a Fed spokesman, declined to comment. Fed
officials have said all the discount window loans made during
the worst financial crisis since the 1930s have been repaid with
interest.  The Monetary Control Act of 1980 says that a U.S. branch or
agency of a foreign bank that maintains reserves at a Fed bank
may receive discount-window credit.  “Our job is to provide liquidity to keep the American
economy going,” Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal
Reserve’s regional bank in Dallas, told reporters today. “The
loans were all paid back and they were well-collateralized.”  Wachovia’s Loans  Wachovia Corp. was the only U.S. bank among the top five
discount-window borrowers as the crisis peaked.  The company, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , borrowed
$29 billion from the discount window on Oct. 6, in the week
after it almost collapsed, the data show. Wachovia agreed in
principle to sell itself to Citigroup Inc. on Sept. 29, before
announcing a definitive agreement to sell itself to  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  on Oct. 3. The Wells Fargo deal closed at the end of 2008.  Wells Fargo spokeswoman  Mary Eshet  declined to comment on
Wachovia’s discount-window borrowing.  Bank of Scotland Plc, which had $11 billion outstanding
from the discount window on Oct. 29, 2008, was a unit of
Edinburgh-based HBOS Plc, which announced its takeover by
London-based Lloyds TSB Group Plc in September 2008.  The borrowings in 2008 didn’t involve Lloyds, which hadn’t
completed its acquisition of HBOS at the time, said  Sara Evans ,
a spokeswoman for the company, which is now called  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   ‘Historic’ Use  “This is historic usage and on each occasion the borrowing
was repaid at maturity,” Evans said. “The discount window has
not been accessed by the group since.”  Other foreign discount-window borrowers on Oct. 29, 2008,
included  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s second-biggest bank; and
Norinchukin Bank, which finances and provides services to
Japanese agricultural, fishing and forestry cooperatives. Paris-
based Societe Generale borrowed $5 billion that day, and Tokyo-
based Norinchukin borrowed $6 billion.  Jim Galvin , a spokesman for Societe Generale, declined to
comment.  “We used it in concert with Japanese and U.S. authorities
in the purpose of contributing to the stabilization of the
market,” said Fumiaki Tanaka, a spokesman at Norinchukin.  Bank of China  Bank of China, the country’s oldest bank, was the second-
largest borrower from the Fed’s discount window during a nine-
day period in August 2007 as subprime-mortgage defaults first
roiled broader markets. The Chinese bank’s New York branch
borrowed $198 million on Aug. 17 of that month.  “It was just routine borrowing,” said Dale Zhu, head of
the Bank of China New York branch’s treasury.  Two Deutsche Bank AG divisions borrowed $1 billion each,
according to a document released yesterday.  Arab Banking Corp., then 29 percent-owned by the Libyan
central bank, used its New York branch to get at least 73 loans
from the Fed in the 18 months after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapsed. The largest single loan amount outstanding was
$1.2 billion in July 2009, according to the Fed documents.  The foreign banks took advantage of Fed lending programs
even as their host countries moved to prop them up or
orchestrate takeovers.  Dexia received billions of euros in capital and funding
guarantees from France, Belgium and Luxembourg during the credit
crunch.  ‘High-Quality’ Collateral  The Fed loans were “secured by high-quality U.S. dollar
municipal securities,” and used only to fund U.S. loans, bonds
and other financial assets, Ulrike Pommee, a spokeswoman for the
company, said in an e-mail.  “The Fed played its role as central banker, providing
liquidity to banks that needed it,” she said, adding that
Dexia’s outstanding balance at the Fed has been reduced to zero.
“This information is backward-looking.”  Depfa was taken over in October 2007 by Hypo Real Estate
Holding AG, which in turn was seized by the German government in
2009.  “Since the end of May 2010, Depfa is not making use of the
 Federal Reserve  Discount Window,” Oliver Gruss, a spokesman for
the bank, said in an e-mailed statement. He declined to comment
further.  Dollar Assets  Many foreign banks own large pools of dollar assets --
bonds, securities and loans -- funded by short-term borrowings
in money markets. The system works when markets are calm, said
Dino Kos, former executive vice president at the New York Fed in
charge of open-market operations. In times of stress, banks can
be subject to sudden liquidity squeezes, he said.  “They are playing with fire,” said Kos, a managing
director at Hamiltonian Associates Ltd. in New York, an economic
research firm. “When the market dries up, and they can’t roll
over their funding -- bingo, you have a liquidity crisis.”  The potential for dollar shortages remains. As the Greek
fiscal crisis roiled financial markets last year, the Fed had to
open swap lines with the  European Central Bank , the  Swiss
National Bank , the Bank of England and two other central banks
to make more dollars available around the world. That move was
partially the result of U.S. money market funds shrinking their
exposure to European bank commercial paper.  Bloomberg News is posting the Fed documents here for
subscribers to the Bloomberg Professional Service as well as
 online  at www.bloomberg.com.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  