-- 
Former Taylor Bean CEO Allen Pleads Guilty to Mortgage Fraud, Conspiracy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-01T23:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/former-taylor-bean-ceo-allen-admits-to-fraud-conspiracy-1-.html
The former chief executive officer
of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., Paul R. Allen,
admitted to his role in what prosecutors say was a $1.9 billion
fraud that included attempts to deceive the federal bank bailout
program.  Allen, 55, pleaded guilty today in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia, to one count of conspiracy to commit bank
and wire fraud and one count of making false statements. Allen,
of Oakton, Virginia, agreed to cooperate in the prosecutors’
probe of  Taylor Bean , including the case against ex-Chairman  Lee Farkas , who is scheduled to go to trial on April 4.  Federal prosecutors filed a criminal case against Allen
yesterday before U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema, who has
presided over cases resulting from an alleged scheme that the
U.S. said sought to defraud the government’s Troubled Asset
Relief Program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery,
Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  “Your honor, there’s no excuse for my behavior,” Allen
told Brinkema as he entered his plea.  Allen faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison on
each count when he is sentenced on June 21, Peter Carr, a
spokesman for the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of
 Virginia , said. He also faces a $250,000 fine on each count, as
well as restitution to victims, which will be set later.  Previously Charged  Four other Taylor Bean officials and two former Colonial
Bank officials were charged in the scheme to deceive financial
firms and TARP by covering up shortfalls at Ocala, Florida-based
Taylor Bean. Taylor Bean was once the largest non-depository
mortgage lender in the U.S., the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a statement.  Farkas was indicted last year on 16 counts of bank, wire,
and securities fraud and faces a life sentence if convicted. Two
of the wire fraud counts were dropped by prosecutors during a
motions hearing on Friday.  Prosecutors said Taylor Bean executives conspired with
officials at  Colonial Bank  to transfer more than $400 million
between the bank and the mortgage lender in an effort to hide
Taylor Bean overdrafts.  In January 2005, Taylor Bean established a company called
Ocala Funding as a financing vehicle for  mortgage loans . Ocala
Funding had no employees and Allen was considered the “lead
manager,” according to his statements in court.  Allen, who is a former senior executive of the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corp., or  Freddie Mac , learned from Farkas that 18
months after its founding Ocala Funding had a $150 million
collateral deficit.  $1.5 Billion Deficit  Allen said that he kept Farkas informed of the growing
collateral crunch and that he was aware that cash from Ocala
Funding was being used for other purposes. By August 2009, the
deficit had grown to $1.5 billion, according to the plea
agreement.  As Colonial Bank struggled to stay afloat, Allen and Farkas
tried to raise $300 million from private investors in order to
secure a cash infusion from TARP, according to Allen’s court
statements.  Allen alleges that Farkas told him to approach a possible
stakeholder with the idea of acting as a straw investor using
money actually provided by Taylor Bean.  When the investor balked at the scheme, Farkas used his
name anyway, according to Allen.  “You knew that Farkas represented to others that the
investor was a $50 million participant,” Brinkema asked Allen
during the plea hearing.  “Yes, ma’am,” replied Allen, who said he had known the
investor for more than 20 years.  Misled Auditors  Allen also admitted to misleading federal auditors about
the financial health of Taylor Bean, including hiding questions
raised by the company’s internal auditors.  In July 2009, Allen sent a letter to Government National
Mortgage Association officials, explaining why Taylor Bean was
late submitting the company’s audited financial reports.  He attributed the delay to recent acquisitions by the
company and the fact that Taylor Bean had switched to a
shortened 11-month fiscal year.  In reality, according to the plea agreement, the delay was
the result of concerns raised by the company’s auditor, Deloitte
LLP. Deloitte had told Farkas a short time earlier that it had
“serious concerns about certain debt transactions” between
Taylor Bean and Colonial Bank, according to the plea agreement.
It also recommended that Taylor Bean hire outside counsel to
investigate the transactions.  When Brinkema asked Allen whether in writing the letter, he
knew he was omitting a material fact that would certainly have
raised questions with federal auditors, Allen answered “yes.”  Allen joined Taylor Bean in 2003 as its CEO and reported
directly to Farkas, working mostly from his Oakton home,
according to the plea agreement.  The cases are U.S. v. Allen, 11-cr-00165 and U.S. v.
Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 