-- 
France's Biggest Fund Manager Favors Spanish, Italian Notes Over Germany

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-04-01T12:23:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/france-s-biggest-fund-manager-favors-spanish-italian-notes-over-germany.html
Amundi Asset Management,  France ’s
largest custodian of financial assets, is buying short-dated
Spanish and Italian government bonds because they offer the
greatest returns relative to the risk of default.  Spain and Italy are unlikely to restructure their
borrowings and their bonds offer a high yield and the
opportunity for price gains as they near maturity, known as roll
down, Marie-Anne Allier, head of euro-aggregate, said in an
interview on March 29. The Paris-based  fund manager , which
oversees 689.5 billion euros ($979 billion), has reduced
holdings of German government notes on concern yields will rise.
Amundi holds almost no Portuguese, Irish or Greek bonds as those
nations may be unable to repay their debts, she said.  “ Spain  has already done a lot in terms of austerity
measures,” Allier said. “Even if Spain is not out of the woods
totally, we think they are going in the right direction, like
Italy. We like to have the short part of the curve.”  The Spanish government is implementing the deepest
austerity measures in at least three decades to rein in the euro
region’s third-largest deficit and aims to bring its shortfall
in line with that of France this year.  Short-dated bonds from Spain and Italy outperformed their
peers in the first quarter of this year, as investors bet
 Greece , Ireland and Portugal may be unable to meet their
obligations, while the prospect of higher  interest rates  from
the  European Central Bank  led to rising yields in Germany.  Bond Returns  The nation’s one-to-three year dated bonds have handed
investors a return of 1.8 percent this year, while Italian debt
earned 1.2 percent, according to indexes compiled by the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg. Portuguese securities of a similar maturity have
generated a loss of 4.5 percent over the quarter. German
securities lost 1.1 percent.  Spain’s two-year note yield was little changed at 3.17
percent as of 12:08 p.m. in  London . Similar-dated Italian yields
were four basis points lower at 2.47 percent.  The extra yield, or spread, investors require to hold
Spain’s two-year securities instead of similar-dated German
securities has narrowed to 137 basis points from 259 at the end
of last year. The yield difference between  Italy ’s two-year
bonds and Germany’s has narrowed to 70 basis points from 201
basis points.  ‘Outside Greece’  Spanish and Italian spreads can tighten more, provided the
situation in the euro-region doesn’t worsen, Allier said.  The Portuguese-Spanish two-year yield spread climbed to a
euro-era record 561 basis points today. It has 75 basis points
on Jan. 1.  “In general we are outside Greece, Portugal and Ireland in
terms of sovereign debt, we have sold nearly all our debt in
these three countries,” Allier said. “For the moment there is
too much uncertainty for us to invest.”  Amundi Asset Management is the combined investment arm of
French banks Credit Agricole S.A., and  Societe Generale (GLE)  S.A. It
is the third largest investment group in continental  Europe  by
assets under management and ranks eighth worldwide, according to
its  web site .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  