-- 
France Finds ‘Weak’ Radioactivity in Rainwater, Plant Samples

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-01T09:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/france-finds-weak-radioactivity-in-rainwater-plant-samples.html
France ’s atomic regulator said
rainwater and vegetation samples contained “very weak” levels
of radioactive iodine from a leaking Japanese nuclear plant and
air sampling showed radioactive cesium.  The amount of radioactivity “poses no environmental or
health risk, even in case of persistence over time,” the
Institut de Radioprotection et de Surete Nucleaire said in a
 daily update  on its website late yesterday.  Radioactive iodine linked to the plant was first detected
in France on March 24 at the top of the Puy de Dome volcano in
the country’s south, the IRSN said.  Japan  was hit by its
strongest earthquake on record on March 11, followed by a
tsunami that crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant north
of  Tokyo  and caused radioactivity to leak.  The latest samplings of rainwater and plants found
concentrations of radioactive iodine-131 in the order of 1
becquerel a liter (0.3 gallon) or kilogram (2.2 pounds), the
regulator said.  A becquerel is a unit of radioactivity defined as a
quantity of material in which one atomic nucleus disintegrates a
second.  Natural radioactivity  from potassium decay in the human
body is about 4,400 becquerels for a person weighing 70
kilograms, according to Idaho State University  Atmospheric sampling across France by the IRSN and
nuclear-plant operators found a “generalized presence” of
radioactive iodine in concentrations ranging from tenths of
millibecquerels to several millibecquerels a cubic meter (35
cubic feet) of air, the regulator said.  Traces of radioactive cesium-134 and cesium-137 found in
“a few” air samples can also be attributed to the Fukushima
accident, the IRSN said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 