-- 
Freddie Mac Wins Dismissal of Proposed Class-Action Investor Lawsuit

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-04-01T19:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/freddie-mac-wins-dismissal-of-proposed-class-action-investor-lawsuit.html
The  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (FMCC) 
won dismissal of a proposed class-action lawsuit in which
pension funds claimed the company misled shareholders about
financial risks.  U.S. District Judge  John Keenan  in New York dismissed the
case in a written opinion, saying the plaintiffs failed to show
that Freddie Mac made misstatements. The judge said the
plaintiffs could file a new complaint in the next 60 days.  “Plaintiffs have failed adequately to plead the existence
of actionable misstatements or omissions of fact relating to
Freddie Mac’s exposure to non-prime mortgage loans or its
capital adequacy,” Keenan said in his opinion, dated March 30.  Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund
and National Elevator Industry Pension Plan sued  Freddie Mac  and
its former top executives in 2008 on behalf of shareholders who
charged that the company’s “misrepresentations resulted in
inflated share prices.” After the shares declined, Freddie Mac,
which was chartered by the U.S. Congress to provide funds to
mortgage lenders, was seized by the U.S.  “We are, of course, disappointed with the court’s ruling,
but we are confident that we will ultimately prevail,”  David
George , a plaintiff’s lawyer, said in an e-mail. “We will be
filing an amended complaint.”  Freddie Mac, based in McLean, Virginia, had no comment
beyond a statement today announcing the court’s decision, a
spokesman,  Michael Cosgrove , said in an e-mail.  Also named as defendants were Richard Syron, the former
chief executive of Freddie Mac; Anthony Piszel, the former chief
financial officer; and Patricia Cook, the former chief business
officer.  The case is Kuriakose v. Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.,
08-07281, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  