-- 
Freddie Mac Warns Lenders on Mortgage Insurance Deals

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-04-01T22:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/freddie-mac-warns-lenders-on-mortgage-insurance-deals-1-.html
Freddie Mac  told mortgage lenders
to halt a practice that might help them avoid repurchasing flawed
home loans.  In a letter to the industry today, government-owned Freddie
Mac said its rules prohibit the practice, in which lenders pay
cash to mortgage insurers in return for a promise they won’t
rescind policies. Freddie Mac demanded that lenders and
servicers disclose any such agreements.  “Our requirements aren’t changing. They’re being
reinforced,” Freddie Mac spokesman  Brad German  said.  Freddie Mac relies on mortgage insurers to help it ferret
out bad loans it has backed. When a policy is rescinded, for
example because a lender submitted flawed or fraudulent
paperwork, it triggers a repurchase request from Freddie Mac to
the lender.  Companies including Milwaukee-based  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) 
and  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  in Richmond, Virginia, sell
insurance on home loans, paying lenders if the loans go into
default. After three straight years of losses, the $759 billion
industry has been investigating loans for flaws that allow it to
revoke policies instead of pay out.  McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae of
Washington, which own or guarantee more than half of all U.S.
home loans, require lenders to buy insurance on mortgages that
have small borrower down payments.  ‘Public Interest’  Last year, MGIC Investment said it had settled with a
lender to halt policy rescissions in return for a payment.
“The public interest is being hurt because the signaling
function of the market is being sold out from under” Freddie
Mac and  Fannie Mae , David Reiss, a professor at Brooklyn Law
School in  New York , said in an interview. For insurers, a
settlement means “they’re getting some certainty” on potential
liabilities.  MGIC spokeswoman Katie Monfre did not immediately respond
to a request for comment. In the company’s 2010 year-end filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, MGIC said it is
discussing with other lenders “the possibility of entering into
a settlement agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 