-- 
FSA Capital Rules, Berlin Conference, Ally’s Treasury Stake: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-01T12:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/fsa-capital-rules-berlin-ally-s-treasury-stake-compliance.html
Britain’s Financial Services
Authority proposed scrapping so-called equivalence rules that
allow U.K.-based lenders to use international standards when
calculating how much regulatory capital their overseas units
must hold.  The move would force banks to calculate capital
requirements for subsidiaries based outside the European Union
using the FSA’s rules instead of local guidelines for the
country in which the unit is based. The FSA proposed the change
take effect starting Dec. 30.  Removing the equivalence rules “does away with any
uncertainty in compliance with the calculation of group capital
adequacy figures,” the FSA said in a statement on its website
yesterday.  The  European Commission , the EU’s executive arm, is drawing
up capital rules as part of its implementation of globally
approved capital rules known as Basel III, which were developed
by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Requires Administrators to Notify of Insolvency Sales  Administrators of insolvent U.K. companies will be required
to give notice to creditors if they’re planning to sell assets
at less than full value, a move aimed at stopping owners from
going bust to avoid debts.  Business Minister  Ed Davey announced the change yesterday,
saying he wanted to stop “phoenix” companies, where creditors
find that a person who owes them money has declared insolvency,
then bought back assets and gone back into business.  “Where such sales are at undervalue, creditors get less
than they should,” Davey said in an e-mailed statement released
by his department in  London . “Competitors who pay their debts
in full also suffer.”  The notice period would give creditors time to object to
the administrators, or go to court if necessary, Davey said.  EU ‘Confident’ U.S. Ratings Firms Won’t Face European Curbs  European Union rules for credit rating companies are
unlikely to be a barrier to U.S. based firms, EU regulators
said.  U.S. efforts to bolster oversight of ratings firms mean the
EU is “confident” that limits on the use of ratings published
by American-based companies can be avoided,  Chantal Hughes , a
spokeswoman for the  European Commission , said in an e-mailed
statement.  The 27-nation EU agreed on measures in 2009 aimed at
improving the quality of credit rating companies’ assessments,
and at making their work more transparent. The EU said that
other nations would have to put in place equivalent rules if
their ratings firms’ decisions were to be taken into account by
banks for regulatory purposes. It set a deadline for this of
June 7.  Deutsche Boerse May Face EU Curbs Aside From NYSE Merger Probe  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  may face demands from European Union
governments to open up its derivatives-clearing business to
competitors even before EU antitrust authorities rule on its
takeover bid for NYSE Euronext.  Exchange operators would be pressured to give
clearinghouses run by other companies the data they need to
handle trades, under the latest version of  draft  rules being
discussed by EU nations. This would allow rivals to compete with
Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex Clearing joint  venture , which processes
all of the exchange’s derivatives trades.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext said Feb. 15 they will
combine in an all-stock takeover valued on the day at $9.53
billion. The deal, combining NYSE Euronext’s Liffe and Eurex,
the trading venue jointly owned by Deutsche Boerse and the Swiss
Stock Exchange, would put more than 90 percent of the region’s
exchange-traded derivatives market in the hands of one
organization.  The data-access plan is one of the possible alterations to
proposals made by the European Commission last year to toughen
regulation of derivatives traded away from exchanges. Hungary,
which holds the EU’s six-month presidency, drew up the draft
text, published on the EU  website .  The rules are subject to further changes following talks
among ministers.  For more, click here.  Special Section: Berlin Banking Conference  German President Discusses What Banks Learned From Crisis  German President Christian Wulff told the country’s banks
that state rescue measures have dulled the industry’s appetite
for reform and not enough has been learned from the financial
crisis to avoid a rerun.  Wulff castigated bloated banking salaries. He also
criticized the sale of highly complex financial products and the
prevalence of high-frequency market trading, which he said are
symptomatic of excess and should be reined in.  Andreas Schmitz, president of the  Association of German
Banks , said lenders “must be regulated, but not strangled.”
New regulations, bank levies and taxes are “pushing lenders to
their limits” even as they try to boost capital levels and
provide loans, Schmitz said in a speech at the conference.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said
lenders in Germany need more time than their counterparts in
other countries to boost capital through retained earnings
because many banks don’t have access to capital markets.  European stress tests will prove that most banks in the
region are “in good shape” except for some lenders in Ireland,
Greece and Portugal, said Hugo Banziger, chief risk officer at
 Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   “The bulk of the European banks are solid,” Banziger said
in a panel discussion at the Berlin conference yesterday. “We
don’t need the stress tests to show that Irish banks, Greek
banks, and possibly Portuguese banks are in trouble -- that’s
known in the markets.” The European Union plans to publish the
results of a new round of stress tests in June after last year’s
examination was criticized for not being stringent enough.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Fed Releases Discount-Window Lending Records Under Court Order  The  Federal Reserve  released thousands of pages of secret
loan documents under court order, almost three years after
Bloomberg LP first requested details of the central bank’s
unprecedented support to banks during the financial crisis.  The records reveal for the first time the names of
financial institutions that borrowed directly from the central
bank through the so-called discount window. The Fed provided the
documents after the U.S. Supreme Court last month rejected a
banking industry group’s attempt to shield them from public
view.  The central bank has never revealed identities of borrowers
since the discount window began lending in 1914. The Dodd-Frank
law exempted the facility last year when it required the Fed to
release details of emergency programs that extended $3.3
trillion to financial institutions to stem the credit crisis.
While Congress mandated disclosure of discount-window loans made
after July 21, 2010 with a two-year delay, the records released
yesterday represent the only public source of details on
discount-window lending during the crisis.  The Fed was forced to make the disclosures after the U.S.
Supreme Court rejected an appeal by the Clearing House
Association LLC, a group of the nation’s largest commercial
banks.  For more, click here, and see Atkins video in Interviews
section, below.  Ally Files for Public Offering of U.S. Treasury’s Stake  Ally Financial Inc. filed for an initial public offering of
the U.S. government’s majority stake as part of the auto and
home lender’s plan to regain its independence.  The size, price and timing for the sale haven’t been set,
Detroit-based Ally said yesterday in a statement. Ally chose
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to underwrite the sale, according to the
statement.  The U.S. Treasury Department holds a 74 percent stake in
Ally’s common shares after funding at least three rounds of aid
totaling $17.2 billion during the financial crisis. Ally,
formerly known as GMAC Inc., was deemed crucial to the survival
of the auto industry by U.S. regulators.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter, 64, returned the
lender to profitability last year with $1.08 billion in net
income. The company had almost collapsed as losses piled up from
subprime home lending.  ECB Suspends Minimum Credit-Rating Threshold for Irish Debt  The European Central Bank said it will accept all debt
instruments backed by the Irish government as collateral against
ECB loans as the country attempts to shore up its banking
industry.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said Ireland’s commitment to
recapitalize its banks and comply with a consolidation program
prescribed by the European Union and  International Monetary Fund 
must be assessed “positively.” The suspension of the minimum
credit-rating threshold is based on “this positive assessment
of the program,” a capital increase for Ireland’s four banks
and the decision to “deleverage and downsize the banking
sector,” the ECB said.  Irish regulators yesterday instructed four banks to raise
24 billion euros ($34 billion) in additional capital following
stress tests on their businesses, and the government said it
plans to merge two of the lenders.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the
biggest lender during a decade-long economic boom, requires 13.3
billion euros, the central bank in Dublin said.  Ex-Citigroup Brokers in Australia Charged With Insider Trading  Two former brokers at Citigroup Inc.’s wealth advisory unit
in Western Australia and their client were charged with insider
trading, the  Australian Securities and Investment Commission 
said.  Roberto Catena, 46, and Colin Hebbard, 74, both former
brokers at Citigroup Wealth Advisers Ltd. in Perth, used non-
public information in 2006 and advised clients to buy Vision
Systems Ltd., knowing the company was a possible takeover
target, ASIC said in a statement today.  On a takeover announcement, shares of target companies
usually rise because buyers offer a premium, and investors
sometimes expect higher bids to follow.  Judy Hitchen, a spokeswoman at Citigroup, declined to
comment when contacted by phone.  None of the accused were required to enter a plea today and
they were freed on bail until the next hearing, scheduled for
April 27, ASIC said.  SEC Said to Investigate Sokol Over Lubrizol Stock Purchases  David Sokol , the Berkshire Hathaway Inc. manager who
resigned after disclosing that he bought stock in a firm whose
takeover he helped negotiate, is being investigated by U.S.
regulators, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is probing whether
Sokol, 54, bought shares in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  on inside information
that Berkshire was considering buying the company, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the investigation
is secret. The SEC is seeking records from Sokol’s brokerage and
examining trading data from the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, the person said.  “I don’t believe that I did anything wrong,” Sokol told
CNBC yesterday in a televised interview. “I can understand the
appearance issue, and that’s why we made it public.”  Buffett didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail request for
comment sent to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  For more, click here and click here, and see Atkins video
in Interviews section, below.  Interviews/Speeches  Romeo Discusses EU Regulation of Technology Providers  Saverio Romeo, a senior analyst at Frost & Sullivan, talked
about the European Union’s stance on technology providers who
are dominant in the region.  He spoke with Maryam Nemazee from Nanjing on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  CFTC’s O’Malia Says Swap Rules Will Fail Without Transparency  U.S. derivatives rules being crafted under the Dodd-Frank
Act will fail if they let buyers and sellers trade in markets
without price transparency,  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
member  Scott O’Malia  said.  “I will not view the commissions’ efforts as a success if
we create a market structure that fractures liquidity and
creates an incentive to utilize dark pools, simply because our
rules do not provide the flexibility necessary to facilitate on-
exchange transactions,” O’Malia said yesterday in remarks
prepared for a meeting on swap execution facilities. Dark pools
are private venues that allow stock trades without publicly
displaying bids and offers.  The CFTC and the  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
writing rules to govern derivatives markets after largely
unregulated trades exacerbated the subprime mortgage crisis in
2008. Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted in
July, requires the two agencies to define new swap execution
facilities as an alternative to exchanges.  O’Malia is one of two Republicans on the five-member
commission.  For more, click here.  Atkins Comments on Sokol’s Berkshire Departure, Fed Disclosure  Paul Atkins, a former commissioner at the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, talked about the resignation of David
Sokol from  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Atkins, who spoke with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness,” also discussed the Federal
Reserve’s release of secret loan documents under court order at
the request of Bloomberg LP.  For the video, click here. For more about the Fed, see
Compliance Action section, above.  Comings and Goings  Bassi Takes on Mifid Role in EU Internal Markets Unit, FT Says  Ugo Bassi, who has headed the asset-management group at the
European Union’s internal markets department, is assuming
responsibility for securities markets, the Financial Times
reported.  That means he will take over from Maria Velentza much of
the work on the Mifid directive on markets in financial
instruments; Velentza will head a new financial stability group,
covering matters such as crisis management, the newspaper said.  Tilman Lueder moves from the department’s intellectual
property group to take over Bassi’s old job, the FT said.  Basel Committee Chairman Wellink Says Successor Not Selected  Nout Wellink, who heads the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, said the next committee chairman hasn’t yet been
selected.  “I still want to step down from the Basel Committee, I
have already said farewell, but I am working full swing as no
successor has been selected,” Wellink, whose term as Dutch
central bank president ends in July, said in an interview with
Dutch RTLZ television yesterday.  Consumer Bureau Hires Former Capital One Executive West  Elizabeth Warren , the White House and Treasury Department
adviser charged with setting up the new U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, announced that Catherine West, a former top
executive at  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , will serve as the new
agency’s associate director and chief operating officer.  West, who also served as COO at J.C. Penney Company Inc.
and held a variety of positions at Capital One, will oversee a
number of functions at the new agency, including human capital,
procurement, information technology and a consumer complaint
response center, the Treasury Department said in a news release.  Gail Hillebrand will serve as associate director of
consumer education and engagement. Hillebrand was most recently
a senior attorney for  Consumers Union , an advocacy group that
publishes Consumer Reports magazine.  The consumer bureau is scheduled to begin work on July 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 