-- 
Gasoline Rises to 32-Month High as U.S. Companies Add Workers

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-04-01T20:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/gasoline-futures-fluctuate-as-dollar-advances-u-s-adds-jobs.html
Gasoline advanced as the U.S. added
jobs in March, indicating an improving economy, and Libyan
rebels lost the initiative against government troops, a sign
that disruption of oil shipments will continue.  Futures rose a fourth day as U.S. payrolls swelled more
than forecast and the jobless rate fell to a two-year low of 8.8
percent. Libyan rebels called for a cease-fire as forces loyal
to  Muammar Qaddafi  drove them back a third day and clouds
hindered NATO air strikes.  “The government troops retaking oil towns means Libyan oil
is going to be off the market for awhile,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “And improving economic condition has been a
supporter of the oil market.”  Gasoline for May delivery rose 4.36 cents, or 1.4 percent,
to settle at $3.1513 a gallon at on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , capping a 3.5 percent gain this week. It was the
highest settlement for the front-month contract since July 21,
2008.  Prices widened gains after Bloomberg News reported  Sunoco
Inc. (SUN)  won’t resume production at its Marcus Hook refinery in
Pennsylvania until it can repair and start a fluid catalytic
cracker. Sunoco’s goal is to have the catalytic cracker
restarted April 5, according a person familiar with refinery
operations. Until then, the plant’s production units will remain
on circulation, the person said.  Marcus Hook  The 194,000-barrel-a-day Marcus Hook refinery, which shut
units after losing power March 28, supplies fuel to  New York 
Harbor, the delivery point for gasoline and heating oil futures.
Shutdowns there can increase spot and futures prices.  “The extended downtime at Sunoco’s Marcus Hook refinery is
impacting gasoline supplies in the Northeast and contributing to
the rise in prices,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  Payrolls increased by 216,000 workers last month after a
revised 194,000 gain the prior month, the Labor Department said
today. Economists projected a gain of 190,000, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The jobless rate
fell from 8.9 percent in February, the fourth straight decrease.  Prices surged 27 percent in the first quarter on concern
that political turmoil would spread across the Middle East.
Thousands of Syrians demonstrated today throughout the country
to demand political changes, activists said, and some rallies
were broken up by security forces with at least four people
reported killed.  “The market continues to be concerned,” said Andrew Lebow, senior vice president for energy at MF Global Inc. in New
York.  Crude Rises  Brent crude  for May settlement rose $1.34 to $118.70 a
gallon on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange, while Nymex May-
delivery crude increased $1.22 to $107.94 a barrel.  Futures advanced as the dollar reversed its gains against
the euro, increasing the investment appeal of commodities, and
equities rallied on the jobs report. The U.S. currency was down
0.5 percent at 3:12 p.m. in New York, after rising as much as
0.7 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.4 percent.  “The dollar rallied, off jobs report and then gave up
gains and that’s when the market started to rally,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold
Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 1.3 cents to $3.619 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on
its website. That’s the highest price since Sept. 30, 2008.  Heating oil for May delivery rose 2.2 cents, or 0.7
percent, to settle at $3.1345 a gallon on the exchange, the
highest settlement since Aug. 29, 2008. Prices gained 2.6
percent this week after a 21 percent advance in the first
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  