-- 
Gates Backs Obama on Libya Air Attacks After Early Skepticism

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-04-01T04:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/gates-backs-obama-on-libya-air-attacks-after-early-skepticism.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , an
early voice of caution on U.S. military involvement in Libya,
defended President  Barack Obama ’s decision to join the air
campaign in an appearance on  Capitol Hill .  Gates rejected charges from Republicans and Democrats on
the House Armed Services Committee yesterday that Obama failed
to consult Congress sufficiently or that there was a
“mismatch” between a limited military campaign and the
administration’s goal of ensuring Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster.  Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon, a California
Republican, said he was “concerned that such a mismatch is a
recipe for stalemate.”  Representative Mike Coffman, a Colorado Republican,
challenged Gates on whether the administration did enough to
warn Qaddafi that he’d face U.S. air strikes unless he ended
attacks on civilians.  Gates ticked off a list of public signals, including
resolutions by two different groups of Gulf and Arab nations and
two from the  United Nations .  “This wasn’t exactly like he was surprised,” Gates said.  When Coffman said the military goal of protecting civilians
and a policy aim of forcing Qaddafi from office resulted in
“just the most muddled definition of an operation probably in
U.S. military history,” Gates fired back.  ‘Quite Clear’  “The president has been quite clear in terms of what the
military mission is, and that’s one of the reasons we can take
the position there will be no boots on the ground,” Gates said.
The need for a change in the regime can be handled politically,
he said. “I don’t see how that’s muddled.”  Before the allied attack was launched, Gates spoke bluntly
of the difficulty and danger of setting up a no-fly zone.  “There’s a lot of, frankly, loose talk about some of these
military options, and let’s just call a spade a spade,” Gates
told a House defense appropriations subcommittee on March 2. “A
no-fly zone begins with an attack on  Libya  to destroy the air
defenses.”  Yesterday’s back and forth showed Gates, a holdover in his
job from President  George W. Bush ’s administration who has said
he’ll leave his Pentagon post this year, putting his credibility
behind the Libya operation.  “The military mission is a limited one and does not
include regime change,” Gates told the committee. “Personally
I felt strongly about that. We’ve tried regime change before.”  ‘Welcome’ Removal  Political and economic pressure and the Libyan people
probably will achieve the “welcome” removal of Qaddafi, Gates
said. The U.S. and allied air strikes help by reducing Qaddafi’s
military strength, he said.  The coalition of the U.S., U.K.,  France , Qatar, the  United
Arab Emirates  and others has degraded Qaddafi’s forces by 25 to
28 percent, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen told the panel.  It’s not the first time Gates has sparred with members of
Congress. He has fought lawmakers’ efforts to preserve weapons
contracts that the Pentagon says aren’t needed, such as an
alternative engine for the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 jet.  Gates has proposed cutting defense programs and other belt-
tightening over the next five years to save more than the $178
billion. His budget would plow $100 billion of that money into
other, higher-priority items and the rest would go toward
reducing the deficit.  Declining Role  Even as Gates defended the Libya mission, he voiced concern
over the strain on a force also fighting wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan , pursuing al-Qaeda, and providing assistance to
 Japan  after its earthquake, tsunami and nuclear plant accident.  The U.S. role in the Libya operation has begun to decline
now that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization has taken
command, Gates said. As of two days ago, non-U.S. aircraft
conducted more than half of the strike sorties over Libya in the
previous 24-hour period, according to the Pentagon.  Gates cautioned against the U.S. providing weapons,
training or command-and-control assistance to the rebels.  “There are many countries that can do that,” Gates said.
“That is not a unique capability of the United States, and
frankly, I think somebody else should do that.”  Representative  Michael Turner , an Ohio Republican, seized
on what he called Gates’s “candor” in telling the committee
the U.S. knows little about the rebels other than a few leaders.  “We don’t know what they will do if they’re successful. We
don’t know what form of government they will pursue,” Turner
said. “Therefore, many of us are very concerned as to overall
what would be the outcome here.”  Qaddafi’s History  Gates offered a litany of Qaddafi’s attacks on the U.S. He
cited the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie,
 Scotland , and the 1986 attack on a Berlin nightclub frequented
by American soldiers.  “We may not know much about the opposition or the rebels,
but we know a great deal about Qaddafi,” Gates said. “This guy
has been a huge problem for the  United States  for a long time.”  Gates also defended Obama’s verbal and written notification
to Congress, which didn’t seek their consent for the air
strikes. The defense chief cited his work on the staff of the
White House National Security Council in the 1970s when Congress
adopted the War Powers Act.  The legislation outlined a process for Congress and the
president to decide on using U.S. forces in hostilities. It has
been contentious ever since it was adopted, Gates said.  “President Obama is the eighth president I’ve worked
for,” Gates said. “Seven operated under the War Powers Act,
and I would say that his compliance in terms of consultation and
notification of the Congress has been consistent with the
actions taken by all of his predecessors, both Republicans and
Democrats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  