-- 
German 10-Year Bunds Drop, Bound for Longest Losing Streak Since October

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-01T15:45:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/german-10-year-bunds-drop-bound-for-longest-losing-streak-since-october.html
German 10-year  government bonds 
dropped for a seventh day, the longest run of declines since
October, as a report showed European manufacturing growth stayed
near the fastest pace in a decade.  The bund was set for its first back-to-back weekly declines
since Feb. 11. A gauge of manufacturing in the euro region
slipped to 57.5 last month, London-based Markit Economics said
today. That’s just below an initial estimate of 57.7 and the
February reading of 59, which was the highest since June 2000.
Portugal sold 1.6 billion euros ($2.27 billion) of one-year
notes at auction, after saying late yesterday it had “specific
demand” for the securities. Standard & Poor’s lowered Ireland’s
sovereign credit rating by one step to BBB+.  “The general trend is for higher  interest rates ,” said
Eric Wand, a rates strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
in London. “The economic data is still pretty firm in the core
countries, and the European Central Bank is likely to raise
rates next week. The natural drift is for yields to go higher.”  Germany ’s 10-year yield increased three basis points to
3.38 percent as of 4:23 p.m. in London, after reaching 3.41
percent, the most since Jan. 8, 2010. The yield was 3.28 percent
on March 25. The 2.5 percent security due January 2021 fell
0.225, or 2.25 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 92.76.  U.S. Employment  Yields on two-year notes increased four basis points to
1.83 percent, after rising to as much as 1.86 percent, the
highest since December 2008. The yield gained 10 basis points in
the week.  German government bonds extended their decline as a report
showed U.S. employers added more jobs than forecast in March.  Payrolls increased by 216,000 workers last month after a
revised 194,000 gain the prior month, the Labor Department said
today in  Washington . Economists projected a March gain of
190,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The jobless rate dropped from 8.9 percent in February,
the fourth straight decrease.  Portuguese and Irish securities were the two worst
performers in the first quarter of 2011 among the 26 sovereign-
debt markets tracked by indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.
Spanish debt performed best among euro-region members, the
indexes show.  Portugal ’s decision to sell notes due June 2012 today is
“not easy to understand” because the nation could get similar
borrowing rates for longer-term loans through an international
bailout, ING Groep NV said before the sale.  Portuguese Auction  The 5 percent securities due June 2012 were issued at an
average yield of 5.793 percent, according to IGCP, the country’s
debt management agency. That compares with an average yield of
3.159 percent at a previous auction of the same bonds on July
14. The auction attracted bids for 1.4 times the amount offered,
compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.3 in July.  IGCP yesterday said the indicative amount for today’s
auction was 1.5 billion euros.  Portuguese 10-year bonds fell for a ninth straight day,
pushing the yield as high as 8.53 percent, the most since the
introduction of the euro in 1999. The five-year yield advanced
for a 10th consecutive day, rising to 9.82 percent, the most
since the euro’s debut. Two-year notes snapped a nine-day
decline, pushing the yield down seven basis points to 8.71
percent. They reached 8.79 percent yesterday, a euro-era high.  Election Date  Portugal will elect its next government on June 5, just 10
days before its last bond redemption of the year, as surging
financing costs threaten to push the country to the brink of
requiring a bailout.  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned on March 23 after
opposition parties rejected his deficit-cutting plan that aimed
to prevent Portugal from following Greece and Ireland in seeking
a European Union rescue.  “Portugal will be in a state of limbo until the new
government is installed, but I’d be surprised if they didn’t go
down the route of a bailout,” Lloyds’ Wand said.  Irish bonds fluctuated after regulators said yesterday four
banks need to raise an extra 24 billion euros in capital. The
nation’s 10-year yields dropped 23 basis points to 10 percent,
after rising earlier to 10.33 percent, the highest since before
the introduction of the euro in 1999. The two-year yield fell 28
basis points to 9.59 percent, after gaining 34 basis points
yesterday.  Deposit Raised  Irish bonds stayed higher after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
country’s rating to BBB+ from A- and left it with a stable
outlook.  ING Groep NV said Standard & Poor’s downgrade is
“excellent news” for bondholders, because the bank had
expected a larger cut.  “The stable outlook is a very good thing for a credit that
has been under intense pressure,”  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed-market debt in Amsterdam, said today in a telephone
interview. “It’s good for holders of Irish paper.”  Fitch Ratings  said today it placed Ireland’s long-term
foreign and local-currency issuer default ratings of BBB+ on
rating watch negative, indicating a heightened probability of a
downgrade in the near term.  LCH Clearnet Ltd.,  Europe ’s biggest clearing house, said it
will increase the extra deposit it charges clients to trade
Irish government bonds to 45 percent from 35 percent.  Euribor Futures  The decision was taken based on the difference in yield
between Irish debt and a AAA benchmark and will be reflected in
a margin call today, LCH said in a statement on its website.  The spread between Portuguese 10-year bonds and the
Bloomberg Fair Value benchmark of AAA euro-region sovereign debt
widened seven basis points to a record 489 basis points. LCH has
said that it may increase margin requirements on government debt
securities when the spread exceeds 450 basis points.  European Central Bank  President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
March 3 that policy makers may raise the key rate from a record
low of 1 percent at their April 7 meeting to contain inflation.
Last week, he said he had “nothing to add” to that statement.  Euribor futures dropped, sending the yield on the contract
expiring in December up three basis points to 2.125 percent,
indicating traders are adding to bets for higher borrowing costs
from the Frankfurt-based central bank. The rate rose earlier to
as much as 2.165 percent, the highest since March 7.  German government bonds have handed investors a loss of 2.3
percent this year, according to the according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg. Treasuries have lost 0.2 percent.
Portuguese debt is the worst performer among the euro-region
nations, handing investors a loss of 9.4 percent this year,
while Irish securities have lost 5.6 percent.  Spanish debt is the best performing, returning a profit of
2.2 percent through March 31, the EFFAS indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  