-- 
GM, Ford See U.S. Sales Undeterred by Crisis Japan as Production Is Dented

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-04-01T21:12:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/gm-ford-see-u-s-sales-undeterred-by-japan-s-earthquake-as-output-dented.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , the largest U.S. automakers, said the recovery in their
home market may continue in the face of Japan’s disaster.  The March 11 earthquake that has shut factories of
manufacturers and their suppliers may not have a “significant”
impact on industry sales,  Don Johnson , vice president of U.S.
sales at Detroit-based GM, said today. Ford said in a regulatory
filing that while Japan could have an adverse effect on its
financial condition and has led to a parts shortage, the impact
on the U.S. economy will be “limited.”  Global automakers may have lost production of 585,000 light
vehicles in March including 550,000 in Japan, according to IHS
Automotive in Lexington,  Massachusetts . The disruptions may
result in a 1 million unit reduction in the industry’s U.S.
sales rate during the summer months, according to Rod Lache, a
New York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG who predicted a 13
million rate for March.  “The issues in Japan should be temporary,”  Paul Ballew ,
chief economist for Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus,
 Ohio , said in a telephone interview. “The production issues are
slowly but surely going to get worked out and facilities are
coming back online. There’s enough slack capacity out there to
make up for lost units.”  GM Reiterates Forecast  GM continues to see industrywide U.S. auto sales rising to
13 million to 13.5 million in 2011, including medium-and heavy-
duty vehicles, Johnson said. Light-vehicle sales in 2010 rose to
11.6 million from a 27-year low in 2009. Annual U.S. deliveries
were 16.8 million on average from 2000 to 2007, according to
 Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata.  “Based on everything I see now, I just don’t see a
significant slowdown happening,” Johnson said today on a
conference call with analysts and reporters. “All of that’s
going to depend on what we learn tomorrow, the next day and what
we see from our competitors next week.”  Ford’s truck plant in Louisville,  Kentucky , will be closed
next week due to a Japan-related parts shortage, Ford sales
analyst  George Pipas  said today on a separate conference call
with analysts and reporters. The factory makes F-Series pickups
and the Lincoln Navigator and Ford Expedition SUVs, according to
Ford’s  website .  The shortage of parts, which Ford didn’t identify, also
will lead Ford to shut its plant in Genk,  Belgium , next week,
Pipas said. The factory makes the S-Max and Galaxy vans and
Mondeo sedans.  ‘Limited’ Effect  The Japan crisis “should not derail the recovery in the
U.S.,” Jenny Lin, Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s senior U.S.
economist, said on the conference call. “The effect on the  U.S.
economy  will be limited.”  GM has also  reported  interruptions in output the week of
March 21 at its Shreveport, Louisiana, pickup plant and
factories in Zaragoza,  Spain , and Eisenach,  Germany .  GM rose $1.38, or 4.5 percent, to $32.41 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, reversing a decline
before Johnson’s comments on Japan. Ford gained 25 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $15.16.  Nissan Motor Co., the second-largest Japanese automaker,
and its Infiniti luxury brand both have about a 50-day supply of
vehicles at the start of April, said  Al Castignetti , vice
president of U.S. sales for Nissan, and Ben Poore, head of North
American sales of Infiniti.  Nissan Pipeline ‘Good’  “Our pipeline looks pretty good, at least where they are
through May,” Castignetti said today in a telephone interview.
“Will the disruptions in  Japan  affect our retail ambitions? I
think it will to some extent. I think the investigations that
are going on are: anything we lose today, what can we get back
tomorrow?”  Most vehicle production in Japan stopped after the natural
disaster, which left more than 27,000 people dead or missing.
Nissan, based in Yokohama, Japan, said yesterday that it plans
to resume all auto assembly in its home market by April 11 as
suppliers restart parts deliveries.  “Production disruptions generally work themselves out
because you’re not fundamentally altering underlying demand,”
said Ballew, a former General Motors economist. “You’re
temporarily throwing a curve ball into availability of
inventory.”  GM ended March with inventory of about 574,000 vehicles,
57,000 more than a month earlier, according to a statement
released today. The automaker’s increased sales of the Chevrolet
Cruze helped double GM’s share in the compact-car segment to
more than 11 percent in the first quarter, from 5.4 percent in
the same period a year earlier.  Small-Car ‘Headwind’  GM has a 73-day supply of the Cruze, said Alan Batey, vice
president of Chevrolet sales, on the conference call today.  Higher demand for small cars such as Ford’s Fiesta and
Focus “pinched” inventories, Pipas said today. The Fiesta has
about a 40-day supply, from 60 days at the beginning of March,
and Focus inventory also declined, he said.  “Most likely, lean small car inventories will be a
headwind on the industry’s sales rates as we began this month,”
Pipas said.  ---With assistance from Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  and Keith Naughton in Dearborn,  Michigan . Editor: Donna Alvarado, Romaine Bostick  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 