-- 
Fed Favors Exit Strategy of Higher Rates Before Asset Sales, Minutes Show

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-05-18T19:36:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/fed-favors-exit-strategy-of-higher-rates-before-asset-sales-minutes-show.html
Federal Reserve policy makers began
to coalesce last month on a strategy to reverse record monetary
stimulus by first ending their reinvestment policy and later
raising interest rates and selling assets.  Almost all officials agreed that the “first step toward
normalization” should be ceasing reinvestment of principal
payments on mortgage debt that began in August, the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said in records of its April 26-27 session,
released today in  Washington . A majority preferred to sell the
Fed’s securities after raising short-term interest rates, and
most wanted to put asset sales on a preannounced schedule while
using federal-funds rate increases as an “active tool.”  The exit discussion was the most detailed since last June,
before slumping growth pushed Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
his colleagues to implement a $600 billion second round of bond
purchases that ends next month. Crude-oil prices and financial-
market inflation expectations have receded since the April FOMC
meeting, reducing pressure on the Fed to exit.  The talks over the exit strategy don’t mean that tightening
“would necessarily begin soon,” the report said. Policy makers
agreed that the Fed’s securities portfolio, set to reach $2.6
trillion next month, would be shrunk “over the intermediate
term” and return to “essentially only Treasury securities,”
the minutes said.  The dollar reversed an earlier decline against the euro,
while U.S. stocks remained higher and 10-year Treasury yields
extended gains. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.9
percent to 1,340.38 at 3:35 p.m., and the 10-year yield rose to
3.18 percent from 3.12 percent late yesterday.  First Press Conference  The minutes were the first to be released since Bernanke,
57, held his first regular press conference after the FOMC
meeting ended April 27. The Fed released the quarterly economic
projections of its governors and regional bank presidents the
same day. The forecasts were previously disclosed with a three-
week delay in the minutes.  Some of the 10 voting FOMC members said that “there would
need to be a significant change in the economic outlook, or the
risks to that outlook, before another program of asset purchases
would be warranted.”  Another “few” members saw the “increase in inflation
risks as suggesting that economic conditions might well evolve
in a way that would warrant the Committee taking steps toward
less-accommodative policy sooner than currently anticipated,”
the report said.  Removing Stimulus  At the previous FOMC meeting on March 15, policy makers
differed over whether to begin removing stimulus this year, with
a “few” taking the position on each side, minutes of the
session showed.  Officials were most divided in April over how and in what
sequence to use asset sales and  interest rates  to tighten
credit. Many of the policy makers who wanted to put sales on a
preannounced path said the pace should be gradual and could
still be adjusted based on the economic outlook, while several
preferred to use the pace as a “key policy tool” that could be
“varied actively.”  A few policy makers said asset sales should precede any
interest-rate increase, and a few others indicated both moves
should “commence at the same time,” the minutes said.  “They are in no hurry to sell securities,”  Vincent Reinhart , a former Fed monetary-affairs director who’s now a
scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute , said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview. “They think they can tighten the
stance of policy before they do that.”  Shrinking Balance Sheet  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said any tightening
campaign should begin with shrinking the Fed’s balance sheet,
which could be done “passively” by not reinvesting maturing
mortgage-backed securities or by actual sales.  “Whether you would supplement that with actual sales is
controversial and undecided at this point,” Bullard said today
in an interview before release of the minutes. Interest-rate
changes would represent “bringing out the big guns” and likely
come later, he said. Bullard indicated he would favor shrinking
assets “a fair amount” before raising rates.  When officials met April 26-27, crude oil was trading close
to its highest price since 2008. Inflation expectations, as
measured by the breakeven rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, had climbed to 2.41 percentage points from
1.73 points at the end of 2010.  Inflation Expectations  Bernanke took several questions about inflation at his
press conference, saying that “ultimately, if inflation
persists or if inflation expectations begin to move, then
there’s no substitute for action.” He indicated that he wasn’t
concerned yet because “medium-term inflation expectations” had
“not really moved very much.”  Since that briefing, the first of what will be four-times-
a-year events, crude oil has dropped to $99.65 a barrel from
$112.76, while the five-year TIPS breakeven rate has declined to
2.18 percentage points. Consumer gasoline prices haven’t had a
similar drop yet, with the average retail cost per regular-
unleaded gallon at $3.93 yesterday, compared with $3.89 on April
27.  The decline may help validate the FOMC’s judgment in the
April statement that higher inflation from a rise in commodity
prices earlier this year will be “transitory.” The Fed’s
preferred price index, which excludes food and fuel costs, rose
0.9 percent in March from a year earlier, close to a five-decade
low of 0.7 percent in December.  U.S. central bankers aim for an inflation rate of about 1.7
percent to 2 percent, based on last month’s long-run economic
projections of Fed policy makers.  Growth Slowed  Fed policy makers projected last month that the economy
will expand in a range of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent this year,
down from a 3.4 percent to 3.9 percent forecast in January. They
gave that forecast the day before a report showed U.S. growth
slowed to a 1.8 percent annual pace in the first quarter from
3.1 percent in the three months through December.  Fed staff economists cut their forecast for first-half U.S.
growth on weaker spending while raising their near-term outlook
for consumer prices, the minutes said. Staff forecasters
expected inflation to recede “as food and energy prices were
anticipated to decelerate,” the report said.  Growth was expected by the staff economists “to be
sufficient to gradually reduce the  unemployment rate  over the
projection period, though the jobless rate was anticipated to
remain elevated at the end of 2012,” the minutes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  