-- 
Guangdong Development Bank Said to Plan $4 Billion Dual Listing

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-04-01T03:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/guangdong-development-bank-said-to-plan-4-billion-dual-listing.html
Guangdong  Development Bank  Co., part
owned by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , plans to raise about $4 billion in an
initial public offering in  Hong Kong  and  Shanghai , two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  The lender may sell stock as early as the third quarter,
the people said, declining to be identified because the sale
process is confidential. Guangdong Development, with 544 outlets
in China, will probably send a formal request to investment
banks to submit proposals for the IPO the next week, they said.  Citigroup bought a 20 percent stake, the maximum a foreign
lender can hold, in the Guangzhou-based bank in 2006. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Bank of America Corp.
also invested in Chinese lenders as  China ’s government invited
foreign investment after spending about a decade restructuring
its banking system.  Guangdong Development, established in 1988, may sell a 25
percent stake in the IPO, one of the people said. Kang Jian, a
press officer at Guangdong Development, declined to comment.  The bank would become the 11th Chinese lender to be listed
in Hong Kong. China Everbright Bank Co. last month hired China
International Capital Corp., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG to
arrange a share sale in the city that may raise as much as $7
billion, said three people with knowledge of the matter. The
company in August raised $2.8 billion in Shanghai, after cutting
the size of the sale by 30 percent as equity markets slumped.  Citigroup and its partners signed an agreement in 2006 to
buy 86 percent of state-owned Guangdong Development, beating
Paris-based Societe Generale SA and China’s Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co. As part of the group, Armonk, New York-based
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , bought 4.7 percent stake
in the bank, while China Life Insurance Co., and State Grid Corp.
each bought 20 percent.  The Chinese bank is mostly based in Guangdong, a province
of 110 million people with the nation’s highest per-capita
income after cities including Beijing and Shanghai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  