-- 
Libyan Rebels Seek Cease-Fire After U.S. Vows to Withdraw Jets

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-01T11:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/libya-rebels-seek-cease-fire-after-u-s-vows-to-withdraw-jets-by-tomorrow.html
Libya ’s opposition called for a
cease-fire after the U.S. said it’s withdrawing aircraft used to
attack Muammar Qaddafi’s forces following adverse weather that
prevented strikes allowing Libyan loyalists to push back rebels.  Libya’s rebels would accept a cease-fire if their demands
for freedoms are met, said Mustafa Abdel Jalil, head of the
rebel National Transitional Council, during a news conference
televised today from their stronghold of Benghazi. Any agreement
would have to involve Qaddafi’s fighters withdrawing from cities
and their surrounding areas, he said.  The rebel move comes one day after Mike Mullen, the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said U.S. jets, won’t be
flying with NATO forces over Libya after April 2. Mullen said
planes would be made available only if requested by NATO.
Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates  told Congress the U.S. will
“significantly ramp down our commitment” to Libya except for
electronic warfare, aerial refueling and surveillance.  Rebels have been in retreat for three days as Qaddafi’s
troops regain the initiative after almost two weeks of allied
air strikes against them. This week’s recapture of the oil port
Ras Lanuf by Qaddafi forces underscored the military weakness of
his opponents. Intensive fighting continues around another oil
port, Brega, which is under Libyan rebel control, Al Arabiya
television reported.  “Seems to me, we are not doing everything necessary in
order to achieve our policy goals and including relieving what
is happening to the anti-Qaddafi forces,” Senator  John McCain 
said at the hearing in Congress yesterday with Mullen and Gates.
“I hope we don’t learn a bitter lesson from it.”  Can’t See Targets  Mullen said poor weather over the past three days in Libya
meant pilots “can’t get on the targets; they can’t see the
targets.”  Oil rose to a 30-month high in  New York  as economic data
from  China  spurred hope of growing demand in the world’s biggest
energy user and fighting in Libya fanned concern that output
cuts may spread to Middle East producers. Crude for May delivery
rose as much as 93 cents to $107.65 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest front-
month price since Sept. 26, 2008. It was at $107.06 at 11:34
a.m. London time.  “It’s quiet today but there are snipers present and
yesterday night a number of mortar rounds were fired and there
was indiscriminate shelling from tanks as well,” Reda
Almountasser, a resident in the western city of Misrata whose
residents rose up against Qaddafi and have defied efforts by his
forces to regain control, said in a telephone interview.  Rebel Leaders  U.S. political and military leaders said they’re unwilling
to start providing arms and training for rebels fighting against
Qaddafi. Mullen said there are “plenty of countries who have
the ability, the arms, the skill set to be able to do this.”
Gates said the U.S. doesn’t know enough about the insurgent
groups beyond a “handful” of leaders.  “The rebels need more heavy weapons,” said  Jan Techau ,
director of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
Brussels and a former analyst at the NATO Defense College.
“They need simple stuff -- not high-tech weaponry that requires
extensive training and would be dangerous if it fell into
terrorist hands.”  The conflict in Libya, which began as a wave of anti-
government protests similar to those in Egypt and  Tunisia ,
escalated into armed conflict as the country’s army split and
some soldiers joined the rebels.  Oil prices  have risen more than
25 percent since fighting began in mid-February.  ‘Desperation, Fear’  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the defection of
Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa on March 30 is evidence of
“the desperation and the fear right at the heart of the
crumbling and rotten Qaddafi regime.” He said the former
minister hasn’t been offered immunity. The Scottish prosecutor’s
office said it wanted to interview Koussa about the 1988 bombing
of Pan Am Flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie that
killed 270 people.  While dozens of Libyan diplomats have quit since the
uprising against Qaddafi began, Koussa is one of the most senior
officials to flee. Libya’s former deputy ambassador to the
 United Nations ,  Ibrahim Dabbashi , said more diplomats and
senior-ranking Libyans are likely to defect from the Qaddafi
regime “within days,” Sky News reported, adding that up to 10
top Libyan officials may abandon the regime.  Another senior Libyan official, Mohammed Ismail, visited
 London  in recent days for confidential talks, the Guardian
reported today citing unidentified U.K. officials.  Gates said he saw several end-game scenarios involving
Qaddafi.  ‘Family Kills Him’  “One is that a member of his own family kills him, or one
of his inner circle kills him, or the military fractures, or the
opposition, with the degradation of Qaddafi’s military
capabilities rise up again,” Gates said.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets carried out more
than 90 missions yesterday, Charles Bouchard, the Canadian  air
force  general commanding the operation, said via videolink from
Naples,  Italy . A total of 20 of the 28 member states of the
alliance are expected to contribute forces in the initial
stages, NATO said.  Germany  has declined to take part.  Qaddafi said Western air strikes could lead to a war
between Christians and Muslims that could spiral out of control,
Sky News reported, citing a statement by the Libyan leader
broadcast by state television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 Pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  