-- 
Libya Rebels Say Qatar Oil Deal Excludes Brega, Ras Lanuf

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-04-01T15:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/libya-rebels-say-qatar-oil-deal-excludes-brega-ras-lanuf-1-.html
Libyan rebels reached a deal to sell
oil via Qatar to help meet basic needs, including food, fuel,
medicines and other supplies, a senior rebel official said.  “The Qatari government has agreed to market Libyan oil for
us and there will be an account into which the revenues are
deposited,” Ali Tarhuni, who is in charge of oil, finance and
economics for the interim national council, said in a televised
news conference from Benghazi today.  The agreement for Qatar to market oil from territory held
by the rebels covers crude from  Libya ’s southeast, and excludes
the areas of Brega and Ras Lanuf, Tarhuni said. He didn’t say
when the oil sales would begin or provide logistical details.  Libya’s opposition called for a cease-fire today after the
U.S. said it was withdrawing aircraft used to attack Muammar Qaddafi’s forces following adverse weather that prevented
strikes, allowing Libyan loyalists to push back rebels. Any
agreement would have to involve Qaddafi’s fighters withdrawing
from cities and their surrounding areas, rebel leader Mustafa Abdel Jalil said, speaking at the same conference.  Qatar’s offer to help resume oil sales from  Africa ’s third
largest producer may be stymied by port constraints and payment
restrictions, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  The bank forecasts that Brent oil prices will rise in the
second quarter by a “meaningful” amount as Libya’s supplies of
light, sweet crude remain cut, the bank’s analysts led by
 Lawrence Eagles  said in an e-mailed report today.  Who Gets Paid?  “After weighing all the barriers and pitfalls that might
frustrate such a well-intentioned initiative, we count ourselves
among the skeptics,” the analysts wrote. “The question of how
payments could be made and to whom is an unavoidable
challenge.”  Qatar offered to help increase oil sales from Libya and use
the proceeds for humanitarian aid, the British government said
in a statement released March 29 after an international
conference about Libya in London.  The conflict has reduced Libya’s exports to a “trickle,”
the  International Energy Agency  says. It pumped 1.6 million
barrels a day in January, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Still, if Libya can resume exports of around 600,000 to
700,000 barrels a day under Qatar’s proposed plan, Brent prices
may fall by at least $5 a barrel “in short order,” the
analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Langan at 
 hlangan@bloomberg.net  