-- 
Libyan Rebels Seek Cease-Fire as U.S. Vows to Withdraw Jets

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-04-01T19:17:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/libya-rebels-seek-cease-fire-after-u-s-vows-to-withdraw-its-fighter-jets.html
Libyan rebels called for a cease-
fire as forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  drove them back for a
third day after sandstorms and clouds hindered NATO air strikes
and the U.S. said it would withdraw all warplanes.  Qaddafi’s fighters must retreat from cities and nearby
areas for any cease-fire deal, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, head of the
rebel Interim National Council, said in a news conference
televised today from the insurgent stronghold of Benghazi. He
said rebel demands for freedoms must also be met. There was no
immediate response to the offer from Qaddafi officials.  A Libyan official said Qaddafi’s regime was trying to hold
discussions with the U.S.,  France  and Britain to find an end to
the conflict, the  Associated Press  reported.  “We are trying to talk to the British, the French and the
Americans to stop the killing of people. We are trying to find a
mutual solution,” Abdul-Ati al-Obeidi, a former Libyan prime
minister, told British television, AP said.  Mohammed Ismail, an aide to one of Qaddafi’s sons, has held
talks with British authorities in  London  in recent days, the New
York Times reported, citing an unidentified friend of the aide.
Ismail planned to return to Tripoli after the talks.  U.S. Jets  The rebels’ call for a cease-fire comes one day after Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said U.S.
jets won’t be flying with NATO forces over Libya after April 2.
Mullen said planes would be made available only if requested by
NATO. Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates  told Congress the U.S.
will “significantly ramp down our commitment” to Libya except
for electronic warfare, aerial refueling and surveillance.  Rebels have retreated as Qaddafi’s troops regained the
initiative after almost two weeks of allied air strikes against
them. This week’s recapture of the oil port of Ras Lanuf by
Qaddafi forces underscored the military weakness of his
opponents. Intensive fighting continues around another oil port,
Brega, Sky News television reported, adding that rebel and
government lines are keeping out of range of each other’s
weapons and are 10 to 20 kilometers (16 to 32 miles) apart.  Libyan rebels have appointed the nation’s former interior
minister, Abdel Fattah Younis, as the head of the rebellion’s
military efforts,  Al Jazeera  reported today, without saying how
it obtained the information.  ‘Can’t See the Targets’  Mullen said poor weather over the past three days in Libya
meant pilots “can’t get on the targets; they can’t see the
targets.” Sky News said its reporters in Libya hadn’t seen any
alliance air strikes near the front lines for 3 1/2 days.  Al-Jazeera reported today that allied warplanes bombed
targets in Brega.  An agreement for Qatar to market oil from territory held by
Libyan rebels covers crude from the country’s southeast and
excludes the areas of Brega and Ras Lanuf, Ali Tarhuni, member
of the rebel council responsible for oil and economics, said
today in a press conference in Benghazi.  Crude oil fluctuated after climbing to a 30-month high in
 New York . Futures rose above $107 a barrel for the first time
since 2008. Crude oil for May delivery rose 92 cents to $107.64
a barrel at 1:14 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Oil
is up 26 percent from a year ago.  Jan Techau, director of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Brussels and a former analyst at the NATO
Defense College, said the rebel withdrawal means the allies must
expand assistance to opposition groups.  ‘Allied Ground Forces’  “I don’t know if this is a precursor for allied ground
forces, but we are clearly going to see stepped-up aid,” Techau
said in a telephone interview.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said in a statement
it has 205 alliance jets and 21 naval vessels involved in the
 Libya  operation.  There was heavy fighting today in the western city of
Misrata, residents said.  “A number of tank shells were fired at the port area of
the city in the afternoon and the rebels inside responded to the
attacks,” Reda Almountasser said in the telephone interview
from the city, whose residents rose up against Qaddafi and have
defied efforts by his forces to regain control.  Hospitals in Misrata are “reportedly overflowing with
severely injured patients,” Doctors Without Borders said in an
e-mailed statement.  Rebel leader Abdel Jalil said opposition forces would
request arms deliveries if Qaddafi loyalists continue to attack.  “Our aim for a cease-fire is primarily to end Libyan
bloodshed, but the Qaddafi regime will have to leave,” he said.
“We’re confident of our forces and resolve to unseat Qaddafi’s
regime.”  Arms for Rebels  U.S. political and military leaders said yesterday they’re
unwilling to start providing arms and training for rebels
fighting against Qaddafi. Mullen said there are “plenty of
countries who have the ability, the arms, the skill set to be
able to do this.” Gates said the U.S. doesn’t know enough about
the insurgent groups beyond a “handful” of leaders.  The conflict in Libya, which began as a wave of anti-
government protests similar to those in Egypt and  Tunisia ,
escalated into armed conflict as the country’s army split and
some soldiers joined the rebels.  U.K. and U.S. officials say the defection of Libyan Foreign
Minister Moussa Koussa on March 30 is evidence Qaddafi’s regime
is in disarray.  Libyan Defections  While dozens of Libyan diplomats have quit since the
uprising against Qaddafi began, Koussa is one of the most senior
officials to flee. Libya’s former deputy ambassador to the
 United Nations ,  Ibrahim Dabbashi , said more diplomats and
senior-ranking Libyans are likely to defect from the Qaddafi
regime “within days,” Sky News reported, adding that as many
as 10 top Libyan officials may abandon the regime.  Gates said he envisions several end-game scenarios
involving Qaddafi.  “One is that a member of his own family kills him, or one
of his inner circle kills him, or the military fractures, or the
opposition, with the degradation of Qaddafi’s military
capabilities, rise up again,” Gates said.  Qaddafi said Western air strikes could lead to a war
between Christians and Muslims that could spiral out of control,
Sky News reported, citing a statement by the Libyan leader
broadcast by state television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  