-- 
Ignatieff Says Liberals Will Keep B.C. Tanker Ban After Enbridge Lobbying

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-01T16:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ignatieff-says-liberals-will-keep-b-c-tanker-ban-after-enbridge-lobbying.html
Canada  Liberal opposition leader
 Michael Ignatieff  said his party would maintain a ban on oil
shipments off the British Columbia coast, a potential obstacle
to  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed C$5.5 billion ($5.7 billion)
Northern Gateway pipeline.  Ignatieff said he has met with executives of Calgary-based
Enbridge, which wants to link the Alberta oil sands to the
Pacific coast. Chief Executive Officer Patrick Daniel told the
Globe and Mail newspaper in an interview published yesterday he
expected the Liberals to end the ban.  “Enbridge hasn’t made its case here,” Ignatieff told
reporters today at a campaign stop ahead of a May 2 election in
 London , Ontario. “We believe in maintaining that tanker ban,”
he said, citing environmental concerns.  Aboriginal groups in Canada’s westernmost province also
oppose the pipeline, and pressed Bank of Montreal executives to
stop financing the project at the bank’s annual meeting in
 Vancouver  last month. Ignatieff told Bloomberg News in a March
29 interview he wants clearer environmental regulations so the
oil sands industry can grow.  Alberta is developing deposits in the oil sands that hold
an estimated 170 billion barrels of recoverable oil, second only
to Saudi Arabia’s 265 billion barrels, according to the  Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers . Those deposits have spurred
other investments, such as TransCanada Corp.’s proposed pipeline
to deliver crude oil to the U.S. Gulf Coast.  Western Canada  Recent polls suggest the May 2 election may return
Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper to power, though it
isn’t clear that he would be able to win a majority of seats in
the House of Commons. Harper’s Conservatives draw much of their
support from rural areas, particularly in western Canada,
including  Alberta , Harper’s home province.  Ignatieff today also reiterated a pledge to spend C$1
billion annually to support people who take time off work to
care for ill or elderly relatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 