-- 
Increases in U.S. Payrolls, Manufacturing Were Probably Sustained in March

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-01T04:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/increases-in-u-s-payrolls-manufacturing-were-probably-sustained-in-march.html
The pickup in U.S. employment was
probably sustained in March, and factory assembly lines kept
humming, showing that a jump in fuel costs has yet to choke the
expansion, economists said before reports today.  Payrolls increased by 190,000 workers last month after a
192,000 advance in February that was the biggest in nine months,
according to the median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Manufacturing may have expanded at about the
same pace as in February, the strongest month in almost seven
years.  Record exports and gains in business and consumer spending
are prompting companies like Chrysler Group LLC and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) 
to boost staff, helping the U.S. weather the highest energy
prices in more than two years. The improving economy encouraged
Federal Reserve policy makers last month to signal they were
unlikely to extend bond purchases beyond June.  “The improving trend in employment is a bright spot,”
said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto. “The private sector is picking up its hiring. The
economy is on a firmer footing, but not yet on a firm footing.”  The Labor Department’s jobs numbers are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from payroll
increases of 150,000 to 295,000.  Private payrolls are forecast to rise by 208,000 in March
after a 222,000 gain, according to the survey median, the
biggest back-to-back increase since 2006. Manufacturing payrolls
are forecast to rise by 30,000.  Jobless Outlook  Unemployment probably held at 8.9 percent, the lowest level
in almost two years, according to the survey median. The rate
dropped by 0.9 percentage point over the prior three months, the
biggest decline in such a time span since 1983.  The March jobs reading will likely be the first of the year
that wasn’t skewed by weather. Winter storms constrained
payrolls in January, prompting a February rebound when
temperatures were closer to normal for the month.  A report from the Tempe, Arizona-based  Institute for Supply
Management  at 10 a.m. will show the purchasers’ factory index
fell to 61 last month from 61.4 in February, its highest level
since May 2004. The gauge climbed over 50, signaling growth, in
August 2009, two months after the recession ended.  The manufacturing industries that account for 11 percent of
the economy are likely to remain at the forefront of the
recovery as businesses replenish inventories, the auto industry
rebounds and  China  and other emerging markets boost imports of
U.S.-made goods.  Auto Demand  Auto sales, after climbing for six consecutive months,
reached the highest level in more than a year in February.
Demand at  General Motors Co. (GM) , Chrysler and  Toyota Motor Corp. (TOYOF) 
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Chrysler, aiming for its first net profit since emerging
from bankruptcy in 2009, plans to hire 1,000 engineers and high-
tech workers for its small and midsized vehicles. The  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based company is also urging its dealers to hire
more salesmen and service workers to help boost sales 32 percent
this year.  “Hiring additional personnel in preparation for the spring
market is essential for success in 2011,” Peter Grady, vice
president of Chrysler’s network development and fleet, said in a
memo to dealers last month.  Kohl’s said this week that it plans to open a new e-
commerce distribution center in Edgewood,  Maryland , in July and
hire 1,200 workers over the next three years.  Fuel Costs  Oil prices  that closed at $106.72 yesterday, the highest
since September 2008, may keep climbing should Middle East
political turmoil continue unabated, raising the risk that
 consumer spending  will slow in coming months.  U.S. companies are also still trying to gauge the effects
of the March 11 earthquake in  Japan  and the subsequent nuclear
crisis on international supply chains. Toyota expects assembly
interruptions that may affect North America plants.  The Fed, after its latest policy meeting March 15, pledged
to continue its program of purchasing $600 billion of bonds by
June, in order to “promote a stronger pace of economic
recovery.” Policy makers also said the economy was on “firmer
footing” and acknowledged a rise in commodity prices, signaling
deflation risk had diminished and they were unlikely to expand
the bond purchase plan.  The housing industry that led the economy into recession in
December 2007 remains a weak link in the recovery. Construction
spending, due at 10 a.m., fell 0.2 percent in February after a
0.7 percent decline the prior month, economists forecast the
Commerce Department will report.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  