-- 
Manufacturing Grows for 24th Month in India, Increasing Pressure on Rates

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-04-01T07:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/india-manufacturing-grows-for-24th-month-adding-to-interest-rate-pressure.html
India ’s manufacturing grew for a
24th straight month, adding to the case for higher  interest
rates  to curb price gains.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was unchanged at 57.9 in
March from February, when it accelerated at the fastest pace in
three months, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an
e-mail today. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  The report shows that consumer demand in India remains
strong, posing inflation risks even after the most aggressive
rate increases among  Asia ’s major economies. India’s
manufacturing inflation rate jumped 1.19 percentage points in
February from January, the most in 10 months.  “The momentum in India’s manufacturing sector held up well
in March, suggesting that growth is not an immediate concern,”
Leif Eskesen, an economist at HSBC in  Singapore , wrote in the
report. “This calls for further tightening of monetary policy
to tame inflation pressures.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 0.2
percent at 1:07 p.m. in Mumbai, while the yield on the 8.08
percent bond due in August 2022 was little changed at 8.08
percent.  Exports climbed 49.7 percent to $23.6 billion in February,
the most in 11 months, the commerce ministry said in a report in
New Delhi today. Imports gained 21.2 percent to $31.7 billion,
narrowing the trade deficit to $8.1 billion.  Budget Support  Demand may find more support from Finance Minister Pranab
Mukherjee’s budget for the fiscal year starting today that plans
to spur spending and exempt incomes below 180,000 rupees
($4,036) from tax, higher than the previous threshold of 160,000
rupees.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition aims to put more
money in the hands of voters to help them cope with rising
prices and shore up support for five state elections in 2011.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on March 17 increased the central
bank’s repurchase rate by a quarter-point to 6.75 percent after
he raised the inflation forecast for the second time since late
January. The benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate would
reach 8 percent by March 31, 2011, compared with 7 percent
estimated on Jan. 25, he said. The price-gauge was 8.31 percent
in February.  India has raised rates eight times since the middle of
March 2010, compared with three in China and four in  South
Korea .  Indonesia  lifted its reference rate in February for the
first time this year after opting not to join counterparts in
boosting rates in 2010.  Credit Growth  India’s banks are lending at a faster pace than the central
bank’s target, reflecting the need for higher borrowing costs to
curb  consumer spending .  Commercial loans rose 23 percent from the previous year as
of March 11, above the 20 percent rate prescribed by the  Reserve
Bank  of India.  Car sales by companies including Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.,
the nation’s biggest carmaker, rose to a record for the second
month in February, the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers  said March 9.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand by as much as 9.25
percent in the year starting April 1, the finance ministry
forecast in February.  In  China , manufacturing growth accelerated for the first
time in four months, easing concern that monetary tightening may
lead to a sharp slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 53.4 in March from
52.2 in February, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement on its website today. A separate
PMI released by HSBC Holdings also gained.  India faces additional risks to inflation from oil,
Governor Subbarao said March 29.  India imports three-quarters of its energy needs and oil
has surged 26 percent in the past 12 months, stoked by political
turmoil in the Middle East and Libya that threatens supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  