-- 
India Delays Start of $3 Billion Energy-Savings Market

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-01T11:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/india-delays-start-of-3-billion-energy-savings-credits-market-by-a-month.html
India ’s launch of a program that is
expected to create a $3 billion-a-year market for companies to
trade energy-savings credits will be delayed by at least a
month, a government official said.  The country was scheduled to assign targets starting today
to some of the nation’s most energy-intensive industries to
reduce the amount of power they consume. The aim is to lower
fuel consumption in Asia’s second-biggest energy consumer.  The program is still awaiting approval from the power
ministry, said Saurabh Diddi, energy economist at the  Bureau of
Energy Efficiency , which is overseeing the program.  “It may take another month,” he said by telephone.  Trading of the new credits is expected to create a market
worth $3 billion annually, Baman K. Mehta, chief executive of
Darashaw & Company Pvt., a Mumbai-based investment bank, said on
Nov. 24.  Companies that exceed their efficiency targets will earn
credits that they can sell to companies failing to meet the
goals. Trading will commence about six to 12 months after
targets are assigned, Ajay Mathur, the bureau’s director, said
in January.  The program allows 563 businesses to trade energy-savings
credits, including some of India’s biggest industrial companies,
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,  NTPC Ltd. (NATP) ,  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) ,
 Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)   By using energy more efficiently and reducing losses, India
could avoid building 10,000 megawatts of new power capacity,
thereby saving 1 trillion rupees ($22 billion), the power
ministry said in a  news release  yesterday. That’s the equivalent
of about 9 new nuclear reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  