-- 
Ineos’s PetroChina Deal Said to Save $130 Million in Interest

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-04-01T13:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ineos-s-petrochina-deal-said-to-save-130-million-in-interest.html
Ineos Group Holdings Plc stands to
cut annual interest expenses by 95 million euros ($130 million)
through a possible refinancing of debt following the sale of
refinery stakes to PetroChina Co., a person with direct
knowledge of the plan said.  Proceeds of $1.02 billion from the planned sale of a 50
percent stake in European oil-refining operations may lower debt
to 6.1 billion euros from 6.85 billion euros, said the person,
who declined to be identified because details remain private.
Ineos’s net debt to earnings ratio would fall to 3.7 from 4.4
with the proceeds from the Grangemouth, Scotland and Lavera,
France refineries, eliminating a need for costly pay-in-kind
loans, the person said.  The British maker of chemicals expects to conclude the
PetroChina accord by mid-year and is “actively considering”
options for the refinance of its existing senior bank debt, the
company said in a statement late yesterday. It’s seeking to
improve borrowing terms imposed by lenders in a refinancing
package penned in 2009, when the financial crisis slashed
chemical demand and weakened its balance sheet.  “We see Ineos as an improving credit and the proposed
PetroChina deal should be further credit supportive,” said
Moody’s Investors Service analyst Elena Nadtotchi. “Ineos
negotiated favorable terms and established an important
relationship with a leading chemical player in  Asia , where it is
not yet present.”  Moody’s Upside  Ineos’s senior loans are quoted at a mid-price of 104.75,
up 25 basis points since March 30, according to prices from
Mizuho Financial Group UFJ Ltd.  Nadtotchi placed Ineos’s B3 rating under review for a
possible upgrade yesterday, citing the potential for an
“accelerated deleveraging in 2011.”  The ratings are largely driven by the pace and scope of
deleveraging, and Ineos has an opportunity to simplify its
 capital structure  and reduce the interest bill, if supported by
the market, Nadtotchi said in an e-mail.  No firm decisions on the refinancing of senior bank debt
have been taken, Ineos said in the statement. The company is run
by Jim Ratcliffe, a former private equity executive, who
borrowed to fund the purchase of low-margin commodity assets.  “Ineos established a strong track record, as it stood by
its obligations and continued servicing the debt through the
trough,” Nadtotchi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Eeuwens in London at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  