-- 
Internet Searches Help Homebuyers Trim Costs in Purchasing Title Insurance

-- B y   R e b e c c a   M c C l a y
-- 
2011-04-01T13:28:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/internet-searches-help-homebuyers-trim-costs-in-purchasing-title-insurance.html
When Tom Strange, a retired computer
engineer in Henderson,  Nevada , refinanced his mortgage last
year, he rejected the $1,870 title insurance offered by his
mortgage broker. Searching online, he cut the cost by half.  “It was worth it,” said Strange, 63, who said he saved
almost $1,000. “I don’t know how many people are aware of it. I
never would have guessed.”  Homebuyers generally are required to purchase title
insurance in the amount of the mortgage to protect lenders
against claims on the property, such as prior liens. It’s a one-
time cost usually paid at closing. Most buyers use the insurer
their lender or lawyer recommends, though  a 1974 federal law 
gives purchasers the right to choose.  More homeowners like Strange may opt to shop for title
insurance because they now receive a summary of their closing
costs earlier in the buying process. It’s been  required by law 
since January 2010 that lenders must provide accurate closing
costs within three business days of receiving a mortgage
application.  “The new law absolutely has prompted an increase in
consumer shopping across the board,” said Timothy Dwyer of
Entitle Direct Group Inc., a title insurer based in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “A consumer who has an estimate can compare and
contrast the charges.”  Big Savings  The savings can be substantial. For a $1.5 million home
purchase in New York, with a 20 percent down payment, Entitle
Direct, which sells directly to consumers without using agents,
charges $4,973 for owner and lender policies compared with
$7,650 for the same policies sold by many traditional insurers,
according to their rate  manual .  Buyers in other areas may not see similar savings because
each state regulates the industry differently.  Texas  and  New
Mexico  set rates for all insurers, while states including
 California ,  Maryland  and Nevada approve individual rates. Some,
such as Oklahoma and Georgia, don’t regulate rates, and  Iowa 
forbids the sale of private insurance, selling the coverage
itself.  New Jersey , New York,  Ohio  and  Delaware  have rating
bureaus, which are groups of insurers that in most instances
agree to charge the same price.  Title insurers underwrite policies that protect the
property from unforeseen claims. They, or the agents who sell
the policies, conduct a land records search to make sure the
property history is clean. The insurance pays for expenses
related to defending against claims on the property and covers
any valid claims. Homeowners who are refinancing are usually
required to buy a policy, often for a lower rate.  Web Tools  Web search tools help buyers compare prices. The  California 
Insurance Department and the  California Land Title Association 
created  TitleWizard , a free online calculator. A search for
title insurance on a $500,000 home in  Long Beach  with a $450,000
loan shows rates that range from $667 to $397, a possible 40
percent savings.  Denver-based Tiservices LLC’s  mytitleins.com , which started
in 2007, gives Colorado buyers a free online calculator and
reviews the quality of insurance coverage. Founder and owner
Garry Wolff said the service is expanding to at least 13 other
states.  “We want to provide more information to the consumer so
they can make an informed decision,” Wolff said. “We found
that there are differences in costs and differences in
protection. It’s not a transparent industry.”  Most title insurers don’t compete on price and rely on
service to build relationships with lenders and real estate
agents, said Nat Otis, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods,
a New York-based investment bank.  ‘Known Entity’  “There’s an element to the market to be enticed a little
by competitive pricing, but most people don’t know who their
title insurer is,” he said. “It’s more important that they
(the agents) are doing business with a known entity.”  Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF) , based in Jacksonville,
 Florida ,  First American Financial Corp. (FAF) , based in Santa Ana,
California,  Stewart Information Services Corp. (STC) , based in Houston
and  Old Republic International Corp. (ORI) , based in  Chicago , had 88
percent of the market as of December 2010, according to the
American Land Title Association, a Washington-based industry
group.  At least one state is considering legislation to increase
competition and make title insurance more affordable.  New York, which has the highest average title insurance
costs in the U.S., according to  Bankrate.com , a financial
services company based in North Palm Beach, Florida, is weighing
 state-backed  title insurance, meaning the state would sell
policies.  Comparison Shop  Consumers should comparison shop for both price and
service, said  Kurt Pfotenhauer , chief executive officer of ALTA.
His organization advises buyers to ask about any associated fees
that may be added to insurance premiums.  “Price alone should not be the determining factor when
selecting a title insurance company,” Pfotenhauer said in an e-
mail. “It’s important for consumers to ask questions about
title insurance, the protection it provides and associated
costs.”  Homeowners who find discounted rates should confirm their
lenders will accept the cheaper policy, said Strange, the Nevada
retiree. When he told his broker he’d found a cheaper policy, he
said the broker told him,  ``Nice work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca McClay in  New York  at 
 rmcclay@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Rick Levinson
at +1=212-617-3377 or  rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 