-- 
Iran Exchange to Start Fuel-Oil Trading in April, Official Says

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-04-01T12:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/iran-exchange-to-start-fuel-oil-trading-in-april-official-says.html
The  Iran Mercantile Exchange , a
Tehran-based commodities bourse, will start trading  fuel-oil 
contracts this month as a prelude to other energy trading.  The exchange will start trading 380-centistoke fuel oil in
“cash and spot contracts” this month, Ahmad Rezaei, director
for derivatives trading at the exchange, said late yesterday in
a phone interview from Tehran. Each contract will be for 10
metric tons, Rezaei said.  Iran, the second-largest crude producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, seeks to revive its mostly
government-controlled economy and expand its influence in energy
markets in the Middle East, where two exchanges in Dubai already
compete for customers by offering futures contracts in oil, gold
and steel.  “Iran, as other countries, needs to rely on the free
market to be competitive,” said Rezaei, who’s also the adviser
to the exchange’s director general. “We want to put in place a
system toward the modernization of the exchange and the trade of
strategic items. Our exchange has these capabilities.”  An opening ceremony is scheduled for April 3 and trading
will start later in the month, Rezaei said. A specific date for
the start of operations has yet to be set.  “Delivery will be monthly and on a first come, first
served basis” in locations in the Persian Gulf such as Bandar
Abbas, Bandar Mahshahr or the Lavan island, Rezaei said.  Iran  is also looking to trade “other energy products,”
Rezaei said. “We will do it one by one and based on the
country’s interests.”  International Sanctions  The country is constrained by international economic and
financial sanctions over its nuclear program, which may
complicate trading for foreign entities in the exchange.  Rezaei said he expected demand to mostly come from Asia
nations such as  China  and  India .  Iran produces some 20,000 tons of fuel oil a day, half of
which is exported to destinations such as  Europe , the  United
Arab Emirates ,  Singapore , China and India, according to Rezaei.  Iran Mercantile Exchange is a joint stocks company with
about 30 percent owned by individuals and the rest by brokerages
companies, producers as well as financial institutions,
including  Melli Bank ,  Mellat Bank , and  Bank Keshavarzi 
(Agricultural Bank), Rezaei said.  Fuel oil trading at the IME will take place in parallel in
Tehran and the island of Kish, a free trade zone, in the  Persian
Gulf , according to Rezaei. Trading will be from 11 a.m. to 4
p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  