-- 
Ireland’s Rating Cut to BBB+ By S&P as Bank Rescue Costs Hit $142 Billion

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-04-01T14:19:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ireland-s-debt-rating-is-reduced-one-level-to-bbb-by-s-p-on-banking-costs.html
Ireland’s credit rating was cut one
level by  Standard & Poor’s  and put on watch for a possible
downgrade by Fitch Ratings after the cost of rescuing Irish
banks reached as much as 100 billion euros ($141.5 billion).  S&P today lowered the rating to BBB+ from A-, putting the
country on the same level as  Thailand  and the Bahamas. The
outlook is stable, S&P said in a statement. Fitch placed its
long-term foreign and local-currency issuer default ratings of
BBB+ on negative, “indicating a heightened probability of a
downgrade in the near term,” it said in a statement.  The stable outlook from S&P “is a very good thing for a
credit that has been under intense pressure,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in
Amsterdam. “It’s good for holders of Irish paper.”  After carrying out stress tests, Ireland’s central bank
yesterday ordered four lenders, including the largest, Bank of
Ireland Plc, to raise 24 billion euros in capital. Ireland,
which agreed to an 85 billion-euro bailout in November, can
sustain mounting debt levels if it fixes its lenders and
maintains economic growth, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said.  ‘Positive Surprise’  “The outlook on the ratings is now stable, reflecting our
opinion of the credibility of the stress tests,” S&P said. The
company on March 29 downgraded  Portugal  and  Greece , saying the
European Union’s new bailout rules may mean those nations
eventually renege on debt obligations.  “The downgrade isn’t surprising given that S&P is only
bringing its rating into line with the other main  ratings
agencies ,” said Eoin Fahy, chief economist at Kleinwort Benson
Investors Dublin Ltd. “The fact that S&P has given Ireland a
‘stable’ outlook and described the bank stress tests as credible
is a positive surprise.”  Ireland is trying to convince investors at home and abroad
that it has finally plugged all the holes in the banking system,
whose collapse crippled what was once  Europe ’s most dynamic
economy. Central bank Governor Patrick Honohan said yesterday it
is realistic to expect Bank of Ireland and  Irish Life  &
Permanent Plc to fall under state control.  Irish Contraction  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds rather than German securities of similar maturity narrowed
by 17 basis points to 670 points today. That’s below an euro-era
record of 680 points on Nov. 30, two days after Ireland accepted
the bailout from the EU and the  International Monetary Fund .  Irish gross domestic product “figures for the fourth
quarter of 2010, released last week, were unexpectedly weak,
showing GDP growth contracted by 1.6 percent quarter-on-quarter
and 0.7 percent year-on-year,” Fitch said in the statement. The
ratings firm, which downgraded Ireland’s long-term rating to
BBB+ on Dec. 9, will “incorporate the new information” from
the banking stress tests into its review, it said.  The government, struggling to draw a line under the
country’s bank crisis, said it will probably end up with a
majority stake in Irish Life, which needs to raise 4 billion
euros.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , which was ordered to raise 13.3
billion euros, is to be merged with EBS Building Society.  The government has pledged to provide that money from a 35
billion-euro fund set up under the country’s international
bailout if banks fail to raise it themselves. Noonan said today
in an interview with Dublin-based RTE that the debate on
imposing losses on senior bondholders at Bank of Ireland and
Allied Irish is “over” because of opposition from the  European
Central Bank .  European support  S&P cut Portugal for the second time in a week to the
lowest investment-grade rating of BBB-. Greece’s rating was
lowered two grades to BB-, three levels below investment grade.
New rules on bailout loans, which take effect in 2013, mean
sovereign-debt restructuring is a “potential precondition to
borrowing” from the future European Stability Mechanism and
that senior unsecured government debt will be subordinated to
ESM loans, S&P said on March 29.  Both aspects, announced after a meeting of European leaders
in Brussels on March 25, are “detrimental to commercial
creditors,” the rating company said.  Indebtedness for Ireland, which sought a bailout in
November, will surge to 125 percent of gross domestic product by
2013, the IMF forecasts. Debt was 25 percent of GDP in 2007.
 Fitch Ratings  downgraded Ireland to BBB+ from A+ on Dec. 9, with
a “stable” outlook. Moody’s Investors Service the same month
lowered its rating on Ireland to Baa1 from Aa2, with a
“negative” outlook.  “The government continues to pump capital into the banks
and it is the sovereign that is taking the hit,” said Brian Devine, chief economist at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers. “My
view is that we won’t be able to fund ourselves and that we will
need” support from Europe’s permanent European rescue after
2013, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  