-- 
Irish Life Plunges as Group to Split, State Control Looms

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-04-01T16:12:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/irish-life-plunges-as-group-to-split-state-control-looms.html
Irish Life  & Permanent Plc, which is
selling its life assurance and fund management unit to raise
funds, fell 59 percent after the state said it may take control
of company.  Irish Life plunged as much as 73 percent in Dublin trading,
the biggest drop since at least 1994, after the Irish central
bank yesterday told the company to raise 4 billion euros ($5.7
billion) following stress tests.  Irish Life was caught in the “cross fire” of measures to
rescue the nation’s banking system, said Gerry Hassett, chief
executive of of Irish Life & Permanent’s Irish Life retail unit.
In all, four lenders have to raise 24 billion euros as the
government tries to draw a line under  Europe ’s worst banking
crisis.  Irish Life plans to list its assurance unit in Dublin and
 London  through a share sale, Hassett said in an interview with
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE today. The company had been the
only lender to avoid a state bailout prior to yesterday’s
announcement.  Bank of Ireland Plc surged as much as 36 percent as the
country’s largest lender outlined plans to avoid majority state
control after being ordered to raise 5.2 billion euros.  Allied
Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the country’s second-largest lender which needs
to raise 13.3 billion euros, fell as much as 25 percent.  Irish Life fell 24 euro cent to 17 cents in Dublin, while
Bank of Ireland rose 42 percent to 31 cents.  “Only Bank of Ireland retains a reasonable prospect of
recreating” a case for investors “in the near term,” said
analysts including Emer Lang and  Stephen Lyons  at Dublin-based
securities firm Davy in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net  