-- 
Ireland Bows to Trichet on Bondholders as Bank Rescue Reaches $142 Billion

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-04-01T12:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/irish-bow-to-trichet-on-bondholders-as-rescue-hits-142-billion.html
Ireland yielded to the  European
Central Bank  to protect bondholders even as its bailout bill for
the region’s worst banking crisis moved to as much as 100
billion euros ($142 billion) after stress tests.  The ECB in  Frankfurt  was “solidly opposed” to imposing
losses on investors in senior bank debt, Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  told broadcaster RTE today. The ECB agreed to
provide “ongoing” funding for the banks, he said.  Ireland agreed yesterday to inject as much as 24 billion
euros into four banks, while leaving bondholders untouched. The
government already funneled 46.3 billion euros into the
financial system and set up an agency that paid more than 30
billion euros to assume risky property loans. The total equates
to about two-thirds the size of the Irish economy.  “The government’s position is very clear: It doesn’t want
to take action on senior bondholders for the four banks that are
going forward,” said Matthew Elderfield, head of regulation at
the  central bank , said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “It recognizes that, on balance, that if you want
to have these viable banks able to return to the market that
would hurt their capacity to do that.”  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services today cut Ireland one
notch to BBB+ from A-, though revised its outlook to stable.  The better forecast reflects “our opinion of the
credibility of the stress tests conducted by the Central Bank of
Ireland to determine additional capital needs for the Irish
banking system,” S&P said in a statement.  ‘Civil Servant’  The issue of who should share the burden of bailing out the
banks has dominated Ireland, whose six government-guaranteed
lenders have 63.3 billion euros in outstanding bonds, according
to figures from the central bank.  During an election campaign last month, Eamon Gilmore, now
deputy prime minister, dismissed ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  as a “civil servant” who would answer to politicians.
As recently as March 28, Agriculture Minister Simon Coveney said
the government planned to impose losses on senior bondholders in
the banks to cut the costs of its bailout.  “Taking all of the losses of the banking system and
putting them on the balance sheet of the government doesn’t make
sense,”  Nouriel Roubini , co-founder of Roubini Global Economics
LLC, said today in an interview from Cernobbio,  Italy , with
Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”
“Eventually, the back of the government will be broken.”  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against losses on the senior debt of
European banks fell to the lowest in more than five months
today. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index, linked to the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers, dropped as much as 6 basis points
to 137, the lowest since November 19, before paring the decline,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Credit-default swaps on
 Portugal , Ireland,  Greece  and  Spain  also declined.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the largest lender during the
decade-long economic boom, requires 13.3 billion euros of
additional capital after its  stress test , the central bank said
yesterday. Bank of Ireland Plc needs 5.2 billion euros, while
Irish Life & Permanent Plc must raise 4 billion euros and EBS
Building Society has to find 1.5 billion euros.  Irish Life’s stock plunged 51 percent as the bank prepared
to spin off its life assurance and asset management unit through
a share sale. Both the government and central bank also said
they expect the company to end up in state control.  EBS, the fifth-largest bank, will be merged into Allied
Irish, while Bank of Ireland will focus on being a stronger
domestic bank, Noonan told parliament yesterday. The total
bailout cost for Allied Irish almost equals its peak stock
market value of 21 billion euros in 2007.  Taxpayer Burden  “Rather than go after over 20 billion euros in
unguaranteed bonds, the government is making ordinary citizens
bear the burden of this debt,” Gerry Adams, leader of
nationalist party  Sinn Fein , said in statement today. “Rather
than act in the interests of the Irish people they are acting in
the interest of the banks.”  Ireland set aside 35 billion euros of funds for its banks
last year as part of the country’s rescue package by the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund . The money
includes 17.5 billion euros from Ireland’s own resources.  The banks were reliant on the ECB for 88.7 billion euros of
funding at the end of last month, the Irish central bank said.
They may have borrowed another 70.1 billion euros in exceptional
liquidity from the Irish central bank, according to figures
released on March 11.  The decision not to seek burden-sharing with senior
bondholders “is a recognition of reality that Ireland is
depending on continued funding for its banks from the ECB, which
is setting the rules,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at
 Goodbody Stockbrokers .  Ireland will now seek to reopen terms of the country’s 85
billion-euro EU and IMF bailout. Noonan will bring the results
to a meeting of European finance ministers in Budapest starting
on April 8 as he pushes for a reduction in the 5.8 percent
interest rate on the loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  