-- 
Italy Banks Said to Seek Delay in Parmalat's Annual Shareholders Meeting

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   J e r r o l d   C o l t e n
-- 
2011-04-01T08:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/italy-banks-said-to-seek-delay-in-parmalat-s-annual-shareholders-meeting.html
Three Italian banks, Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA, UniCredit SpA and Mediobanca SpA, sent a letter to  Parmalat
SpA (PLT) ’s board asking the company to delay its shareholders meeting
this month, two people familiar with the situation said.  The government has asked Italian investors to put together
a group to challenge  France ’s Groupe Lactalis, which last month
bought about 29 percent of the dairy company. Delaying
Parmalat’s annual meeting from this month would give Italian
investors more time to prepare a defense and block Lactalis from
making changes to its board.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s Cabinet yesterday
authorized the state to buy stakes in businesses considered
strategic, including Parmalat,  Italy ’s biggest dairy company.
Lactalis bought shares from a group of investors who were
pressuring Parmalat Chief Executive Officer Enrico Bondi to use
the company’s cash pile either to make acquisitions or pay out
bigger dividends.  UniCredit and Mediobanca are interested in financial or
advisory roles for Parmalat, and don’t plan on taking equity
positions, the people said. UniCredit and Mediobanca officials
declined to comment, while Intesa didn’t immediately respond to
phone calls seeking comment.  Intesa CEO Corrado Passera has said his bank plays an
ancillary role in supporting long-term industrial projects and
that a union between the dairy company and chocolatier Fererro
SpA could create “enormous” opportunities. An Intesa
spokeswoman declined to comment on the matter.  A Parmalat official couldn’t confirm whether the banks sent
a letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerrold Colten in Milan at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  