-- 
Ivory Coast’s Bonds Head for Best Weekly Gain as Rebel Advance on Gbagbo

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-04-01T15:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ivory-coast-s-bonds-head-for-best-week-gain-on-rebel-advance.html
Ivory Coast’s defaulted Eurobonds
rallied the most on record this week as fighters backing
President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  said they seized the state
broadcaster and attacked incumbent leader  Laurent Gbagbo ’s
residence.  The $2.3 billion debt due 2032 of the world’s biggest cocoa
producer rallied to the highest since Dec. 15, increasing 6.3
percent to 49.583 cents on the dollar at 3:56 p.m. in  London ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The notes have
rallied 29 percent in the past five days, the best weekly gain
since they were issued in April 2010.  “We are basically fast-forwarding to the end of the crisis
and Gbagbo’s departure being the key,” Anne Fruhauf, a London-
based Africa analyst at Eurasia Group, said by phone today.
“There’s a fundamental underlying market confidence in the
direction Ouattara’s government might take. The market has seen
the upside for the first time in this crisis.”  The northern rebels, known as the Republican Forces, have
swept south in the past week, meeting little resistance. They
seized control of Gbagbo’s resident and the state broadcaster in
Abidjan, the commercial capital, said Meite Sindou, a spokesman
for Ouattara’s prime minister,  Guillaume Soro , said in a phone
interview today. Explosions and gunfire continued to rock the
district and plumes of smoke rose into the sky, residents said.
Gbagbo’s spokesman Ahoua Don Mello denied speculation he fled
the country.  The  United Nations , the U.S., the African Union and the
European Union recognize Ouattara, 69, a former deputy managing
director at the  International Monetary Fund , as the winner of
the Nov. 28 election. Gbagbo, 65, refuses to step down, alleging
voter fraud.  ‘Tidying Up’  The West African nation’s Eurobonds have lost 21 percent of
their value since they were issued in April last year as the
country reneged on a $29 million interest payment due by the end
of January after the nation’s disputed elections.  “Gbagbo has really wreaked havoc and commandeered the
economy,” said Fruhauf. “There will be a lot of tidying up to
do,” she said. On the other hand,  Ivory Coast ’s economy should
pick up quickly because of its “favorable revenue outlook from
cocoa and oil,” Fruhauf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  