-- 
Ivory Coast Rebels Seize State TV, Control Gbagbo Palace

-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u ,   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-04-01T17:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ivory-coast-rebels-seize-state-tv-attack-gbagbo-palace.html
Ivory Coast President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  announced the reopening of the nation’s airspace after
forces backing him said they seized the state broadcaster and
attacked incumbent leader  Laurent Gbagbo ’s residence.  The Republican Forces now control Gbagbo’s house in the
Cocody neighborhood of Abidjan, the commercial capital, said
Meite Sindou, a spokesman for Ouattara’s prime minister,
 Guillaume Soro . Explosions and gunfire rocked the district and
plumes of smoke rose into the sky, residents said.  “There is some resistance from Gbagbo’s side,” Gilles
Yabi, West Africa director for  International Crisis Group , said
by phone from Dakar,  Senegal ’s capital. “His forces and
militias in Abidjan and elsewhere could regain some courage and
continue the fight. I wouldn’t say the situation is over yet.”  The Republican Forces entered Abidjan late yesterday after
an ultimatum for Gbagbo to accept his Nov. 28 presidential
election defeat elapsed. The fighters had swept south from their
base in the north of the country in the past two weeks as
Gbagbo’s forces defected or retreated to Abidjan. Ouattara
yesterday ordered a dusk-to-dawn curfew and the closure of all
borders, including the airspace.  Gbagbo’s spokesman denied speculation he fled the country.  “He is on Ivoirian territory,” Ahoua Don Mello said in an
interview broadcast today on Radio  France  Internationale. “He
has no intention of resigning.”  Reprisal Killings?  Gbagbo’s Republican Guard in the Treichville neighborhood
in southern Abidjan and militia in Port Bouet continued to
attack pro-Ouattara forces with sniper fire today, leading to
“numerous” deaths and injuries, said Corinne Dufka, a Dakar-
based researcher for  Human Rights Watch .  “We’re also concerned about reprisal killings by Ouattara
forces,” she said by telephone. “We call on both sides to
respect the laws of war, and that means detaining instead of
executing prisoners.”  Cocoa prices have tumbled 7.4 percent in the past 10 days
as traders predict an imminent end to the impasse in the world’s
largest cocoa producer. The crisis led the West African nation
to default on its $2.3 billion Eurobond, which has rallied 30
percent in 10 days as Ouattara’s forces advance.  The  United Nations , the U.S., the African Union and the
European Union all recognize Ouattara, 69, as the winner of the
nation’s first vote in a decade, while Gbagbo, 65, refuses to
step down, alleging voter fraud.  No Amnesty Offer  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told reporters today in
Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, that offering Gbagbo amnesty as an
incentive to step down is “not an issue for consideration right
now. The immediate issue is for him to hand over power to
Ouattara."  Gbagbo’s whereabouts are unknown,  Bernard Valero , spokesman
for the Foreign Ministry of former colonial power France, told a
Paris news conference.  ‘‘The security forces around Mr. Gbagbo seem to have
abandoned him, after he’d been abandoned by the army
leadership,” Valero said. “This creates uncertainty and risk
in the town, particularly for looting.”  An elite 1,000-member security unit founded by Gbagbo in
2005 announced today it would defect to Ouattara’s government.
The unit, known as the Centre de Commandement des Operations de
Securite, or Cecos, called on its members to “rally without
further delay to the Republican Forces of  Ivory Coast ,”
according to a statement on its  website .  Generals Defect  Even before the Republican Forces entered Abidjan, the head
of Gbagbo’s army, General Phillipe Mangou, sought refuge at the
residence of the South African ambassador, the Pretoria-based
Foreign Ministry said.  In another blow to Gbagbo, General Edouard Tiape Kassarate,
head of the military police, defected to Ouattara’s
administration at its headquarters in the Golf Hotel in Abidjan,
Alain Lobognon, an adviser to Soro, said by telephone yesterday.  There was a “ mass exodus ” out of Abidjan as civilians
tried to avoid the clashes, the UN Refugee Agency said on its
 website  yesterday.  The UN said it had received “unconfirmed but worrying
reports” of human-rights violations committed by the Republican
Forces in the western towns of Guiglo and Daloa and in Abidjan.
The fighters may have arbitrarily arrested, abducted and
extorted money from civilians, the UN Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said in an e-mailed
statement.  Rights Violated  Pro-Gbagbo troops have committed “daily” human-rights
violations, including the reported burning of two civilians
alive, OCHA said. The attacks have focused on people from
northern Ivory Coast and neighboring West African countries
suspected of supporting Ouattara.  “We thankfully have not seen the massive targeting of West
Africans and Ivoirians of northern descent that was suggested by
earlier conduct of militias,” HRW’s Dufka said.  Cocoa for May delivery rose for the first day this week,
adding $70, or 2.4 percent, to $3,022 per metric ton as of 12:24
p.m. in  New York . The price for the beans slumped to an 11-week
low yesterday on hopes for a quick resumption in exports, which
had been crippled by EU sanctions.  Ivory Coast’s defaulted dollar-denominated bond jumped 4.7
percent to 48.875 cents on the dollar at 4:25 p.m. in Abidjan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Death Toll  At least 494 people have died in the conflict so far, the
UN said in an e-mailed statement. Retreating Liberian
mercenaries committed arbitrary executions and looted towns,
especially around the western town of Guiglo, it said.  About 500 foreign nationals have taken refuge at a French
military camp on the outskirts of Abidjan,  Agence France-Presse 
reported, citing Colonel Thierry Burkhard of the French army. A
34-year-old Swedish woman working for the UN mission in Ivory
Coast was killed by gunfire in her home in Abidjan last night,
Carl Bildt,  Sweden ’s foreign minister, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Jan Pieter Ohler, a Dutch diplomat, said youths were
looting stores and houses in the wealthy neighborhood of Zone 4.  “The economic damage will be considerable,” he said by
phone. “The French army reinforced its deployment in the area
and extracted several expats from their homes. There is a real
sense of lawlessness.”  African Union  Commission President Jean Ping called on
Gbagbo to step down “immediately” and hand power to Ouattara,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Gbagbo still has “an opportunity to step aside and avoid
bloodshed,” Johnnie Carson, the U.S. assistant secretary of
state for African affairs, told reporters in  Washington 
yesterday. If he doesn’t, he will be held accountable for
violence in the city, Carson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Baudelaire Mieu in Accra at 
 bmieu@bloomberg.net ;
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Johannesburg at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  