-- 
Ivory Coast Rebels Fight for Gbagbo’s Stronghold Abidjan

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r ,   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-04-01T06:48:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ivory-coast-rebels-fight-for-gbagbo-s-last-stronghold-abidjan.html
Fighters loyal to  Ivory Coast 
President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  entered Laurent Gbagbo’s last
stronghold, Abidjan, as they move to oust the incumbent leader.  The so-called Republican Forces have swept south over the
past week, meeting little resistance from forces loyal to
Gbagbo. Fighters seized control of state-run  Radio Television
Ivorienne  in Abidjan,  Agence France-Presse  reported early today,
citing Captain Leon Kouakou Alla, a spokesman for Ouattara’s
defense minister.  Ouattara’s forces have captured  San Pedro , one of two major
cocoa-exporting ports, and Yamoussoukro, the political capital,
in the past two days, raising hopes that a four-month political
crisis may soon be over. The impasse in the world’s largest
cocoa producer had driven up prices of the chocolate ingredient
and led the West African nation to default on its Eurobond.  The United Nations, the U.S., the  African Union  and the
European Union all recognize Ouattara, 69, as the winner of the
Nov. 28 election, while Gbagbo, 65, refuses to step down,
alleging voter fraud.  Ouattara yesterday ordered an overnight curfew and the
closure of all borders, according to an e-mailed statement.
Unidentified gunmen fired at the headquarters of the  UN
peacekeeping mission  in Abidjan late yesterday, UN spokesman
Hamadoun Toure said in a phone interview.  Losing Support  Ouattara’s Prime Minister  Guillaume Soro  planned to enter
Abidjan with the Republican Forces after an ultimatum for Gbagbo
to quit lapsed at 7 p.m. local time, his adviser, Alain
Lobognon, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Even before the troops entered Abidjan, the head of
Gbagbo’s army, General Phillipe Mangou, sought refuge at the
residence of the South African ambassador, according to the
Pretoria-based Foreign Ministry said.  In another blow to Gbagbo, General Edouard Tiape Kassarate,
head of the military police, defected to Ouattara’s
administration at its headquarters in the Golf Hotel in Abidjan,
Lobognon said. The loyalty of the armed forces had enabled
Gbagbo to defy international isolation and hold onto power since
disputing his loss in the November vote.  “I’m not sure Gbagbo is in control any longer,” said
Rinaldo Depagne, a Dakar-based analyst for  International Crisis
Group . “The first step for a peaceful outcome is Gbagbo coming
and saying ‘I quit’.”  Cocoa and Bonds  Cocoa for May delivery slumped to an 11-week low yesterday
on hopes for a quick resumption in exports. The price dropped
$35, or 1.2 percent, to $2,952 per metric ton as of the end of
trading in  New York .  Ivory Coast’s defaulted dollar-denominated bond rallied 9.9
percent to 47.375 cents on the dollar at the end of trading
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
gained 22 percent since March 22.  Ouattara called for soldiers loyal to Gbagbo to lay down
their arms.  “I ask you to put yourself in the hands of your country and
rejoin legality,” said Ouattara, in a video of a speech
distributed by his staff. “Your country calls you.”  Soldiers remain near the presidential palace in Abidjan and
Gbagbo’s residence, AFP reported, citing Choi Young-Jin, head of
the UN mission in the West African country. A blockade of the
Golf Hotel, where Ouattara has been holed up under the
protection of the UN, has been lifted, AFP said.  ‘Catastrophe’  “Abidjan is on the brink of a human rights catastrophe and
total chaos,” Salvatore Sagues, a West Africa researcher for
London-based  Amnesty International , said in an e-mailed
statement. “The international community must take immediate
steps to protect the civilian population.”  At least 494 people have died in the conflict so far, the
 United Nations  said in an e-mailed statement. Retreating
Liberian mercenaries committed arbitrary executions and looted
towns, especially around the western town of Guiglo, it said.  The UN Security Council voted 15-0 this week to freeze
Gbagbo’s foreign assets and bar travel by him, his wife Simone,
and top aides Desire Tagro, Alcide Djedje and Pascal Affi N’Guessan.  Gbagbo still has “an opportunity to step aside and avoid
bloodshed,” Johnnie Carson, the U.S. assistant secretary of
state for African affairs, told reporters in  Washington . If he
doesn’t he will be held accountable for violence in the city,
Carson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Abidjan at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  