-- 
Japan Opposition LDP Considering Possible Unity Government With Kan's DPJ

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-04-01T01:43:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/japan-opposition-ldp-considering-possible-unity-government-with-kan-s-dpj.html
The head of Japan’s largest
opposition party said it might join a coalition with Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government to cope with the nuclear crisis
and recovery from last month’s earthquake and tsunami.  “There are many opinions in the party,”  Sadakazu Tanigaki ,
head of the  Liberal Democratic Party , said at a press conference
yesterday. “We are considering it from various points.”  Tanigaki rejected a March 19 proposal from Kan to join his
Cabinet to help with the aftermath of a disaster that has left
almost 28,000 dead or missing and caused a partial meltdown of
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. Since then, some members
of his party recommended joining with the ruling  Democratic
Party of Japan  to aid in reconstruction efforts.  “The DPJ can’t single-handedly lead  Japan ’s recovery,”
LDP lawmaker Taro Kono said in a March 29 interview. A coalition
“is possible.”  Fellow LDP legislator Yasutoshi Nishimura said March 30 on
Fuji Television that “we have to demonstrate more political
power. That means some kind of coalition in terms of disaster
policy making.”  Kan has been making overtures across the aisle. On March 30
he dropped a proposal to increase cash handouts to families with
young children to win opposition approval for spending on
reconstruction after the quake and tsunami caused as much as 25
trillion yen ($299 billion) in damage.  Funding the package remains an issue for a country with the
world’s largest public debt, and opposition legislators have
also called on the DPJ to abandon its pledge to cut highway toll
discounts.  Spending Package  Kan also said more than one spending package may be needed
and that he’s considering dropping a planned 5 percentage-point
cut in corporate taxes.  Before the quake hit, Kan was battling with the opposition
lawmakers who refused to pass legislation authorizing sales of
deficit covering bonds. His approval ratings plunged and calls
for him to resign rose amid party campaign finance scandals.  Kan’s popularity has risen in the aftermath of the disaster.
A Kyodo News poll released on March 27 showed 67.5 percent of
the public support higher levies to fund reconstruction, and his
approval rating rose 8.4 percentage points to 28.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  