-- 
GE’s Immelt, Tokyo Electric to Meet Amid Japan Reactor Crisis

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-02T02:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/japan-s-government-says-stake-in-tepco-not-ruled-out-amid-radiation-leaks.html
General Electric Co. Chief Executive
Officer Jeff Immelt will meet officials from  Tokyo Electric 
Power Co. as the Japanese utility battles a crisis at nuclear
reactors designed by the U.S. company.  Immelt is going to Japan “to meet with employees, partners
and customers including Tepco,” as the utility is known,
Deirdre Latour, a GE spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Tepco
Chairman Tsunehisa Katsumata and Immelt are to meet tomorrow or
April 4, said Takeo Iwamoto, a spokesman for the Japanese
company.  GE has put the “full force” of its employees and
engineering teams into supporting Tepco as the power producer
battles to stabilize the damaged reactors at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear power station, GE Vice Chairman John Krenicki said
March 29. The facility’s reactors are based on a four-decade-old
design from Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE.  A 9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami on March 11
severed power and damaged reactors at the Fukushima complex
about 220 kilometers (136 miles) north of  Tokyo . Workers have
been spraying water on the reactors to cool radioactive fuel
rods in the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl in 1986.  Reuters first reported the plan for Immelt to meet with
Tepco officials. The details of the discussions are still being
decided, Tepco’s Iwamoto said.  President Hospitalized  Katsumata, 71, took charge this week when Tepco President
Masataka Shimizu, 66, was hospitalized March 30 because of high
 blood pressure . Shimizu won’t be gone from his post “for
long,” Katsumata said.  Winds at the Fukushima plant are expected to blow from the
west this afternoon at up to 10 meters a second (22 miles per
hour), the  Japan Meteorological Agency  said today.  The Japanese government may buy a stake in Tepco as the
company tries to recover from the disaster and subsequent
nuclear plant radiation leaks that have stripped 80 percent of
its market value.  “Taking a stake isn’t one of the options that has been
ruled out,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said yesterday
in a Tokyo news conference, following press reports and
questions from reporters.  Public funds may be necessary to ensure Tepco can meet peak
air-conditioning demand in the second and third quarters. Tepco
powers a third of  Japan ’s economy,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a
statement as it cut its rating on the utility’s long-term debt
three levels to BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade. The
rating will fall below investment grade without
“extraordinary” government support, S&P said.  Rolling Blackouts  Burning imported natural gas for power generation to
replace the disabled reactors will increase operating costs as
the utility faces expenses of radiation cleanup, reactor
dismantling and compensation, S&P said. Weakened credit will
also raise Tepco’s borrowing costs.  Rolling blackouts have hampered industrial output and
commerce since the earthquake, well before hot summer weather
increases peak demand for power. Because Tepco’s electricity is
crucial to the economy, government support is probable, S&P
said.  In response to a question at a press conference, Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  said he wants Tokyo Electric to remain a
private company “in principle.” He said that if Tepco can’t
afford to compensate victims of the catastrophe, the government
should help cover the costs.  Tepco’s Debt  No government stake in Tepco would exceed 50 percent, and
the government may also offer a loan guarantee, the Mainichi
newspaper reported, citing an unidentified government official.  Tepco has about 5 trillion yen ($60.7 billion) of bonds and
loans outstanding, the fourth-most among members of the Nikkei
225 Stock Average after  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and two banks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Tepco’s
1.155 percent bond maturing in 2020 surged by almost 2
percentage points since the quake to 3.21 percent.  Moody’s Japan K.K. lowered Tepco’s credit rating by three
levels to Baa1 from A1 on March 31 and said further cuts may be
necessary. Problems at the damaged plant “appear far from being
resolved” and the company is likely to remain unprofitable for
a long time, Moody’s said in a statement.  Tepco said it restored eight radiation-monitoring devices
in the plant, and the results range from 19 to 300 microsievelts
per hour, compared with a normal range of 0.05 to 0.07
microsievelts per hour.  Wrong Data  The utility said March 31 that test results detecting
radioactive iodine about 10,000 times the safety limit in
underground water at the Fukushima plant may have been incorrect
due to a software error. More than 12 hours later, it retracted
the error and said the iodine readings were accurate, but it
needed to re-analyze some data it released related to another
radioactive substance, tellurium.  Tepco found the radioactive water near the No. 1 reactor
turbine building while performing tests recommended by Japan’s
Nuclear Safety Commission. The confusion in radiation readings
hurts the utility’s credibility and is “very regrettable,”
said Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman for Japan’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency.  Tepco found plutonium in soil samples close to the site,
reporting the concentration shouldn’t be enough to affect human
health. Contamination of nearby seawater increased this week,
with radioactive iodine rising to 4,385 times the regulated
safety limit from 2,572 times, Nishiyama said.  There was 180 becquerel per cubic centimeter of radioactive
iodine-131 found in seawater 330 meters (1,082 feet) south of
the plant. One liter of water at that level equals double the
annual average radiation humans receive from natural sources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  