-- 
Japan Manufacturers Grew More Confident Before Quake, Tankan Survey Shows

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-04-01T01:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/japan-manufacturers-grew-more-confident-before-quake-tankan-survey-shows.html
Japan ’s large manufacturers grew
more confident about the economic outlook before the nation was
hit by a record earthquake, a central bank survey showed today.  The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment among big
manufacturers climbed to 6 in March from 5 in December, the  Bank
of Japan  said in  Tokyo  today, noting that 72 percent of
responses came by March 11, the day of the quake. The bank on
April 4 will release a breakdown of pre-quake and post-quake
responses, offering a gauge of the magnitude of the hit to
business sentiment.  Signs are already emerging that the quake that has claimed
11,000 lives and triggered a nuclear crisis have taken a toll on
the economy, with a report yesterday showing manufacturing
deteriorated at the fastest pace in at least nine years in March.
Honda Motor Co. and Sony Corp. are among manufacturers that have
halted production after the disaster.  “The post-quake number will paint a very grim picture,”
said Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief economist at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “This will definitely be a recession.
The economy’s trend completely flipped with this earthquake.”  The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a reading of 5. A positive reading means optimists
outnumber pessimists.  Manufacturing Deteriorates  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.1 percent at 10:15 a.m.
in Tokyo. The yen traded at 83.53 per dollar, from 83.36 before
the report was published. Large manufacturers forecast on
average that the yen will trade at 84.20 per dollar in the year
through March 2012, according to today’s report.  Confidence among large manufacturers is expected to fall to
2 in June, the Tankan showed. Big companies plan to cut spending
by 0.4 percent in the fiscal year started today, according to
the report.  An index of purchasing managers fell to 46.4 from 52.9, the
Japan Materials Management Association and Markit Economics said
yesterday, the biggest drop since the survey began in October
2001. A number below 50 indicates a contraction.  The report overshadowed February data that showed
industrial production rose for a fourth month and the
 unemployment rate  dropped to a two-year low.  Disaster’s Damage  The magnitude-9.0 temblor and an ensuing tsunami have
caused a plunge in Japanese stocks and sent the yen to a post-
World War II high against the dollar, prompting the first
coordinated currency intervention by Group of Seven nations in
more than a decade. The disaster’s damage is estimated by the
government to swell to as much as 25 trillion yen ($300 billion).  The BOJ doubled its asset-purchase program to 10 trillion
yen on March 14, increasing the funds injections into the
financial system. It is also considering offering temporary
loans to banks to encourage lending to companies with cash-flow
problems in the aftermath of the quake, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, has said
the company lost 140,000 units of production from March 14 to
March 26, citing a shortage of electronic parts, rubber and
plastics. Scarce parts and electricity may prompt it to delay at
least 500,000 vehicles in Japan, according to  Koji Endo , an auto
analyst at Advanced Research Japan. Honda Motor Co. has seen a
production loss of 46,600 cars and trucks and 5,000 motorcycles.  Sentiment to Worsen  “It’s unavoidable production will slump as the disaster
and blackout has confined corporate activities, so corporate
sentiment will deteriorate in the coming months,”  Norio Miyagawa , senior economist at Mizuho Securities Research and
Consulting Co. in Tokyo, said before the report.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  abandoned a proposal to increase
cash handouts to families with young children, to win opposition
approval for spending plans to rebuild areas devastated by the
disaster. He said earlier this week that more than one spending
package may be needed and that he’s considering dropping a
planned 5-percentage-point cut in corporate taxes.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said this week that Japan’s gross
domestic product will shrink next quarter and lowered its growth
forecast for the year starting today to 0.7 percent from 1.3
percent.  The earthquake and tsunami crippled Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant, causing the world’s worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986. That limited the supply
of electricity to the country’s most industrialized area, as the
utility began rolling blackouts in Tokyo and surrounding areas.  “The disaster in northern Japan has dramatically changed
the near-term outlook for production and the economy in
general,” said  Ryutaro Kono , chief economist at BNP Paribas in
Tokyo. “From the destruction of capital stock and heavily
devastated social infrastructure to the disruption of supply
chains and a bottleneck due to insufficient electrical power,
production activity is sure to drop sharply in the months
ahead.”  The Tankan, which was conducted from Feb. 24 to March 31,
surveyed 11,101 businesses and received 95.6 percent valid
responses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  