-- 
JPMorgan, J&J, Toyota, Microsoft, Rajaratnam in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-04-01T12:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/jpmorgan-j-j-westlb-microsoft-rajaratnam-in-court-news.html
The trustee liquidating  Bernard
Madoff ’s collapsed firm said  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  shouldn’t
“escape” facing his $6.4 billion lawsuit in  bankruptcy court .  “The issue of JPMC’s misconduct belongs before the
bankruptcy court as the court most versed in the nuances of the
Ponzi scheme and the roles of other, related wrongdoers in that
scheme,”  Irving Picard , the trustee, said in a filing March 30
in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. “JPMC seeks refuge in this
court to escape the scrutiny of the bankruptcy court,” he said.  Picard sued JPMorgan in December, claiming the bank aided
the confidence man’s fraud. Denying wrongdoing, New York-based
JPMorgan said it had a right to a jury trial in the district
court. Picard’s suit raised “unsettled questions” of law
beyond the expertise of a bankruptcy court, the bank said.  JPMorgan “no doubt hopes to distance itself both from the
thousands of victims of that scheme and from other alleged
wrongdoers,” Picard said in the filing. “Yet there is no
escaping the fact that JPMC was at the very center of Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme. It was the debtor’s primary banker for over two
decades and touched virtually every cent that flowed through the
Ponzi scheme.”  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to orchestrating the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. He’s serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Mortgage Brokers Win Bid to Block Fed’s Loan Fee Rule  Two trade groups representing mortgage brokers won an
appeals court ruling temporarily blocking a  Federal Reserve  rule
that limits commissions for loan officers in mortgage
transactions from taking effect today.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington granted emergency
motions from the National Association of Mortgage Brokers and
the National Association of Independent Housing Professionals
which argue the rule unfairly penalize brokers, who won’t be
able to pay loan officers from consumer-paid fees.  “The purpose of this administrative stay is to give the
court sufficient opportunity to consider the merits of the
motions for emergency relief,” the court said in its order.  U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell on March 30 rejected the
groups’ request to stop the provision from taking effect,
finding that public policy interests outweighed harm to the
mortgage-broker industry.  “The board has reasonably concluded that the rule will
further public policy interests, a position that is further
supported by the Dodd-Frank Act, which also includes provisions
restricting certain loan-compensation practices,” Howell said
in a 46-page opinion, referring to the law that overhauled the
financial industry last year.  The trade groups filed separate lawsuits and appeals
challenging the regulation.  The Fed rule, part of the central bank’s effort to fix
weaknesses in mortgage finance, is aimed at preventing mortgage
originators from receiving more compensation for selling home
loans with higher  interest rates .  Susan Stawick, a spokeswoman for the Federal Reserve,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment
after regular business hours yesterday.  Marc Savitt, president of the National Association of
Independent Housing Professionals, said “We’re glad the judges
issued the stay.”  “Once they have the opportunity to review the entire case,
we think they’ll agree with us that the Fed did not have the
authority” to issue the rule,” Savitt said.  The cases are National Association of Mortgage Brokers v.
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 11-5078 and
National Association of Independent Housing Professionals Inc.
v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 11-5079,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  Toyota Agrees on Handling of Its Secret Code in Lawsuits  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and lawyers suing the carmaker over
alleged unintended sudden acceleration reached an accord on how
to handle evidence involving the source code Toyota uses in its
vehicles, a lawyer said.  “We do have an agreement,” said  Mark Robinson , one of the
lead lawyers for the plaintiffs in the consolidated federal
lawsuits in Santa Ana, California. “The judge has approved the
plan between Toyota and the plaintiffs to allow us access to
Toyota’s source code with security protection given to Toyota.”  Access to the source code for Toyota’s electronic throttle-
control system has been an obstacle in moving the first of the
hundreds of cases involved to trial by early 2013, U.S. District
Judge James V. Selna has said. Selna, who is overseeing the
case, yesterday ordered the details of the agreement sealed.  The two sides have been wrestling for several months over
how the plaintiffs’ attorneys and their experts can analyze the
source code for the automaker’s electronic system, which the
plaintiffs have said in court papers is critical to determining
whether it played a part in alleged sudden acceleration.  “Toyota is pleased to have reached an agreement on a
source code protective order that ensures the security and
strict confidentiality of this invaluable intellectual
property,” Celeste Migliore, a spokeswoman for Toyota Motor
Sales USA in Torrance, California, said in a statement.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  J&J Shareholders Missing Bull Market With Hip Recalls Mounting  In November 2005, Lance Corporal Cody Perkins, a 20-year-
old U.S. Marine, was injured by a roadside bomb outside Haditha,
Iraq, Bloomberg News’s David Voreacos, Alex Nussbaum and Greg
Farrell report.  Perkins suffered scrapes, bruises and a fractured femur, or
thigh bone. About a year later, he received a metal-on-metal
prosthetic hip made by DePuy Orthopaedics, a unit of  Johnson &
Johnson. (JNJ)  The new hip was being promoted as tough and durable --
and thus perfect for younger, physically active patients like
Perkins. By late 2009, however, he began experiencing pain.  The cause of his trouble, his current physician said, isn’t
a complication from his original injury but the replacement hip.
Perkins has been told he’ll need to undergo “revision” surgery
to replace the ASR hip with another implant -- a highly invasive
procedure with a heightened risk of infection and joint
dislocations down the road.  Perkins has joined more than 1,000 other people who are
suing Johnson & Johnson over its DePuy ASR implants, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its April 4 issue. Those plaintiffs seek
damages for medical costs, lost wages, and pain and suffering.  With $28 billion in holdings of cash and short-term
securities at the end of 2010, J&J will likely weather the
financial blowback from the bad hips. More troubling to
customers and stakeholders, however, is that the DePuy recalls
may be symptoms of a systemic quality-control problem at the
125-year-old corporation: a pattern of behavior that is
distinctly at odds with the comforting image long enjoyed by the
creator of brands like Band-Aid and “No More Tears” Baby
Shampoo.  The DePuy crisis is one of more than 50 voluntary product
recalls that J&J has issued just since the start of 2010,
covering brand names that read like an inventory of the family
medicine cabinet. Tylenol and St. Joseph Aspirin were recalled
for foul odors that people said made them sick. Benadryl and
Zyrtec were recalled for botched amounts of ingredients. Rolaids
were recalled for containing bits of wood and metal.  Johnson & Johnson management, from Chief Executive Officer
William Weldon on down, maintains that the company’s quality-
control issues are aberrations. Any suggestion of a broader
malaise, said Weldon, “is just Monday-morning quarterbacking.”  For more, click here.  Winifred Jiau Withdraws Bail Application, to Remain Jailed  Winifred Jiau, the expert-network consultant charged in a
U.S. probe of insider trading, withdrew her bail application and
the judge presiding over her case ruled she will remain jailed
because she is likely to flee if freed.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, in New York, who held two
bail hearings for Jiau that lasted more than four hours last
month, said in his order issued yesterday that it was
“unlikely” that even if Jiau found more or different people to
co-sign her bond, it “would be sufficient to change the court’s
view that no combination of conditions would reasonably assure
defendant’s appearance if she were not detained.”  Jiau, a former consultant for  Primary Global Research LLC ,
was indicted March 9 on insider-trading charges along with
former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Donald
Longueuil.  Both have pleaded not guilty. Her lawyer, Joanna Hendon,
wrote to Rakoff on March 28 saying she was withdrawing the
request to grant Jiau bail. The letter was publicly filed
yesterday.  Jiau, of Fremont, California, has been in custody since she
was arrested Dec. 28. She was initially granted release on
$500,000 bond, U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson in New York
on March 2 ordered Jiau held without bail, saying it was
“unmistakably clear” she would flee the U.S. if released. The
case was later reassigned to Rakoff.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Ex-Taylor Bean CEO Allen Named as Defendant in U.S. Case  The former chief executive officer of Taylor, Bean &
Whitaker Mortgage Corp., Paul R. Allen, was named as a criminal
defendant in federal court in Virginia four days before the
company’s ex-chairman is scheduled for trial on accusations of
fraud.  No charges were specified on the court’s electronic docket
against Allen, a former senior executive at Freddie Mac, the
government-supported mortgage lender. Another former Taylor Bean
official identified Allen in court yesterday as a co-conspirator
in a fraud scheme that deceived financial firms by covering up
cash shortfalls at the company.  Prosecutors have charged six people in the conspiracy,
which allegedly was masterminded by the company’s former
chairman,  Lee Farkas . Five people, including two officials from
Colonial Bank, have pleaded guilty and agreed to testify against
Farkas, whose trial on 16 counts of bank, wire and securities
fraud is scheduled to begin April 4.  Sean Ragland, 37, a former senior financial analyst at
Taylor Bean, said in court yesterday in Alexandria, Virginia,
that Allen, who lives in Oakton, Virginia, was aware that a
Taylor Bean entity created to fund mortgage loans was running up
a significant deficit. Ragland pleaded guilty to single charge
of conspiracy to commit bank and wire fraud.  Allen didn’t return a telephone message seeking comment.  The cases are U.S. v. Allen, 11-cr-00165; U.S. v. Ragland,
11-cr-00162, and U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Cephalon Accused of Failing to Weigh Valeant Buyout Bid  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  officials were accused in a lawsuit by a
Pennsylvania pension fund of “failing to act” in the best
interests of investors regarding a $5.7 billion buyout bid by
rival  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)   Cephalon, a maker of sleep and pain drugs, said yesterday
that it will consider the bid next week. In its complaint, the
pension fund claimed the company has been shortchanging
shareholders by not considering the $73-a-share hostile offer.  The company’s directors are “failing to act in the
interest of Cephalon stockholders” by turning away repeated
offers by the Canadian drugmaker, lawyers for the Dauphin County
pension plan said in a Delaware Chancery Court suit filed
yesterday in Wilmington. “The company and its board of
directors have repeatedly refused duly to consider acquisition
proposals from Valeant.”  Cephalon, based in Frazier, Pennsylvania, surged more than
28 percent on March 30 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading after
Mississauga, Ontario-based Valeant made its cash offer public.
The acquisition would be the largest hostile takeover in the
industry since Sanofi-Aventis SA bid for Genzyme Corp. last
year. Cephalon closed at $76.08 yesterday.  “Our board of directors will meet early next week to
consider Valeant’s proposal,” Natalie de Vane, a Cephalon
spokeswoman, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Cassandra Bujarski, a spokeswoman for Valeant, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the suit or the
statement by Cephalon.  The fund wants a Delaware judge to force Cephalon’s board
to consider Valeant’s offer and bar use of the company’s so-
called poison-pill defense to frustrate the buyout bid,
according to the lawsuit. That defense makes acquisitions more
expensive.  The case is County of Dauphin Retirement Plan v. Winger, CA
NO. 6332, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Ex-WestLB Employees Charged Over Volkswagen Trading Losses  Three former WestLB AG traders and two external brokers
were charged by Dusseldorf prosecutors over speculation on
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  shares during 2006 and 2007.  The WestLB employees were betting on the gap between the
carmaker’s common and preferred shares and their trading
resulted in damages of 48 million euros ($68 million), Ralf
Moellmann, spokesman for the Dusseldorf prosecutors’ office said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The former WestLB traders, who worked in the bank’s global
markets section, are charged with share-price manipulation and
breach of trust. The two external brokers helped the three
WestLB workers make the trades, according to the statement. The
suspects weren’t identified.  The losses stem from transactions in which WestLB’s traders
bet the gap between common and preferred shares would narrow.
The probe led to former executives who were investigated for
failing to inform the lender’s supervisory board about the
trading risks agreeing last year to pay 445,000 euros to settle
the claims. Prosecutors at the time said the probe looked into
600 million euros in losses WestLB had from speculative trading
by its own staff.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Legal Review  Microsoft Complaint May Expand Scope of Google Antitrust Probe  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s antitrust complaint against  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
may expand an existing European Union probe beyond Internet
searches to online video and mobile phones.  Google bars rivals from search boxes on websites, hinders
advertisers from transferring campaign data between search ad
platforms and blocks phones running Microsoft’s operating system
from working properly with YouTube, Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft said in a blog posting by General Counsel  Brad Smith .  The complaint to EU regulators in Brussels threatens to
widen a probe started last year after a Microsoft unit and two
other rivals last year complained that the company’s dominance
chokes off advertising revenue. Google has almost 95 percent of
the search market in  Europe , Microsoft’s Smith said, citing data
from regulators.  “These allegations cover new and difficult ground and, if
Google fights, clearly increase the likelihood of a long
investigation,” said Matthew Hall, an antitrust lawyer at
McGuire Woods LLP in Brussels.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
said the antitrust investigation is “still at the preliminary
stage” and that regulators would inform Google about the
complaint and “ask for its views on it.”  Google “is not surprised” that Microsoft complained
because its advertising subsidiary, Ciao from Bing, also filed a
complaint last year, said Al Verney, a spokesman for Mountain
View, California-based Google in Brussels.  “We continue to discuss the case with the European
Commission and we’re happy to explain to anyone how our business
works,” Verney said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-Galleon Manager Spars With Rajaratnam Attorney Over Trades  Former Galleon Group LLC portfolio manager Adam Smith and a
defense lawyer for Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge-fund’s co-founder,
sparred over why the firm bought stock in ATI Technologies
before a 2006 takeover.  During cross-examination yesterday, the defense attorney,
Terence Lynam, sought to show jurors that Galleon and Rajaratnam
bought shares in ATI and other companies for lawful reasons and
not because Smith, 39, had come into inside information, as he
testified this week as a prosecution witness. Lynam said, for
instance, that Rajaratnam didn’t buy stock at the same time
Smith did.  “He’s not buying when you’re buying?” Lynam asked Smith
about purchases of  Intersil Corp. (ISIL)  Smith had testified that he
got leaks from an Intersil insider and passed them to his boss.  Lynam also asked questions suggesting his client didn’t
grasp that Smith was referring to a source of inside information
during a phone call between the two that the government secretly
taped.  “You have no idea that when you got on the phone and
mentioned Kamal, that he knew who that was?” Lynam asked Smith.
Jurors previously heard a recording of Smith telling Rajaratnam
that “Kamal” -- who he said was Kamal Ahmed, a Morgan Stanley
investment banker -- said  Vishay Intertechnology Inc. (VSH)  may be
selling itself.  Ahmed, who has not been charged, denies wrongdoing.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in Manhattan federal court in
the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S.
history. The Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of making
$45 million from tips by corporate insiders. Rajaratnam denies
wrongdoing, saying he based trades on research and published
sources.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Tony Chan Seeks Top Court Review of Ruling Over Wang Estate  Nina Wang’s former feng shui adviser and lover Tony Chan
asked for a review by Hong Kong’s highest court of a ruling that
denied his claim to the estate of the late property tycoon.  Chan has a right to a hearing as the amount in dispute is
more than HK$1 million ($128,400), his lawyer Anderson Chow told
the Court of Appeal yesterday. The court’s conclusion that Chan
had forged Wang’s will is also a “grave and serious” finding,
Chow said.  Judge Doreen Le Pichon adjourned the hearing after about an
hour and said the three-judge panel would deliver a decision on
Chan’s request in due course.  Chan, 51, is free on HK$5 million bail, having been
arrested on suspicion of forgery after Hong Kong’s High Court
first ruled against him in 2010. The Court of Appeal on Feb. 14
upheld that decision and ordered Wang’s estate, valued at $12
billion by lawyers for its administrators, to go to charity.  Chan claimed Wang left him her fortune after a 15-year
intimate relationship that began when he was hired to help find
her kidnapped husband Teddy, with whom she built the  Chinachem
Group .  Wang’s 2002 will, which the appeal judges said was
indisputably valid, bequeathed the estate to Chinachem
Charitable Foundation Ltd. that she created with Teddy in 1988.
Supervision of the charity was to be entrusted to a body formed
by the Secretary General of the United Nations, the premier of
 China  and the chief executive of Hong Kong, according to the
appeal ruling.  The case is between Chinachem Charitable Foundation Limited
and Chan Chun Chuen and the Secretary for Justice, CACV62/2010
in the Hong Kong High Court of Appeal.  Trial Lawyers Scour Jury’s Profiles on Facebook, Twitter  When jurors were chosen for the perjury trial of baseball
star Barry Bonds last month, they were barred from using social
media in regards to the case. Such a ban doesn’t extend to
lawyers, who mine Facebook Inc. profiles of jurors to unearth a
bias that might hurt or help their side, Bloomberg’s Ryan Flinn
reports.  Facebook, Twitter Inc. and other services have become a
major resource for both prosecutors and defense attorneys,
letting them glean more insight than they can get from jury
questionnaires, said Joseph Rice, chief executive officer of
 Jury Research Institute  in Alamo, California.  “Social media has given us an incredible tool, because
it’s something jurors voluntarily engage in, and they post
information about their activities or affiliations or hobbies,”
Rice said. That reveals “their life experience or attitude that
may have an impact on how they view the facts of the case.”  The practice adds fuel to the debate over social-networking
privacy and whether Internet postings should be used to reject
someone from a job or academic program -- or a seat in the jury
box. Facebook has more than 500 million users, while Twitter
members post 140 million messages daily. That yields a wealth of
data that lawyers can use to screen people or hone arguments.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Fed Releases Discount-Window Loan Records Under Court Order  The Federal Reserve released thousands of pages of secret
loan documents under court order, almost three years after
Bloomberg LP first requested details of the central bank’s
unprecedented support to banks during the financial crisis.  The records -- 894 files in PDF form that must be
individually opened and read -- reveal for the first time the
names of financial institutions that borrowed directly from the
central bank through the so-called discount window. The Fed
provided the documents after the U.S. Supreme Court last month
rejected a banking industry group’s attempt to shield them from
public view.  “This is an enormous breakthrough in the public
interest,” said Walker Todd, a former Cleveland Fed attorney
who has written research on the Fed lending facility. “They
have long wanted to keep the discount window confidential. They
have always felt strongly about this. They don’t want to tell
the public who they are lending to.”  The central bank has never revealed identities of borrowers
since the discount window began lending in 1914. The Dodd-Frank
law exempted the facility last year when it required the Fed to
release details of emergency programs that extended $3.3
trillion to financial institutions to stem the credit crisis.
While Congress mandated disclosure of discount-window loans made
after July 21, 2010, with a two-year delay, the records released
yesterday represent the only public source of details on
discount-window lending during the crisis.  The Fed documents released yesterday show the central bank
providing credit to borrowers large and small. A page described
as “Primary Credit Originations, February 5, 2008” lists the
New York branch of Deutsche Bank AG with a loan of $455 million
from the New York Fed. On the same day, Macon Bank is listed
with a $1,000 loan from the Richmond Fed.  Lending through the discount window soared to a peak of
$111 billion on Oct. 29, 2008, as credit markets nearly froze in
the wake of the bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  While the loans provided banks with backstop cash,
the public has never known which banks borrowed or why. Fed
officials say all the loans made through the program during the
crisis have been repaid with interest.  Former Fed officials, lawyers representing the central
bank, and even some Fed watchers have expressed concern that
revealing the names of discount-window borrowers could keep
banks away from the facility in the future.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  High Lehman, Madoff Fees Might Deplete SIPC, Official Says  High fees paid to the trustees of bankrupt Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s brokerage and of Bernard Madoff’s collapsed firm
might deplete the $2.5 billion fund of the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., according to a report by the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s Inspector General.  The report assesses how well the SEC is doing in overseeing
SIPC, which liquidates bankrupt brokerages to pay creditors.
There is “significant criticism and concern” over the
brokerage trustees’ fees in the Lehman and Madoff bankruptcies,
according to the report. The SEC must make “systematic”
inspections to ensure cost-effective liquidations, it said.  Lehman brokerage trustee James Giddens and his law firm
were paid about $108 million in the 24 months from Lehman’s
September 2008 bankruptcy through September 2010, the report
said, citing court documents. Madoff trustee Irving Picard and
his law firm were paid about $102 million in the 21 months from
December 2008, when Madoff was arrested, through September 2010,
it said.  As the liquidations are far from over, “fees paid to date
for both the Lehman and Madoff liquidations are a mere fraction
of the amounts that will eventually be sought,” the report
said.  The last time the SEC inspected SIPC thoroughly was in
2003, with a follow-up in 2005, it said.  “In the SEC’s inspection of SIPC, the SEC identified
several deficiencies in SIPC’s operations regarding its controls
over fees, an improperly denied claim, internal policies and
guidance, education initiative and funding options,” it said.  Yet the SEC failed to set up a review schedule and scope
for inspections, the Inspector General said. As a result, 14
liquidations from 2003 until today haven’t been scrutinized by
the SEC, according to the audit report.  SIPC’s board “constantly monitors the SIPC fund to assure
that the corporation has sufficient assets to fulfill all of
SIPC’s statutory missions,” Stephen Harbeck, SIPC’s president,
said in an e-mail. Adding to resources, “SIPC’s members are
currently paying assessments of one quarter of one percent of
their net operating revenues to SIPC,” he said.  Neither Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, nor Jake
Sargent, a Giddens spokesman, responded to e-mails requesting
comment.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 