-- 
Syria Intensifies Crackdown on Protesters With Assaults in Damascus, Daraa

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-18T18:54:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/syria-intensifies-crackdown-on-protesters-with-assaults-in-damascus-daraa.html
The U.S. imposed sanctions on Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad and six other officials as his regime
intensified its two-month crackdown on protesters with
coordinated attacks in the suburbs of Damascus and on a city in
the southern governorate of Daraa, where the unrest began.  The decision to sanction Assad personally comes a day
before President  Barack Obama  delivers a speech laying out his
Middle East strategy in light of the Arab uprisings that have
swept away autocrats in Egypt and Tunisia and left others in
Yemen and Syria clutching to power.  The sanctions on Assad and top cabinet figures, a move the
U.S. had been reluctant to make in its first round of sanctions
last month, may also pave the way for further action. The
administration had previously expressed hope that Assad would
yield to demands for political liberalization.  Assad must either lead the transition to democracy or
leave, according to a senior administration official speaking
today on condition of anonymity. His words hinted for the first
time at the possibility of power changing hands in Syria after
four decades under the Assad dynasty.  “Why have they not recalled the ambassador for example?”
said  Aaron David Miller , a public policy scholar at the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars and a former Middle
East negotiator. ‘Given the brutality in Syria, this has become
all the more critical.’’  Obama returned an ambassador to Syria five month ago for
the first time since 2005, when President  George W. Bush 
recalled his envoy to Damascus following Syria’s alleged
involvement in the assassination of former Lebanese Prime
Minister  Rafiq Hariri . Obama appointed Robert Ford to the post
in December.  Asset Freeze  Property in the U.S. or interests in property belonging to
Assad and the officials will be frozen, the Treasury Department
said today. The other officials include Syrian Vice President
Faruq al-Shara, Prime Minister Adel Safar, Interior Minister
Mohamad Ibrahim al-Shaar and Defense Minister Ali Habib Mahmoud.  “The actions the administration has taken today send an
unequivocal message to President Assad, the Syrian leadership
and regime insiders that they will be held accountable for the
ongoing violence and repression in Syria,”  David Cohen ,
Treasury’s acting undersecretary for terrorism and financial
intelligence, said in the statement.  EU Follows  The European Union also intends to apply sanctions against
the Syrian leadership, EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton 
said yesterday following talks with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in  Washington .  The EU previously imposed sanctions including a visa ban
and an asset freeze on 13 Syrian officials and relatives of
Assad. The U.S. also had applied sanctions against various
Syrian officials. The Swiss government today said it will follow
the EU sanctions with its own embargo, which will be imposed
from tomorrow.  The suburbs of Kanakir, Harasta, Douma and Saqba were
targeted in the operations late yesterday, Mahmoud Merhi of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights said by phone today from the
capital. Kanakir and the Daraa city of Nawa were “fiercely
attacked” and protesters killed or injured, Merhi said, without
giving the number of casualties. Thirty have died in Tallkalakh
since forces backed by tanks began a siege of the western town
three days ago, he said.  Mass Grave Denied  The Interior Ministry yesterday denied reports of a mass
grave near Daraa city, saying the allegation was part of a
“campaign of provocation and baseless falsehoods.” Authorities
have said they were chasing Muslim militants and “terrorist
elements” in the area.  Security forces have killed at least 900 people since mid-
March, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s
National Organization for Human Rights. The suppression of pro-
democracy protests followed revolts that ousted longtime leaders
in Egypt and  Tunisia . The Syrian uprising drew initial pledges
of reform from Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place since
1963 and named a new government. He hasn’t repeated the
assurances in recent weeks as authorities have stepped up their
assaults.  Assad reportedly said security forces had made mistakes
during the two months of unrest due to a lack of awareness of
how to handle the protests. His comments, made during a meeting
with a popular delegation, were carried today by  Al-Watan
newspaper , which is close to the regime.  Russian Position  Russia won’t support a United Nations Security Council
resolution imposing sanctions against Syria, saying Assad must
have the chance to implement political changes he has promised,
President  Dmitry Medvedev  told a news conference in Moscow
today. The resolution that authorized military action against
 Libya , which Russia abstained from, was violated by its
supporters, undermining the UN, Medvedev said.  Assad should stay in power and immediately enact democratic
reforms, Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told the
U.S. ambassador to  Turkey , Francis Riccardione, Turkey’s
Hurriyet newspaper reported.  The worsening situation in  Syria , where protesters have
been calling for Assad to resign, would quickly spread beyond
the country’s borders and affect neighbors, which include
Turkey, Lebanon, Iraq and  Israel , Erdogan told the U.S. envoy,
according to Hurriyet, which didn’t say how it got the
information. The men met in Ankara yesterday, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Dubai at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 