-- 
Kenya Files Challenge Against ICC’s Post-Election Violence Cases

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-01T09:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/kenya-files-challenge-against-icc-s-post-election-violence-cases.html
Kenya’s government filed
applications challenging the  International Criminal Court ’s
authority to try six Kenyans accused of planning post-election
violence that killed an estimated 1,500 people three years ago.  Suspects Henry Kosgey, who resigned as industrialization
minister in January, suspended Higher Education Minister William Ruto and radio presenter Joshua Arap Sang are due to appear at
the Hague-based court on April 7. The next day, Finance Minister
 Uhuru Kenyatta , Francis Muthaura, head of the civil service, and
Mohammed Hussein Ali are expected to face the court.  The government is disputing both whether the cases are
admissible and if the ICC has jurisdiction over them, Alfred Mutua said in a phone interview from Nairobi, the capital,
today. U.K.-based lawyers Geoffrey Nice and Rodney Dixon are
contesting the suits on behalf of the Kenyan government.  Fighting flared between ethnic groups in  Kenya  after
incumbent President Mwai Kibaki claimed victory in an election
in December 2007, which the opposition said was rigged.  The violence abated after two months when Kibaki signed a
power-sharing accord with his political rival  Raila Odinga , who
was installed as prime minister. No one in East Africa’s largest
economy has been convicted for orchestrating the offences.  The ICC investigation found evidence that the six accused
are responsible for crimes against humanity. All of the men
defend their innocence and say they’ll obey the summonses.  Kenyatta and Muthaura have for the interim stepped down
from key security posts, Mutua said. Kenyatta quit the Cabinet
Sub-Committee on Security and Foreign Relations and the Witness
Protection Advisory Board, the  Daily Nation  newspaper reported
today. Muthaura resigned as chairman of the National Security
Advisory Committee, the Nairobi-based newspaper said.  “They’ve opted out for this period as members of these
committees,” Mutua said.  ICC Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo last month demanded
to know whether Muthaura’s position as head of the public
service granted him access to the state’s security apparatus in
a way that might interfere with witnesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 