-- 
Kenyan Stock Exchange Chief Sees Inflation, Politics ‘Risks’ This Quarter

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-04-01T09:45:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/kenyan-stock-exchange-chief-sees-inflation-politics-risks-this-quarter.html
Kenya’s stock exchange, sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s worst performer this year, may struggle to turn around
this quarter amid accelerating inflation, rising interest rates
and political uncertainty, the head of the bourse said.  The benchmark NSE-20 index dropped 12 percent to 3,887.07
in the first quarter, after hitting a 12-month low on March 29.
The performance was the worst of 13 sub-Saharan African stock
markets monitored by Bloomberg.  “We believe that while there are risks going forward, they
are manageable,”  Nairobi Stock Exchange  Chief Executive Officer
Peter Mwangi said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The
rise in inflation will have an impact on consumers and
individuals’ ability to save.”  Kenyan inflation surged to 9.2 percent in February from 6.5
percent a month before, as food prices jumped, the  Kenya 
National Bureau of Statistics said on March 30. The data was
released a week after the central bank raised its key lending
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 6 percent and warned
that food and fuel costs may push inflation higher still.  “We have significantly adjusted our inflation forecasts and
see headline potentially reaching 15 percent by year-end in
Kenya,” Yvette Babb, a strategist for Africa with Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by e-mail yesterday. That’s
almost double Babb’s previous projection.  Agricultural Production  Inflation is being stoked by a drought that curbed
agricultural production. Tea output in the East African nation,
the world’s biggest grower of the black variety of the leaves,
plunged 23 percent to 26.7 million kilograms (58.9 million
pounds) in February, because of “continued hot and dry weather
conditions,” the Tea Board of Kenya said on March 22.  Sasini Ltd. (STCL) , a coffee and tea producer, dropped 30 percent
in the first quarter, the third-worst performer on the exchange.
Mumias Sugar Co., Kenya’s biggest producer of the sweetener,
declined 18 percent in the period.  “There is also concern about the political environment on
the issue of the International Criminal Court proceedings,”
Mwangi said.  The ICC last month issued summonses for six Kenyans,
including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  and Civil Service
chief Francis Muthaura, after investigating a roster of key
suspects allegedly responsible for post-election violence in
2008. All of the officials have denied any responsibility for
the clashes that followed a disputed presidential vote and left
1,500 people dead and forced 300,000 more to flee their homes.  The six officials are scheduled to appear in court in  The
Hague  next week.  In the longer term, the  Nairobi Stock Exchange  is targeting
five new listings by the end of the year, including CFC Stanbic
Insurance Holdings Ltd., a unit of  CFC Stanbic Holdings Ltd. (CFCB) ,
and  British American Insurance Co. , Mwangi said. CFC and British
American are expected to begin trading on April 21 and by June
30 respectively, the two companies said separately last month.  Five new corporate bonds are also anticipated between April
and June, Mwangi said, without providing further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 