-- 
KKR, Carlyle Lead Best Start of Year for Buyout-Backed IPOs

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-04-01T10:28:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/kkr-carlyle-lead-best-quarterly-start-for-buyout-backed-ipos.html
KKR & Co. and  Carlyle Group  are
leading the best start for private equity-backed initial public
offerings since at least 2006 as a recovery in credit markets
lures investors to companies taken private in leveraged buyouts.  LBO firms raised about $19.5 billion from IPOs in the three
months through March, more than half of the total they amassed
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and  Preqin
Ltd.  HCA Holdings Inc., Kinder Morgan Inc. and Nielsen Holdings
NV raised a combined $8.3 billion and accounted for three of the
four biggest initial offerings in the period.  KKR’s Toys “R” Us Inc., the world’s biggest toy retailer,
and at least 17 other private equity-controlled companies are
planning IPOs after borrowing costs for high-yield debt reached
a record low in February. At the current pace, buyout-backed
sales would raise about $78 billion in 2011.  “The market has gotten more comfortable with companies’
ability to handle the amount of leverage they’re coming public
with,” said  Christopher Turner , head of capital markets at New
York-based private equity firm  Warburg Pincus LLC . “Debt
concerns, which were certainly a specter in the first half of
2010, are less so in the first half of 2011 because credit
markets have continued to be very supportive of refinancing.”  The cost of borrowing for companies with speculative-grade
debt reached 7.29 percent on Feb. 18, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show, compared with almost 20 percent two years
ago. Moody’s Investors Service forecasts the global default rate
for junk-rated debt to decline to 1.4 percent at the end of the
year from 11.7 percent in February 2010.  Share Gains  The shares of the nine buyout-backed IPOs last quarter
gained an average of 11 percent in the first month of trading.
HCA, the Nashville, Tennessee-based hospital chain owned by KKR
and Bain Capital LLC, raised $3.8 billion in its March 9 IPO,
pricing shares at the top of the range.  Kinder Morgan , owned by
Washington-based Carlyle, sold $2.9 billion of shares in
February, 23 percent more than it sought.  IPOs backed by buyout firms accounted for about 44 percent
of the $44 billion raised in the first quarter, compared with
9.4 percent in 2006, the year Preqin started tracking sales.
That excludes additional shares sold to underwriters. They
raised $38.7 billion last year and $19.3 billion in 2009.  “This year could be the biggest on record for private
equity-backed IPOs,” said Jeffrey Bunder, Ernst & Young’s New
York-based global head of private equity business. While at
least 10 IPOs were pulled or delayed following the earthquake in
 Japan  last month and political unrest in the Middle East, the
pace of initial offerings “will pick up soon.”  Glencore, Prada  ISS A/S, the world’s largest cleaning-service provider, may
revive its $2.5 billion IPO before mid-May after postponing it
because of the earthquake, according to Jyske Bank A/S. The
Copenhagen-based company is owned by Goldman Sachs Capital
Partners and EQT Partners AB. Freescale Semiconductor Holdings I
Ltd., owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , TPG Capital and Carlyle,
Skype SA, and German bathroom fittings maker Grohe Holding GmbH
plan to hold initial offerings this year as well.  Corporate IPOs are also set for a busy second quarter.
Glencore International AG, the biggest commodities trader,
received approval from Hong Kong regulators for part of its $10
billion initial offering in the city, said two people familiar
with the matter today. Italian fashion house Prada SpA may sell
shares too. Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s Hutchison Port Holdings
Trust was the biggest IPO in the first quarter. The Singapore-
based owner of container terminals raised $5.5 billion.  Pressure to Sell  As long as markets remain stable, the pace of private
equity-backed IPOs will be unabated as firms seek to return
funds to investors, said Laurent Cassin,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA’s
London-based head of  equity capital markets  for the U.K., north
and central  Europe .  The MSCI World Index and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index have
rebounded since dropping in the week after the Japan quake, and
now trade at about their two-year high.  Buyout firms bought $148.9 billion in assets from 2004
through 2006, Bloomberg data show. While they typically turn
around investments within five years, the financial crisis dealt
a blow to dealmaking, hampering firms’ ability to pay investors.  “This wave of private equity IPOs should have come
earlier,” Cassin said. “The firms are under quite some
pressure to sell their assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  London  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net . 