-- 
Kuwait Cabinet Resigns Before Facing Questions From Parliament

-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-04-01T01:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/kuwait-cabinet-resigns-before-facing-questions-from-parliament.html
The emir of  Kuwait  accepted the
government’s resignation after lawmakers sought to question
three ministers from the ruling family.  Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah, ruler of OPEC’s fifth-
largest producer, asked the Cabinet to continue in a caretaker
role until a new government is formed, the state-run Kuwait News
Agency reported. The emir may reappoint Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser al-Mohammed al-Sabah or choose a new head of government.  The resignation, the sixth submitted by a government headed
by Sheikh Nasser since the emir first appointed him in February
2006, is a reflection of tensions between the executive and
legislative branches as lawmakers seek a wider role in the
policy-making process.  The government last resigned in November 2009 when three
lawmakers sought to question Sheikh Nasser. He was reappointed
prime minister and has survived two non-cooperation motions
since then after being questioned twice by lawmakers.  If Sheikh Nasser is to be reappointed, “the best, quickest
and safest option would be to coordinate with all political
spectrums in forming this new cabinet. If they refuse, then the
only option would be to call for new parliamentary elections,”
Hajjaj Bu Khudour, an independent Kuwait economist said in a
phone interview. Or else a new prime minister must be appointed,
he said.  National Unity  The Cabinet’s decision to resign was made after it
“reviewed updates in the local arena and its negative
implications on national unity, stability and security,” KUNA
cited the Minister for Cabinet Affairs Roudhan Abdul Aziz Al- Roudhan as saying on March 31 when the resignation was submitted.  The questioning process, which was on parliament’s agenda
for April 5, included one by Shiite lawmaker Saleh Ashour filed
against Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed al-Sabah over
allegations that he failed to prevent Bahrain’s state
broadcaster from airing a program critical of Kuwait.  About 1,000 Kuwaiti Shiites demonstrated in  Kuwait City  on
March 17 in solidarity with mostly-Shiite Bahraini protesters
who demonstrated for more than a month demanding democracy and
equality. Kuwait, with an estimated 30 percent of its population
being Shiite, sent navy forces to Bahrain as part of a Gulf
Cooperation Council deployment to back up the Bahraini
government in quelling the protests.  No-Confidence Vote  Information Minister Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah was
accused by lawmaker Faisal al-Duwaisan of failing to perform his
ministerial roles and violating regulations. Sheikh Ahmad, who
is also oil minister, survived a no-confidence vote in March
last year after parliament questioned him over allegations he
hadn’t upheld media laws or protected national unity.  Lawmakers Adel al-Sarawi and Marzouq al-Ghanem asked to
cross-examine Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs Sheikh
Sheikh Ahmad al-Fahad al-Sabah over their allegations he
misappropriated funds and violated laws related to a $111
billion four-year development plan aimed at luring international
companies to an economy that has failed to keep pace with
regional peers.  Disputes between lawmakers and the government, which has
allowed more latitude for political opposition than other Gulf
monarchies, have repeatedly shut down the assembly and stalled
investment plans.  Block Policies  The emir has shut down the 50-member National Assembly
three times since February 2006, followed each time by elections,
on the grounds that legislators were blocking his program of
modernizing the economy. The elected house has used its rights
granted to it by the constitution to question ministers and
block policies.  Most laws are set by the Cabinet, whose key posts are
typically occupied by the ruling al-Sabah family. As unrest has
swept through the Arab world, protesters have held several
rallies in Kuwait at which they called for the premier to step
down. About 700 people gathered in downtown City Kuwait on March
8 to call for the Cabinet’s resignation.  Kuwait, the holder of the world’s fourth-largest oil
reserves, ranked the most democratic among Gulf Arab monarchies
in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s  2010 Democracy Index ,
though it was still classified as an “authoritarian” regime
and placed below Iraq and Kyrgyzstan. Kuwait’s growth has lagged
behind its peers among the region’s small, energy-rich kingdoms.  The country’s economy has grown at an average pace of 2.6
percent over the past five years, according to International
Monetary Fund data. In the same period, the  United Arab Emirates 
grew by 4 percent a year, Bahrain by 5.7 percent, Oman by 6.7
percent and Qatar by 19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  