-- 
Naked Oats May Cut Methane Emissions From Livestock, U.K. Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-04-01T15:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/naked-oats-may-cut-methane-emissions-from-livestock-u-k-says.html
Methane emissions from livestock,
the source of almost 5 percent of U.K.  greenhouse gases , may
fall if animals are fed naked oats, corn silage and grasses high
in sugar, the government said.  Use of naked oats, which are grown without a husk and
unprocessed, may cut methane emissions from sheep by a third,
the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said
today in a report. Tripling corn-silage rations reduced methane
output per kilogram (2.2 pounds) of milk by 6 percent in a
trial, it said.  Changing livestock diets might curb methane emissions from
an industry that generates about 9 percent of all greenhouse
gases in the U.K., with half that amount coming from cattle,
sheep and goats, according to Defra. Farming accounts for 41
percent of all U.K. methane emissions, it said. Silage is made
by heating and fermenting corn.  “It is very exciting that this new research has discovered
that by simply changing the way we feed farm animals, we have
the potential to make a big difference to the environment,”
Agriculture Minister Jim Paice said in the report.  High-sugar grasses may lower methane emissions by 20
percent for every kilogram of weight gain, the report showed.
Crushed rapeseed, or canola, might reduce methane production
from dairy cows by a fifth for each liter (0.3 gallon) of milk
produced, Defra said.  Research for the report was carried out by Reading
University and the  Institute of Biological, Environmental and
Rural Sciences  and funded by Defra. Costs to alter livestock
diets and the effect of changes on the environment must be
studied in the future, according to the report.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  