-- 
Nasdaq’s Greifeld Stakes NYSE Offer on Cost Cuts 74% Above Deutsche Boerse

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-02T00:10:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/nasdaq-s-greifeld-stakes-nyse-offer-on-cost-cuts-74-above-deutsche-boerse.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  Chief
Executive Officer Robert Greifeld says his plan to purchase NYSE
Euronext offers $300 million more in cost savings than  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) ’s proposal.  Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. bourse operator, and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  made an unsolicited bid of about
$11.3 billion for the owner of the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, saying they will eliminate about $740 million in
expenses in three years. That’s 74 percent more than Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Boerse predicted in its all-stock agreement with
NYSE Euronext CEO Duncan Niederauer in February.  Greifeld, who joined Nasdaq OMX in 2003, is betting overlap
between the American companies will give him an advantage as the
merged entity tries to squeeze out extra profit. The 53-year-old
CEO has done it before, lowering costs at New York-based Nasdaq
OMX to 59 percent of revenue last year from 68 percent in 2006
while  buying  more than a dozen companies.  “No one has been better than Nasdaq at acquiring and
efficiently integrating companies,” said Justin Schack,
managing director in charge of market structure analysis at
Rosenblatt Securities Inc. in New York. “Bob is very, very
disciplined and very focused on managing things as efficiently
as possible. In past acquisitions, they were able to under-
promise and over-deliver on the cost savings, and as a result
they got a ton of credibility from the market.”  Left Out  Nasdaq OMX had been left out of exchange mergers since
October, when  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  offered A$8.35 billion
($8.66 billion) for Sydney-based  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  In addition to the
Deutsche Boerse offer in February,  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc (LSE)  said that month that it would buy Canada’s  TMX Group Inc. (X) 
for 1.94 billion pounds ($3.13 billion). The announced value of
the deals totaled about $21 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Nasdaq OMX shares rose 9.3 percent, the most since March
2009, to $28.23 at 4 p.m. in New York yesterday. NYSE Euronext
surged 13 percent to $39.60, the highest price since October
2008. That’s 12 percent higher than the Deutsche Boerse offer,
valued at $35.44 as of 5:20 p.m. The Nasdaq OMX bid, which has
yet to be approved by its shareholders, comes to $42.92 a share,
up from $42.50 when announced.  Greifeld offered about $2.8 billion in stock and $2.1
billion in cash and said Nasdaq OMX would assume $2.1 billion in
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  debt in exchange for NYSE’s U.S. listings, equity
and options businesses, according to a  presentation  yesterday.
ICE, based in Atlanta, offered $4.7 billion of its stock and
$1.7 billion in cash, assuming no NYSE Euronext debt, for a
total of about $6.3 billion for the Liffe futures unit.  Cost Savings  Nasdaq OMX’s share of the cost savings would be about $610
million, according to a presentation yesterday. The company also
projected $20 million in revenue synergies and said it would
generate $90 million in savings for customers, such as company
issuers, trading firms and investors.  “This is a conservative estimate” based on public
information and could be revised higher if Nasdaq OMX gains
access to NYSE Euronext’s private financial data, Greifeld said
on a conference call with analysts yesterday.  There may be opportunities to save money in over-the-
counter markets, Greifeld said. Nasdaq OMX would shift NYSE
Euronext’s equity trading to the Inet system and conduct all
stock transactions from both companies in a single  data center ,
 Eric Noll , executive vice president for transaction services at
Nasdaq OMX, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Clearing, Operations  ICE said it estimates $200 million in savings at the
futures business, about half from clearing and half from
operational costs.  “We have not had a chance to do due diligence on the deal,
so we’ve had to work off of public filings,” Jeff Sprecher,
chief executive officer of ICE, said in an interview yesterday.
The cost savings are “conservative” and “we may be able to
find more savings opportunities if we get a hard look” at
NYSE’s books, he said.  The $740 million total cost savings may end up being too
high, said Thrivent Asset Management’s Stephan Petersen. The
overestimation could hurt Nasdaq OMX’s offer and add fuel for
 Deutsche Boerse  to push its agreement, he said.  “Nasdaq and ICE are pushing the envelope in terms of the
cost savings,” said Petersen, a Minneapolis-based senior equity
analyst at Thrivent, which oversees $70 billion. “They’re on
the high end of what people were expecting. Deutsche Boerse will
use this to undermine the bid. Nasdaq and ICE are stretching the
numbers to get to the offer price and make the deal look good to
their shareholders.”  Sweden, Denmark, Finland  Nasdaq OMX owns 12 equity and options markets in the U.S.
and  Europe  including the Nasdaq Stock Market, Nasdaq Options
Market and venues in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania. It produced net income of $395 million in
2010, which is 26 percent of the company’s $1.5 billion in net
revenue for the year.  NYSE Euronext’s divisions include the  New York  Stock
Exchange, the Euronext platform that handles shares in the
Netherlands, Belgium, Portugal and  France , and the European
derivatives platform known as NYSE Liffe. Income amounted to 22
percent of its $2.5 billion in net revenue.  The Deutsche Boerse deal, valued at $9.26 billion as of
yesterday, creates the world’s largest exchange operator. It
carries a 250 million ($356 million) breakup fee, increasing the
cost of Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s bid by about $1.35 a share, said
 Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger arbitrage
strategist at Capstone Global in New York.  Jumping to Fourth  ICE shares slipped 3.1 percent to $119.75 yesterday. The
second-largest U.S. futures market would purchase NYSE
Euronext’s Liffe futures markets, catapulting to fourth from
14th in terms of global trading volume. ICE specializes in
energy and commodities trading, with its only offering in
financial products coming from currencies and equity indexes at
its New York-based ICE Futures U.S. exchange. It produced $1.15
billion in revenue last year, with net income at 35 percent of
that total.  CME Group Inc. (CME)  of  Chicago  is its bigger rival.  While ICE already handles commodity contracts in Europe,
buying NYSE Liffe would give it financial futures such as
Euribor three-month contracts, which are similar to Eurodollars
that track short-term  interest rates . Liffe U.K. also offers
futures trades on bonds. Eurodollars traded at CME, the world’s
largest futures market, were the most-actively bought and sold
interest-rate future in 2010, according to the Futures Industry
Association.  Strong Incumbents  “The opportunity is a combination of things,” Sprecher
said. “We don’t have a natural way into interest rates, and
it’s one of the older financial futures franchises, so the
incumbents have a strong natural position.”  A combined Nasdaq OMX-NYSE Euronext would add to earnings
within the first year to 18 months after the deal closed, Nasdaq
OMX said yesterday. After that, Nasdaq OMX estimates earnings
will climb by an extra 10 percent as units become fully
integrated. For ICE, the Liffe acquisition would add to profit
in the second year following its completion. The companies said
the joint bid with cash and stock would also leave them the
flexibility to pursue more initiatives without the financial
restraint had they bid individually.  If joined, Nasdaq OMX and NYSE Euronext will earn 30
percent to 35 percent more in 2015 than they would if they
remained separate,  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, wrote in a note yesterday.
For ICE and Liffe, profitability would climb by 10 percent to 15
percent, he said.  Slashing Costs  Nasdaq OMX would be able to cut about 50 percent of
expenses in U.S. derivatives and cash trading, 42 percent in
European equities and 25 percent in technology, as well as 65
percent of corporate expenses, he said.  Greifeld began acquiring companies in 2005 with the
purchase of the Inet electronic market. He cut a third of the
company’s staff that year, vacated surplus  office space  and
turned to lower-cost computer systems to handle trading.
Expenses fell about 9 percentage points relative to sales
between 2006 and last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. At
NYSE Euronext, costs fell to 69 percent of net revenue from 79
percent during the same period, the data show.  At ICE, Sprecher made an unsolicited bid for the Chicago
Board of Trade in 2007, forcing the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
to raise its offer to $11.2 billion from $8 billion. After Merc
won and purchased CBOT, the company renamed itself CME Group.
Sprecher, 56, founded ICE in 2000.  Shares Quadruple  Nasdaq OMX’s shares have more than quadrupled since
Greifeld started as CEO. They beat the Bloomberg World Exchanges
Index in 2010, rising 20 percent versus the measure’s 5.3
percent advance. The stock is up 19 percent in 2011, compared
with the 3 percent gain for the Bloomberg gauge. NYSE Euronext
has fallen 51 percent since March 8, 2006, its first trading
session as a public company. It gained 19 percent in 2010 and 32
percent in 2011.  “Our board will consider the new proposal and do the right
thing for our shareholders and other stakeholders,” Niederauer
wrote in an e-mail to employees yesterday, according to a
regulatory filing. “In the meantime, we remain fully committed
to our previously announced deal with Deutsche Boerse,” and
plan to hold a shareholder vote in July, he said.  ICE shares have advanced more than fourfold since they
began trading in November 2005. They are up 0.5 percent in 2011
after a 6.1 percent advance in 2010.  Monopoly  Nasdaq OMX and NYSE Euronext would have a monopoly on
listing stock in the U.S. Charges to companies selling shares
accounted for 17 percent of 2010 net revenue at NYSE Euronext
and 19 percent in the fourth quarter for Nasdaq OMX, according
to reports from the companies. Bats Global Markets said this
week it filed plans to start letting companies list shares on
its U.S. venues in the fourth quarter.  Because the Nasdaq OMX bid would create a monopoly on
listing corporations in the U.S., it is likely to raise U.S.
 Justice Department  concerns that the deal would be
anticompetitive, said Herbert Hovenkamp, a professor at the
University of Iowa  College  of Law in Iowa City. He added that
the proposed acquisition poses less of a problem should the
Justice Department view the deal in the context of the worldwide
market for listed stocks.  Half of Trading  Combined, NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX would have about 48
percent of U.S. equity trading. They have struggled to keep
market share since Kansas City, Missouri-based Bats Global
Markets and Jersey City, New Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings
LLC started their own venues about five years ago. NYSE Euronext
currently handles 28 percent of equity volume and Nasdaq OMX has
20 percent, according to data from London-based Barclays Plc for
the fourth quarter.  “Nasdaq and NYSE -- they run computing businesses, so it’s
like the two lemonade stands, where they only have to have on
compliance department, one set of infrastructure, they can do
the same thing with greater economies of scale if they merge,”
said Alison Crosthwait, Instinet’s director of global trading
research in Toronto. “There’s not the ambiguous synergies like
DB-NYSE, and I can understand how NYSE-Nasdaq will be able to
save money. This deal offers very immediate short term gains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 