-- 
Greifeld Betting on Oldest Securities Business With NYSE Bid

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-04-01T21:30:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/nasdaq-ice-top-deutsche-boerse-with-11-3-billion-nyse-bid.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s Robert Greifeld is pinning his company’s future on two of the
securities industry’s oldest businesses: trading stock and
raising money.  His unsolicited bid for NYSE Euronext’s U.S. operations
would give him almost half of the nation’s stock trading and a
monopoly on listing corporations in the world’s largest capital
market. While  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  agreed to purchase NYSE
Euronext in February to expand its dominance in futures,
Greifeld’s proposal involves selling that business to
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)   Greifeld, 53, plans to boost profitability from equities
after competition from Bats Global Markets and Direct Edge
Holdings LLC eroded earnings since the mid-2000s. The chief
executive officer of Nasdaq OMX, who has cut costs as a
percentage of revenue to 59 percent from 68 percent in 2006,
would eliminate at least one U.S. data center from a combined
NYSE-Nasdaq OMX and shift trading onto one technology platform.  “Greifeld’s done a reasonably good job at cost-cutting and
he needs to work on building the revenue side of the business,”
said Jerome Dodson, the San Francisco-based president who
oversees about $6 billion at Parnassus Investments, which holds
Nasdaq OMX shares. “With the combination, there’d be an
opportunity to reduce costs by even more. I’m supportive of the
offer.”  Unsolicited Bid  Nasdaq OMX and ICE made an unsolicited bid of about $11.3
billion for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  today, trying to snatch the owner of
the New York Stock Exchange away from Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse. Nasdaq OMX and ICE offered $42.50 in cash and stock for
each NYSE Euronext share, according to a statement released
today. The shares closed at $35.17 yesterday. Deutsche Boerse’s
February all-stock agreement to purchase NYSE Euronext values
the company at about $35.42 a share.  As part of the deal, ICE would purchase NYSE Euronext’s
Liffe futures markets, while Nasdaq OMX would keep its U.S.
options markets. The Deutsche Boerse deal, valued at $9.53
billion when announced in February, creates the world’s largest
exchange operator with venues in the U.S. and  Europe .  “I wouldn’t look at this proposal from Nasdaq to be its
final bid,” Dick Grasso, the former chairman and chief
executive officer of the  New York  Stock Exchange who was forced
to quit in 2003 after receiving $140 million in pay, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. Greifeld is a “very
capable CEO and isn’t going to put out his final offer because
he knows Deutsche Boerse is going to outbid him.”  Stock Prices  NYSE Euronext surged 13 percent to $39.60 at 4 p.m. in New
York, reaching the highest price since October 2008. Nasdaq OMX
rose 9.3 percent to $28.23 for the biggest gain since March
2009. Both are based in New York. ICE, based in Atlanta, slumped
3.1 percent to $119.75, and Deutsche Boerse of  Frankfurt  slipped
1.4 percent to 52.81 euros.  Deutsche Boerse  has fallen 8.1 percent and NYSE Euronext
climbed 19 percent since Feb. 8, the day before the two
companies said they were negotiating about a merger. Nasdaq OMX
rallied 9.3 percent, and ICE added 1.3 percent.  Deutsche Boerse’s bid for NYSE Euronext is “the best
possible combination for both shareholder groups and the
stakeholders of the companies,” Deutsche Boerse said in a
statement.  ‘The Right Thing’  “Our board will consider the new proposal and do the right
thing for our shareholders and other stakeholders,” Niederauer
wrote in an e-mail to employees today, according to a regulatory
filing. “In the meantime, we remain fully committed to our
previously announced deal with Deutsche Boerse,” and plan to
hold a shareholder vote in July, he said.  “Greifeld is trying to make sure he’s one of the survivors
in this Darwinian struggle in global markets,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman of
Holland & Co. in New York. “Exchanges are struggling for
survival in a new world where consolidation is the key to get
scope and size.”  Under the terms of the bid, Nasdaq OMX would buy NYSE
Euronext’s equity and options trading and technology businesses,
while ICE purchases its futures operations. Nasdaq OMX and ICE
will continue to operate as separate businesses, according to
today’s statement.  ‘Strong National Exchange’  “A vast majority of developed countries have a strong
national exchange, a cornerstone of their economies,” Greifeld
said in an e-mailed statement. “To remain competitive and
reduce market fragmentation, we will create a strong global
exchange to increase market transparency and liquidity and
attract worldwide issuers.”  Nasdaq OMX and ICE said they plan to raise $3.8 billion
from loans to help fund the bid. Lenders led by Bank of America
Corp. and Wells Fargo “are prepared to arrange fully committed
financing” for the takeover, the companies said in today’s
statement.  Standard & Poor’s  put Nasdaq OMX’s credit rating on
review for a downgrade.  NYSE Euronext stockholders would receive $14.24 in cash
plus have each of their shares swapped for 0.4069 share of
Nasdaq OMX, equal to $10.51 based on the stock’s closing price
yesterday, and 0.1436 share of ICE, valued at $17.74.  “The $42.50 sounds great on paper,” said  Sachin Shah , a
special situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Capstone
Global in New York. “But on a practicality level, as Nasdaq and
ICE shares trade today and the next few days, as we’ve seen over
the past month or two now of how Deutsche Boerse shares have
traded, that will determine if the implied value is $42.50 or
much lower.”  Deal Advisers  Bank of America and Evercore Partners Inc. provided
financial advice to Nasdaq OMX on the deal, while Shearman &
Sterling LLP served as legal adviser, according to today’s
statement. Lazard Ltd., Broadhaven Capital Partners LLC, Bank of
Montreal and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP helped ICE.  More than $20 billion of exchange acquisitions have been
announced in the past five months as venues in  North America ,
Europe and  Asia  try to cut costs and offset declining profits
from equity trading with options, futures and derivatives.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s $8.3 billion bid for Sydney-based
ASX Ltd. on Oct. 25 set off the spree of offers. London Stock
Exchange Group Plc agreed to buy Canada’s TMX Group Inc. for
about $3.1 billion on Feb. 9, and Deutsche Boerse followed less
than a week later with its takeover of NYSE Euronext. The same
month, Bats agreed to buy Chi-X Europe Ltd., Europe’s largest
alternative trading system.  Amsterdam, Lisbon  NYSE Euronext was formed when the operator of the New York
Stock Exchange bought Europe’s second-largest exchange in 2007.
It now owns exchanges in Amsterdam, Lisbon, Paris and Brussels,
as well as London-based Liffe, Europe’s second-largest
derivatives market. The company also runs three U.S. stock
exchanges: NYSE Arca, NYSE Amex and the New York Stock Exchange,
two options platforms and the NYSE Liffe U.S. futures exchange.  ICE would catapult itself to fourth place in terms of
global futures trading volume. ICE specializes in energy and
commodities trading, with its only offering in financial
products coming from currencies and equity indexes at its New
York-based ICE Futures U.S. exchange.  The deal would give ICE trading in Euribor three-month
futures. NYSE Liffe U.K.’s Euribor contract was the fourth-
largest interest-rate future in the world last year, according
to the  Futures Industry Association , a trade and lobbying group.
Eurodollars traded at Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s
largest futures market, were the most-actively bought and sold
interest-rate future in 2010, according to FIA.  “The value’s all driven by derivatives,” said Robert Webb, a finance professor at the  University of Virginia  and
former trader at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. “Their
strategy is to remain a major player in this business at a time
you’re seeing consolidation around the world.”  ICE gaining interest-rate and bond futures is “also a very
important consideration” to its bid, Webb said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 