-- 
Nazarbayev to Extend Kazakh Rule, Buy Time for Succession

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-04-01T15:04:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/nazarbayev-to-extend-kazakh-rule-buy-time-for-succession-1-.html
Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev is set to prolong his two-decade rule in an April 3
election, giving him another five years to shape the succession
for the leadership of central  Asia ’s biggest energy producer.  Nazarbayev, 70, who has been in power since 1989, called
 snap elections  two months ago after scrapping a referendum to
extend his term until 2020. Presidential elections were
originally scheduled for 2012.  “For the Kazakh elite, this election opens the last phase
of Nazarbayev’s presidency as many people understand that this
five-year mandate may be his last one,” Dosym Satpayev, head of
the  Kazakhstan  Risks Assessment Group, said by phone yesterday.
“The issue of succession must be solved in the next five years.
Otherwise he won’t be able to keep what he built in the last
twenty years, all that will fall to pieces.”  Nazarbayev is setting the stage for the first transfer of
power in the central Asian nation since the  Soviet Union 
collapsed in 1991. Kazakhstan was ranked 105th among 178
countries, alongside Moldova and  Algeria , on Transparency
International’s 2010  Corruption Perceptions Index .  Risk Factor  The  Development Bank  of Kazakhstan, a state-owned lender,
in December cited the lack of a clear successor to Nazarbayev as
a risk factor in a $2 billion bond prospectus. The lender joined
Kazkommertsbank, the country’s largest lender by assets, in
flagging uncertainty about the issue as a borrowing risk in a
stock exchange filing for its own $2 billion bond program.  The Kazakh leader has called for stability in the country
after the Middle East was gripped by political turmoil. The
situation in Kazakhstan is “absolutely different” from those
nations experiencing instability, Nazarbayev said, according to
 comments  published on his website on March 15.  The president was named “leader of the nation” last year,
granting him immunity from prosecution for life and the power to
dictate policy after retirement. This weekend he faces three
other candidates in the presidential contest, including Zhambyl
Akhmetbekov of the Communist party, Senator Gani Kasymov and
Mels Eleusizov, head of the Tabigat Ecological Union.  Limited Competition  “This limited competition is hardly a surprise - so far
none of the elections held in Kazakhstan has been recognized as
democratic by independent monitors,” Aurelija Augulyte, an
emerging markets analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said
by e-mail.  Even so, “the election resulting in Nazarbayev’s victory
would mean stability for markets, as the population supports the
incumbent leader,” Nordea said.  The economy of Kazakhstan, the second-biggest energy
producer among the former Soviet republics, may expand as much
as 6 percent this year after growing 7 percent in 2010, the
central bank said in January.  The nation holds about 3 percent of the world’s oil
reserves, according to BP Plc. Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, Eni SpA, OAO Lukoil and China National Petroleum
Corp. have a part of  $120 billion investments  in the country.  “While consolidation of power under the presidential
office has proven beneficial for Kazakhstan in the past two
decades, this political model may yet backfire,” Lilit
Gevorgyan, an analyst in  London  with Lexington, Massachusetts-
based IHS Global Insight, wrote in a research note today.
“Given the weakness of the Kazakh political opposition and lack
of clear agenda, Nazarbayev is set to be the politician to solve
this problem -- after winning the election on 3 April of
course.”  Nazarbayev has plans to take part in the presidential poll
in  2016 , Yermukhambet Yertysbayev, the president’s adviser, said
in February.  Yertysbayev said in December that Nazarbayev may remain in
power through 2022 because of his “excellent intellectual and
physical  shape ,” according to Novosti Kazakhstan.  “I hope that in five years, or may be earlier, a system
will be built that doesn’t depend on who heads the country,”
Yertysbayev  said  last month.  “It’s important for us to have
real political powers in parliament to establish national
dialogue there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  