-- 
New Stream Judge Rejects $16 Million Bankruptcy Loan, Sides With Investors

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-01T17:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/new-stream-judge-rejects-new-loan-sides-with-investors-1-.html
New Stream Secured Capital Inc., a
bankrupt company that buys life insurance policies and collects
when the seller dies, can’t borrow $16 million to fund its
reorganization, a judge ruled, siding with dissident investors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
said the lenders behind New Stream’s so-called debtor in
possession financing must give investors and others involved in
the case more time to prepare their opposition to the company’s
reorganization proposal. The DIP lenders had imposed deadlines
on resolving the case that were too short, the investors argued.  “If the DIP lenders want to stay in the case, then they
have to allow time for things to be heard,” Walrath said.  New Stream, based in Ridgefield,  Connecticut , put itself
into bankruptcy last month after cutting a deal with its
creditors to sell its life-settlement portfolio to another group
of its investors for $127 million, the company’s investment
banker, David Marinoff, said last month in court.  Walrath agreed to consider approve the loan at an April 8
hearing should the company and its lenders make changes. She
said the company would have to provide a detailed budget for the
money it wants to borrow.  The judge also allowed investors in a group of funds
affiliated with New Stream to participate in the company’s
bankruptcy case. The 23 investors accuse New Stream of
“fraudulent inducement and misrepresentation,” their attorney,
David Green said in court today. The investors hold almost $100
million in claims against New Stream, Green said.  The investors are seeking permission to investigate New
Stream as part of the company’s bankruptcy. The investors filed
an involuntary petition against an affiliated New Stream fund.  The involuntary case is In re New Stream Secured Capital
Fund (U.S.) LLC, 11-10690. The voluntary case is In re New
Stream Secured Capital Fund (U.S.) Inc., 11-10753. Both are in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Delaware).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 