-- 
Nissan Says U.S. Sales in March Rose 27% to Monthly Record

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 
2011-04-01T19:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/nissan-says-u-s-sales-in-march-rose-27-to-monthly-record-1-.html
Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s second-
largest automaker, said its March U.S. vehicle sales rose 27
percent to a monthly record.  The company sold 121,141 Nissan and Infiniti autos last
month, an increase from 95,468 a year earlier,  Al Castignetti ,
vice president of U.S. Nissan-brand sales, said today in an
interview. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 16 percent gain.  “This was our best month ever,” he said. While the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan has slowed production
of some models, Nissan still has about a 50-day supply of cars
and trucks to begin April, he said.  Most vehicle production in Japan stopped after the natural
disaster, which left more than 27,000 people dead or missing.
Nissan, based in Yokohama, said yesterday that it plans to
resume all auto assembly in its home market by April 11 as
suppliers restart parts deliveries.  Shortages of some vehicles may push Nissan’s U.S. sales
this month and next lower than the company had anticipated,
Castignetti said, without elaborating.  Nissan said today that its plants in  North America  will
operate on a reduced production schedule this month because of
the quake-related availability of parts.  Work is being suspended April 8, 11 and 18-21 at auto-
assembly plants in Smyrna, Tennessee, and Canton, Mississippi,
and an engine factory in Decherd, Tennessee, Nissan said.  An auto plant in Cuernavaca,  Mexico , will be idled April 4
through April 8, and vehicle production will be suspended
April 11 through April 15 at the Aguascalientes, Mexico,
factory.  Nissan said it will try to make up for the lost production
during the rest of its fiscal year, which runs through March.  The possibility of producing engines in Decherd for
shipment to factories in Japan is still being studied, Nissan
said. The company’s North American operations are based in
Franklin,  Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  