-- 
Norway to Ensure It Keeps Ownership in Yara and Kongsberg

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-04-01T14:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/norway-to-ensure-it-keeps-ownership-in-yara-and-kongsberg-1-.html
Norway  said it will seek to maintain
ownership in Yara ASA and Kongsberg Gruppen ASA, as it announced
it will consider selling a stake in  SAS AB. (SAS)   The government will also seek to sell holdings in Secora AS
and Entra Eiendom AS, Trade and Industry Minister Trond Giske
said today in Oslo when presenting a report on state ownership.  Giske said the government will seek permission to maintain
its 36 percent stake should Yara seek more capital. This will
allow the fertilizer maker to make faster investment decisions,
according to the report. The government is asking to be able to
invest as much 3 billion kroner ($540 million).  Norway, the world’s second-richest country per capita, also
holds a 67 percent of  Statoil ASA (STL) , as well stakes in companies
including DnB NOR ASA and  Telenor ASA. (TEL)  The state’s listed
company holdings were valued at about 500 billion kroner ($90
billion). The country, which generates about 25 percent of gross
domestic product from petroleum, places its oil revenue in the
world’s second-largest sovereign-wealth fund.  “This isn’t connected to any specific or ongoing case,”
Torgeir Kvidal, Yara’s head of  investor relations , said by
phone. “The government now proposes that the ministry will have
the power of attorney to participate in equity issues within
limits on size and percentages. This reduces the risk of
potential delays in waiting for a parliament approval.”  The government also said it will buy stakes in new
companies through Investinor AS, a state-funded venture that
focuses on companies in the energy, shipping, fishing, travel
and environment sectors. The fund invests through shares and
subordinated loans and its share capital in any portfolio
company may not exceed 49 percent, according to its website.  The government also set guidelines for the remuneration of
executives for state-owned companies, including restrictions on
pensions and pay packages upon voluntary resignation.  Norway also said it will seek permission to sell its 14
percent in SAS, the largest Nordic airline, in which Sweden and
 Denmark  are also owners.  “We are not looking for a sale of the Norwegian ownership
alone,” Giske said in Oslo. “The best solution would be to find
an industrial partner that can develop SAS as an airline. We see
big mergers in the European and international aviation industry,
and there are companies that would suit SAS well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Bhatia at   mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
Marianne Stigset at   mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  