-- 
Obama to Highlight Energy-Efficiency Partnership With FedEx, UPS

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-01T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/obama-to-highlight-energy-efficiency-partnership-with-fedex-ups.html
Shipping companies  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  are among five companies committing
to a partnership with the government to reduce fuel consumption
in their vehicle fleets to help cut U.S. oil imports, the Obama
administration said.  The other companies that are charter members of the
National Clean Fleets Partnership are  AT&T Inc. (T)  PepsiCo Inc. and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  The businesses, which together
operate more than 275,000 vehicles, are pledging to use more
electric vehicles and alternative fuels for their fleets, the
White House said in a statement.  President Barack Obama will highlight the public-private
agreement and encourage other businesses to join the effort at
an event later today at a UPS facility in Landover,  Maryland .  In an address on March 30, Obama said the U.S. needs to
embark on a long-term plan to reduce the nation’s use of fossil
fuels. He called for the U.S. to cut oil imports by a third by
2025 from the 2008 level of 11 million barrels daily.  Oil in New York rose to the highest in two-and-a-half years
amid concern the conflict in Libya, Africa’s third-largest
producer, will prolong output cuts. Crude for May delivery rose
as much as 93 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $107.65 in electronic
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  The companies taking part in the government program operate
five of the 10 largest corporate vehicle fleets in the U.S. They
will deploy 20,000 advanced technology vehicles that will save
more than 7 million gallons of petroleum, the White House said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Nicholas Johnston in
Washington at   njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  