-- 
Fed’s Hoenig Says QE May Mean Higher Asset Price, Inflation

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 
2011-04-01T18:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/hoenig-says-more-fed-purchases-may-spark-bubbles-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig , the U.S. central bank’s longest-serving
policy maker, said further purchases of U.S. Treasury securities
may spark higher asset prices and rising inflation.  “My view is QE2 was unnecessary,” Hoenig said of the plan
to purchase $600 billion in Treasuries in a second round of
quantitative easing, during a Bloomberg Television interview in
London. “My concern would be if there were any further easing
into a recovery is that you do accelerate imbalances that then
cost you dearly later.”  Hoenig, 64, who last week announced plans to retire on Oct.
1, said today’s jobs report shows evidence of a sustainable U.S.
recovery and repeated his call for raising  interest rates  from
near zero. The  U.S. economy  added 216,000 workers last month,
more than forecast, and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly
declined to a two-year low of 8.8 percent, figures from the
Labor Department showed today.  “It shows a continuation of the improving economy in the
United States that will I think not only be good for the United
States but for the world,” Hoenig said. While average hourly
earnings were stagnant, “There is a good possibility over time
that wages will start to improve as well.”  During his 20-year career as leader of the Kansas City Fed,
Hoenig has repeatedly urged the central bank to tighten monetary
policy to prevent inflation from accelerating and asset price
bubbles from developing. He voted eight straight times last year
against record monetary stimulus led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , tying former Governor Henry Wallich’s record in 1980
for most dissents in a single year.  ‘Inflationary Impulses’  “Fundamentally inflation wins out when you allow policy to
be too accommodative for too long and that is a risk we ought to
avoid,” Hoenig said. “If it remains in place, then I am
concerned that the inflationary impulses will gain momentum.
You’ll see it in asset values as we already are seeing it.”  Hoenig said the target federal funds rate should be raised
“gradually, carefully” to 1 percent, followed by a pause to
assess the economy and then a further move toward a more normal
rate.  Fed officials are divided on the question of whether to
reduce the purchases of  Treasury securities  amid stronger
economic data. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said this week he favored trimming the Fed’s plan by
$100 billion, though the outcome is “up in the air right now,”
he said.  Interest Rates  Calls for a review of the policy have been echoed by
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank President  Charles Plosser , who
has laid out a strategy to sell holdings in conjunction with
raising interest rates, and Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker.  At least three other Fed presidents have voiced support
this week for completing the purchases. Federal Reserve Bank of
Chicago President  Charles Evans  said reports showing a more
sustainable recovery don’t justify reducing support, while
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said
high unemployment still required Fed aid and Federal Reserve
Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  repeated he expects
the purchases to be completed.  Hoenig defended the central bank’s loans to foreign
financial institutions following disclosure of details of
lending this week.  ‘Too Big to Fail’  “When you are in the middle of a financial crisis that is
global and you are the world’s reserve currency, you often find
yourself needing to make loans to various financial institutions
that operate in this country,” he said. “The real issue that I
hope comes out of this is my issue, which is that institutions
worldwide, but certainly in the  United States , are too big to
fail.”  Dexia SA, the largest lender to local governments in
Belgium, borrowed more than any other bank from the Fed’s
discount window during the week in October 2008 when use of the
program surged to a record.  The Irish banking rescue, like the U.S. financial crisis,
shows that banks need more capital to serve as a greater cushion
against potential losses, Hoenig said. Because the largest banks
operate with an implied government safety net, they may operate
with too little capital, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Steve Matthews in Charlotte,  North Carolina  at 
1310 or  smatthews@bloomberg.net   Maryam Nemazee in  London  at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  