-- 
Oil Reaches 30-Month High on Strong China Data, Libyan Conflict

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-04-01T13:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/oil-rises-to-30-month-high-on-concern-libya-conflict-to-prolong-supply-cut.html
Oil rose to a 30-month high in New
York as economic data from the U.S. and  China  spurred hope of
growing demand in the world’s two biggest oil users, while
fighting in  Libya  fanned concern that output cuts may spread.  Futures advanced as much as 0.9 percent, extending the
biggest quarterly rally since 2009, as troops loyal to Libyan
leader Muammar Qaddafi retook control of the oil port of Ras
Lanuf and shelled Brega, another energy hub. The  U.S. economy 
added more jobs than forecast in March and the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly declined to a two-year low. In China, manufacturing
growth accelerated for the first time in four months.  “You got the perception of further oil demand from China at
the time we got the unrest in the Middle East,” said Glen Ward,
head of retail derivatives at  London  Capital Group. “This is
making the market firm.”  Crude for May delivery rose as much as 93 cents to $107.65
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest front-month price since Sept. 26, 2008. It
was at $107.36 at 1:48 p.m. London time. The contract climbed
$2.45 yesterday to $106.72 a barrel and is heading for its
second weekly gain.  Brent oil for May settlement traded up 30 cents at $117.66
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London, narrowing
its premium to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate to $10.28
from $10.64 yesterday. The spread reached a record $19.54 on
Feb. 21 and averaged $11.82 last month.  U.S. Jobs Report  U.S. employment data showed demand recovery may be
gathering speed. Payrolls increased by 216,000 workers last
month after a revised 194,000 gain the prior month, the Labor
Department said today in  Washington . Economists had projected a
March gain of 190,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. The jobless rate dropped to 8.8 percent
from 8.9 percent in February, the fourth straight decline.  “It’s certainly indicative of continuing improvement in the
labor market, with two months in a row of really solid private
payrolls,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 53.4 in March
from 52.2 in February, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement on its website today. Readings
above 50 indicate expansion.  “The latest increase represents a rise in the oil
sensitive manufacturing sector after three months of declines
suggesting that oil demand is likely to begin to rise again and
China’s inflation fighting may slowly coming to an end,”
Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy Management
Institute in  New York  said today in a research note.  Libya Conflict  Libyan  rebels  withdrew from Ras Lanuf in the face of
artillery and rocket attacks after advancing toward Qaddafi’s
hometown of Sirte. Many insurgents retreated from Brega, east of
Ras Lanuf, to regroup in Ajdabiya farther along the coast, about
100 miles (160 kilometers) from the rebel stronghold of
Benghazi, the  Associated Press  said.  The strife in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, is the bloodiest in a wave of uprisings that has
toppled the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt and spread to Algeria,
Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen.  U.S. political and military leaders said they’re unwilling
to start providing arms and training for rebels fighting against
 Muammar Qaddafi  in Libya, as the defection of a senior aide
undermined his regime.  Yemen Protests  In Yemen, tens of thousands protesters were gathering in
cities across the country to demand an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s 32-year rule, while his party mobilized similar
numbers of Yemenis to converge on the capital, Sana’a, to
demonstrate their support for him.  In the Middle East and North Africa region, “the risk for
an escalation is skewed to the upside”, Filip Petersson, a
commodity strategist at SEB AB in  Stockholm , said in a note.  Crude futures will probably be little changed next week
amid concern that the Libyan conflict will spread and that the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami will cut Japanese fuel demand,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Fifteen of 31 analysts, or 48 percent, predicted crude oil
will be little changed through April 8. Eleven respondents, or
35 percent, estimated prices will rise and five projected a
decline. Last week, 46 percent said futures would fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at   lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 