-- 
Olympic Committee Questions Role of Sports Court in London Funding Dispute

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-01T17:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/olympic-committee-questions-role-of-sports-court-in-london-funding-dispute.html
The  International Olympic Committee 
is questioning the jurisdiction of the Court of Arbitration for
Sport in a funding row between organizers of the  London 2012
Olympics  and the  British Olympic Association .  The BOA is taking legal action against the London 2012
organizing committee in a wrangle over whether the association’s
share of profit from the London Summer Games should include the
Paralympics. Inclusion of the cost of Paralympics may shrink the
surplus remaining for the BOA, which is responsible for the
U.K.’s participation in the Olympic Games.  The  association  filed a case with CAS, the top sports
tribunal, even though the  International Olympic Committee 
recently ruled against the BOA in the dispute.  “We feel that CAS has no jurisdiction,” to rule in the
row, Denis Oswald, chairman of the IOC coordination commission,
said today at a press conference in  London . Oswald referred to a
clause in the joint marketing agreement between Locog and the
BOA which says that “every dispute should be concluded and that
no other court case should be started by one or the other
party.”  Locog chairman Sebastian Coe said today that he was
“saddened” by the dispute, but said the disagreement “has no
impact at all on the ability to deliver,” a successful London
2012 Olympics.  On March 24, BOA chairman Colin Moynihan and Chief
Executive Officer Andy Hunt were excluded from board meetings of
the  London 2012 Olympics  organizing committee because of the
dispute. The U.K. government last weekend called on the sides to
settle and focus on the athletes and the Games. The BOA will be
looking after 550 British athletes before and during the
Olympics.  “We view this as a narrow contractual matter and, as has
been the case throughout, we would like to see this resolved
quickly and amicably,” the BOA said in an e-mailed
statement. “Appealing to CAS was never our preferred route to
resolution. This issue has absolutely no bearing on our
preparations for Team GB in London 2012. In fact, the resolution
of this matter is entirely about what will happen after the
London 2012  Olympic Games  and the sporting legacy that will be
delivered for all of British sport - Olympic and Paralympic -
from 2013 onward.”  With 483 days to go before the opening ceremony in the
Olympic Stadium, Oswald today praised Locog for its planning and
delivery of the Games venues so far.  The Olympic Stadium was finished on March 29, under budget
and on time. Construction had started in May 2008.  The Olympic village “will certainly be one of the best
villages ever for the athletes,” Oswald said. The IOC also
praised the velodrome, where the track cycling will take place,
as “one of the best” in the world.  Transportation of some 500,000 Olympic visitors through
London traffic next summer will be “challenging,” Oswald said.  “In order to make smooth conditions for the athletes, for
the spectators, to transport all these people on time to their
venues, it will be necessary to make a general effort from all
sides, but we are confident that with the plans that have been
put in place this will be totally satisfactory,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  