-- 
Hong Kong, Cornwall Radiation Beats Tokyo Even After Japan Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-04-01T11:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/hong-kong-radiation-exceeds-tokyo-even-after-japan-crisis.html
Typical amounts of radiation in  Hong
Kong  exceed those in  Tokyo  even as workers struggle to contain a
crippled nuclear plant in northern Japan, indicating concerns
about spreading contamination may be overblown.  The radiation level in central Tokyo reached a high of
0.109 microsieverts per hour in Shinjuku Ward yesterday, data
from the Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Public Health show.
That compares with 0.14 microsieverts in the Kowloon district of
Hong Kong, the  Hong Kong Observatory  said on its  website . A
person is exposed to 50 microsieverts from a typical x-ray.  Many countries have naturally occurring radiation levels
that exceed Tokyo’s, said  Bob Bury , former clinical lead for the
U.K.’s Royal College of Radiologists. A 30-fold surge in such
contamination in Tokyo prompted thousands of expatriates to
leave  Japan  after the March 11 tsunami knocked out power at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant,
triggering the crisis. Radiation in Tokyo is barely above levels
in London and New York even now, analysts said.  “The situation in Japan looks set to follow the pattern of
Chernobyl, where fear of radiation did far more damage than the
radiation itself,” Bury said in an e-mail referring to the 1986
accident in the former  Soviet Union , the world’s worst nuclear
disaster. “Whatever the radiation in Tokyo at the moment, you
can be fairly sure it is lower than natural background levels in
many parts of the world.”  Exceeds New York  Tokyo’s radiation level is only slightly higher than  New
York , where an average of 0.095 microsieverts an hour was
recorded in the seven days to yesterday, according to a real-
time Geiger counter reading set up as part of the  Background
Radiation Survey , a project where owners of the equipment feed
their readings into a central database. The level in Tokyo the
day before the accident averaged 0.0338 microsieverts an hour.  Radiation levels in Hiroshima prefecture, where the U.S.
dropped an atomic bomb in 1945 killing an estimated 140,000
people, averaged 0.051 microsieverts an hour yesterday,
according to  data  from Japan’s Ministry of Education, Culture,
Sports, Science and Technology.  In  Singapore , the radiation level was 0.09 microsieverts an
hour at 4 p.m. local time yesterday, according to the city
state’s  National Environment Agency . Radiation levels in  London 
yesterday were about 0.08 microsieverts an hour, according to
figures from RIMNET, the U.K. national radiation monitoring
network and emergency response system.  Underground Uranium  The U.K.  Health Protection Agency  estimates the typical
Briton receives about 2,200 microsieverts of radiation per year
from background radiation, or about 0.251 microsieverts per hour
-- more than double the levels registered in Tokyo.  “Half of the average annual radiation to people in the
U.K. comes from radon -- an invisible, colorless, radioactive
gas present in all soils,” John Harrison, deputy director of
the agency’s radiation center, said in an e-mail. “It’s a
byproduct of the decay of uranium which is found in all soils
around the world, and the amount that seeps out is dependent on
the local geology.”  Cornwall, a popular tourist destination in southwest
 England , has four times the level of radon as other parts of the
country, he said.  Natural Radiation  Natural radiation makes up about 85 percent of the global
total, according to the  World Nuclear Association . Manmade
contributors include medicine and buildings, as well as the
nuclear industry, which accounts for 1 percent of the total, the
association says. Foodstuffs also contain radiation, and a 135-
gram (4.8-ounce) bag of Brazil nuts has a dose of about 10
microsieverts, according to the U.K. agency.  Other activities that enhance naturally occurring radiation
levels include mining, milling and processing of uranium ores
and mineral sands, manufacturing and use of fertilizers and the
burning of fossil fuels, according to a 2008 report by the
 International Atomic Energy Agency .  The  highest level  of background radiation is in the state
of Kerala and city of  Chennai  in southern  India , where people
receive average doses above 30 millisieverts per year, or 3.42
microsieverts an hour, according to the  World Nuclear
Association . India has vast amounts of thorium in its soil. A
millisievert is 1,000 microsieverts.  In Brazil and  Sudan , exposure can reach 40 millisieverts a
year or 4.57 microsieverts an hour, the Association says.  Partial Meltdown  Tokyo Electric ’s nuclear plant entered a partial meltdown
after a magnitude-9 earthquake, the largest recorded in Japan,
triggered a tsunami over 15 meters that knocked out power,
including the backup generators, at the facility 220 kilometers
(135 miles) north of Tokyo. Radioactive material has leaked into
the air and sea ever since as workers, firefighters and the
military battle to restore power and cool the reactors.  The highest level of radiation recorded at the plant has so
far been 1 sievert, or 1 million microsieverts, found in water
that flooded a turbine hall. While direct exposure at that level
can cause hemorrhaging, the level drops to about 1 microsievert
an hour at a distance of one kilometer and to 0.01 microsieverts
at 10 kilometers, according to Tetsuo Iguchi, a professor
specializing in isotope analysis and radiation detection at
 Nagoya University  in central Japan.  No Fishing  Radioactive iodine rose to 4,385 times the regulated safety
limit earlier this week off the coast of Fukushima, Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman for Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency, told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. No fishing is
occurring nearby and the sea is dispersing the iodine, he said.  A sample of Tokyo tap water, measured at the Kanamachi
purification plant northeast of Tokyo, on March 22 found levels
of radiation at 210 becquerels per liter, more than double
Japan’s recommended limit for infants. The level dropped to
within safe levels the next day. The news triggered bulk buying
of bottled water at supermarkets and convenience stores even as
the government said the health risks are minimal.  Dismantling the plant and decontaminating the site may take
30 years and cost Tokyo Electric more than 1 trillion yen ($12
billion), engineers and analysts said.  Japan’s government has set up a mandatory evacuation zone
extending 20 kilometers around the plant in Fukushima and
advised residents within 30 kilometers to stay indoors. The U.S.
government recommends its citizens to avoid going within 80
kilometers of the stricken facility.  ‘Tokyo Is Safe’  Tokyo is safe for habitation and the  French school  in the
Japanese city will re-open next week, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a speech at the French embassy in Tokyo
yesterday. The crisis surrounding the crippled nuclear plant is
“critical, unstable and durable,” he said.  Foreign embassies in Japan have been overly cautious and
alarmist in advising their nationals to leave, Shunichi
Yamashita, professor at the Graduate School of Biomedical
Sciences at  Nagasaki University , southwestern Japan, said in a
briefing last week in Tokyo.  “It’s wrong to say that even a trace of exposure would be
dangerous,” said Yamashita, who studied the effect of radiation
on children after Chernobyl and is an adviser on radiation
levels to the local government of Fukushima. “A person who gets
radioactive material on their skin can easily wash it off.”  Asked if someone living 31 kilometers, or just outside the
government’s evacuation zone, from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
was as safe as someone in London, he said, “Yes, absolutely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  