-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Gain for Second Week on China Manufacturing

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-04-01T09:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/hong-kong-stocks-fluctuate-as-oil-producers-advance-banks-fall.html
Hong Kong  stocks rose, sending the
Hang Seng Index to its second weekly advance, as growth in
China’s manufacturing eased concern that monetary-policy
tightening will slow its economic expansion.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., China’s second-largest
insurer, jumped 4.8 percent after its president said it will
boost fixed-income investments this year.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s
biggest offshore oil producer, rose 4.6 percent, while Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co. jumped 5.5 percent.  Vital Group Holdings Ltd. (1164) , a
manufacturer of pharmaceutical products, more than doubled after
resuming trading today.  The Hang Seng Index rose 1.2 percent to 23,801.90 at the
close in Hong Kong, gaining 2.8 percent for the week. Almost
three stocks climbed for every one that dropped on the 45-member
gauge. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies’ H shares increased 1 percent to 13,451.48.  “The manufacturing number wasn’t a major surprise, but it
gave an impression that  China’s economy  is maintaining a certain
degree of momentum,” said Tim Leung, who helps manage about
$1.5 billion at IG Investment Ltd. in Hong Kong. “That’s good
news. It’s an indication that focused government policies have
cooled off certain sectors but other parts can maintain growth
to support the overall global economy.”  Ping An jumped 4.8 percent to HK$82.60, the biggest gain in
the  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , after President Alex Ren said it will boost
fixed-income investments this year to tap rising yields and may
“slightly” lift holdings of shares in the portfolio as it
turns more optimistic on stocks.  Cnooc, PetroChina  Cnooc advanced 4.6 percent to HK$20.50 on speculation
demand will increase after China’s manufacturing growth
accelerated for the first time in four months.  PetroChina Co., the nation’s No. 1 energy producer, gained
2 percent to HK$12.02. China’s crude oil consumption will rise
as additional refining capacity makes it more dependent on
imports, the company said.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index, a measure of manufacturing
activity, rose to 53.4 in March from 52.2 in February, the  China 
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement on
its website today. The reading beat the median forecast of 54 in
a Bloomberg News survey of 17 economists. A reading above 50
indicates an expansion.  Yanzhou Coal Mining jumped 5.5 percent to HK$29.85, after
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. recommended coal companies as
economic growth picks up. China Coal Energy Co., increased 1.1
percent to HK$10.72.  Vital Group more than doubled to 90 Hong Kong cents after a
unit of China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group offered to buy
control of the drugmaker. The shares resumed trading today after
being suspended on March 4.  Foxconn Slides  The Hang Seng Index rose 0.8 percent last month as
corporate profits exceeded analyst estimates and positive
economic data helped counter concerns about  Japan ’s nuclear
crisis and tensions in the Middle East. Shares in the gauge
traded at an average 12.4 times forecast earnings yesterday,
compared with 14.1 a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Among stocks that fell today, Foxconn International dropped
2.4 percent to HK$4.56, the steepest drop in the Hang Seng
Index, after yesterday posting a full-year net loss that was
wider than analysts estimated. The company had reported a profit
a year earlier.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index rose 1.4 percent to 23,841.
The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for Hong Kong
stock options, dropped 4 percent to 16.87, indicating options
traders expect a swing of 4.8 percent in the Hang Seng Index in
the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Tokyo  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 