-- 
Hong Kong House Prices Likely to Drop 25%-30% as Rates Rise, Barclays Says

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-04-01T06:45:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/hong-kong-house-prices-likely-to-drop-25-30-as-rates-rise-barclays-says.html
Hong Kong  home prices  are likely to
fall as much as 30 percent as banks increase mortgage rates,
according to Barclays Capital Asia Ltd.  The “debt-fueled property price rally since mid-2007 is
entering its last leg,” Andrew Lawrence and Jonathan Hsu,
analysts at Barclays, wrote in a report today. “While we do not
expect a near-term correction, rising mortgage rates hold the
potential for a price correction into 2012, driven by reduced
affordability and purchasing power for new buyers.”  Home prices will probably increase as much as 15 percent
this year, before dropping 15 percent to 20 percent next year
and declining by another 10 percent in 2013, the analysts wrote.
Prices will sink as banks quadruple  mortgage rates  for new
borrowers to more than 4 percent by the end of 2012 from as
little as 1 percent now to boost lending margins, they wrote.  Hong Kong’s housing prices have surged more than 70 percent
since the beginning of 2009 to the highest since 1997, according
to Centaline Property Agency Ltd., as mortgage rates remained at
record lows, the economy recovered and buyers from  China 
increased. The city’s government, robbed of an independent
interest-rate policy because of a currency pegged to the  U.S.
dollar , has kept its  base rate  at the record-low 0.5 percent
since December 2008.  "Given our forecast that mortgage rates will reach 4-4.5
percent by end-2012, we consider a 25-30 percent price
correction an increasing likelihood for the housing market,"
Barclays said.  Lending Rates  Standard Chartered Plc and BOC  Hong Kong  (Holdings) Ltd.
are among lenders which raised mortgage rates in the city last
month. Both banks increased the lending rate by between 10 and
20 basis points.  Increased mortgage rates will come as a "shock" to home
buyers, Barclays said. "We suspect that with mortgage margins
having been on a decline for 13 years, many home owners would
not expect a sustained mortgage rise independently of a move in
U.S. interest rates. This level of uncertainty would clearly
negatively impact home buying confidence."  The number of home sales in Hong Kong surged 30 percent in
February from the previous month, according to the  Land
Registry . The city is the world’s most expensive place to buy a
home, according to London-based Savills Plc. If Hong Kong was a
"property clock," the time is probably past nine o’clock,
meaning there is still a quarter of the upwards cycle to come,
David Edwards, regional director for  LaSalle Investment
Management , said in an interview in Beijing last month.  U.S. Rates  Property lending rates for existing borrowers may increase
to as much as 2 percent by the end of next year as the U.S.
Federal Reserve raises borrowing costs by 50 to 75 basis points,
Barclays said.  Higher mortgage rates and Fed rate increases will start to
start to feed into price reductions next year as low supply
holds up prices this year, the analysts wrote. "The end result
of the removal of this liquidity is likely to be a property
price correction, reflecting our belief that property markets
top out soon after liquidity has been most abundant."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  