-- 
Mortgage Brokers Win Bid to Block Federal Reserve Loan Commissions Rule

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-01T04:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/mortgage-brokers-win-appeals-bid-temporarily-blocking-fed-loan-fees-rule.html
Two trade groups representing
mortgage brokers won an appeals court ruling temporarily
blocking a  Federal Reserve  rule that limits commissions for loan
officers in mortgage transactions from taking effect today.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  granted emergency
motions from the National Association of Mortgage Brokers and
the National Association of Independent Housing Professionals
which argue the rule unfairly penalize brokers, who won’t be
able to pay loan officers from consumer-paid fees.  “The purpose of this administrative stay is to give the
court sufficient opportunity to consider the merits of the
motions for emergency relief and should not be construed in any
as a ruling on the merits of those motions,” the court said in
its order yesterday.  U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell on March 30 rejected the
groups’ request to stop the provision from taking effect,
finding that public policy interests outweighed harm to the
mortgage-broker industry.  “The board has reasonably concluded that the rule will
further public policy interests, a position that is further
supported by the Dodd-Frank Act, which also includes provisions
restricting certain loan-compensation practices,” Howell said
in a 46-page opinion, referring to the law that overhauled the
financial industry last year.  The trade groups filed separate lawsuits and appeals
challenging the regulation.  Mortgage Finance Weaknesses  The Fed rule, part of the central bank’s effort to fix
weaknesses in mortgage finance, is aimed at preventing mortgage
originators from receiving more compensation for selling home
loans with higher  interest rates .  Susan Stawick, a spokeswoman for the Federal Reserve,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment
after regular business hours yesterday.  Marc Savitt, president of the National Association of
Independent Housing Professionals, said “We’re glad the judges
issued the stay.”  “Once they have the opportunity to review the entire case,
we think they’ll agree with us that the Fed did not have the
authority” to issue the rule,” Savitt said.  Mike Anderson , government affairs chairman of the National
Association of Mortgage Brokers, also welcomed the decision.  “If we win this it will be a victory for consumers,”
Anderson said.  The Dodd-Frank law, the most sweeping overhaul of financial
regulation since the 1930s, created a new Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau that must also write regulations to prevent
loan officers from steering customers into costly loans.  The cases are National Association of Mortgage Brokers v.
Board of Governors of the  Federal Reserve System , 11-5078 and
National Association of Independent Housing Professionals Inc. v.
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 11-5079, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 