-- 
Ouattara’s Forces Advance in Abidjan; Massacre in Duekoue Leaves 800 Dead

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r ,   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-04-03T08:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ouattara-orders-opening-of-ivory-coast-air-space-as-supporters-gain-ground.html
Forces loyal to President-elect
 Alassane Ouattara  advanced in  Ivory Coast ’s commercial capital,
Abidjan, as aid agencies said at least 800 people were killed in
a massacre outside the city.  The Republican Forces control more than 90 percent of
Abidjan, Meite Sindou, a spokesman for the militia, said
yesterday. Gunfire continued in the Plateau district, the site
of the presidential palace,  Agence France-Presse  reported.  The International Committee of the Red Cross said the
massacre took place in the western town of Duekoue as Ouattara’s
troops moved toward Abidjan to try to oust incumbent leader
 Laurent Gbagbo . Aid groups didn’t say who was responsible for
the deaths in Duekoue.  The  United Nations , the U.S., the  African Union  and the
U.K. are calling on Gbagbo, 65, to hand power over to Ouattara,
69, whom they recognize as the winner of the nation’s first
election in a decade. Gbagbo refuses to accept defeat in the
Nov. 28 vote.  Ouattara’s forces entered Abidjan on March 30, attacking
Gbagbo’s palace, army camps and the state-run television
headquarters.  Cocoa prices dropped 7.1 percent last week as traders
predicted an imminent end to the impasse in the world’s largest
cocoa producer. The crisis led the West African nation to
default on its $2.3 billion of Eurobonds, which have rallied 30
percent in 10 days as Ouattara’s forces advance.  Duekoue Massacre  The Duekoue massacre occurred on March 29 and is a result
of “inter-communal violence,”  Red Cross  spokeswoman Dorothea
Krimitsas said in an interview from Geneva yesterday. About
1,000 people died or disappeared in the town between March 27
and March 29 and the humanitarian situation in Ivory Coast “is
rapidly deteriorating,” the Roman Catholic aid group Caritas
said on its website.  “Lots of people were lying dead in the streets” of Duekoue,
Kelnor Panglung, a spokesman for the Red Cross in Ivory Coast,
said from Abidjan. “We could see a lot, a lot, a lot of people
killed. It’s truly horrific. We don’t have any information about
the authors of these killings.”  Ouattara’s administration called for an international
investigation into the killings and denied its forces were
involved in any human-rights abuses in the west of the country,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Justice Ministry.  ‘International Courts’  Ouattara will “ensure strict observance of human rights and
bring all perpetrators of abuses against civilians to justice in
national and international courts,” it said.  The UN said yesterday four of its peacekeepers were
seriously wounded after coming under attack near Abidjan by
forces loyal to Gbagbo, and warned troops loyal to Ouattara to
“show restraint” after what the Office of the High Commissioner
for Human Rights called “unconfirmed but worrying” reports of
looting, extortion, abductions and ill treatment of civilians.  Aid group  Medecins Sans Frontieres  said even though major
fighting between the groups seems to have ended in the western
part of the country, “the situation nonetheless remains
extremely tense and violent in and around several cities in the
region.”  The UN said on March 31 that Liberian mercenaries loyal to
Gbagbo were killing and looting in other areas in the west of
the country, putting the death toll since the election at 494.  Abidjan Toll  The death toll in Abidjan, located on the southeast coast,
isn’t known. MSF said it treated 37 wounded on April 1,
including 30 with gunshot wounds.  “Medical facilities across Ivory Coast can no longer
provide medications and they lack basic medical equipment,” the
group said.  Abidjan is the first place where Ouattara’s forces have met
resistance from Gbagbo’s troops. Each side claimed to control
the headquarters of the state-owned broadcaster, Radio
Television Ivoirienne, RTI. The station came back on the air
yesterday and issued a bulletin saying that Gbagbo was still at
his residence. The broadcasts came from a van parked on a fly-
over and not from the studio, Sindou said.  John Atta Mills, the president of  Ghana , “has indicated his
willingness to give political asylum to President Gbagbo if he
asks for it,” spokesman Koku Anyidoho said in an interview
broadcast on Accra-based Radio Gold yesterday. Gbagbo hadn’t yet
asked for asylum, he said.  Gbagbo’s spokesman denied speculation he fled the country.  “Laurent Gbagbo is in his residence with his family,” Ahoua
Don Mello said in an interview. “We call for negotiations.
Ivorian society is divided and we need to heal it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Abidjan at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 