-- 
Low-Carbon World Needs $500 Billion a Year to Slow Warming, WEF Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-04-01T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/low-carbon-world-needs-500-billion-a-year-to-slow-warming-wef-says.html
Preventing the worst effects of
global warming without harming economic growth requires doubling
annual investments in renewable and low-carbon energy to $500
billion a year by 2020, according to the  World Economic Forum .  Government policies must expand development of clean energy
sources such as solar panels and  wind turbines  to limit a global
temperature increase of 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) from pre-industrial levels, a goal that
environmental groups and scientists say is needed to halt the
adverse impact of a warming planet.  Clean energy investment last year surged 30 percent to a
record $243 billion, the WEF said today in a report based on
data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That’s less than half of
what is needed to prevent catastrophic warming that would melt
polar ice caps and raise sea levels, it said.  “In this era of fiscal austerity, policy makers need to
ensure that the supports they put in place drive sustained long-
term growth,” co-authors Anuradha Gurung and Max von Bismarck
said in the report.  Government stimulus commitments of $194 billion worldwide
since 2009 have spurred private investment and driven down
costs, especially in  China , which invested $47.3 billion in the
sector. The U.S. accounted for $20.7 billion of global clean
energy spending.  Falling Solar Prices  A drop in the cost of solar power led drove investments in
sun-powered projects, boosting global installed capacity of
photovoltaic systems to 18.4 gigawatts from 7.6 gigawatts in
2009, the report said.  China’s dominance in clean energy was fueled by a 39
percent increase in investment to a record $54.4 billion last
year. That made it the world’s largest manufacturer of wind
turbines and solar modules, and helped it overtake the U.S. in
terms of installed renewable energy capacity.  Solar, wind and geothermal energy projects cost more up
front than coal and natural gas plants, and cost more to
finance, the report said. That’s largely because coal and
natural gas costs aren’t included in fossil plant construction,
whereas fuel for renewable energy is free.  “As investors and lenders grow more comfortable with the
risk profile of clean energy projects, they are more likely to
offer capital at lower cost,” the authors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  