-- 
Lloyds Breakup May Harm Government Credibility, Lawmakers Say

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-04-01T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/lloyds-breakup-may-harm-government-credibility-lawmakers-say.html
U.K. government credibility would be
damaged if the  Independent Commission on Banking  forced  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to unwind its merger with HBOS Plc, a panel of
lawmakers said.  Such a move would risk politicising competition policy,
create uncertainty for business and create incentives for
political lobbying, Parliament’s Treasury Committee said in a
report published in London today.  “Government credibility would be undermined if a merger
arrangement approved by one administration was unpicked by
another,” the report said. “However, we do not believe that
the need to respect the merger should inhibit the ICB from
proposing radical changes to the market as a whole.”  ICB Chairman  John Vickers , 52, will present an interim
report on ways to increase financial stability and competition
in the U.K. banking market on April 11 and final conclusions in
September. Commission member Clare Spottiswoode said in November
that the five-member panel may suggest a breakup of Lloyds.  Lloyds Banking Group required a bailout of more than 20
billion pounds ($32 billion) from the government, which took a
41 percent stake in the lender. Lloyds has to sell 600 branches
by 2013 to comply with European Union rules on state aid.  As a whole, the U.K. consumer banking market is “highly”
concentrated, uncompetitive and opaque, the Treasury Committee
said. The government should make it easier for competitors to
enter the market and banks should make it simpler to switch
between lenders, the report said.  “The British Bankers’ Association supports competition
in the banking industry as it is the best driver of innovation
and cost efficiency and delivers real benefits for customers,”
the industry lobby group said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  