-- 
Toyota Profit to Be Reduced by Earthquake, Tsunami, President Toyoda Says

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 
2011-04-01T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/toyota-says-earnings-will-be-hit-by-production-curbs-after-quake-tsunami.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
biggest automaker, said earnings may be reduced by output
disruptions following Japan’s earthquake and tsunami last month,
which contributed to a record decline in the nation’s auto sales.  “There’s no doubt financial results will be influenced by
the earthquake,” President  Akio Toyoda  told reporters today at
company headquarters in Toyota City, Japan, without elaborating.
“Ports, industrial complexes and roads are destroyed.”  Carmakers including Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan
Motor Co. halted output after the March 11 disaster damaged
factories and knocked out power plants, causing shortages of
parts and electricity. Even before the earthquake, Japanese auto
sales were set to fall for a seventh month after the government
phased out subsidies for fuel-efficient models in September.  The earthquake may cut Toyota’s operating profit in the
fiscal year started today by as much as 200 billion yen
($2.4 billion), said  Koji Endo , an analyst at Advanced Research
Japan in  Tokyo . The carmaker has said it lost production of
140,000 units last month due to shortages of electronic parts,
rubber and plastics.  “Toyota has more production and affiliates than anyone
else in the industry,” said  Satoru Takada , an analyst at TIW
Inc. in Tokyo. “It will probably take time for Toyota to have a
good grasp of how big the damage may be.”  Record Decline  Japan’s industrywide auto sales, excluding minicars,
plunged 37 percent last month to 279,389 vehicles, the largest
drop for the month since recordkeeping began in 1968, the Japan
Automobile Dealers Association said today in Tokyo. Toyota’s
sales, excluding Lexus-brand cars, fell 46 percent.  “ Consumer confidence  is falling all across Japan, not only
in the areas hit by the quake,” Takada said. “Sales were on a
downward trend to begin with.”  The magnitude-9 temblor off the coast of northeast Japan
and the subsequent tsunami left more than 28,000 people dead or
missing and destroyed 21 million kilowatts of electrical
generating capacity. The nation’s automakers are considering
cooperating to save energy through measures such as adjusting
production schedules, Toyoda said.  “I would like Toyota to take leadership and help support
the nation as much as possible,” Toyoda said.  Operating Profit  The maker of Prius and Corolla cars said on Feb. 8 net
income might surge to 490 billion yen in the year ended March 31
from 209 billion yen a year earlier. It estimated operating
profit at 550 billion yen and said sales may rise 1.3 percent to
19.2 trillion yen.  Toyota’s operating profit may be cut by at least 100
billion yen in the fiscal year ended March 31, Endo said. Any
impact on production overseas will further damp earnings, he
said earlier this week.  Toyota plans to resume all operations as soon as possible,
Toyoda said today. The carmaker resumed output of three models
at two factories on March 24, prioritizing hybrid models
including the Prius gasoline-electric car. The automaker is
still keeping 16 car plants in  Japan  shut.  Toyota may delay the output of at least 500,000 vehicles in
Japan because of shortages of parts and electricity, Endo
estimated.  Deliveries at Nissan, Japan’s second-largest carmaker, fell
38 percent from a year earlier to 45,700 last month, and sales
at Honda, the third-largest, dropped 28 percent to 43,329.  Nissan, Honda  Nissan said it lost 55,000 units of production last month,
while Honda will lose 46,600 from March 14 to April 3.  Toyota rose 0.1 percent to 3,355 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo. The shares have dropped 8.1 percent since the
day before the earthquake. Nissan declined 1.2 percent today,
and Honda fell 2.4 percent.  Toyota, which has two car-assembly factories in Japan’s
northeastern region, will continue to produce in the area,
Toyoda said. All of the company’s vehicles at Sendai port were
swallowed by the March 11 tsunami, he said.  Toyoda went to Miyagi, the prefecture hardest hit by the
disaster, on March 27 and visited dealers, suppliers and
factories, according to the company’s website.  The automaker has no plans to revise the global corporate
vision it announced last month, Toyoda said today. The plan
includes selling half its vehicles in emerging markets and
rolling out 10 more hybrid models as part of efforts to make at
least 1 trillion yen in operating profit by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Toyota at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  