-- 
Toyota Didn’t Cause New York-Area Man’s Car Accident, Federal Jury Rules

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-02T00:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/toyota-didn-t-cause-long-island-man-s-accident-federal-jury-rules.html
(Corrects inaccurate date of accident listed in court
documents in 16th paragraph.)  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  wasn’t
responsible for causing a doctor’s 2005 Scion to suddenly
accelerate and smash into a tree, a federal jury in  Central
Islip , New York, ruled today.  The accident was caused by the driver, Amir Sitafalwalla,
rather than the brake or the floor mat, said a lawyer for
Toyota, John Randolph Bibb Jr., in his closing statement today.  Sitafalwalla “made a mistake in the operation of his 2005
Scion TC,” Bibb told jurors. “He made a simple but unfortunate
mistake.”  The jury deliberated for less than an hour.  “It was all about how the mat came into play and obviously
it didn’t,” juror Penny Overbeck, 38, of Center Moriches,  New
York , said after the verdict.  She said her vote was also influenced by “all the testing
Toyota did. They had it all on video. It pretty much explained
it.”  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles, starting in 2009, for defects related to sudden
unintended acceleration. Sitafalwalla, a  Long Island , New York,
doctor who filed his lawsuit in 2008, had the first case related
to the issue to go to trial since the recalls.  Sitafalwalla had argued the accident was caused by defects
in either the electronic throttle system or the floor mats. On
March 29, U.S. Magistrate Judge E. Thomas Boyle, presiding over
the trial, ruled out evidence on the electronics.  Floor Mat  Due to its design, “it’s just not physically possible”
for the Scion TC’s floor mat “to entrap the accelerator
pedal,” said Bibb, of Lewis, King, Krieg & Waldrop PC in
Nashville,  Tennessee .  “We weighed all the evidence and came to the conclusion
that there was not a defect with the automobile,” said Regina
Desio of Plainview, New York, the jury forewoman. She declined
to give her age.  Albert Zafonte Jr., a lawyer for Sitafalwalla, said he was
“disappointed in the verdict. I thought there was sufficient
evidence for the jury to find otherwise.”  Both he and co-counsel George Statfeld said they would have
to consider whether to appeal.  Zafonte said in his closing statement that a defect in the
design and distribution of the mat system caused the accident.  The design allowed the mat to shift onto the accelerator
pedal, Zafonte said. Toyota also failed to install a brake-
override system that would have prevented the accident and was
available on the 2005 Prius, he said.  The jury found Toyota wasn’t liable for product liability
concerning either the mat or the absence of a brake-override
system.  More Lawsuits  Toyota is facing hundreds of lawsuits claiming lost vehicle
value or personal injuries caused by incidents of sudden
unintended acceleration. Sitafalwalla claimed the automaker knew
its vehicles could unintentionally speed up, leaving drivers at
risk for accidents and injuries. Sitafalwalla, an emergency room
physician, was injured in the August 2005 accident in the
driveway of his Port  Washington , New York, home.  The case is Sitafalwalla v. Toyota, 08-03001, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  Most federal cases claiming economic loss or injuries
related to sudden acceleration are combined as In re Toyota
Motor Corp. Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices
and Products Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  ( Santa Ana ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in Central Islip, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 