-- 
Toyota Negligence Caused Long Island Man’s Car Accident, Lawyer Tells Jury

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-01T15:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/toyota-failures-caused-long-island-man-s-accident-lawyer-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s negligence
caused a 2005 Scion owned by a  Long Island , New York, doctor to
unexpectedly accelerate and smash into a tree, his lawyer told
jurors at the end of a trial over the accident.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles, starting in 2009, for defects related to sudden
unintended acceleration. Amir Sitafalwalla’s lawsuit, filed in
2008, is the first such claim against Toyota to reach a  jury
trial  in the U.S. since the recalls.  Sitafalwalla had argued the accident was caused by defects
in either the electronic throttle system or the floor mats. On
March 29, U.S. Magistrate Judge E. Thomas Boyle, presiding over
the trial, ruled out evidence on the electronics.  “It’s our claim that a defective product is the cause of
this accident,” lawyer Albert Zafonte Jr. of Uniondale,  New
York , said today in his closing statement in U.S. District Court
in Central Islip, New York. “The defects we are claiming are
the defect in the design and distribution of the mat system.”  The design allowed the mat to shift onto the accelerator
pedal, Zafonte said. Toyota also failed to install a brake-
override system that would have prevented the accident and was
available on the 2005 Prius, he said.  ‘Unfortunate’ Mistake  A lawyer for Toyota, John Randolph Bibb Jr. of Lewis, King,
Krieg & Waldrop PC in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in his closing
statement that the accident was caused by the driver stepping on
the accelerator rather than the brake.  Sitafalwalla “made a mistake in the operation of his 2005
Scion TC,” Bibb said. “He made a simple but unfortunate
mistake.”  Due to its design, “it’s just not physically possible”
for the Scion TC’s floor mat “to entrap the accelerator
pedal,” he said.  Toyota is facing hundreds of lawsuits claiming lost vehicle
value or personal injuries caused by incidents of sudden
unintended acceleration. Sitafalwalla claims the automaker knew
its vehicles could unintentionally speed up, leaving drivers at
risk for accidents and injuries. Sitafalwalla, an emergency room
physician, was injured in the October 2005 accident in the
driveway of his Port  Washington , New York, home.  Bibb said the brake override was meant to protect the
Prius’s electric motor, not prevent accidents like
Sitafalwalla’s. He also said the mat was installed
by the car dealer, not the Toyota unit Sitafalwalla sued.  The case is Sitafalwalla v. Toyota, 08-03001, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  Most federal cases claiming economic loss or injuries
related to sudden acceleration are combined as In re Toyota
Motor Corp. Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices
and Products Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in  Central Islip , New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 