-- 
Packer Says Calipari to Blame for Jay-Z Meeting (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-01T19:10:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/packer-says-calipari-to-blame-for-jay-z-meeting-transcript-.html
Former CBS college basketball
analyst Billy Packer said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, that Kentucky coach John Calipari is to blame for
allowing New Jersey Nets part-owner and rapper Jay-Z to
visit his players in their locker room.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: For 34 seasons, renowned sportscaster Billy
Packer called some of the most exciting games in college
basketball. He now joins us from  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
close to his alma mater, Wake Forest.  Billy, it’s great to have you back on the show again.  BILLY PACKER: Great talking to you, Al.  HUNT: A Final Four in which Butler is Duke, the
establishment. Seriously, the Bulldogs and VCU, what a
great narrative. What’s it tell us about college
basketball?  PACKER: Well, there’s the good and the bad to this
story. The bad is that we no longer have great teams or
great players, particularly experienced great times or
players, with kids in the junior and senior class, which
really is a knock on what used to be the power conferences.  The great story is, however, that because of that,
kids that are juniors and seniors on what they used to call
the mid-major teams can play as well, if not better than
freshmen that are playing on some of the power conferences.
And that’s why we’re going to see this be the direction of
the future, I think. This is not going to be a situation
that’s a one-and-done deal. I think we’ll see more teams,
not necessarily the same teams, get to Final Fours from
mid-major conferences in years to come.  What VCU has done is really amazing. And if it were to
turn out that they beat Butler and  Kentucky  get to the
final, can you imagine that this VCU team would have beaten
a team from the Pac-10, the Big 10, the ACC, the Big East,
and the SEC, and the Big 12 to be a national championship?
I think that that would be unprecedented, obviously, and an
incredible accomplishment.  HUNT: Billy, a lot of money at stake in all of this.
It came out this week the average coach is making $1.4
million. Pitino is making $7 million. Should the players
share in some of this?  PACKER: You know, Al, one of the things that’s really
a misnomer here - and the NCAA has done a horrible public
relations job on this in educating not only the public, but
the press - there’s a thing called Title IX. And Title IX
does not distinguish in regard to income. But what Title IX
does is talk about what you’ve got to do for one you have
to do for all, particularly women.  And right now, there are 88 championships in the NCAA,
of which football is not one of them, by the way, one of
the major income-producing sports for a lot of the top
schools. But what happens is that the NCAA men’s basketball
tournament right now produces 90 percent of the income that
the NCAA gets, and that income is spread around so that
those 88 championships can exist, because only three or
four a year ever have a positive income flow. Title IX
would prevent you from ever having payments, sports-
specific, to the male athletes.  HUNT: OK. Let me ask you about another issue. The NBA
is in collective bargaining negotiations. One of the issues
is whether to change the one-and-out, high school kid has
to spend at least a year in college before going pro. Would
you change that rule?  PACKER: Oh, absolutely. And I think David Stern now
realizes that what he has done by trying to take these kids
early and not really fight with the Players Association and
say, look, this is not helping college basketball
whatsoever. It’s not helping basketball in general. It’s
certainly setting a bad precedent for kids that are coming
along to think that the one-and-done is a good situation.
And what it really has destroyed is the integrity and the
quality of basketball played at the highest level of the
NBA.  HUNT: What would Billy Packer do, two years, three
years, what?  PACKER: Well, I think, first of all, you have to give
- and there are kids - you know,  LeBron James  would be an
example, maybe a  Kobe Bryant , as well, those type of
players that come along.  But I think you have to give an opportunity for a kid
who really is ready and the NBA thinks he’s ready to play,
like a LeBron James, to let him come out immediately after
high school. However, I think that unless a player falls in
that category, it would be the best interest of basketball
for a player to stay a minimum of three years and prove
that he’s moving towards some semblance of a degree in his
education, as well as getting himself in a position where
athletically he is ready to help an NBA team win tomorrow
night’s game.  What we have right now with the one-and-done in most
cases is a guy who doesn’t help an NBA team for three or
four years, so basically it’s a babysitting service that
they have to pay very highly for, and it really reduces the
quality of NBA play.  HUNT: Another NBA issue came up a day or two ago. Jay-
Z visited the Kentucky locker room after the regional final
last week. The NBA said they’re investigating this, because
he’s a part owner of the  New Jersey Nets . Any thoughts on
that?  PACKER: Well, you know, obviously, rules are made to
be adhered to, both from the NBA’s standpoint and the
NCAA’s standpoint. The person that I would fault right
there is the coach, and in this particular case, John
Calipari. You control your locker room, and therefore you
know who comes in and who doesn’t come in. Without
question, that is something that never should have
happened.  HUNT: Well, you know, this is the third time John
Calipari has taken a team to the Final Four. The other two
have been vacated because of rules infractions. Will
Calipari’s team escape unscathed this time?  PACKER: Well, so far there have been no allegations on
this particular team. And in the case of both  Massachusetts 
and in  Memphis , John walked away from that and the fact
that he was not implicated in either one of those decisions
by the NCAA. So until proven guilty, I’d give a guy an
opportunity.  But, you know, you walk on a path like that, and it’s
something you’d better be very careful of. John has
developed better than any coach in the  United States  the
one-and-done situation to his advantage. I think other guys
will try to emulate him. He’s in a place at Kentucky right
now - as you probably realized, he’s recruited four kids
next year that are four of the premier players in high
school.  So, you know, he’s not worried about a guy coming and
leaving after one year. He’s merely reloading. Now, whether
or not that holds up in regard to the University of
Kentucky’s academic situation, that remains to be seen.  HUNT: Next Monday night, who’s going to win the big
dance?  PACKER: Well, you know, I’ll let those guys that make
those predictions do it right now. One of the things that I
saw - it’s kind of interesting - the freshmen have not done
well in recent years in being on teams that win national
championships, so if that holds true, Kentucky can’t be
there.  Connecticut  has the guy that’s probably been the
best player in terms of being able to lead, put his team on
his back and lead them to a national championship, and Jim
Calhoun has had success, obviously, winning national
crowns.  So I think we’ll probably see a club like Connecticut
be in there. And so therefore, I can’t be wrong but three
times. I have no idea who’s going to win. I just love
watching the games and how they - how they break out. And I
think, as I said before, there’s good news and bad news in
college basketball. The fact that the teams have to win the
games to be the national championship as opposed to being
voted in like football makes this really an incredible
event.  HUNT: Well, Bill Packer, I couldn’t agree with you
more, and I can’t wait to watch these games. The only thing
that makes it less than perfect is not having you there,
but thank you very much for being with us here.  And when we come back, the battle on  Capitol Hill 
continues as the budget extension is set to expire next
week. Is a government shutdown on the horizon? The last
word, right after this break.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF
THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<610771.1204164.2.1.87.23378.25>#
-0- Apr/01/2011 19:10 GMT
 