-- 
Peru Boosts Reserve Requirement for Third Straight Month to Cool Inflation

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-01T18:53:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/peru-boosts-reserve-requirements-for-third-month-to-cool-surging-inflation.html
Peru’s central bank raised banks’
 reserve requirements  for a third straight month after higher
food prices drove the monthly inflation rate to a 33-month high
in March.  Policy makers increased the average reserve requirement by
a half point, after quarter-point rises in February and March,
the central bank said yesterday. The measure, which takes effect
today, is designed to contain inflation expectations amid rising
wheat, corn and crude  oil prices , the bank said.  Higher international grain prices coupled with an expansive
fiscal policy have increased pressure on the central bank to
tighten the  money supply  to rein in economic growth running at
an annual rate of 10 percent, said Juan Carlos Odar, an analyst
at Banco de Credito del  Peru , the country’s biggest bank.  Peruvian banks’ average reserve requirement was 12.4
percent for soles and 37 percent for dollars in February,
according to central bank data.  “They’re increasing reserve requirements more
aggressively” to keep inflation under control, Odar said in a
telephone interview from Lima. “The central bank may need to
keep tightening because fiscal policy remains expansive.”  Consumer prices rose 0.7 percent last month, the steepest
rise since June 2008, the national statistics agency said today.
Economists expected a 0.48 percent gain, according the median
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The sol was little changed at 2.8055 per dollar at 2:51
p.m. New York time from 2.8045 yesterday.  Prices, Outlook, Target  The annual rate rose to a 20-month high of 2.66 percent,
the agency said in a report issued in  Lima .  Annual inflation will probably be about 3 percent this
year, the ceiling of the target range, central bank President
Julio Velarde told reporters yesterday.  Peru’s economy is in danger of overheating because of a
“lax” fiscal policy that may force the central bank to raise
rates to 5.5 percent this year, Morgan Stanley said last week.  The government cut the  sales tax  last month and froze fuel
prices following increases in international grain and crude oil
prices. Peru is a net importer of oil, soybeans, corn and wheat.  “We’re very worried by inflation,” Peru’s Finance
Minister Ismael Benavides told reporters in Lima today. “We’re
working together with the central bank to ensure inflation
remains at manageable levels.”  The government is making a “major cut” in spending to
keep inflation at 3 percent to 3.5 percent this year, Benavides
said.  Food, Energy Prices  The central bank will probably increase its benchmark rate
for the ninth time in 12 meetings on April 7, raising the
benchmark rate by a quarter-point to 4 percent, according to six
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Two economists expect the bank
to raise the rate by a half-point to 4.25 percent.  “These adjustments in monetary policy are aimed at
preventing increases in international food and energy prices
from rising inflation expectations in a context of strong growth
in domestic demand,” the central bank said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Policy makers will continue to use monetary instruments to
allow high, sustainable economic growth rates without sparking
demand-led inflation pressures, the bank said.  Food price inflation accelerated at its fastest monthly
rate in almost three years last month, the statistics agency
said.  Higher corn prices fuelled March’s 8 percent rise in the
cost of chicken from February, said  Hugo Perea , chief economist
at  BBVA Banco Continental , the country’s second largest bank.
Increased rainfall in the Peruvian Andes damaged crops and
blocked roads, causing vegetable prices to rise 8 percent, he
said.  The nation’s consumer price index is the second-most
exposed to food inflation among emerging markets, after the
 Philippines , according to the central bank. Food and drink costs
account for 38 percent of the index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  