-- 
TPG Capital Said to Sell Minority Stake to Singapore, Kuwait Governments

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-04-01T20:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/tpg-is-said-to-sell-a-minority-stake-to-gic-kuwait-investment-authority.html
TPG Capital, the buyout firm started
by  David Bonderman  and  Jim Coulter , sold a minority stake to the
Government of Singapore Investment Corp. and the  Kuwait
Investment Authority , according to a person briefed on the
decision.  The firm, which is based in  Fort Worth , Texas, told
investors it plans to use proceeds from the sale to finance
expansion of new and existing lines of business and into
emerging markets, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter is confidential. The proceeds will remain in
the firm and won’t be used to buy the stakes of the founders.  TPG joins the largest private-equity firms, including
Apollo Global Management LLC,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and the
Carlyle Group, all of which have sold stakes in their management
companies or a planning to. The firms are seeking capital to
expand beyond buyouts as private-equity fundraising remains at
an eight-year low, even after the financial market rally fueled
a rebound in deals. Outside stakeholders also make it easier for
the firms’ founders to cash out.  “Going down this path, you don’t have to open up the
kimono,” said Paul Schaye, managing partner of New York-based
Chestnut Hill Partners, which helps buyout firms evaluate
investments. “They can stick to their knitting without a ticker
symbol hanging over their head.”  Officials at TPG declined to comment. The Wall Street
Journal reported the TPG sale earlier today.  $48 Billion Assets  Bonderman and Coulter, who worked together for  Texas 
billionaire Robert Bass in the 1980s, left that organization to
pursue a buyout of Continental Airlines Inc., a deal that led
the formation of what was then known as Texas Pacific Group.  The firm now manages about $48 billion in assets and counts
among its investments Energy Future Holdings Corp., the Texas
power producer whose $43.2 billion leveraged buyout in 2007 was
the largest in history.  More recently, TPG paid $3 billion to acquire J. Crew Group
Inc., the retailer it first bought in 1997 and then took public
in 2006. TPG, which houses most of its top executives in San
Francisco, also owns broadcaster Univision Communications Inc.
and casino giant Caesars Entertainment Corp.  The largest private-equity firms increasingly are looking
beyond buyouts for fees and profits. At Blackstone, the fund of
hedge funds business is now the firm’s largest by assets. KKR &
Co. recently hired a partner to oversee real estate investments
and plans to start its first long-short hedge fund later this
year.  Looking Abroad  TPG is looking abroad and in emerging markets for deals, as
well as seeking to build expertise in areas such as energy and
real estate. Its ranks have swelled to 278 employees in 14
offices.  TPG chose to sell a stake as an alternative to raising
money through the public markets, a path that Apollo and
Blackstone pursued. Apollo completed its initial public offering
this week, selling shares at the top end of the predicted range.
The stock has dropped 5 percent since its debut.  Blackstone, which went public in 2007, is trading about 41
percent below its $31-a-share IPO price, even after gaining 46
percent in the past six months. Blackstone founders  Stephen
Schwarzman  and  Peter G. Peterson  sold shares worth a combined
$2.33 billion in the firm’s IPO. Schwarzman still owns about 231
million shares, valued at about $4.2 billion at the current
stock price.  KKR, which gained a public listing in New York last year,
in September registered the 70 percent interest in the firm
that’s still privately held, to allow executives and employees
to sell stakes.  Henry Kravis  and George Roberts, who created the
company in 1976 with Jerome Kohlberg, still run the firm and
have yet to sell any of their stock.  Carlyle, the Washington-based firm founded in 1987 by
 William Conway ,  David Rubenstein  and  Daniel D’Aniello , is
weighing a public offering as soon as this year, people familiar
with the firm’s plans have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  