-- 
U.S. Pilot-Rest Plan May Stall Under House FAA Bill Vote

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-04-01T18:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/pilot-fatigue-rule-may-stall-after-u-s-house-lawmakers-attach-conditions.html
A U.S. rule to require more rest for
airline pilots may stall under a proposal adopted by the House,
according to cockpit crews, lawmakers and other plan opponents.  The 215-209 vote today in  Washington  requires that the
 Federal Aviation Administration , before issuing any rules,
consider alternatives, differing industry segments and adverse
effects on the economy. The provision was added to legislation
that will fund the FAA for four years, which the House also
approved, 223-196.  The proposal will ensure rules “are not overly
burdensome” and “based on the best available science,”
Representative Bill Shuster, the Pennsylvania Republican who
wrote the plan, said yesterday on the House floor.  The $59.7 billion FAA proposal now goes to a conference
committee to be reconciled with a plan passed by the Senate in
February. The legislation is more than three years overdue,
forcing the FAA to operate on 18 temporary extensions of the
most recent aviation-funding law.  President  Barack Obama ’s advisers have said they would
recommend a veto of the House bill over a provision that would
make it more difficult for labor unions to organize airline
workers. The House, by a 220-206 vote, rejected a proposal to
cut the provision, which would require labor to win a majority
of eligible voters to organize an airline rather than most of
those who vote.  Colgan Crash  The Shuster plan will add “red tape” and “seriously
undermine” FAA safety efforts, said Representative Jerry Costello, an Illinois Democrat. The agency’s proposal includes a
rule that would give airline pilots nine hours of  rest  between
shifts, a 13 percent increase from current schedules.  Stalling the pilot-fatigue rule would be a victory for U.S.
airlines, which through their trade group, the Washington-based
 Air Transport Association , last year called the FAA plan
“onerous.” The group said the proposal would cost the industry
$19.6 billion over a decade.  The FAA last year proposed changes in pilot-rest rules in
response to an airplane crash in 2009 near Buffalo,  New York ,
that left no survivors. The plan requires that pilots get at
least 30 consecutive work-free hours a week, a 25 percent
increase from existing rules.  Relatives of people who died in the crash of the  Pinnacle
Airlines Corp. (PNCL)  Colgan plane, flown on behalf of Continental
Airlines, said earlier this week that the Shuster amendment
seeks to “cripple” FAA efforts to enact the fatigue rule.  “It is absolutely mind-boggling” that carriers would push
for legislation such as Shuster’s plan, Susan Bourque of East
Aurora, New York, who lost her sister in the crash that killed
50, said in a statement March 30.  “One Level”  The plan may gut the idea of “one level” of safety
through the industry by treating cargo carriers differently from
those that carry passengers, said the Coalition of Airline
Pilots Associations, which represents pilots at carriers
including  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines ,  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) 
and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   “Congress should ensure that regulators put safety before
the economic interests of the  airline industry ,” the pilot
association said in a March 30 statement.  Democrats said the bill cuts almost $4 billion in spending,
which would force the FAA to operate at its 2008 funding level
and furlough hundreds of employees. Democrats also said they
oppose a provision that bars the FAA from issuing standards more
rigorous than international guidelines for transporting lithium
batteries.  The legislation would allow business-jet owners to keep
their flight plans secret, a move aimed at halting
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood’s bid to require more public
disclosure.  A $200 million federal program that subsidizes rural air
service, called Essential Air Service, would end in almost all
U.S. states in 2013 under the House-passed FAA bill, hurting a
revenue stream for regional airlines led by  Great Lakes Aviation
Ltd. (GLUX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  