-- 
Gross Says U.S. Employment Gains Show QE2 Is Working: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-01T14:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/pimco-s-gross-says-gains-in-employment-show-quantitative-easing-is-working.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
larger-than-forecast gain in March employment suggests the
 Federal Reserve ’s policy of quantitative easing is working.  Whether the gains in employment generated through
government stimulus are sustainable is still in question once
the Fed stops buying Treasuries, Gross said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. The central bank
has completed almost two-thirds of its plan to buy $600 billion
in bonds to spur growth and keep borrowing costs low to keep the
recovery from faltering.  “This is a good jobs report and the private sector
obviously is benefitting as is the average American,” Gross
said. “There are a still lot of structural holes that will take
a long, long time to fill.”  Payrolls increased by 216,000 workers last month after a
revised 194,000 gain the prior month, the Labor Department said
today in  Washington . Economists projected a March gain of
190,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The jobless rate dropped from 8.9 percent in February,
the fourth straight decrease.  “Their objective obviously is to improve the economy and to
create jobs, but also to put a floor under the stock market, and
we know that’s working,” Gross said. “The question remains, when
the Fed stops buying Treasuries, does the private sector take
the baton and run the last leg of the relay race?”  Rate Speculation  The economy needs to produce jobs at a similar level for
another three to four months before the Fed can consider raising
 interest rates , according to Gross.  “Bernanke’s original statement three or four months ago --
was that he would raise rates when there was proof of a
sustainable path of economic growth,” said Gross. “We suspect
that means employment growth. We have to get another three of
four months of this before we can look forward to a hike at some
point.”  Yields on two-year Treasury notes rose to a 10-month high
after the employment report added to speculation the Fed is
moving closer to ending stimulus measures such as the Treasury
purchases or raising its target rate for overnight loans for
banks. Policy makers have keep the rate at a record low range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said in
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , today that the economy may improve
quickly enough that the central bank would need to raise
borrowing costs before year-end. St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said this week the central bank may need to curtail bond
purchases.  ‘Doves Cry’  “We need to wait for the day and this weekend and when the
doves cry, so to speak -- the Prince song,” Gross said. “The
three doves being Dudley, Yellen and of course  Ben Bernanke .
When they speak, we’ll listen a little bit harder.”  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said today in  San
Juan ,  Puerto Rico , that the economy’s recovery is “still
tenuous” and is “still far from the mark” of the central bank’s
goals of  price stability  and full employment.  The two-year note yield touched 0.89 percent, the highest
level since May 2010, and was headed for a weekly increase of
15 basis points. The benchmark 10-year note yield was up three
basis points to 3.50 percent and was poised for a weekly advance
of six basis points.  Gross wrote in a commentary this week that Treasuries
“have little value” because of the growing U.S. debt burden.
Gross eliminated government-related debt from his $237 billion
Total Return Fund, the world’s largest mutual fund, last month
for the first time since January 2009.  Total Return Fund  The U.S. has unrecorded debt of $75 trillion, or close to
500 percent of gross domestic product, counting what it owes on
its bonds plus obligations for Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid, Gross wrote in his monthly investment  outlook.  The
U.S. will experience inflation,  currency devaluation  and low-to-
negative interest rates after accounting for consumer-price
gains if it doesn’t reform its entitlement programs, he wrote.  The Total Return Fund has returned 6.9 percent in the past
year, beating 82 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 0.28 percent over the past
month.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.24 trillion of assets as of December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  