-- 
Polish Manufacturing Accelerates More Than Economists Forecast on Exports

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-04-01T08:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/polish-manufacturing-quickens-in-march-tops-median-forecast-1-.html
Poland ’s manufacturing-industry
growth accelerated in March, reversing a slowdown from the month
before as output, new orders and input prices all rose, boosting
the case for a central bank interest-rate increase.  The purchasing managers’ index rose to 54.8 from a six-
month low of 53.8 in February, HSBC Holdings Plc said today in
an e-mailed summary of a survey by  Markit Economics . The median
estimate of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 53.6. A
figure above 50 indicates manufacturing expansion.  The data support expectations the  Narodowy Bank Polski  will
raise the borrowing costs next week as accelerating economic
growth may boost inflation expectations and wage demands. The
benchmark seven-day rate will rise by a quarter- point to 4
percent, according to 21 of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  "There is a risk that a strong economy will turn inflation
expectations into a permanent trend," said Marcin Mazurek, an
economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw.  The zloty strengthened to 4.0277 against the euro at 9:56
a.m. in Warsaw. The yield on two-year bonds increased 1 basis
point to 5.048 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  German unemployment fell twice as much as economists
forecast in March as companies continued hiring even as
instability in the Middle East increased and uncertainty over
the crisis in  Japan  rose.  Germany  is the biggest external market
for Polish companies including  Impexmetal SA (IPX) , which sends 75
percent of its exports to Poland’s western neighbor.  "Anecdotal evidence reported improving domestic demand,
while the growth of new export orders remained robust despite
easing to the weakest since last September," HSBC said.
"Production growth was maintained and, having slowed since last
November’s six-and-a-half year high, the rate accelerated in
March."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  