-- 
Portugal Accepts Rising Yields on 14-Month Notes in Bid to Avoid Bailout

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-04-01T11:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/portugal-accepts-rising-yields-on-14-month-notes-in-bid-to-avoid-bailout.html
Portugal ’s borrowing costs surged at
an auction of 1.6 billion euros ($2.3 billion) of 14-month notes
as the country tries to obtain funding to avoid a bailout.  The debt due in June 2012 was issued at an average yield of
5.793 percent, compared with 4.331 percent at a sale of one-year
paper on March 16. The auction attracted bids for 1.4 times the
amount offered. The Lisbon-based IGCP, as the debt agency is
known, sold more than the 1.5 billion euro “indicative amount”
it announced for the auction. The agency held the sale due to
“specific demand” for the securities, it said yesterday.  Portugal’s decision to sell the securities is “not easy to
understand” because the nation could get similar rates for
longer-term loans through an international bailout, said ING
Groep NV rate strategist Alessandro Giansanti in an e-mailed
note today said.  It’s difficult to see why Portugal would pay the market
yield of 6 percent for a “one-year loan, when you can have for
the same rate on a 7.5-year loan from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund ,” he said.  Portuguese bond yields have climbed to record levels after
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned on March 23 following a
parliamentary rejection of a deficit-cutting plan that aimed to
prevent Portugal from following  Greece  and Ireland in seeking a
European Union rescue. After consulting political parties,
President Anibal Cavaco Silva yesterday announced early
parliamentary elections on June 5.  Record Yields  Portugal’s two-year government bond yield fell 7 basis
points to 8.71 percent, after surging 75 basis points to a euro-
era record of 8.78 percent yesterday, topping the rate on the
nation’s 10-year debt for the first time since 2006. The
difference in yield that investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-
year bonds instead of German bunds reached a record of 510 basis
points today. The 10-year bond yield rose to 8.481 percent,
another euro-era record.  The June 5 election will fall between two bond redemptions
on April 15 and June 15 that total 9 billion euros.  Portugal should still continue to finance itself in the
market at present, Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos
said on March 16. “It’s obvious that current market conditions
are unsustainable in the medium to long term,” he said.  Financing Costs  The “implicit” average interest rate for Portugal’s
government debt is 3.6 percent and if yields in the market
continue at these levels, Portugal will have an average interest
rate of 4.9 percent to 5 percent at the end of 2013, he said.  “This indicates that it’s possible for the country to face
for some time these more costly conditions and so have some time
to implement policies and to obtain results from those
policies,” the minister said on that day.  The debt agency yesterday scheduled Treasury bill auctions
for the second quarter, with two sales set for each of the three
months.  The announcement suggests that Portugal intends to finance
the debt repayment due in June “via the issuance of bills and
other short-term debt,” ING’s Giansanti said.  Standard & Poor’s  on March 29 downgraded Portugal for the
second time in a week to BBB-, the lowest investment grade,
saying the country will “likely access”  Europe ’s rescue fund.
Portugal is rated lower than Ireland, which in November became
the first to request aid from the  European Financial Stability
Facility , set up after Greece’s rescue in April 2010.  The country can meet “debt redemption commitments
scheduled for 2011, especially the redemptions of long-term debt
that will take place in April and June,” Secretary of State for
Treasury and Finance Carlos Costa Pina said earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  