-- 
Qaddafi's Regime Seeks Talks With U.K., U.S. as Rebels Fight for Oil City

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d   a n d   W a l i d   e l - G a b r y
-- 
2011-04-03T14:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/qaddafi-s-regime-seeks-talks-with-u-k-u-s-as-rebels-fight-for-oil-city.html
Libyan rebels faced setbacks
including the deaths of at least 13 fighters when their convoy
was mistakenly hit by an allied airstrike meant to thwart forces
loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi .  NATO said it was “looking into” the reports of the strike
near Brega yesterday while the leaders of the rebellion, who are
based in the eastern city of Benghazi, said their own fighters
were at fault.  “Unfortunately, the rebels were not organized, and there
were some individuals from Qaddafi’s troops among them,” said
Abdel Fatah Younis, head of the rebellion’s military efforts and
former Libyan interior minister, according to  Al Jazeera . “One
of them opened fire at one of the coalition’s jets and escaped.
The coalition thought that was from an enemy.”  Rebel forces have struggled for more than a month to take
and hold strategic cities in central  Libya  including Brega,
Ajdabiya and the oil port of Ras Lanuf. The U.S., U.K. and other
allies stepped up diplomacy as well as air sorties last week in
an attempt to avoid a stalemate that might draw NATO members
further into the six-week-old conflict.  The Libyan government is open to talks to find an end to
the conflict, Abdul-Ati al-Obeidi, a former prime minister, told
Britain’s Channel 4 News yesterday. British officials also
reportedly met with Mohammed Ismail, a senior aide to one of
Qaddafi’s sons, the New York Times reported.  Proposed Resolution  Qaddafi’s son Seif al-Islam is proposing a resolution that
would entail his father relinquishing power to his son, the  New
York  Times reported today, citing an unidentified diplomat with
close ties to the government. Neither Qaddafi nor the rebels
appear ready to accept the proposal, the newspaper cited the
diplomat as saying.  Following the rebel deaths, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization said in an e-mail that it was taking “every care”
to protect civilians. “Clearly, if someone fires at one of our
aircraft, they have the right to defend themselves,” it said.  The strike has highlighted the issue of ground troops, who
have been used by allied forces in countries such as  Afghanistan 
and  Iraq  to guide bombing from the air.  U.S. and U.K. officials have pledged they won’t send ground
forces into Libya to help the rebels. A spokesman for French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said that country has no plans for
ground troops in Libya, as the March 17 UN resolution adopting
the no-fly zone didn’t provide for them.  Ground Troops  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said a report in the
London-based  Times newspaper  that Britain was to send 600
marines to Libya wasn’t true. “They’re preparing for an
exercise elsewhere,” he said on the British Broadcasting
Corp.’s “Andrew Marr Show” today. “There is going to be no
large scale ground force put in place by the U.K. in Libya.”  Hague’s comments came as a survey found that the military
action is supported by 38 percent of Britons. Another 35 percent
oppose it, according to an ICM poll for  BBC  Radio 4’s
Broadcasting House.  The survey found that 65 percent of respondents said the
U.K.’s involvement “will last for some time,” the BBC reported
on its website today. The poll questioned 2,011 Britons online
on March 30 and March 31.  Fighting continued today for control of Brega, where rebels
occupied a university campus, while loyalist forces resumed
their shelling of Misrata, the main rebel-held town in the west
of Libya,  Agence France-Presse  reported.  Allied Sorties  NATO said it conducted 70 strike missions over Libya on
April 2 and 184 sorties. Since the beginning of the operation,
the alliance has flown a total of 547 sorties and 218 strike
sorties, NATO said in an e-mailed update on its Libya mission.  Strike missions are intended to identify and engage
targets, but do not necessarily deploy munitions each time, NATO
said.  A total of 21 ships under NATO command are actively
patrolling the central Mediterranean, the alliance said in the
update. Four vessels were hailed yesterday to determine
destination and cargo, and one boarding was required. A total of
34 vessels have been hailed since the beginning of arms embargo
operations, NATO said.  The conflict in Libya is the bloodiest in a series of
uprisings in the Middle East that have ousted longtime rulers in
Egypt and  Tunisia  and inspired protests in Bahrain, Yemen and
 Syria .  Crude oil fluctuated after climbing to a 30-month high in
New York on April 1 as the fighting intensified in Libya. Crude
for May delivery rose $1.22 cents to $107.94 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  on April 1, the highest settlement
since September 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in  Washington  at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net ;
Walid El-Gabry in New York at 
 welgabry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 