-- 
Rajaratnam Prosecutors Seek to Block Expert on Cisco Deal

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-01T13:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/rajaratnam-prosecution-seeks-to-block-expert-trial-witness.html
Prosecutors in the insider-trading
trial of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam asked a
judge to block proposed testimony from University of Rochester
business professor Gregg Jarrell.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who is overseeing
Rajaratnam’s case, told lawyers yesterday that he would hear
oral arguments on the expert-witness issue on April 4, when the
trial resumes.  Jarrell, who teaches finance and economics at the Simon
Graduate School of Business in Rochester,  New York , can testify
that there was a “mix of information available in the
marketplace and within Galleon” about Cisco System Inc.’s
acquisition of Starent Networks Corp. in 2009, Rajaratnam’s
lawyers said in a March 26 letter. The U.S. claims Rajaratnam
was tipped off about the deal before the news was made public.  “It is Professor Jarrell’s opinion that it would be
reasonable for a well-informed, professional investor to
transact” as Rajaratnam did, defense lawyers  John Dowd  and
Terence Lynam said. “Publicly available information provided
ample justification to take an arbitrage position.”  Rajaratnam has been on trial for three weeks in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
tips leaked by corporate insiders. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing,
saying he based trades on research and published sources.  AMD, Xilinx Trades  “Professor Jarrell should be precluded from opining about
the basis upon which Rajaratnam made trading decisions,”
Assistant  Manhattan  U.S. Attorneys Jonathan Streeter and  Reed Brodsky  said in court papers filed yesterday.  Jarrell also would testify about trades involving  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , Akamai
Technologies Inc., Xilinx Inc. and AtRoad Inc. defense lawyers
said.  The letter from the defense was made public as an
attachment to a government memo to Holwell.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 