-- 
Rand Climbs to 3-Month High and Gains in Week as Data Signal Rate Increase

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-04-01T13:56:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/rand-climbs-to-3-month-high-and-gains-in-week-as-data-signal-rate-increase.html
The rand rallied to a three-month
high against the dollar, extending its second weekly gain as
producer inflation quickened and consumer borrowing rose,
signaling rates may climb and boosting the rand’s carry appeal.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated as
much as 0.8 percent to 6.71764 per dollar, its strongest level
since Jan. 6, and traded at 6.72125 per dollar as of 3:42 p.m.
in Johannesburg, taking its gain this week to 1.7 percent.  The cost of goods leaving factories and mines advanced 6.7
percent in February, the fastest pace since September, the
statistics office said yesterday. Credit growth accelerated to
5.4 percent in February as interest rates at a 30-year low
spurred  consumer spending , the central bank said yesterday. The
bank won’t be “soft” on inflation and will try to prevent
rising oil and food costs from driving consumer prices above the
upper end of its target margin, Governor Gill Marcus said March
29.  “Just about all the local data of significance released
this week highlights the fundamental backdrop which is likely to
promote rather than detract from more rand resilience and
strength,” Tradition Analytics researchers said in an e-mailed
statement to clients today. “Whilst the timing of a rate hike
is up for debate, the fact that a hike in  South Africa  would
only widen the interest-rate differential to its major trading
partners again boosts the potential attraction of South African
assets to foreigners.”  Rate Comparison  South Africa’s benchmark interest rate of 5.5 percent
compares with 1 percent in the eurozone and 0.25 percent in the
U.S. In a carry trade, investors borrow where  interest rates  are
low, such as the U.S., to fund purchases in countries with
higher yields. Foreign investors were net buyers of 1.9 billion
rand of South African bonds yesterday, according to data from
the JSE Ltd., which manages the country’s debt and equity
exchanges.  Investors expect the central bank to raise its rate by
December, forward-rate agreements show. The rate on the contract
for three-month cash in six months’ time climbed 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point this week, to 6.025 percent.  Bonds gained, with the yield on the 13.5 percent security
due September 2015 falling 6 basis points to 7.77 percent. That
pared the yield’s advance this week to 1 basis point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  