-- 
RBS Expects to Triple India Private Banking Assets Over 5 Years

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-04-01T00:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/rbs-expects-to-triple-india-private-banking-assets-over-5-years.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
expects to triple its private banking assets to $3 billion in
 India  over the next four to five years, said Shiv Gupta, the
company’s country head for private banking.  The U.K.’s biggest government-controlled bank, which
manages $1 billion of assets for private banking clients in
India, plans to increase its wealth management employees by 54
percent to 100 in two years, Gupta said. The bank will also add
20 more relationship managers in the country, taking the total
to 45 in that period, he said.  “For the wealth division, India is a priority growth
market, one of 15 across the world,” Gupta said in an interview
yesterday. “We expect assets under management from Asian
markets to grow between 30 percent and 40 percent per annum.”  India’s wealthy may almost double their assets to $6.4
trillion over the next five years as the world’s second-fastest
growing major economy boosts the country’s rich, Credit Suisse
Group AG said in its global wealth report in October.  Asia ,
Eastern  Europe  and the Middle East are the fastest-growing
markets for RBS’s private banking unit over the next five to six
years, Gupta said.  The bank is competing with rivals including Morgan Stanley,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to hire financial advisers in the
region. The combined wealth of millionaires in the Asia-Pacific
region will increase 8.8 percent annually until 2018, compared
with a global average of 7.1 percent, according to a report by
Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management.  The U.K. lender’s largest private banking markets by assets
are the U.K., Europe, Middle East, North Asia and Southeast Asia,
Gupta said. RBS currently manages about 800 family accounts in
India through offices in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai and Bangalore,
he said. The lender accepts a minimum of $1 million from private
banking clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 