-- 
Treasuries Poised for Second Weekly Decline Before U.S. Employment Report

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-01T11:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/treasuries-set-for-two-week-loss-on-signs-fed-won-t-extend-bond-purchases.html
Treasuries dropped, extending their
second straight week of declines, on bets today’s payrolls
report will add to evidence that the world’s biggest economy can
sustain a withdrawal of monetary stimulus.  Two-year note yields rose to the highest level since
February on speculation the Fed will end its program of bond
buying as scheduled in June. U.S. nonfarm payrolls probably
increased by 190,000 workers in March, following a rise of
192,000 in February, the biggest jump in nine months, according
to the median estimate of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The market is generally expecting the jobs data to come
in in-line or slightly better than expected,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd.
in London. “There is some optimism about U.S. growth, but
yields have also been driven by the growing realization that the
Fed won’t be there as a buyer of last resort for much longer.
Inflation has also been picking up.”  Benchmark 10-year yields climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.49 percent at 7:41 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.625 percent
note maturing in February 2021 fell 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000
face amount, to 101 1/8.  The yields on 10-year notes were headed for a weekly
increase of four basis points. Two-year note yields rose three
basis points to 0.85 percent, the highest level since February.
Five-year yields increased two basis points to 2.20 percent.  Fed Outlook  Improving employment data are likely to add weight to the
arguments of some Fed officials that the U.S. economic recovery
is strong enough to allow an exit from record levels of monetary
accommodation, known as quantitative easing. The Fed announced
in November it would buy $600 billion of Treasuries by the
middle of 2011 to foster employment and keep prices in the
economy from falling.  “Our economists are looking for a strong payrolls number,
and that could be a problem for Treasuries,” said  Vincent Chaigneau , head of rate strategy at Societe Generale SA in
London. “The market is also going to be quite nervous about an
end to QE2 as we head into the second quarter. The hawkish guys
at the Fed have been quite vocal, and even the more neutral
members have been talking about tightening policy, so the
outlook for Treasuries is negative.”  Hoenig’s View  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  said this week that
“highly accommodative” monetary policy in the U.S. is stoking
commodity prices and the benchmark interest rate should rise
toward 1 percent soon.  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  told the Wall Street Journal policy makers may
increase their key rate 75 basis points by late 2011.  The central bank has kept its target for overnight loans
between banks, the so-called fed funds rate, in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The Fed may need to begin an exit from record levels of
monetary accommodation even with uncertainties in  Japan  and the
Middle East, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said.  “Yields are headed higher,” said  Peter Jolly , Sydney-
based head of market research for the investment-banking unit of
National Australia Bank Ltd., the country’s largest lender as
measured by assets. “We’re going to get a decent payroll
number. They’re going to finish” buying Treasuries.  Ten-year Treasury yields will increase to 4 percent by
year-end, Jolly said.  Treasuries Outlook  Treasuries have lost 1.1 percent in the second half of
March, based on indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. They fell 0.1 percent in the first quarter, as did a
gauge of bonds around the world, the data show. The MSCI All
Country World Index of stocks returned 4.5 percent in the same
period.  Wall Street banks are betting against Treasuries by the
largest degree in 13 months, according to data issued by the Fed
yesterday. The 20 primary dealers that trade with the central
bank reported negative net holdings of $21.3 billion as of March
23, the least since Feb. 17, 2010.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, has widened to 2.50 percentage
points from 1.82 percentage points six months ago. The five-year
average is 2.08 percentage points.  Ten-year yields will advance to 3.89 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies, with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  Thirty-day fed funds futures contracts for delivery in
March 2012 yielded 0.56 percent, indicating investors expect the
bank to have raised borrowing costs by then. The contract
settles at the average overnight fed funds rate for the delivery
month, making it a gauge of trader expectations for changes in
interest rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  