-- 
Treasuries Rise After Fed's Dudley Says Economic Recovery Remains Tenuous

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-04-01T21:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/treasuries-decline-as-u-s-employers-add-more-jobs-in-march-than-forecast.html
Treasuries gained, pushing 2-year
note yields down from the highest level in 10 months, after
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President  William Dudley  said
the economic recovery is “still tenuous,” easing speculation
policy makers are poised to unwind stimulus measures.  U.S. debt had slumped after a government report showed
employers added more jobs in March than economists forecast and
the unemployment rate fell. Bonds slid in the first quarter as
Fed officials said the central bank may have to raise interest
rates and pare planned purchases of Treasuries.  “Dudley brought the market off of its lows as he delivered
the first set of definitively dovish comments that we have heard
this week from the Fed,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut .
“There is an active and healthy debate on the Fed board.”  Yields on two-year notes slid two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 0.80 percent at 5:22 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.75 percent
security due in March 2013 gained 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 99 29/32.  The 2-year note yields earlier advanced seven basis points
to 0.89 percent, the highest level since May 2010. The yields
had a weekly increase of seven basis points. The 10-year note
yields dropped three basis points to 3.44 percent after earlier
advancing five basis points to 3.52 percent, the highest level
since March 9. They were little changed on the week.  Dudley’s Stance  Dudley said in  San Juan , Puerto Rico, today after the Labor
Department’s payrolls report that the U.S. economy’s recovery is
“still far from the mark” of the central bank’s goals of price
stability and full employment.  “We must not be overly optimistic about the growth
outlook,” Dudley said. “A stronger recovery with more rapid
progress toward our dual mandate objectives is what we have been
seeking. This is welcome and not a reason to reverse course.”  Treasuries ended the first quarter with a second straight
three-month loss as some Fed policy makers said the central bank
should consider curtailing its program of debt purchases known
as quantitative easing.  The central bank may need to begin an exit from record
levels of monetary accommodation even with global uncertainties
in  Japan  and the Middle East, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said this week in  London .  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  told reporters
today in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, that “it’s certainly a
possibility” that the central bank may have to raise  interest
rates  before the end of this year.  Fed Rate Outlook  Traders have raised bets that policy makers will boost
borrowing costs by the end of 2011. Fed funds futures show a 43
percent chance the central bank will increase its target at the
December meeting, compared with 35 percent odds yesterday.  Policy makers affirmed at their March 15 meeting the plan
to buy Treasuries through June. The Fed has held its target rate
for overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  Nonfarm payrolls increased by 216,000 in March after a
revised gain of 194,000 in the previous month, the Labor
Department reported today. The median forecast of 83 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for an advance of 190,000. The
 unemployment rate  dropped to 8.8 percent.  The boost in employment indicates Fed policies are working,
according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross ,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  Gross on Payrolls  Whether the gains in employment generated through
government stimulus are sustainable is still in question once
the Fed stops buying Treasuries, Gross said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “This is a good jobs report, and the private sector
obviously is benefiting, as is the average American,” said
Gross, based in Newport Beach,  California .  The central bank has completed almost two-thirds of its
plan to buy $600 billion in bonds to spur growth and keep
borrowing costs low to keep the recovery from faltering.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices known as the break-even rate,
has widened to 2.52 percentage points from 1.82 percentage
points six months ago.  Yields on 10-year notes rose on 6 of the past 10 days when
monthly U.S. payrolls were announced. The yields dropped seven
basis points on March 4, when the government reported that
employers added fewer jobs than forecast.  ‘Healthy Numbers’  “After a year or more of mediocre jobs gains, we are
finally getting healthy numbers,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages
about $3 billion of bonds at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Milwaukee .
“We are still in a deep hole and have further to go than
recoveries of late, but we are making progress.”  Wall Street banks are betting against Treasuries by the
largest degree in 13 months, according to data issued by the Fed
yesterday. The 20 primary dealers that trade with the central
bank reported negative net holdings of $21.3 billion as of March
23, the least since Feb. 17, 2010.  U.S. debt  lost 0.1 percent in the first quarter after
dropping 2.7 percent in the final three months of 2010,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Debt linked
to inflation returned 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  