-- 
Republican Budget Cuts Collide With Job Training to Assist Businesses

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-04-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/republican-cuts-collide-with-job-training-to-help-businesses.html
Michael Conner, an executive with
Cincinnati-based  Frisch’s Restaurants Inc. (FRS) , says he’s all for
the Republican push to shrink  government spending  -- except when
it comes to job-training programs that help businesses.  In their quest for deep government spending cuts, U.S.
 House Republicans  passed a budget bill that would slash funding
for a nationwide program that trains unemployed workers and
helps them find jobs with companies looking for qualified
employees. Conner and other critics say that provision is at
odds with Republicans’ pledge to bring down the jobless rate.  “I’m an advocate for small government, but this is
certainly not the time nor the place for cutting of employment
related funding,” said Conner, vice president of human
resources at Frisch’s. The company, which operates Big Boy and
Gold Corral restaurants, has about 8,600 workers and uses the
training program.  State and local employment officials also complain that the
proposed Republican cuts to the program would curtail job
training during a fragile recovery from one of the worst
economic slumps in U.S. history and cause job-assistance centers
to shut down and fire workers.  Congress passed the Workforce Investment Act in 1998 with
 bipartisan support . The program funneled $3 billion in grants to
states last year to help provide career and employment
assistance.  Republican View  Some Republican lawmakers, in defending the proposed cuts,
question the program’s success after a government report found
inefficiencies.  Analysts say the push to significantly reduce the federal
 budget deficit  will affect programs widely seen as worthwhile.
“You are going to hit things inadvertently when the cuts are so
sweeping,” said  Ross Baker , a congressional scholar at  Rutgers
University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey . Programs with a lot of
support “get thrown in the throw-away pile.”  Under the Workforce Investment Act, local boards oversee
employment and training services at more than 3,000 “one-stop”
job centers across the country, which served more than 8 million
people last year. The Republican budget plan for the rest of
fiscal 2011 would eliminate the federal grants to states to
operate the local training programs.  “With the general citizenry screaming for jobs and re-
training, up against similar cries for fiscal restraint, we
understand the challenges you are facing,” Conner, a Republican
who chairs the  Southwest Ohio Region Workforce Investment Board ,
wrote in a  letter  last month to House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican. “But we ask you to consider tempering
decisions that will only make the economic recovery slower.”  House Bill  The House  budget bill , passed Feb. 19, calls for overall
spending cuts of $61 billion, which would kill more than 100
programs and reduce funding for hundreds more. The measure was
rejected by the Democratic-controlled Senate, where lawmakers
want a smaller package of cuts. Both sides are working on a
compromise to avert a government shutdown that would include
reductions of about $33 billion.  Boehner, under pressure from other Republicans and Tea
Party activists to stand firm for the House spending cuts, said
yesterday “there is no agreement on numbers and nothing will be
agreed to until everything is agreed to.”  Boehner was among the Republicans who seized on the
unemployment issue during the 2010 campaign, saying Democrats’
spending on economic stimulus failed to reduce the jobless rate.  ‘Pretty Phenomenal’  Mary Margaret Garrett, who heads the Atlanta Regional
Workforce Board, said the spending cuts that include job
training programs would be “pretty phenomenal at a time when
the economy is struggling.”  Garrett’s board provides job assistance in seven counties
in the Atlanta region. About 65,000 people last year sought help
at the area’s centers, getting guidance on writing resumes,
conducting a job search, honing interviewing skills and other
services.  Among those who completed a specific training program, 92
percent found jobs, Garrett said. “I understand budget cuts,
but there’s a whole lot of trimming that can be done without
totally abandoning a nationwide job-training system.”  Dozens of people who work at the Atlanta-area centers would
lose jobs as a result of the cuts, she said.  Republican lawmakers supporting the cuts point to a  January
report  by the Government Accountability Office that said little
is known about the effectiveness of most federal job-training
programs, and that overlap was extensive among the nine agencies
administering 47 programs in the 2009 fiscal year. The report
recommended efforts to consolidate administrative functions.  Oversight Lack  “Congress hasn’t done the job of oversight and putting
metrics on programs to see what does work and what doesn’t,”
said Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican.  Coburn also questions whether it’s the federal government’s
role to provide job training. “There’s never going to be a good
time to make the hard choices we have to make, but we’re going
to make them,” he said.  Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican who
chairs the House Education and Workforce Committee, said
inefficiencies must be cleaned up.  “Cuts are being made in areas that were unthinkable
before,” Kline said. “This morass that has become the
Workforce Investment Act, that can has been kicked down the road
for a long time by Republicans and Democrats, and we’re going to
have to come to grips with that.”  In  Illinois , where more than 200,000 people use services at
the job-assistance centers annually, David Stoecklin, president
of the  Illinois Workforce Partnership  that promotes job training
and economic development, has a different perspective.  “Our program tends to make a return on the investment,”
he said. People who find jobs “start paying back in taxes and
they stop drawing  unemployment insurance .”  Training programs would come to a “screeching halt,” if
Republican cuts were to become law, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  