-- 
Rift Valley Railways, East Africa Line Operator, to Sign $164 Million Loan

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-04-01T14:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/rift-valley-railways-east-africa-line-operator-to-sign-164-million-loan.html
Rift Valley Railways Ltd. , the
operator of the Kenya-Uganda rail line, expects to sign a $164
million loan with seven lenders within four months, according to
its biggest shareholder, Citadel Capital SAE.  The funds will be provided by six development-finance
institutions and  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , Kenya’s biggest lender by
market value, Karim Sadek, Citadel’s managing director in east,
central and southern  Africa , said in an interview today in
Nairobi, the capital. Citadel is an Egyptian private equity
company with $4 billion of assets.  “We are looking at a business plan that has roughly $287
million of capital expenditure,” Sadek said. “$164 million is
a long-term loan. The balance comes from shareholders and
internally generated profits.”  TransCentury Ltd., a Kenyan  investment company  that is one
of the three shareholders in RVR, said on March 28 the rail
operator plans to raise a total of $240 million. That figure was
based on an earlier estimate, Citadel said in an e-mailed
statement today.  RVR is mandated to manage about 2,000 kilometers (1,243
miles) of rail line in  Kenya  and Uganda, Chief Executive Officer
Brown Ondego said on Nov. 8. In the year through June 2010, the
company moved less than 1.2 million metric tons of cargo,
against a target of 1.7 million tons set in a 25-year concession
agreement that began in November 2007.  The investment will be spread over five years from when the
loan is signed. RVR will spend the money on tracks, automation,
rehabilitation of wagons and locomotives and purchase of new
ones, he said.  Logistics Offering  Last year, the company signed a technical and management
agreement with America Latina Logistica SA, the Curitiba,
Brazil-based railroad company that is Latin America’s biggest.  “We are looking at offering our clients more of a door-to-
door package,” Sadek said. “We are trying to move from this
concept of being a rail operator to a logistics player.”  Citadel Capital owns 51 percent of RVR, while TransCentury
holds 34 percent and Bomi Holdings of  Uganda  has 15 percent.  As of March 2010, Citadel Capital had investments worth
more than $8.3 billion across 14 countries in Africa and a
workforce of more than 30,000 people, the company said on its
 website .  “We are looking at a few opportunities, which obviously I
can’t name, in and around East Africa,” Sadek said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  