-- 
Rubio’s Demands Show Tea Party May Not Bend on Raising U.S. Debt Limit

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-04-01T04:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/rubio-s-demands-signal-tea-party-may-not-bend-on-raising-u-s-debt-limit.html
Few demand as much for a vote to
raise the U.S. debt limit as Tea Party favorite Marco Rubio.  The first-term  Florida  senator, an upstart in the
 Republican Party , said this week he won’t vote to raise the
$14.3-trillion debt ceiling unless Congress agrees to his
proposals to fix almost every major budget issue. The U.S. will
breach the limit by the end of May, according to Treasury, and
could default if Congress fails to authorize an increase.  The price of his vote, Rubio wrote in a Wall Street Journal
opinion article, is a plan to save Medicare and Social Security
from insolvency, overhaul the  tax code , revamp the way the
government issues regulations, cut discretionary spending, add a
balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution and an agreement
to no further increases in the debt ceiling.  Even deficit hawks call those demands unrealistic.  “Let’s face it: we’re not going to do all that by June,”
said Bob Bixby, head of the Concord Coalition, a Washington-
based group that promotes balanced budgets. “People need to be
more realistic about this debt-limit debate.”  Rubio is one of many lawmakers, including scores of Tea
Party-backed freshmen in the House, demanding major changes in
tax and spending policy in exchange for raising the debt limit.  Votes to raise the cap on  government borrowing  are among
the least popular ones lawmakers must cast because they become
easy fodder for advertising by campaign opponents.  Yet Rubio’s demands may be well beyond the reach of a
Congress that has spent months debating a bill cutting non-
defense domestic discretionary spending that accounts for just
12 percent of the federal budget. Lawmakers haven’t addressed a
tax overhaul in a generation.  Filibuster Threat  Democrats, who control the 100-seat Senate with 53 votes,
probably won’t need Rubio’s support to raise the debt ceiling,
though Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, is
threatening a filibuster of any measure unless lawmakers accept
a balanced-budget amendment.  That could give Republicans leverage to demand big changes,
though it would force at least seven to eventually vote for a
debt increase, with 60 votes needed to act. Many of those most
likely to side with Democrats, such as  Indiana ’s  Richard Lugar ,
face primary challenges in next year’s elections.  Any increase will face tougher challenges in the House,
where Tea Party freshmen have their own lists of demands.
Representative Allen West, a Florida Republican, wants the
corporate  tax rate  halved, total  government spending  capped and
a ban on funding for the administration’s health-care overhaul.  ‘Fiscally Irresponsible’  “Those are the conditions,” West said. “I’m not going to
sit around and prove myself to be fiscally irresponsible.”  A fellow freshman representative, Rich Nugent, also from
Florida, said, “I don’t see myself voting for the debt limit”
without “huge” concessions from the administration.  It’s traditionally been up to each chamber’s majority party
to produce the votes needed to raise the debt limit, Bixby said.
“The minority can always take advantage of not being in power
to make rhetoric points,” he said.  Budget experts agree lawmakers will have to address the
issues raised by Rubio, even if they are unlikely to settle them
by June. Medicare and Social Security are projected to consume a
steadily increasing share of the government’s resources as the
Baby Boom generation nears retirement and health-care costs
continue to spiral.  Debt Commission  The numbers are so enormous that even deficit hawks say it
will be decades before the government is able to balance its
books. A proposal last year by the heads of President Barack Obama’s debt commission to cut the budget by $4 trillion
wouldn’t erase the deficit for more than 25 years.  Even so, Rubio says lawmakers ought to tackle the issue
with the debt-limit vote.  “This may be our last chance to force  Washington  to tackle
the central economic issues of our time,” Rubio wrote. “There
is still time to accomplish all this.”  With that debt-ceiling vote approaching, Alex Burgos, a
Rubio spokesman, said there is time to debate his demands.  “He believes it’s possible if people in Washington get
serious about these issues, focus on them with the sense of
urgency they deserve and abandon the politics-first mindset that
has brought us to this point of a record $14 trillion debt,”
Burgos said.  Market Turmoil  The stakes in the debt-limit debate are higher and the
politics tougher than in the current dispute over funding levels
for the remainder of the government’s fiscal year. While the
government has been shut down in the past, lawmakers have never
allowed the government to hit the debt limit, which could rattle
financial markets around the world.  Meeting the Republicans’ demands could also cause market
turmoil. Experts such as Congressional Budget Office Director
Doug Elmendorf have said a balanced-budget amendment to the
Constitution would worsen economic recessions because it would
prevent automatic increases in federal spending on  unemployment
benefits , Medicaid and other government programs during
downturns that help support  consumer spending .  Still, a number of Republicans downplay the significance of
hitting the debt limit, saying the government could pay off its
creditors with  tax revenue , which would still leave enough money
for many though not all government functions.  “There’s no reason to default on the debt just because we
didn’t raise the debt limit,” said Representative Mick Mulvaney, a freshman Republican from  South Carolina . “I do
think the folks who say we will automatically default if we
don’t raise the debt ceiling are wrong. That is an
exaggeration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  