-- 
Russian Economy Grew 4.5% in Fourth Quarter, Less Than Economists Forecast

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-01T14:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/russian-economy-grew-4-5-in-fourth-quarter-less-than-economists-forecast.html
Russia ’s economic growth accelerated
in the fourth quarter as commodity prices rose and companies
boosted investment to meet rising domestic demand.  Gross domestic product rose an annual 4.5 percent compared
with a revised 3.1 percent in the previous three months, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 14
economists was for 4.8 percent.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  set a growth target of 10 percent
within five years to pull the world’s biggest energy supplier
into line with emerging-market peers in China, Brazil and India.
The economy lost momentum in the third quarter after the worst
drought in at least half a century slowed expansion by as much
as 0.8 percentage point, according to the Economy Ministry.  “I still think we can say this is a pretty lackluster
recovery, particularly by historic standards,”  Neil Shearing ,
senior emerging-market analyst at  Capital Economics  in  London ,
said by phone. “There’s mounting evidence that real wage growth
has started to slow and that’s feeding into slow retail sales.”  Russia’s growth continued to lag among the so-called BRIC
economies.  China’s economy  grew 10.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, followed by Indian GDP growth of 8.2 percent and
Brazil’s rise of 5 percent.  Manufacturing Rise  Manufacturing rose an annual 13 percent in the fourth
quarter, while construction jumped 6.1 percent after declines in
the previous three quarters, the service said. Agricultural
output shrank 7.1 percent from the same period last year.  Companies including United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest
aluminum producer, and OAO TMK, Russia’s largest producer of
steel pipes, increased profit last year after sales gained and
prices for their goods rose.  New car sales rose an average 67 percent in the fourth
quarter, benefitting OAO  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , Russia’s largest automaker.  The ruble-denominated  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks added to
gains after the data release and was 1.6 percent higher at
1841.62 at 6:11 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble strengthened 0.1
percent against the dollar to 28.4050 by the 5 p.m. close of
trading in the capital. The Russian currency was 0.6 percent
stronger against the euro at 40.0650.  Year-End Rush  Industrial output unexpectedly eased in February and fixed-
 capital investment  shrank during the first two months of the
year after 10 consecutive monthly gains.  Real disposable incomes fell an annual 1.5 percent in
February after a 5.8 percent drop in January. Unemployment was
7.6 percent in February, almost the highest level in 10 months.  “Construction activity and investment” may have peaked as
companies “rushed to close their projects by the end of last
year,” Natalia Orlova, chief economist at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow,
said by telephone before the release. “Overall, the business
mood is more complicated this year as opposed to the fourth
quarter” after the government raised payroll taxes from Jan. 1.  GDP grew 4 percent last year, the statistics service said,
reiterating its first reading. Second-quarter growth was revised
down to 5 percent and expansion in the first quarter was
upgraded to 3.5 percent, the service said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Willy Morris
at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 