-- 
RWE Sues to Halt Hesse Government Shutdown of Biblis Reactor

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-04-01T14:37:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/rwe-suit-against-nuclear-moratorium-filed-court-says.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, sued to block a government order to shut down its
Biblis reactor during a three-month nuclear moratorium.  The state of Hesse is improperly relying on the German
atomic law to force generators to take reactors offline, RWE
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Since German nuclear  power plants  comply with all
relevant safety requirements, there are no legal grounds for
decommissioning them,” RWE said. “In taking the legal step of
appealing against the decommissioning, RWE is seeking to protect
the interests of its shareholders.”  The German government adopted a three-month moratorium on
nuclear power and ordered the shutdown of the country’s seven
oldest reactors for a safety review last month in reaction to
the crisis at  Japan ’s Fukushima nuclear plant.  E.ON AG (EOAN) , RWE and
 EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  halted reactors as a result.  RWE’s suit was received by the top administrative court in
the Hesse today, the tribunal spokesman Lothar Fischer said in
an interview today.  Under German law, RWE could restart the reactor as the
lawsuit stays the order while the case is pending. The
authorities would issue a separate order to halt Biblis during
the litigation if RWE decided to restart the reactor, the Hesse
Environmental Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  E.ON AG said yesterday that it won’t file a lawsuit over
the moratorium.  Biblis A was shut down as a result of the order, while Unit
B was already undergoing a scheduled technical revision,
according to the company. RWE said March 20 that it invested 1.4
billion euros ($1.98 billion) in recent years to upgrade safety
standards at Biblis A and Biblis B.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 