-- 
SAS May Seek Airline Investor as Norway Seeks to Sell Stake

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-01T14:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/sas-may-seek-airline-investor-as-norway-seeks-to-sell-stake-1-.html
SAS AB (SAS) , the biggest Nordic airline,
may seek investment from another carrier as its three state
shareholders seek to cut their stakes.  The Norwegian government will seek parliamentary approval
for the sale of its 14 percent holding and envisages a disposal
including a similar stake owned by  Denmark , plus Sweden’s 21
percent share, Trade and Industry Minister Trond Giske today.  “We are not looking for a sale of the Norwegian ownership
alone,” Giske said in Oslo. “The best solution would be to
find an industrial partner that can develop SAS as an airline.
We see big mergers in the European and international aviation
industry, and there are companies that would suit SAS well.”  SAS, the owner of Scandinavian Airlines, was rescued by a
capital increase last year that saw the Nordic governments buy
stock to maintain their holdings. The company returned to profit
in the fourth quarter after saying previously that it was
unlikely to remain independent once earnings were restored.  SAS rose as much as 5.5 percent and was trading 3.6 percent
higher at 22.8 kronor as of 3:52 p.m. in  Stockholm . The shares
have advanced 1.3 percent this year, valuing the company at 7.5
billion kronor ($1.2 billion).  No talks  The airline, which is based in the Swedish capital, is not
holding any consolidation talks with any potential buyers, Sture Stoelen, head of  investor relations , said today in a telephone
interview. He reiterated that the carrier expects to make a
profit this year.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s second-largest airline and
a partner of SAS in the  Star Alliance , today declined to say if
it was interested in investing. Chief Executive Officer
Christoph Franz said March 17 the German airline will focus on
making its most recently integrated units profitable, and that
there is “very low pressure” to make new acquisitions.  Norway is in “no hurry” to sell the SAS stake and there
is “plenty of time” to do so, according to Giske, who declined
to comment on whether there are any interested parties. The
minister added that Sweden and Denmark had been informed of his
country’s decision, while declining say when.  The Swedish government said today it remains prepared to
sell its stake and that any change of ownership would be done in
conjunction with  Norway  and Denmark.  ‘Proper Time’  “Our plan from last year to reduce our ownership in SAS at
the proper time remains intact,” Swedish government spokeswoman
Victoria Ericsson said by phone.  “If and when we make a change
in ownership we’ll do it in dialogue with Norway and Denmark.”  A spokesman for the Danish government said there had been
no change of stance from January, when it said it would consider
a sale of the SAS holding as part of a strategy to cut the
 budget deficit  if a “good price” was offered.  SAS was formed in 1946 by three Scandinavian airlines, Det
Danske Luftfartselskab A/S of Denmark, Norway’s Det Norske
Luftfartselskap A/S, and Svensk Interkontinetal Lufttrafik AB,
founded by  Sweden ’s Wallenberg family.  In the same year the company made its first long-haul
flight to  New York  from Stockholm. The cooperation was deepened
in 1950, with SAS taking control of all airline operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  