-- 
SEC Seeks Dismissal of Gupta Challenge to Agency’s Action

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-02T00:34:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/sec-says-gupta-challenge-to-agency-action-should-be-dismissed.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
board member Rajat Gupta’s lawsuit against the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission should be dismissed, the agency said in
a filing, arguing the court isn’t a proper forum for his case.  The SEC said in federal court papers filed today in New
York that a district judge doesn’t have jurisdiction in the
dispute before any findings are made in its administrative
action against Gupta.  “Gupta is essentially seeking to convert potential
factual, legal and constitutional defenses to an administrative
proceeding into a claim that he is entitled to immediate”
review by a federal district judge, SEC lawyers Richard Humes
and Christopher Bruckmann said in court papers. Securities laws
specify that administrative proceedings can be reviewed by the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  after the SEC enters a final decision,
they said.  The SEC, in its administrative proceeding filed March 1 in
 Washington , accuses Gupta of giving information to Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
$5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs. The agency also alleges
Gupta told Rajaratnam about the New York-based bank’s quarterly
earnings and those of  Procter & Gamble Co ., where Gupta was also
a director. Gupta hasn’t been criminally charged.  On March 18, Gupta sued the SEC in federal court in
 Manhattan , denying the SEC’s allegations and seeking a  jury
trial . Gupta also asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is
presiding over his lawsuit, to bar the SEC from seeking civil
penalties against him and block the agency from pursuing its
administrative claims.  Administrative Trial  Brenda Murray, the SEC’s chief administrative law judge,
who is presiding over Gupta’s case, scheduled a July 18
administrative trial for Gupta, his lawyer,  Gary Naftalis  said
at a March 22 hearing before Rakoff. Anne Granfield, a
spokeswoman for Gupta, said Naftalis declined to comment today.  Gupta’s name has been mentioned frequently at Rajaratnam’s
federal court trial in Manhattan. Goldman Sachs Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  on March 23 testified at the trial that
he presented confidential information at board meetings attended
by Gupta. Prosecutors claim Gupta leaked some of that
information to Rajaratnam.  The jury has also heard a July 29, 2008, telephone call,
secretly recorded by the FBI, in which Gupta told Rajaratnam
that the Goldman board had discussed acquiring a commercial bank
or an insurance company.  Rajaratnam Trial  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders including Gupta. He denies wrongdoing,
saying he based trades on research.  Naftalis told Rakoff at last month’s hearing that
regulators should have sued in federal court instead of bringing
the administrative action. He also said Gupta was entitled to a
trial before a federal judge and jury, where the rules of
evidence would allow him to receive evidence from the SEC.  In such an SEC proceeding, an administrative judge is
allowed to consider hearsay, or evidence that may only be
indirect or speculative, Gupta’s lawyers have said in court
papers.  Humes told Rakoff that any appeal by Gupta of the SEC
action would go before a federal appeals court and not before a
district court judge.  “Even if he gets the ruling he is asking for, it doesn’t
stop the rest of the proceedings,” Humes said.  Jurisdiction  Rakoff asked lawyers on both sides to submit legal papers
regarding his jurisdiction in the SEC matter, as well as whether
the commission improperly brought the action. The judge noted
that the SEC has filed civil lawsuits in federal court in  New
York  against at least 24 people tied to the Galleon case.  “Twenty three of them are charged in federal court where
they have the right to a jury trial,” Rakoff said, according to
a court transcript.  “And one of them is not and is charged only in an
administrative proceeding,” Rakoff continued. “Does that
implicate the equal protection clause of the Constitution as
well as a jury trial clause of the Constitution?”  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-CV-1900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 