-- 
SEC Said to Probe ex-Berkshire Manager Sokol Over Lubrizol Stock Purchases

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-01T01:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/sec-said-to-probe-ex-berkshire-manager-sokol-over-lubrizol-stock-purchases.html
David Sokol , the  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  manager who resigned after disclosing that he bought stock 
in a firm whose takeover he helped negotiate, is being
investigated by U.S. regulators, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is probing whether
Sokol, 54, bought shares in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  on inside information
that Berkshire was considering buying the company, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the investigation
is secret. The SEC is seeking records from Sokol’s brokerage and
examining trading data from the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, the person said.  “I don’t believe that I did anything wrong,” Sokol told
CNBC today in a televised interview. “I can understand the
appearance issue, and that’s why we made it public.”  Sokol bought about 96,000 Lubrizol shares in January, less
than two weeks before recommending the company as a takeover
candidate, Berkshire Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Warren Buffett  said yesterday in a statement. Sokol had started talks
with Lubrizol in December, according to a regulatory filing last
week. The SEC will likely examine communications involving
Sokol, Buffett and Lubrizol officials, the person said.  Berkshire agreed to buy Wickliffe, Ohio-based Lubrizol, a
maker of engine additives, for $9 billion on March 14. The stock
purchases may have given Sokol a profit of about $3 million,
according to Buffett’s disclosure and data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Buffett didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail request for
comment sent to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 