-- 
Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia Pledge Cooperation on Third Markets

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-04-01T14:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/serbia-croatia-and-slovenia-pledge-cooperation-on-third-markets.html
Serbia,  Croatia  and Slovenia agreed
to pool their resources rather than compete on third markets as
all three economies eye opportunities in the Middle East, North
Africa and in the Russian Federation.  Top officials of three former Yugoslav republics made a
joint statement that listed construction, defense, auto, food
processing and wood industries as the fields where their
respective companies will try to jointly win contracts.  “Our countries plan to work together to identify
opportunities for cooperation on third markets,” Serbia’s
President  Boris Tadic , Croatia’s Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor
and Slovenia’s Premier Borut Pahor said in the statement today.  Targets will include Serb, Croat and Slovene construction
companies working together to win contracts related to the 2014
Winter Olympics in Sochi,  Russia , as “most of them are
individually not big enough to go on their own, especially when
it comes to securing bank guarantees” required in tenders.  Other joint efforts may include defense and infrastructure
projects in  Libya  and the Middle East, “once the situation
there stabilizes, which we hope will be soon,” Kosor said.  Trilateral Gathering  The gathering at a former royal summer residence near
Belgrade was their second trilateral gathering focusing on
business opportunities, as their rapprochement continues
following the 1990s wars. Slovenia is already in the European
Union, Croatia hopes to join in 2012, while Serbia is yet to
become an official candidate for membership.  They also agreed to exchange business intelligence and pool
the resources of their trade and diplomatic representatives
around the world.  Serbia’s Defense Minister Dragan Sutanovac said earlier
this year the country hopes plans to clinch a $400 million
contract in  Kuwait  to upgrade 180 battle tanks that the former
 Yugoslavia  sold to the Gulf country two decades ago. Defense
companies from Slovenia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia may join
the work, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  