-- 
South Korean Inflation Climbs, Record Exports Add Pressure for Rate Rise

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-01T03:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/south-korean-inflation-climb-record-exports-add-pressure-for-rate-rise.html
South Korean inflation climbed to
the highest level in 29 months and exports reached a record in
March, adding pressure for another interest-rate increase.  The consumer-price index rose 4.7 percent from a year
earlier, accelerating from a 4.5 percent pace in February,
Statistics  Korea  said in a statement today. Exports jumped 30.3
percent to $48.6 billion, according to another government report.  Costlier oil and food have stoked inflationary pressures in
South Korea, where consumer-price growth has exceeded the
central bank’s 4 percent ceiling since the start of the year.
Officials face the need for higher rates even as  Japan ’s
strongest earthquake on record threatens to disrupt Asian trade.  “Prices are rising quickly and exports are growing
impressively, so the central bank will likely carry on raising
rates every two months,” said Oh Suk Tae, an economist at SC
First Bank Korea Ltd. in Seoul. “The won will probably see more
upward pressure, with the authorities less willing to limit the
gain because of imported inflation.”  The won was little changed at 1,096.85 per dollar in Seoul
at 11:02 a.m and has risen about 2.5 percent in the past month,
the most in  Asia , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
strengthening currency can help pare the cost of imported goods.
The Kospi stock index rose 0.1 percent.  The climb in consumer prices last month was the fastest
since October 2008 and compares with the median estimate for a
4.8 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists.
Prices advanced 0.5 percent from February. The median estimate
for export growth from a year earlier in a separate survey was
20.1 percent.  Resilient Exports  While the won has outpaced peers recently, the currency’s
2.8 percent rise in the past year is the lowest among major
Asian currencies apart from  India ’s rupee and the Hong Kong
dollar, which is pegged to its U.S. counterpart. That’s helped
competitiveness at companies such as  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South
Korea’s biggest automaker, in a nation where exports are
equivalent to about half of the economy.  The value of overseas shipments reached a record last month
“despite the Middle East crisis and Japan’s earthquake,” the
Ministry of Knowledge Economy said today. Exports to Japan
jumped 34.7 percent from March 1 through March 20 compared with
a year earlier, it said.  Overseas shipments may be hurt if disruptions at Japanese
factories limit the supply of parts used by South Korean
manufacturers, Han Jin Hyun, director general for trade at the
ministry, said today.  The magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami in Japan on
March 11 left more than 28,000 people dead or missing. It also
triggered a nuclear crisis by crippling an atomic power plant.  The temblor contributed to a slide in South Korean  consumer
confidence  to the lowest level in almost two years in March.
Manufacturers’ confidence for April fell from a five-month high.  Quickening Inflation  The  Bank of Korea  targets inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent through 2012 and aims for the midpoint of the range in
the medium term. The central bank said two days ago that
consumer-price pressures will likely grow, driven by an economic
recovery, wage gains and the rise in oil and commodity prices.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and the policy board raised the
benchmark rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent
on March 10, following an increase of the same amount in January.
They began raising the rate from a record low last year, adding
a quarter point each in July and November.  South Korea  is one of eight Asian economies to have
tightened monetary policy last month as the region fights price
pressures. India,  Thailand , the  Philippines ,  Taiwan  and Vietnam
also raised rates in March, while  China  and  Malaysia  told
lenders to set aside more cash as reserves.  Food Costs Rise  Core prices, which exclude oil and food, rose 3.3 percent
in March from a year earlier. Prices for agricultural, dairy and
fisheries goods increased 14.9 percent, today’s report showed.
Oil products climbed 15.3 percent.  The expected inflation rate over the next year rose to 3.9
percent in March from 3.7 percent in February, according to
central bank survey last month. President  Lee Myung Bak  said in
January that consumer-price growth should be contained at 3
percent to protect families on low incomes.  Imports climbed 27.9 percent to $45.5 billion, today’s
report showed. The  trade surplus  was $3.1 billion. Shipments to
China, the biggest buyer of South Korean goods, increased 9.2
percent in March from a year earlier, and exports to the U.S.
rose 13.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  