-- 
Southern Thai Storms Ease as Flooding Death Toll Climbs to 21

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-04-01T03:52:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/southern-thai-storms-ease-as-flooding-death-toll-climbs-to-21.html
Storms in southern  Thailand  eased
today as the death toll from flooding climbed to 21 and rubber
producers said losses may be double a previous estimate.  “We expect less and less rain,” government spokesman
 Panitan Wattanayagorn  said by phone today. The humanitarian
situation is “under control,” he said.  The deaths occurred in storms across eight southern
provinces since March 22 that forced airlines to cancel flights
to tourist destinations. The floods may cost the economy as much
as 15 billion baht ($494 million), the University of the Thai
Chamber of Commerce said March 30.  Thai rubber output will probably fall by 50,000 metric tons
because of flooding, up from a previous estimate of 20,000 tons,
Luckchai Kittipol, president of the Thai Rubber Association,
said by phone today. Exports may be delayed as workers can’t
travel to plants, some of which were damaged by water, he said.  “Customers will understand because this is natural
disaster,” he said. “We can’t do anything about it. We have to
help people now and deal with business later.”  The loss forecast of 50,000 tons is equivalent to 1.5
percent of the nation’s output last year, which was estimated at
3.25 million tons by the Kuala Lumpur-based  Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries . Thai production this year
may be 3.43 million tons, the group said in a March report.  Rubber Futures  Rubber futures in  Tokyo  declined for the first time in four
days, losing 0.6 percent to 429.5 yen a kilogram ($5,146 a
metric ton) as of 9:56 a.m. local time.  Damage wouldn’t exceed more than 50,000 rai (8,000
hectares) because the plantations can withstand flooding if the
water recedes quickly, the Department of Disaster Prevention &
Mitigation said on its  website . That’s equivalent to less than 1
percent of Thai rubber estates, according to data from the
Office of Agricultural Economics.  Shrimp exports may also be damaged because this is the peak
season for output, Nantawan Sakuntanak, director-general of the
 Department of Export Promotion , told reporters yesterday. That
may lead to shortages in domestic consumption as well, she said.  The government is assessing the impact on palm oil and
fruit, she said.  “Some plants may have to shut down from the severe
flooding and only half of the workers can come to work now,”
Nantawan said. “The raw materials may be spoiled. There may be
also delays in raw material shipments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  