-- 
SRA to Be Bought by Providence Equity for About $1.88 Billion, Filing Says

-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-04-01T15:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/sra-to-be-bought-by-providence-equity-for-about-1-88-billion-filing-says.html
SRA International Inc. (SRX) , the provider
of computer services to the U.S. government, agreed to be bought
by Providence Equity Partners LLC for $1.88 billion in cash.  Providence Equity will pay $31.25 a share, Fairfax,
Virginia-based SRA said today in a  regulatory filing . That’s a
10 percent premium to SRA’s closing price yesterday and more
than 50 percent higher than at the start of the year, according
to the statement.  SRA, which helps government agencies in areas such as
national security, disaster response planning and information
systems, started looking for a possible buyer in October.
Providence Equity last year hired Renato DiPentima, the former
chief executive officer of SRA, as a senior adviser.  “The government information services market is a highly
attractive area of investment for Providence,” Julie
Richardson, a managing director at Rhode Island-based
Providence, said in the statement.  Shares Rise  SRA rose $2.77, or 9.8 percent, to $31.13 at 10:19 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained
52 percent this year.  Founded in 1978, SRA employs 7,300 people. The company will
continue to be led by its existing management team under the
agreement. The companies said they expect to complete the deal
in the fiscal quarter beginning July 1. SRA has 30 days to
solicit other acquisition proposals, the companies said.  Providence Equity’s largest buyouts include the $15.3
billion takeover in 2006 of Danish telephone company TDC A/S, in
which it teamed up with Apax Partners Worldwide LLP, Blackstone
Group LP, KKR & Co. and Permira Advisers Ltd. It also
participated in the acquisition of Univision Communications Inc.
in 2007 for $12.3 billion.  DiPentima counsels Providence Equity on the government
technology industry and serves on the board of  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based Altegrity Inc., a Providence-owned company that
works with governments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  