-- 
Statoil Makes Norway's `Most Important' Find for 10 Years in Barents Sea

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-01T12:46:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/statoil-eni-advance-after-striking-oil-gas-in-norway-s-arctic.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  struck oil
and gas at the Skrugard prospect in the  Barents Sea , making what
may prove Norway’s biggest discovery in 10 years.  The discovery holds as much as 250 million barrels of
recoverable reserves, Statoil said in a  statement  today. That
may eclipse Eni’s nearby Goliat find, currently the largest off
Norway since 2000 with 240 million barrels of oil equivalent,
according to the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate . Statoil shares
rose to a a three-and-a-half-year high.  “This opens a new oil province that can provide additional
resource growth,” Tim Dodson, executive vice president for
exploration at Statoil, said in the statement, adding that the
find was the “most important” exploration event in  Norway  in a
decade.  The find follows a number of exploration failures in the
area. Skrugard was the third drilling result in the past four
months in the Barents Sea and followed two dry wells by Statoil
and Eni. Today’s find will help meet targets to maintain output
in Norway and make the development of a second gas hub in the
 Norwegian Sea  more likely. Statoil missed output targets last
year and has said a goal of keeping output in Norway at current
levels until 2020 is “ambitious.”  “Our persistence has paid off,” Gro Gunleiksrud Haatvedt,
Statoil’s head of exploration in Norway, said today at a press
conference in Stavanger. She couldn’t give an exact indication
of when output could start.“If we look at Goliat, that took 13
years, while if we look at the Norne discovery, it took six
years. We definitely aim to be closer to Norne.”  Statoil Gains  Statoil shares gained as much as 2.9 percent to 157.7
kroner, the highest since September 2008, and traded at 155
kroner as of 1:57 p.m. in Oslo. Eni climbed 0.9 percent to 17.48
euros in Milan.  “Such discoveries are typically valued at $3-$4 per
barrel,” John Olaisen, an analyst at Carnegie ASA, said in a
note to clients. “The discovery should be worth 1-2 kroner per
Statoil share, with an additional 1-2 kroner in potential. In
addition, the discovery opens up a new play in the region and
creates some optimism in exploration in Norway in general.”  Haatvedt said Statoil plans to build out the discovery “as
quickly as possible,” and said they see potential for a stand-
alone installation.  Statoil and partners including Total, GDF,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  Hess
Corp. (HES)  are hoping to find more natural gas to enable a second
liquefied natural gas plant at Melkoeya, the onshore production
facility near Snohvit. An  investment decision  is scheduled for
2013.  Exploration Well  Statoil plans to drill a delineation well in the area next
year, as well as another exploration well in the same license,
which is “very interesting and has a lot of potential,”
Haatvedt said. The company is currently considering the
possibility of drilling more wells in the area this year, she
said in a subsequent telephone interview.  The company is awaiting the results of the 21st licensing
round, which will be announced later this year and award blocks
near the Skrugard prospect, “with great anticipation,”
Haatvedt said.  Statoil owns 50 percent in the prospect, while Eni,  Italy ’s
biggest oil company, has 30 percent. Petoro AS, the company that
manages the Norwegian state’s oil and gas interests, owns the
remaining 20 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net 
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 