-- 
Pickles Criticizes Councils for Planning Demands That Stall Homebuilding

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-04-01T11:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/u-k-councils-making-unrealistic-demands-of-homebuilders-minister-says.html
Britain’s local councils, which have
gained greater planning authority under Conservative Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s government, are making “unrealistic”
demands from homebuilders in return for approving projects,
according to the housing minister.  Eric Pickles, Secretary of State for Communities and Local
Government, encouraged city and town councils to rein in their
use of Section 106, a law that obliges developers to offer
amenities like roads, parks and health centers around the areas
where they build.  “Councils should not oppose compromise in the essentials
necessary to make a development acceptable to local
communities,” Pickles said at a Home Builders Federation
conference in London yesterday. “We recognize that 106 has been
utterly unrealistic and we’re asking local authorities to
renegotiate some of the more unrealistic conditions.”  The U.K. faces a shortage of about 1 million homes by 2015,
with  London  the worst hit, property broker Savills Plc said last
week. The conservative-led government scrapped regional
homebuilding targets last year and instead offered incentives to
encourage councils to approve more housing development. They
include the New Home Bonus, which will match council-tax
payments for new homes in their districts for six years.  ‘Mixed Signals’  Alison Seabeck, housing spokeswoman for the opposition
 Labour Party , said Pickles’s comments contradict the
government’s plan to hand more decision-making power to local
authorities.  “The government are sending very mixed signals both to the
public and to developers,” Seabeck said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Announcements made by the chancellor in the
budget could potentially drive a further coach and horses
through the stated aims in the Localism Bill.”  The Localism Bill was introduced to Parliament on Dec. 13
and would empower residents and local-interest groups in Britain
to set the terms and conditions for development in their area.
The use of section 106 dents homebuilders profit margin, said
Kevin Cammack, an analyst at Cenkos Securities.  “The whole point about the localism agenda in relation to
section 106 is that it gives councils a massively greater choice
of what they request in return for the planning,” Cammack said.
Some demands are so onerous “that it’s tantamount to actually
not giving planning permission.”  In some parts of the U.K., the government plans to
intervene at a local level to promote growth. In his March 23
budget speech, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
announced 21 “enterprise zones” where expanding businesses
will be allowed to sidestep local planning controls.  Prime Minister David Cameron is encouraging businesses to
boost hiring as his government of Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats cuts thousands of state jobs to slash the country’s
record budget deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 