-- 
U.S. Army May Cut More Than $100 Million From Boeing Program

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-04-01T14:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/u-s-army-may-cut-more-than-100m-from-boeing-radio-program.html
The U.S. Army plans to stop funding
research and development of digital radios, a program now run by
 Boeing Co. (BA) , and instead will seek commercial off-the-shelf
equipment, an Army official said.  “We want to get out of the business of building radios,”
Colonel Jim Carpenter, networks division chief for the Army,
said in an interview. “We can’t afford to pay $300,000” apiece
for the Joint Tactical Radio System’s Ground Mobile Radios built
by Chicago-based Boeing, Carpenter said.  The Army still needs the programmable radios, which process
data as well as voice, for tanks, troop carriers and armored
vehicles “but we’re not going to pay $300,000 per radio,” he
said.  Instead, the Army will publish its requirements and ask
companies to conduct their own research and development and meet
the service’s needs, Carpenter said.  Boeing spokeswoman Cheryl Sampson declined to comment and
referred questions to the Pentagon.  The Joint Tactical Radio System was conceived in 1997 as a
family of radios that would work across the four military
services and be able to carry voice, data and images using
interchangeable software-driven frequencies. The program, now
estimated at $38 billion, was restructured in 2005 amid delays
and cost overruns.  Development costs of the ground-mobile version of the JTRS
built by Boeing have increased by 69 percent to $1.69 billion,
according to the Government Accountability Office’s March 29
 report  on Pentagon weapons. The development phase of the program
needs another $128 million, the GAO said. The overall program
cost is estimated by the Pentagon at $19.1 billion.  Off-The-Shelf Strategy  The Army plans to use the same off-the-shelf strategy for
other components of the Joint Tactical Radio System and the
service’s Warfighter Information Network - Tactical, or WIN-T, a
network that connects the smaller battlefield networks,
Carpenter said.  “Everything is fair game now,” he said.  The next phase of research and development of the WIN-T, by
 Falls Church , Virginia-based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , will
require more than $1 billion, according to the GAO.  Companies such as Melbourne, Florida-based  Harris Corp. (HRS)  and
Neuilly-Sur-Seine, France-based  Thales SA (HO)  already have developed
and supply some radios to the U.S. military based on stated
needs without receiving Pentagon funding for radio development.  New Business Model  The Army’s move to have suppliers fund the development is a
“different business model that industry has to adjust to,”
Lewis Johnston, vice president of advanced programs at Thales
Communications Inc., the U.S. arm of the company, said in a
phone interview. “We may have to allocate more independent
research and development dollars or reprioritize our research to
develop these products.”  Under the new approach, the Army may have to accept what is
commercially available or pay companies to modify radios to meet
specific military needs, Johnston said.  Thales supplies the Army with a version of the hand-held
JTRS compliant radio developed on its own in addition to being a
partner with General Dynamics on the hand-held radio program.  Boeing will have to determine if it can make a return on
investment without the Army’s funding for research and
development, Greg Giaquinto, a senior analyst at Forecast
International Inc., an aerospace and defense consulting firm in
Newtown, Conn., said in a phone interview.  “If there are technological challenges, they’re going to
need research and development dollars to iron out those
technical challenges,” he said.  As part of its new plan, the Army intends to hold periodic
tests and will invite suppliers of radio and network equipment
to bring gear that meets the military’s published requirements
to the proving grounds, Carpenter said.  “Once we select the ones that we think have legs to the
future that need to part of the network, we’ll then take those
and put them underneath a program,” Carpenter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net .
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 