-- 
U.S. May Allow More Sugar Imports on Tight Supply, Imperial Says

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-04-01T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/u-s-may-allow-more-sugar-imports-on-tight-supply-imperial-says.html
Imperial Sugar Co. (IPSU) , a U.S.
processor, said the government may increase its quota for
imports of the sweetener this month amid “tight” supplies.  The Department of Agriculture may allow more sugar from
overseas under a low-tariff quota by as much as 300,000 metric
tons, or 25 percent, in early April, said Patrick Henneberry, a
senior vice president at  Sugar Land , Texas-based Imperial. The
USDA may boost the limit by another 150,000 tons later this
year, he said.  “The USDA will have to add more sugar to the supply,”
Henneberry said in an e-mailed response to questions. The first
move may leave the market “too tight, as there were some supply
disruptions, but that could be solved by a secondary quota
increase.”  Raw-sugar prices have jumped 63 percent in the past year as
adverse weather slashed output. On ICE Futures U.S. in  New York ,
contracts for U.S. raw sugar are trading about 12 cents a pound
higher than global prices. That compares with an average premium
of about 9.7 cents in the past two years. The spread has widened
as cold weather damaged crops in Florida, the biggest sugar-cane
producer in the U.S.  Yearly Quota  The USDA sets the yearly quota based on an agreement with
the  World Trade Organization . Companies importing sugar within
the quota pay lower tariffs than after the limit is exceeded.
For the year started Oct. 1, the USDA set the quota at 1.21
million tons, said Ron Lord, the agency’s acting director for
the import program and export reporting division.  “We could see the USDA announcing the increase as early as
April 1,” Jack Roney, the director of economy and policy
analysis for American Sugar Alliance, said in a telephone
interview from Arlington, Virginia.  United States Sugar Corp. said in December unusually frigid
weather in  Florida  “severely damaged” the sugar-cane crop.  Last year, the USDA raised the amount of sugar that can be
bought under the low-tariff quota twice. The spread between U.S.
and global sugar prices jumped to as high as 18.51 cents on May
28.  Yesterday, Imperial Sugar rose 13 cents, or 1 percent, to
$13.34 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have dropped
14 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net .
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick McKiernan  at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 