-- 
Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Drops to Two-Year Low

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-01T17:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/u-s-payrolls-unexpectedly-climbed-216-000-in-march-unemployment-at-8-8-.html
The U.S. unemployment rate
unexpectedly dropped to a two-year low of 8.8 percent in March
as employers created more jobs than forecast, adding to evidence
of a recovery in the labor market.  Payrolls rose by 216,000 workers last month after a 194,000
gain the prior month, the Labor Department said today in
 Washington . Economists projected a March increase of 190,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. A
separate report today showed U.S. manufacturing expanded at
close to the fastest pace in seven years.  Stocks climbed as the figures showed the world’s largest
economy is weathering the highest energy prices in more than two
years. Treasuries pared losses after  William Dudley , president
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said the jobs data
shouldn’t change the central bank’s plans to buy $600 billion of
government securities through June.  “We have sustained economic growth in the U.S.,” said
 John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , who projected payrolls would climb by
220,000. Even so, “Removing stimulus isn’t in the cards at all
any time soon.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.7 percent to
1,335.4 at 1.08 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year note
fell to 3.46 percent after rising as high as 3.52 percent after
the jobs report. The yield was 3.47 percent yesterday.  “I don’t see any reason to pull back from that yet,”
Dudley said in response to reporters’ questions about the Fed’s
bond-buying program after a speech in  San Juan ,  Puerto Rico . In
his speech, he said the recovery is “still tenuous” and “far
from the mark” of the central bank’s goals of full employment.  Economists’ Estimates  Payroll estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 83 economists
ranged from gains of 150,000 to 295,000. The  unemployment rate 
was projected to hold at 8.9 percent, according to the survey
median.  Manufacturing expanded in March at about the same pace as
February, the strongest month since May 2004. The Tempe,
Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management said its
manufacturing index was 61.2 compared with 61.4 in February.
Readings greater than 50 signal expansion. The median forecast
of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 61.1.  While companies stepped up hiring, earnings and hours
stagnated, the Labor Department’s figures showed. Average hourly
earnings for production workers rose 0.8 percent over the past
six months, the smallest gain for such a period since 2004. The
increase for all workers was 0.7 percent, the weakest since
records began in 2006. Labor expenses account for about 60
percent of the cost of making a good or providing a service.  Returning Workers  “In conjunction with the increased pace of hiring, this
suggests that increasing numbers of returning jobless workers
may be settling for lower wages than they had earned before the
recession,”  David Resler , chief economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in  New York , said in a note to clients. “The
softness in this proxy for wages underscores our contention that
the  core inflation  is not likely to accelerate much.”  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said the gain in employment
suggests the Fed’s bond purchases have been effective.  “Their objective obviously is to improve the economy and to
create jobs but also to put a floor under the stock market, and
we know that’s working,” Gross said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The question
remains, when the Fed stops buying Treasuries, does the private
sector take the baton and run the last leg of the relay race? We
have doubts as to whether that remains the case.”  Fed Meeting  The Fed, after its latest policy meeting March 15, pledged
to continue its bond-purchase program in order to “promote a
stronger pace of economic recovery.” Policy makers said the
economy is on a “firmer footing” while acknowledging a rise in
commodity prices.  Record exports and gains in business and consumer spending
are prompting companies like Chrysler Group LLC and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) 
to boost staff. Other manufacturing reports today showed  China ’s
factories accelerated for the first time in four months, while
 India ’s grew for a 24th month. Russia’s factory output increased
to the highest in almost five years, and a gauge of
manufacturing in the euro region declined.  Chrysler, aiming for its first net profit since emerging
from bankruptcy in 2009, plans to hire 1,000 engineers and high-
tech workers for its small and midsized vehicles. The Auburn
Hills, Michigan-based company is also urging its dealers to hire
more salesmen and service workers to help boost sales by 32
percent this year.  Spring Market  “Hiring additional personnel in preparation for the spring
market is essential for success in 2011,” Peter Grady, vice
president of Chrysler’s network development and fleet, said in a
memo to dealers last month.  Kohl’s said this week that it plans to open a new e-
commerce distribution center in Edgewood,  Maryland , in July and
hire 1,200 workers over the next three years.  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, rose by
230,000 in March, more than the median 206,000 median forecast
in the Bloomberg survey, after a 240,000 increase in February.
The back-to-back gain was the biggest since February-March 2006.  The separate survey of households showed the size of the
 labor force  increased by 160,000 in March and employment grew by
291,000. That pushed the share of the population that is
employed up to 58.5 percent from 58.4 percent a month earlier.  Government Payrolls  Government payrolls decreased for a fifth straight month
in March, reflecting cuts at the local level. Factory payrolls
increased by 17,000 last month, while the construction industry
shed jobs.  Employment at service-providers rose 185,000 in March, the
most since May 2010. Temporary-help services companies added
28,800 workers, while retail employment increased 17,700.  Economic growth accelerated to a 3.1 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter of 2010 as  consumer spending  climbed by the
most in four years.  Oil prices that closed at $106.72 yesterday, the highest
since September 2008, may keep climbing should Middle East
political turmoil continue unabated, raising the risk that
consumer spending will slow.  U.S. companies are still trying to gauge the effects of the
March 11 earthquake in  Japan  and the subsequent nuclear crisis
on international supply chains. Toyota Motor Corp. expects
assembly interruptions that may affect North America plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  