-- 
U.S. Senate Plans April 5 Vote to Repeal Tax Compliance Rule

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-01T02:06:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/u-s-senate-plans-april-5-vote-to-repeal-tax-compliance-rule.html
The  U.S. Senate  plans an April 5
vote on repealing a tax-compliance requirement in last year’s
health-care overhaul and paying for the change by curbing
subsidies for health insurance.  Senate passage would send the bill to President  Barack Obama . White House officials have stopped short of threatening a
veto, while saying in a statement the administration “strongly
opposes” the offset to cover $21.9 billion in lost revenue
resulting from the repeal.  The House approved the same legislation 314-112 on March 3.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
announced the scheduled vote tonight. He also said the chamber
would vote on an amendment by Senator  Robert Menendez , a New
Jersey Democrat, that calls for a study of the impact the offset
would have on small businesses.  Both measures will require 60 votes to win Senate passage.  Slated to take effect in 2012, the health-care law’s 1099
provision, named after a tax form, requires businesses to report
more transactions to the  Internal Revenue Service  as a way to
prevent underreporting of income. Repeal of the provision
quickly became a top legislative priority for the small business
lobby, including the  National Federation of Independent
Business .  The pending legislation also would repeal a separate
provision that mandated similar information-reporting by
landlords.  Democrats and Republicans in Congress have agreed on the
need to repeal the measure, and Obama in his State of the Union
address called on lawmakers to act. Debate has centered on how
to make up for the revenue the provision is expected to generate
over the next decade.  The repeal bill offsets the revenue by requiring more
people to return overpayments of health-insurance subsidies when
their income becomes greater than the threshold used to
calculate the subsidy.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  