-- 
U.S. Bancorp’s Nelson Says Fed Window Mistaken as ‘Last Resort’

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-01T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/u-s-bancorp-s-nelson-says-fed-window-mistaken-as-last-resort-.html
U.S. Bancorp Treasurer Kenneth D. Nelson said the  Federal Reserve ’s discount window shouldn’t be
seen as a “last resort” because for years the central bank
encouraged lenders to use it to square positions at day’s end.  “We used the window a small number of times during what
everyone is referring to as the financial crisis, and not as a
vehicle of last resort, but as another funding option at the end
of the day,” Nelson said in a phone interview yesterday. “We
have been encouraged by the Fed to use the discount window.”  The central bank released about 29,000 pages of secret loan
documents yesterday under court order, almost three years after
Bloomberg LP first requested details of its unprecedented
support to banks during the financial crisis. The Fed argued
that revealing which banks tap the discount window might attach
a stigma and stir depositor runs or roil markets.  The Fed started encouraging the window’s use more than a
decade ago and continued to do so during the crisis, Nelson said.
U.S. Bancorp, the sixth-largest  U.S. bank  by deposits, borrowed
$1.55 billion overnight on Sept. 12, 2007, the Fed records show.  “Twenty or 30 years ago there might have been some sort of
a reluctance to use it but certainly not in recent history,”
said Nelson, who’s been the treasurer at the Minneapolis-based
bank since March 2008. “At least 10 years ago they encouraged
us and said there is no stigma.”  ‘Nothing Special’  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Bank of
 China  Ltd.’s New York branch also said their banks’ borrowing
from the Fed was routine. New York-based JPMorgan drew at least
$5.9 billion from the discount window over six months during the
height of the financial crisis, while  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America tapped the window two more times in August
2007 than previously disclosed.  There was “nothing special” about the Fed loan to the
Bank of China unit, said Dale Zhu, the New York-based head of
the division’s treasury. The banking company is China’s third-
largest lender by market value and partly government-owned.  “It was just routine borrowing, some of the payments that
should have come to us, did not come to us,” Zhu said in a
telephone interview.  In August 2007, Bank of America, JPMorgan and Wachovia Corp.
said they borrowed $500 million each from the window “to take a
leadership role in demonstrating the potential value of the
Fed’s primary credit facility and to encourage its use by other
financial institutions.”  Awaiting Payments  The main function of the discount window is to be a
“backup source of short-term funds for generally sound
depositary institutions,” according to the Fed’s website.  Nelson said U.S. Bancorp sells excess funds “every single
day of the year” to banks that may be unable to access the
capital markets or other sources of liquidity. If those banks
fail to transfer the necessary funds by the end of the day, the
lender turns to the Fed, he said.  “We could be expecting a wire in from some large bank and
that bank fails on that trade,” Nelson said. “If that happened,
then we would need to go out and cover our position at the
discount window.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 