-- 
London Tube Won’t Have Mobile-Phone Service Before Olympics Games in 2012

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-01T10:10:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/huawei-advised-that-london-underground-project-won-t-go-ahead.html
The  London Underground  won’t have
mobile-phone service in time for the Olympic Games in 2012,
after operators including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  ended the project.  The U.K.’s four main mobile-phone operators and units of
 Thales SA (HO)  and Huawei Technologies Co. abandoned the attempt to
build the network on deep lines including the Jubilee line
before the London Olympics next summer.  The London Underground, known locally as the Tube, carries
3 million passengers a day and is the world’s oldest below-
ground railway. Mobile-phone service is available on underground
railways in cities including Paris and Hong Kong.  “We are disappointed that it will not be possible to
deliver such services in time for next year’s Olympic Games,”
Vodafone, Everything Everywhere,  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2, and
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s  3 unit  said in a joint statement.  Huawei, the world’s second-largest maker of phone network
equipment had agreed to donate some of the equipment as part of
the deal, according to two people familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified.  “Huawei has been advised that the London Underground
project will not go ahead at this time,” the Shenzhen, China-
based company said in an e-mailed statement. “The reliability
of our products was fully recognized by the customer.”  Transport for London , which runs the tube network, said the
project needed to be funded by the mobile operators, who were
not able to agree a “viable proposal.” London Underground is
asking the companies to tender for Wi-Fi Internet services for
as many as 120 stations in time for the Olympics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  