-- 
UBS Aims to Double China Revenue in 4 Years, Expand Hiring

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-04-01T10:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/ubs-aims-to-double-china-revenue-in-four-years-expand-hiring.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
aims to double revenue from China in three to four years,
according to the co-head of the company’s operations in the
Asia-Pacific region.  The bank also plans to double its workforce in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy to more than 1,000 people in five
years, which will include tripling its research staff there to
100, UBS’s Alex Wilmot-Sitwell said today in an interview. He
didn’t say what annual revenue in China currently stands at.  UBS ranked third in advising Chinese companies on equity
and equity-linked offerings overseas in 2010, having held the
top spot in the previous four years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The bank was fourth in advising on mergers and
acquisitions involving Chinese companies, up from 11th in 2009.  “We have a fairly aggressive hiring plan for 2011 and
we’re already 60 percent completed on that,” Wilmot-Sitwell
said. “We have built our business in real scale already, which
gives us tremendous confidence as we look to make our investment
decisions going forward.”  The bank has licenses to operate equities business in
 China , as well as wealth management and asset management, and
set up a local investment bank in 2006 with Beijing Securities
Co., where UBS has management and board control, Wilmot-Sitwell
said. Its UBS Securities Co. unit is the only “fully licensed”
domestic securities firm run by a global bank in China, he said.  Rising Competition  China began permitting foreign investment in its securities
industry in 2003.  CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
formed  investment banking  ventures in China in 2003 and 2004.
Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. also have joined with local partners in the
past two years.  “There are more licenses being granted and more people are
coming into the market,” Wilmot-Sitwell said. “Therefore, we
won’t enjoy the same sort of unique status we’ve had in the
past.”  In  Asia , excluding  Japan , UBS plans to slow its headcount
growth to 20 percent this year following last year’s 25 percent
increase, Matthew Hanning, head of investment banking for Asia-
Pacific, told reporters today in Hong Kong.  Overall, investment banking fees in the region have risen
18 percent so far in 2011 from a year earlier, six times the
global average, Hanning said. Asia excluding Japan accounted for
15 percent of UBS’s global fee income last year, compared with 4
percent a decade ago, he said.  Equity capital markets accounted for about two-thirds of
the $9 billion of total investment banking fees in Asia outside
Japan last year, according to Hanning.  There is “an enormous rise in levels of activities and
that is the secular trend going on in Asia. Lots of companies
are maturing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  