-- 
Lundin Poison Pill Proves Perfume to Deal Arbitragers: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-01T20:39:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/lundin-poison-pill-proves-perfume-to-deal-arbitragers-real-m-a.html
After  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  rejected
two takeovers last month and adopted a poison pill, traders are
betting more than ever the copper producer may get a bid that
hands its owners a windfall of more than half a billion dollars.  Lundin, a Toronto-based copper and zinc miner, climbed 3.9
percent above  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN) ’s unsolicited bid of C$7.75
a share through yesterday after rejecting the offer on March 20
and terminating an agreement with  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)  this week.
The amount that Lundin is trading over the Equinox offer is the
largest of any Canadian deal of more than $500 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, even after it enacted a
shareholder rights plan to thwart hostile acquirers.  Mining companies are competing to secure assets around the
world after a dearth of new projects and demand from China drove
copper prices to a record this year. Lundin, which owns a stake
in one of the largest copper mines in  Africa , would cost $5.4
billion using the average premium in diversified mining deals in
the past five years and reward shareholders with a $558 million
profit, the data show.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
which owns the  copper mine  with Lundin, may be one of the
bidders willing to pay up, according to Austock Securities Ltd.  “I can see a bidding war emerging,” said Anna Kassianos,
an analyst at Austock Securities in Sydney. “There will be
potential bigger players with higher offers for Lundin. A large
miner or one aspiring to be a larger miner could pay that much
and it still wouldn’t be considered expensive.”  Shareholder Rights  Lundin’s shares advanced 3.5 percent to C$8.33 in Toronto.
Equinox slipped 0.5 percent to C$5.71.  Lukas Lundin, the company’s chairman, wasn’t available to
comment, according to spokeswoman Sophia Shane. Lundin’s Chief
Executive Officer Phil Wright didn’t respond to an e-mail
requesting comment.  Lundin’s shares climbed 6.1 percent, closing at the highest
level since June 2008 yesterday, since the company terminated
its proposed takeover by Inmet on March 29 and put a shareholder
rights plan into place. That left Lundin valued at C$4.68
billion ($4.83 billion) based on its share price of C$8.05, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  That was 13 percent higher than its average price before
Toronto-based Inmet announced its all-share offer on Jan. 12 at
a 2.2 percent premium. Lundin is now also worth more than
Equinox’s cash or stock offer, announced on Feb. 28, which
values Lundin’s equity at about C$4.5 billion, the data show.  On March 20, Lundin rejected Equinox’s offer and said the
Perth-based company would take on too much debt to finance the
acquisition.  ‘Sweeten Our Bid’  Equinox has no immediate plans to increase its bid,  Craig Williams , the company’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview from  Los Angeles .  “Why would we sweeten our bid when there is no other
competing bid out there?” Williams said. “If there is a
competing offer from somewhere else, then we will consider our
position. We’re not going to bid against ourselves.”  Lundin on March 29 adopted a so-called poison pill that
allows the company to issue shares if a hostile bidder gains a
stake of more than 20 percent. Lundin said the moves give it
time to “identify, develop and negotiate alternatives.”
Chairman Lundin also said the company will pursue new options to
improve  shareholder value  and get a “proper premium.”  Using the 20-day average for Lundin’s shares prior to
Inmet’s offer in January, the average takeover premium of 26
percent that acquirers have historically paid in the  mining
industry  would value the stock at C$8.98, the data show.  ‘Hold Fort’  That would give Lundin a market capitalization of about
C$5.22 billion, or C$541 million more than yesterday.  “Lundin shareholders should hold fort,” said John Goldsmith, a Toronto-based  fund manager  at Montrusco Bolton
Investments Inc., which oversees about C$4.9 billion, including
Lundin shares. A 20 percent to 25 percent premium is “a lot
closer to what Lundin management was expecting,” he said.  Lundin may attract more offers as copper prices increase.
The metal, used in everything from electric cables to plumbing
and lightning rods, climbed 21 percent in the past year through
yesterday after demand rose in  China , the world’s largest user.
Global demand exceeded production by 51,973 tons in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange traded at a record $10,190 a ton on Feb. 15. The metal
will average $9,750 this year and $10,150 in 2012, according to
the median of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Mining
companies haven’t kept pace with demand because reserves are
becoming harder to find and the quality of ore is declining,
meaning less copper is extracted from each ton of rock.  Tenke Mine  Lundin, which reported a loss of $957 million in 2008, may
post a record $491 million in net income this year, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Potential bidders are eyeing Lundin’s stake in the Tenke
Fungurume copper and cobalt project in the southern region of
the Democratic Republic of Congo, according to Keith Moore, an
event-driven strategist at MKM Partners LP in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Lundin owns about a quarter of the mine. It was completed
in 2009 and is scheduled to produce 290 million pounds of copper
this year. The project has an expected mine-life of more than 40
years, Lundin’s  website  said, longer than projections for its
other operations, including the Neves-Corvo copper and zinc mine
in  Portugal  and mines in Sweden, Spain and Ireland.  “The crown jewel is the Tenke asset,” said Rick de los Reyes, a money manager at T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in Baltimore,
which oversees $482 billion.  ‘If Opportunities Come’  Freeport owns a 56 percent stake, while Gecamines, Congo’s
state-owned mining company, holds the remainder. Phoenix-based
Freeport said Jan. 20 it’s evaluating expanding copper output in
Congo by as much as 200 million pounds within three years.  The company “is prepared to make acquisitions if
opportunities come to us,” though it’s not part of Freeport’s
strategy, CEO Richard Adkerson said at a mining analyst
conference Feb. 28 in Hollywood,  Florida .  “Freeport is probably the most logical buyer,” MKM’s
Moore said. “This looks like it’s going to be a very successful
project so that would give them an increased percentage of any
profits that come out of the mine.”  Freeport spokesman Eric Kinneberg declined to comment. The
company’s shares slipped 0.9 percent to $55.08 on the  New York 
Stock Exchange.  ‘The Firepower’  Vale SA (VALE3)  of  Rio de Janeiro  may also be a potential suitor,
according to Sachin Shah, a special situations and merger
arbitrage strategist at Capstone Global Markets LLC in New York.  Roger Agnelli, Vale’s CEO, said on its Feb. 25 earnings
conference call with analysts that it is seeking additional
copper reserves in Congo and Zambia to help reach a production
goal of 1 million tons by 2015.  Vale spokeswoman Fatima Cristina declined to comment. The
company’s shares fell 0.6 percent to 47.13 reais in Sao Paolo.  “Equinox has successfully ended up putting the company in
play,” said Yemi Oshodi, managing director of M&A and special
situations trading at New York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC.
“Freeport has the wherewithal and the synergies to pay more.
I’m not sure that Equinox really has the firepower to pull off
this transaction.”  Overall, there have been 6,080 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $591.1 billion, a 17 percent increase from
the $503.7 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at +1-212-617-3143 or  scasey@bloomberg.net . 