-- 
Hungary Seeks to Protect Foreign-Currency Mortgage Holders

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-04-01T14:15:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/hungary-seeks-to-protect-debtors-from-rate-swings-for-fixed-time.html
Hungary is seeking an agreement with
lenders to protect people with foreign-currency denominated
loans and prevent mass evictions as a result of a weakening in
the forint.  “The forint’s significant weakening against the Swiss
franc has swept many borrowers to the brink of insolvency,” the
 Economy Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. “The government
wishes to help shield borrowers from potential negative changes
in the exchange rate for a determined period of time.”  The forint has weakened 11.2 percent against the Alpine
currency over the past year and hit a record low of 224.9 forint
per franc in December. Most franc-denominated mortgages were
registered when the forint traded at 160 to 180 per franc.  Hungarian households held 2.3 trillion forint ($122
billion) in Swiss-franc denominated mortgages at the end of
February, up from 822 billion forint at the end of February
2007, central bank  data  showed. Non-performing loans at local
lenders such as OTP Bank Nyrt,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and Foldhitel
es Jelzalogbank Nyrt. rose by more than 3 percentage points to
10.5 percent of total loans in the nine-months through September
2010, the central bank said.  “I expect negotiations between the government and the
banking sector will finish by the end of April,” Daniel Gyuris,
head of OTP’s mortgage unit and board member of the Bank
Association, said in a phone interview. “If the government sets
up the necessary legal framework, the bank sector will be ready
to implement the agreed measures as of July 1.”  Government Moratorium  The government’s extended moratorium on the eviction of
non-paying mortgage holders expires on July 1.  The agreement, which can’t have a “negative effect” on
the budget, should help accelerate lending and ensure “stable”
demand for  government bonds , the ministry said.  The mortgage relief plan may fix the forint’s  exchange rate 
at below 200 forint per franc, state news service MTI reported
March 29, citing Antal Rogan, head of parliament’s Economy
Committee.  Monthly repayments on such mortgages would be based on an
exchange rate “which is lower than the current one” and the
difference would be booked on a separate forint account carrying
a state guarantee and a payment deadline of five years, Rogan
said, according to MTI.  The proposal to fix the forint’s exchange rate for a period
of up to four years, as is currently proposed, is acceptable for
banks, Gyuris said.  The government may consider again allowing euro-denominated
household mortgages to boost lending after banning them last
year, the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net 
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  