-- 
Vale's Main Shareholders' Group Seeking Replacement for CEO Roger Agnelli

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-04-01T02:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/vale-shareholder-group-says-it-s-seeking-replacement-for-ceo-roger-agnelli.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world´s largest iron-
ore producer, said its controlling shareholders are seeking to
replace Chief Executive Officer Roger Agnelli after he was
criticized for not spending enough on some Brazilian projects.  The Valepar SA shareholder group is hiring an international
recruitment consultant to help draw up a list of possible
candidates to succeed Agnelli, 51, once his term expires in May,
according to a statement today from Rio de Janeiro-based Vale.  Agnelli´s potential ouster follows months of speculation
about his position under President  Dilma Rousseff , after the
Brazilian government criticized Vale for not investing more in
the country.  Brazil , which holds direct and indirect stakes in
the company, argued that Agnelli should spend more in the steel,
shipbuilding and fertilizer industries to create jobs instead of
focusing on supplying  iron-ore  and other raw materials to  China .  “For the government, the issue is that Vale was privatized
and has been doing pretty well, has been growing a lot, but now
they want Vale to give more back to Brazil,” Erasto Almeida, an
analyst with the Eurasia Group in  New York , said in a telephone
interview on March 24. “It’s more like, ‘we want Vale to do
more in terms of helping to generate jobs in Brazil, helping
with the government’s industrial policies’.”  Brazil pension funds Funcef, Previ, Petros and Funcesp hold
49 percent of Valepar SA. Other shareholders of Valepar include
Bradespar SA, the holding company of Banco Bradesco SA, Mitsui &
Co. Ltd. and BNDESPAR, a subsidiary of the Brazilian state-owned
development bank BNDES, which also has a direct stake.  Golden Shares  Apart from its presence through BNDES and the pension funds
of state-owned banks, the Brazilian government also owns 12 so-
called golden shares in Vale that give it veto powers over
certain decisions such as changing the location of the company´s
headquarters or its corporate purposes.  Vale gained 32 centavos, or 0.7 percent, to 47.39 reais in
 Sao Paulo  and has declined about 2.3 percent this year.  Vale fired 1,300 employees, said that 5,500 more would be
put on paid leave and pared its  investments  by about half to $9
billion from an announced $14.2 billion during the global
recession two years ago. The decision was criticized by then-
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , who said the
company had “no reason” to cut spending because it had “lots
of cash” to help the domestic economy resume growth.  Agnelli also faced criticism from the Brazilian government
for buying ships in China when Brazil was setting up its own
shipyards. The former president urged Vale to spend more on
fertilizers and between April and September of 2009 he asked the
company to build steelworks at least half a dozen times.  ‘Not Irritated‘  “I’m not irritated with Vale,” Lula said in an interview
with Brazilian financial daily  Valor Economico  at the time.
“I’ve insisted, systematically, that Vale builds steelworks in
Brazil. Vale can no longer afford the luxury of just being an
iron-ore exporter.”  President Rousseff also complained about Vale’s focus on
selling raw materials abroad as Lula’s Cabinet Chief, saying
that the company should be subject to government “controls.”  “I cannot agree with the fact that Vale exports iron ore
to China at the same time that we import crude steel and
products,” Rousseff  told  Epoca magazine last year. “That’s not
a relationship that interest us as a nation,” she said.  Belo Monte Project  More recently, Brazil’s Energy and Mining Minister Edison
Lobao said that Vale was one of the companies interested in
becoming a partner of the Belo Monte dam project, according to
local newspapers. The company said March 25 that it was still
assessing the project and that it hasn’t yet made a decision.  Vale reacted to the government’s demands by increasing some
investments in the steel and fertilizers businesses. The company
opened a steel joint venture in Rio de Janeiro state with
ThyssenKrupp AG in June and will start developing two new steel
projects later this year. The company also spent $5.8 billion
during 2010 in buying fertilizer assets as part of a plan to
almost triple potash and phosphate rock output by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  