-- 
Veterans Agency to Deploy Open Source Electronic Health Records

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-04-01T16:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/veterans-agency-to-deploy-open-source-electronic-health-records.html
The Veterans Affairs Department,
which operates one of the largest medical systems in the world,
is moving ahead with plans to modernize its electronic health-
records using open-source software.  The agency today issued a draft request for a contractor to
build and manage a network of software developers to upgrade the
28-year-old Veterans Integrated System Technology Architecture,
or Vista, according to a Veterans Affairs news release.  U.S. hospitals and medical practices are preparing to
digitize their health records, often using commercial products.
The 2009 economic stimulus package, signed by President  Barack Obama , included $30 billion to promote the adoption of
electronic health records.  The Veterans Affairs Department plans to start converting
to a new open-source Vista this summer and expects that other
organizations will help develop, use and manage the system,
according to the release. Open-source software is publicly
available and may be shared with other organizations at no
charge.  “Vista is an important asset for VA, and for the nation,”
said Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki, in a statement.
He said the move toward open source will help “ensure that VA
clinicians have the best tools possible.”  Roger Baker, Veterans Affairs assistant secretary for
information and technology, said the agency also wants to
“ensure that vendors of proprietary products can easily and
confidently integrate their products” with Vista so the agency
can purchase and use them in its facilities.  Used Globally  The department’s electronic health-records system is used
in 153 VA hospitals and more than 800 outpatient clinics in the
U.S. It also is used by the Indian Health Service and more than
50 other hospitals globally, the agency said.  Shinseki told a Senate Appropriations subcommittee
yesterday that he and U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  had
agreed to establish a “joint common platform” for electronic
health records. The two officials are due to meet again in early
May, he said.  Shinseki said the Defense Department understands the
capabilities of its existing electronic health records system,
known as Ahlta, “are not going to be what they need in the
future, so they’re looking for a new direction.”  The two agencies have faced criticism for running separate
electronic health record networks that serve an overlapping
population of U.S. service members and veterans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  