-- 
Vitro Creditors Tell Judge to Put U.S. Units Into Involuntary Bankruptcy

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-01T19:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/vitro-creditors-tell-judge-to-put-u-s-units-into-involuntary-bankruptcy.html
Vitro SAB subsidiaries should be put
into bankruptcy in the U.S. after the Mexican glassmaker
defaulted in 2009 and failed to reach a restructuring deal,
creditors said.  A group of Vitro bondholders urged U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Russell Nelms in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , at a court hearing today to
approve their involuntary bankruptcy petitions filed against
U.S. units of the company.  “They have debts they can’t pay,” Christopher Shore, a
lawyer for a group of creditors, told Nelms during closing
arguments. “These cases need to be in Chapter 11. We need to
get down to the business of figuring out a way to restructure
these debts.”  Vitro, which inscribed the names on the Vietnam Veterans
Memorial in  Washington , according to its website, opposes the
involuntary petitions and has been fighting creditors over its
default on $1.2 billion in bonds. U.S. subsidiaries issued
guarantees on the debt.  Vitro makes glass containers and flat glass for the
construction and automotive industries. It defaulted as demand
for cars, trucks and new homes dropped. Four creditors,
including Davidson Kempner Capital Management LLC, filed the
involuntary bankruptcy petitions in November. Their law firm
said in a February court filing that they represent a group
holding more than $770 million in notes.  Creditors also have filed involuntary bankruptcy petitions
against the company in  Mexico , according to court papers.  Nelms adjourned today’s hearing without saying when he will
rule.  Vitro tried to restructure through a bankruptcy filing in
Mexico. A Mexican judge dismissed the bankruptcy, saying the
petition and plan because it didn’t meet requirements under
Mexican law, Vitro said in court papers. Vitro is appealing the
decision.  Andrew Leblanc, a lawyer for Vitro, asked Nelms at the
hearing to dismiss the involuntary petitions, saying creditors
must meet strict requirement to win approval and haven’t done
so. Forcing a company into bankruptcy is “one of the most
extreme acts a judge can do,” he said.  In court papers, Vitro also argued that the U.S. units are
paying their debts as they come due and that the involuntary
bankruptcy was filed as a way to gain leverage over the parent
company in negotiations.  “They’re paying everything but these guarantee
obligations,” Leblanc said.  Vitro wants to find a buyer for its U.S. businesses if
Nelms orders them into bankruptcy, Alejandro Sanchez, Vitro’s
legal director, said in an interview. The operations would face
liquidation without a buyer.  The case is In re Vitro Asset Corp., 10-47470,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Texas (Fort Worth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  