-- 
Vitro Wants Buyer for U.S. Business If Ruled in Chapter 11

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-01T16:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/vitro-to-seek-buyer-for-u-s-business-if-ruled-in-chapter-11-1-.html
Vitro SAB, the Mexican glassmaker
that defaulted on $1.2 billion of bonds, will seek a buyer for
its U.S. business if a  Texas  bankruptcy judge orders the units
into Chapter 11.  The U.S. operations have few assets, including two small
glass processing plants and distribution networks, and would
face liquidation without a buyer, said Alejandro Sanchez,
Vitro’s legal director, in an interview yesterday at the
company’s headquarters in San Pedro Garza Garcia, a suburb of
Monterrey. Vitro U.S. operations employ 3,000 and last year had
about $250 million in sales, he said.  “We’re looking for alternatives so it doesn’t have to be
liquidated,” Sanchez said. “If you have someone who’s willing
to invest, you give peace of mind to your workers, your
suppliers and your customers.”  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Russell Nelms began a hearing
yesterday in  Fort Worth , Texas, at the request of creditors,
including Davidson Kempner Capital Management LLC and Elliott
Management Corp., to force Vitro’s U.S. units into bankruptcy.
The hearing may conclude today and a decision could come as soon
as April 4, Sanchez said.  Vitro defaulted on about $1.5 billion of debt, including
the U.S. bonds, in February 2009 after racking up derivative
losses of more than $300 million and because of a global
recession that slashed demand for auto and construction glass.
Creditors also have petitioned a Mexican court to declare the
company in  Mexico ’s equivalent of Chapter 11.  ‘Nothing Left’  The legal action in the U.S. won’t recover anything for
bondholders, Sanchez said. Vitro’s assets in the U.S. will only
cover guaranteed loans, such as from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
suppliers, customers and the $9 million that Vitro has pumped
into the money-losing operations since November, he said.  “There will be nothing left,” he said. “We’re literally
talking peanuts.”  Vitro produces flat glass in Mexico and sells replacement
windshields and glass for buildings through the U.S. units. A
process to find a buyer would be open and subject to a bidding
process, Sanchez said. By avoiding liquidation, Vitro may have
an opportunity to repurchase the business once the company’s
financial difficulties are resolved, he said.  “This is a business that’s fundamental for selling our
products in the U.S.,” he said.  Ruling Next Week  In Mexico, Sanchez said an appeals judge in Monterrey may
rule as early as next week on the company’s voluntary bankruptcy
petition and could declare Vitro in bankruptcy. Lawyers for
bondholders said that a different federal judge in Monterrey
also may rule next week on the creditors’ involuntary bankruptcy
petition.  The first case to gain a ruling for bankruptcy will likely
take precedent because there can be only one proceeding, Sanchez
said. Either in the voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy, the
creditors and the company will have to reach a restructuring
agreement under the supervision of a court-appointed mediator,
he said.  Under Mexican bankruptcy law, if an agreement can’t be
reached in a maximum of nine months, the company would face
liquidation.  The case is In re Vitro Asset Corp., 10-47470,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Texas (Fort Worth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  