-- 
Volcom, Men at Work, Oil Cleanup: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-01T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/volcom-men-at-work-oil-cleanup-patent-intellectual-property.html
Roc Nation LLC , the entertainment
company founded by Shawn “Jay-Z” Carter, was sued for
trademark infringement by a  California  competitor.  According to the complaint filed March 29 in federal court
in  Santa Ana , California, Roc Nation is accused of infringing
the “stone” trademark belonging to Volcom Inc., of  Costa Mesa ,
California. The mark is a black and white inverted diamond,
according to court papers.  Volcom says it has been using this mark since 1991 for a
range of products including music, sound recordings and
headphones. It also used the mark as part of its logo for a
subsidiary unit -- Volcom Entertainment -- which sponsors bands,
offers live performances and sells recorded music.  The company objects to an inverted diamond logo used by Roc
Nation since 2009. Volcom said that although it has informed
 Beverly Hills , California-based Roc Nation that it infringes,
the company “refuses to cease its infringing use of the
inverted diamond.”  The logo is used without authorization on headphones and
for the advertising, marketing and packaging of some Roc Nation
products, potentially confusing the public, according to court
papers.  Volcom asked the court to bar Roc Nation from the use of
the mark, and for an order for the destruction of all products
and promotional materials that infringe. The company also seeks
money damages, and asked that they be tripled to punish Roc
Nation for its alleged infringement.  Additionally, Volcom asked the court to order Roc Nation to
pay for the cost of corrective advertising, and for awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Roc Nation didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Volcom is represented by  Joel A. Kauth  of  Kauth Pomeroy
Peck & Bailey LLP  of  Irvine , California.  The case is  Volcom Inc. (VLCM) , v. Roc National LLC,
8:11-cv-00489-JST-FFM, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  Aeropostale Accused of Infringing ‘Lower East Side’ Trademark  Aeropostale Inc., the New York-based clothing retailer, was
sued for trademark infringement by a  New York  resident.  Robert G. Lopez accuses the retailer of infringing his
“Lower East Side” trademark. According to the complaint filed
March 24 in federal court in New York, Lopez has been selling
clothing marked with this brand name since 1997. The clothing is
sold and promoted through his www. lesclothing.com  website and at
several retail locations in lower  Manhattan .  He advertises his clothing through what he calls “grass
root street marketing” including painted street murals and
photo shoots of customers who buy his clothing, Lopez said in
his pleadings. He holds New York state trademark registration
for “Lower East Side,” according to court papers.  Lopez said he first saw hooded sweatshirts bearing his mark
without authorization sold by Aeropostale at its various teen-
oriented stores. He said he’s injured by the retailer’s actions
and the public is confused about whether the Aeropostale
products have an affiliation with his.  He asked the court to bar Aeropostale’s use of his mark,
and for an order for the destruction of all infringing products
and promotional materials. Additionally, he seeks money damages
and extra damages to punish Aeropostale for its actions, and
requested the court award him litigation costs and attorney
fees.  Aeropostale didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Lopez sued J. Crew Inc. for infringing the “Lower East
Side” trademark Jan. 21. New York-based J. Crew has not yet
responded to the complaint, according to Bloomberg data.  That case is Lopez. v. J.Crew Inc., 1:11-cv-00450, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York.  Lopez isn’t represented by counsel.  The case is Robert G. Lopez v.  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , 1:11-cv-
02047, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Wichita Wings Trademark Dispute Ends, Mark to Be Shared  Two Wichita, Kansas-area businessmen have ended a dispute
over the trademarks to a defunct  soccer club  by agreeing to
share the marks, the Wichita Eagle  reported .  The marks are for the Wichita Wings soccer club, which was
formed in 1970, according to the newspaper.  A new team using the marks and known as the Wichita Wings 2
will begin playing in a local arena in 2011, the newspaper
reported.  The old logo will be retired, the newspaper said.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Men at Work Lose Bid to Reverse ‘Kookaburra’ Riff Ruling  Men at Work, the Australian band that won a Grammy award in
1983, lost a bid to reverse a court ruling that said a flute
riff in their song “Down Under” breached the copyright of the
1934 children’s song “Kookaburra Sits in The Old Gum Tree.”  A three-member panel of the Federal Court of  Australia  in
Sydney yesterday upheld a lower court decision under which
Larrikin Music Publishing Pty, owner of the “Kookaburra”
copyright, was awarded 5 percent of revenue the band earned from
the song.  The song, written by an Australian music teacher in 1932,
achieved fame when it was entered into a music competition
sponsored by the Girl Guides. “Kookaburra,” often sung as a
round, is still popular worldwide in the Girl Guide and Girl
Scouting movements.  Colin Hay, who co-founded Men at Work with Ron Strykert,
and EMI Music Publishing Australia Pty, the song publisher,
“are disappointed with the result,” Mark Bamford, a Sydney-
based partner at  TressCox Lawyers  who represented both, said in
an e-mailed statement. “If the application of copyright law
leads to a result like this, it’s time to rethink its modern
application.”  “Down Under” topped the charts in the U.S. and U.K.,
according to Billboard, and was the theme song for the
victorious Australia II yacht team in the America’s Cup in 1983,
the year the band won the Grammy for Best New Artist.  Published first in 1979, “Down Under” gained popularity
following a 1981 recording that added the flute riff, which the
judge found had been lifted from “Kookaburra.” Both
“Kookaburra” and “Down Under” are “iconic” Australian
songs, Federal Court Judge Peter Jacobson, said in the July 6
ruling determining the damages.  The “aim in adding the flute riff was to inject some
‘Australian flavor’ in the 1981 recording,” Jacobson wrote.
Greg Ham, the flautist on Men at Work, “deliberately reproduced
the relevant part of Kookaburra for the purpose,” according to
the ruling.  Hay had disputed the judge’s earlier finding of
infringement in a February 2010 open letter to the public.  “I believe what has won today is opportunistic greed,”
Hay wrote. “This ruling will have lasting repercussions, and I
suspect not for the better.”  Hay said he didn’t appropriate anything when he wrote the
song in 1978.  The appeal court also upheld Jacobson’s decision that
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s biggest airline, didn’t
infringe the copyright when it used “Down Under” in an
advertising campaign.  The appeal judges overturned Jacobson’s decision that other
recordings of “Down Under,” including the theme song for the
animated film “Finding Nemo,” also didn’t infringe the
copyright. The appeal court ordered Jacobson to reconsider the
claim.  EMI is owned by Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., a
private equity firm.  The case is Larrikin Music Publishing Pty v. EMI Songs
Australia Pty. NSD145. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  Italian Group Wins Raw-Wool Patent to Clean Oil Spilled at Sea  An Italian group was granted a patent for a method of
collecting oil spilled in the sea based on the water-repellent
qualities of raw wool.  The technology covered by the patent was developed by
Luciano Donatelli, Mauro Rossetti and Mario Ploner utilizing the
water-repelling properties of coarse wool, which can absorb 10
times its weight in oil, according to a presentation by Gruppo
Creativi Associati engineering society yesterday in Milan.  “We are able, in a fairly simple way, to recuperate a good
950 tons of oil, equal to 6,350 barrels, with 10 tons of greasy
wool because the same wool can be used at least 10 times over,”
Rossetti said. “The oil can then be processed straight away in
any refinery.”  The entrepreneurs began working on the project after
4.1 million barrels of crude spilled into the  Gulf of Mexico 
last year when  BP Plc (BP) ’s Deepwater Horizon rig exploded while
drilling a well, causing the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S.
history. BP has reserved more than $40 billion to cover expenses
for the cleanup, restoration and government fines related to the
spill.  Rossetti heads the textile association in Biella, a city in
the foothills of the Alps in northwestern  Italy  and a center for
wool and textile processing dating back to the 13th century. The
province is also where the men’s luxury clothing group
Ermenegildo Zegna was founded in 1910.  Rossetti, Donatelli and Ploner say raw wool, wool shorn
from a sheep and not processed, is often considered a waste by
sheep farmers and poses disposal problems.  Wool absorbent pads have been used in the cleanup of oil
around the globe. Following the Gulf spill,  Monterey Mills , the
largest manufacturer of knit pile fabric in the U.S. submitted a
proposal for clean-ups with wool to the federal government.  The Italian businessmen say their development, rather than
just offering wool pads, creates a patented system that follows
the whole process of cleanup from placing the wool to collecting
it, squeezing, reusing and then storing oil and dirty wool that
alone can weigh as much as 28,000 kilos after use.  Spills ranging from 300,000 to 1 million tons of oil could
be cleaned with 10,000 tons of raw wool, the statement said.  For more patent news, click here.  IP Moves  Lloyd ‘Rusty’ Day Joins WilmerHale After Howrey Firm Closes  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP hired Lloyd
“Rusty” Day to its IP practice, the Washington-based firm said
in a  statement .  Day,  a patent litigator, was a founding partner of Day
Casebeer Madrid & Batchelder LLP. That firm was absorbed by the
now-defunct Washington firm of Howrey LLP in 2009.  He also practiced at the San Francisco firm now known as
Cooley Godward Cornish LLP.  Among the clients he has represented are  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  SAP
AG (SAP) , and Sun Microsystems Inc., according to Bloomberg data.  Day has an undergraduate degree in political science from
 Williams College  and a law degree from the  University of
Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 