-- 
Daimler Must Face Claims Over Argentina ‘Dirty War’ Worker Kidnappings

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-05-18T19:28:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/daimler-must-face-claims-over-argentina-dirty-war-worker-kidnappings.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  must face a U.S. lawsuit
alleging its Argentine Mercedes-Benz unit collaborated with
state security forces to kill and torture workers during the so-
called Dirty War 35 years ago, an appeals court ruled.  A federal district court had dismissed the case, which was
filed in  California  in 2004, saying it had no jurisdiction
because the Stuttgart, Germany-based company, then known as
DaimlerChrysler AG, and its U.S. unit didn’t have sufficient
contacts within the state.  A three-judge appeals court panel in  San Francisco  today
said the parent company could be sued in California because the
U.S. unit of Mercedes-Benz was the German company’s agent.
California’s Mercedes-Benz sales accounted for 2.4 percent of
DaimlerChrysler’s total worldwide sales at the time the suit was
filed, according to the court, which didn’t rule on the merits
of the case. The appeals panel sent the case back to a federal
judge in  San Jose , California.  The company intends to appeal the decision, said Han Tjan,
a Daimler spokesman.  “No ruling or judgment has been made as to the underlying
allegations, which Daimler AG steadfastly denies,” Tjan said an
e-mail.  Some of the plaintiffs are former employees of Mercedes-
Benz  Argentina  who were allegedly kidnapped, detained or
tortured. Plaintiffs also include relatives of workers who
disappeared and are presumed to have been murdered during the
Dirty War, which began in 1976 when the military overthrew the
government of President Isabel Peron.  The lawsuit claims Mercedes-Benz collaborated with
Argentina’s military to brutally punish Argentine workers it
viewed as union agitators, the ruling says.  Silke Walters, a spokeswoman for Daimler, had no immediate
comment.  The case is Bauman v DaimlerChrysler, 07-15386,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 