-- 
Wall Street Banks Urge Tokyo Staff to Swap Nuclear Fear for Business Focus

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-04-01T07:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/wall-street-banks-tap-physicists-to-ease-tokyo-radiation-fear.html
Wall Street banks operating in Japan
are inviting nuclear physicists to inform Tokyo employees about
radiation risks, providing counseling and supplying bottled
water to calm workers and keep them in the city.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has hosted three nuclear
specialists and held sessions on emergency preparedness and
family welfare, said  Hiroko Matsumoto , a spokeswoman in Tokyo.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  asked two scientists to speak to staff and their
families over the coming week and is importing water from  Hong
Kong , said Mika Watanabe, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman.  U.S. investment banks want staff to focus on business
opportunities in Japan as the nation turns to rebuilding areas
devastated by the earthquake and tsunami that triggered a
nuclear accident, analysts said. Tokyo Stock Exchange President
Atsushi Saito has led criticism of some foreign investors for a
lack of commitment toward the local market since the disaster.  “The Wall Street firms are seeking to alleviate anxiety of
employees,” said Takao Saga, a professor who studies the
financial industry at Waseda University in Tokyo and is a
commissioner at the  Japan  Securities Research Institute. “The
banks must have also started drawing up scenarios for Japan’s
revitalization.”  Tainted Vegetables  The actions reflect employees’ concerns about the hazards
from radiation leaked by the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo that has tainted
vegetables and seeped into the water supply.  Among scientists who briefed Goldman Sachs staff and their
families in Tokyo was Dwight Williams, a nuclear engineer who
has advised the  United Nations  on environmental radioactivity,
Matsumoto said. Doctors and counselors gave advice on issues
ranging from health management to how to treat children during
disasters.  At Morgan Stanley, some nuclear energy and health
specialists have already talked to local workers in the
aftermath of the magnitude-9.0 earthquake that left more than
28,000 dead or missing.  “We are doing everything we can to address the needs
and concerns of our employees,” Watanabe said. “That includes
providing everything from expert opinion to safe drinking
water.”  Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  set up an internal website called
“Update on Japan” for staff to view developments on the
nuclear crisis, Tokyo-based spokeswoman Eiko Noda said.  Businesses Need Cash  Global banks “want to avoid lowering their presence and
losing market share in Japan as the economy is still the third
largest and it was picking up,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a
Tokyo-based analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. “There
will also be new demand for loans and fund raising from
companies whose factories were damaged, as well as mergers and
capital alliances.”  In a sign of resilience of investment banking in Japan
following the quake,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , the country’s
biggest brokerage, said today it plans to hire 600 university
graduates in April 2012, about the same number as the current
year.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is visiting Tokyo to meet clients and plans to address
staff at a town hall-style gathering today, said Takayuki Inoue,
a spokesman for the biggest U.S. lender by assets. The company’s
energy industry analyst Takahiro Mori has briefed about 100
employees on concepts such as sieverts, a measurement of
radiation, Inoue said.  Moynihan follows  Jamie Dimon , CEO of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, who came to the city
after the March 11 quake.  Saito’s Criticism  Their resolve to maintain operations in Tokyo contrasts
with perceptions among some people that global firms were
preparing to withdraw staff. Tokyo Stock Exchange chief Saito
was quoted by the Wall Street Journal last week as calling
overseas investors “selfish” for wanting to “run away.”  “Foreign firms see this as a big chance for business,”
said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million in Tokyo
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “There will be special
demand from Japan’s reconstruction. Japanese companies have
stopped production, but only temporarily, and they’re strong
enough to rebound.”  Investors from abroad bought a record net 893 billion yen
($10.7 billion) of Japanese shares in the week after the quake
even as the market declined, according to Ministry of Finance
data. During that period, the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average had its
worst two-day drop since 1987 as reactor buildings at the
nuclear plant in Fukushima exploded and leaked radiation.  BNP Paribas (BNP)   Some foreign companies moved staff overseas after the
disaster. BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, sent around 10
workers to Hong Kong and  Singapore  as part of a business
continuity plan, spokesman Daniel Boyd said on March 16.  The French and German embassies advised their citizens to
consider leaving Japan after the tsunami damaged generators that
drove cooling equipment at the Fukushima plant. The U.S.
government advised Americans living within 50 miles (80
kilometers) of the plant to evacuate -- a wider area than
Japan’s 20-kilometer exclusion zone.  Levels of radioactive iodine-131 found in  Tokyo ’s tap water
on March 22 and March 23 exceeded the recommended limit for
infants, the Tokyo city government said last week. The levels
have been below the limit since March 24, according to data
posted on the government’s website.  Some 137 products, including milk and vegetables, were
found to be contaminated in Tokyo and five prefectures to its
north and east as of March 31, according to a health ministry
 statement . Residents have also had to contend with aftershocks
and rolling blackouts to conserve energy.  Investment banks are keen to assuage staff after some
foreign media reports inflamed concerns about radiation risks,
said Saga at Waseda University.  “I was in  New York  just after the earthquake,” he said.
“I saw several TV programs exaggerating the situation using
footage from Hiroshima and Nagasaki.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  