-- 
Wisconsin Judge Extends Bar on Public Worker Collective Bargaining Law

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-04-01T22:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/wisconsin-judge-extends-bar-on-public-worker-collective-bargaining-law.html
A Wisconsin state court judge
extended indefinitely an order blocking enforcement of Governor
 Scott Walker ’s legislation curbing public employees’ ability to
engage in collective bargaining.  State Circuit Court Judge Maryann Sumi in Madison issued
the order today after two days of hearings, maintaining a
temporary ban she first put in place on March 18.  Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne last month sued
four Republican lawmakers, alleging they violated the state’s
open meetings law when they crafted the legislation Walker
signed on March 11. Ozanne asked the court to block the law
until the legislators could be brought before the court.
Madison, the state capital, is the Dane County seat.  Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald and three other
defendant legislators are immune from suit until 15 days after
the legislative session ends. Assistant State Attorney General
Maria Lazar said in an interview before Sumi’s ruling that she
believed that the immunity would officially end in July.  “I’m trying to figure out what Judge Sumi’s ruling
actually means, and how one  Dane County  judge could single-
handedly stand in the way of the Legislative and Executive
Branches,,” Fitzgerald said in an e-mailed statement today.  Attorneys for both sides said after the hearing that
they’re not positive what date will apply.  “That’s probably an issue we are going have to address in
briefs,” Ozanne said after today’s proceedings. “There are
also still matters pending with the Court of Appeals.”  Annual Recertification Votes  The law championed by Walker, a first-term Republican,
requires annual recertification votes for union representation
by public employees and makes payment of union dues voluntary.
Firefighters and police officers are exempt.  Sumi issued a temporary restraining order on March 18,
blocking Secretary of State Doug La Follette, a Democrat, from
giving effect to the law by formally publishing it.  At Fitzgerald’s urging, the state’s Legislative Reference
Bureau posted the measure on the Internet, leading state
Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  to declare the measure in
effect.  In an order issued yesterday, Sumi declared the law is not
in force. Two days earlier, she’d rejected Ozanne’s request that
she do so.  Walker’s administration responded with a statement saying
that while it disagreed, it would comply.  “We were very surprised,” Assistant Attorney General
Steven Means said yesterday, citing Sumi’s prior rebuff to
Ozanne. The judge may have issued the declaration in response to
press reports on what certain state officials may or may not do
if the law was in effect, he said.  Sumi today ordered each side to submit three rounds of
briefs on the issue of how long she could continue the temporary
restraining order while awaiting the end of the legislative
session. The final submissions are due on May 23.  She also said the defendant legislators could waive their
immunity to suit if they sought to resolve the matter more
quickly. Democratic Assemblyman Peter Barca, one of six members
of the joint Senate-Assembly committee that allegedly violated
the open meetings law, participated in this week’s hearing.  Lazar told reporters today she would have to discuss the
issue with her clients. She declined to comment on the judge’s
order.  “Nothing that happened today changes our posture,” Van
Hollen’s spokesman, Bill Cosh, said in an e-mailed statement.  The prosecutor’s case is State of  Wisconsin  Ex Rel. Ozanne
v. Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ; and
Marie Rohde in Madison at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  