-- 
Women Basketball Programs Lose Money as Salaries Break College Budgets

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-04-01T04:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/women-s-basketball-teams-operate-in-red-as-salaries-break-college-budgets.html
The University of  Connecticut ’s run
at a third consecutive women’s championship comes with the
trappings of a world-class sports event, including a national
television audience and rowdy fans in blue wigs and face paint.  The Huskies dominate on the court, and can sell out arenas.
What they lose is money. The  program  spent $723,900 more than it
earned in fiscal 2010.  Across the U.S., the most popular women’s college sport is
in the red. Women’s basketball at the 53 public schools in the
six largest conferences recorded operating losses last fiscal
year of $109.7 million, while the men’s teams had operating
profits of $240 million, according to their financial records.  Women’s basketball needs to figure out how to at least pay
its own way as states grapple with budget deficits and some
university systems eliminate intercollegiate sports to save
money, said  Bernadette McGlade , an Atlantic 10 Conference
commissioner and a former coach and player.  “There is intrinsic value in being able to carry your own
weight,” McGlade said. “For the amount of resources going into
intercollegiate women’s basketball, there’s going to be a time
where there has to be a rational decision of, is it worth it?”  Each of the 53 teams lost money in the fiscal year ended
2010, and the average operating deficit was $2.07 million on
average operating revenue of $804,577, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and obtained through Freedom of
Information Act requests. Private schools in the six conferences
-- Atlantic Coast,  Big East , Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-10 and
Southeastern -- aren’t required to make such records public.  1,783 Percent  The University of Tennessee, ranked fourth in the
 Associated Press Top 25 , lost $713,997, while No. 7  Texas A&M
University  had a $2.8 million deficit. No. 12 Michigan State
University was $2.01 million in the red.  Some schools paid their coaching staffs many times what
their teams earned, the data show. The Texas A&M staff received
$1.36 million, or 114 percent of operating revenue of $1.19
million, and Michigan State paid out $833,931, or 87 percent of
operating revenue of $954,779.  At Auburn University, salaries and benefits cost $1.14
million, or 1,783 percent of the Tigers’ operating revenue of
$64,225, and the program posted a $3.16 million operating loss.  It’s unlikely any women’s college basketball team in the
U.S. makes money, as football and men’s basketball are probably
the only two with operating profits, according to the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association .  Women ‘Pioneers’  Sports aren’t necessarily intended to be money-making,
valued instead for teaching leadership, team building and other
skills, said  NCAA President Mark Emmert , former president of the
University of  Washington . Intercollegiate or club programs,
whether in basketball, lacrosse, squash or tennis, can also be
key to marketing to donors and students, Emmert said.  What women learn from sports, including fighting back after
defeat, can’t be accounted for in a financial statement and will
help long after college, said  Susan Herbst , who will become
Connecticut’s first female president in June.  Star college players have gone on to a range of careers:
Leigh Curl, a four-year starter who went to Connecticut on a
basketball scholarship and graduated in 1985, is an orthopedic
surgeon and team orthopedist for the National Football League’s
Baltimore Ravens; Robin Roberts, a 1983 Southeastern Louisiana
University graduate who was the all-time leading scorer (1,446
points), is an ABC Good Morning America anchor; Air Force Major
General  Michelle Johnson  was a two-time Academic All-American
before graduating from the Air Force Academy in 1981, and
carried the case of nuclear weapons codes -- known as “the
football” -- for Presidents George H.W. Bush and  Bill Clinton .  ‘Different Calculus’  Female athletes are worth the investment whatever their
sports’ earning power, said Herbst, executive vice chancellor
and chief academic officer for the University System of  Georgia .  “It’s a different calculus,” she said. “Women are still
not where they need to be.”  With the first NCAA women’s championship tournament taking
place in 1982,  43 years  after the first for men, “we’re still
growing women’s basketball,” said Chris Plonsky, the women’s
athletic director at the University of  Texas  at Austin, where
the Longhorns had a fiscal 2010 operating loss of $2.6 million.  Women’s basketball has the best shot at becoming the first
female sport to help financially support others, including some
played only by men, because it’s the biggest revenue producer
with the largest crowds and broadest media exposure, according
to the NCAA.  Budget Pressures  Profits should be a goal on most campuses, McGlade said.
“It makes a difference whether you make money. It gives you a
seat at the table where the decisions are made.”  That’s especially important when budgets are under
pressure, she said. Last year, at least 43 states cut funding to
public colleges and universities, according to the Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities, threatening athletics programs.  The  University of California , Berkeley dropped baseball,
men’s and women’s gymnastics and women’s lacrosse and reduced
rugby to a club sport in September, then reinstated rugby,
women’s gymnastics and lacrosse in February after soliciting $12
million in donations to keep the programs alive.  Operating profits and losses measure expenses such as
coaches’ salaries and recruiting against income from ticket
sales, corporate sponsorships and other enterprises. It doesn’t
include subsidies, student fees and revenue not attributed to a
specific sport, such as an arena’s naming rights agreement.  ‘Takes Time’  At Connecticut, the women’s basketball team pulled in $4.9
million in operating revenue last fiscal year and the coaching
staff earned the second highest amount in salaries and benefits
among the schools reviewed: $2.2 million. Head coach Geno Auriemma, in his 26th season at the school, will be paid about
$1.8 million in 2013, the final year of his contract.  Under  Auriemma , the Huskies (36-1) have collected seven
national championship trophies and notched the longest winning
streak for a basketball team of either gender in NCAA basketball
history, with 90 consecutive victories.  The goal for the Huskies is to continue winning on the
court while earning their keep, said Jeff Hathaway, the
university’s athletic director. Connecticut plays the University
of  Notre Dame  on April 3 in one semifinal round of the NCAA
tournament, while  Texas A&M  and Stanford meet in the other. The
championship is April 5 at Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis.  “I’m not saying it is OK when you don’t make money in the
women’s basketball program -- we are here to generate revenue,”
he said. “It takes time.”  Title IX  Connecticut, where men’s basketball became a varsity sport
in 1900, has had a women’s intercollegiate basketball team since
1974, two years after Congress passed Title IX. It prohibits
discrimination on the basis of gender in educational programs
that receive federal funding. Women must have equal
opportunities and treatment in sports, which may mean chartered
flights, trainers, video specialists and tutors.  Women’s college basketball has grown since Title IX,
according to the NCAA. In the past 10 years,  association data 
show, the number of teams increased to 1,059 from 1,011 in
Divisions I, II and III, with 15,423 women playing in 2010
compared with 14,445 in 2000.  Low ticket prices, high coaches’ salaries and a society
that places a premium on male athletic prowess are among the
reasons the women’s teams aren’t self-supporting, according to
administrators and economists.  $9 Tickets  Connecticut charges $30 for men’s basketball tickets and
$22 for women’s; at the University of  North Carolina  in Chapel
Hill, the Tar Heels ask an average $45 for men and $9 for women,
according to the schools.  Ben Jay,  senior associate athletic director for finance and
operations at  Ohio State University  in Columbus, said the
average men’s basketball ticket is $25, while it’s $9 for women.
At that price, he calculates the women’s team would have to
increase average attendance to between 15,000 and 16,000 a game
from 3,732 to get out of the red.  “I don’t foresee women’s basketball breaking even,” said
Jay, who helps manage a $128 million budget for 36 sports and
1,048 athletes. “We’d love it to. We are marketing the brand
and pushing the program and all the fan experience elements. But
we don’t see women’s basketball subsidizing other sports.”  At the same time, women’s teams need to spend for the best
college coaches if they want to turn their programs around and
reach profitability some day, according to athletic directors,
administrators and conference commissioners.  ‘It’s Insane’  Besides Connecticut, the schools paying the most for staff
were  Tennessee , at $3.42 million; the University of  Oklahoma , at
$1.87 million;  Rutgers University  at $1.85 million and Texas
$1.7 million, according to school records.  “It’s insane,” said Andrew Zimbalist, sports economist at
Smith College in Northampton,  Massachusetts . “ You show me a
fortune 500 company that would be profitable if the CEO got 75
percent of the revenue.”  Jay at Ohio State said the market drives coach salaries,
and that paying for the best is worth it. “You spend the money
that you need to spend to have a successful program,” he said.
“We compete in a national market, pay our coaches in a national
market and that’s where Ohio State has chosen to be.”  Plonsky said a coach doesn’t have to post profits to
justify his or her salary. “What we want is success in the
sport and a coach that cares about the kids on the court
personally and in the classroom,” she said. “It’s not out of
control if the quality is there.”  Television Numbers  Last year, 3.5 million people watched on television as
Connecticut beat Stanford 53-47 for the women’s NCAA title,
while  Duke University ’s victory over Butler in the men’s match
attracted an audience of 23.9 million, according to  New York- 
based The Nielsen Company.  The two stories are told in other TV numbers. The NCAA
signed a 14-year, $10.8 billion contract last year to show its
men’s basketball tournament on CBS Sports Inc. and  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Turner Broadcasting. The 11-year women’s basketball
agreement with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN -- packaged with 21 other
championships, including Division 1 men’s lacrosse -- that was
negotiated in 2001 is worth $163 million, according to the NCAA.  In 2010, college sports’ governing body received $6.74
million in ticket sales from the women’s tournament, and spent
$13.9 million to run the event, according to the NCAA.  The association’s  Division 1 women’s basketball committee 
has discussed delaying the start of the season for one month so
it won’t compete with the end of the college football season,
and the beginning of men’s basketball.  Kentucky  Wildcats  McGlade has recommended that in the next television
contract, the NCAA negotiate a rights fee for women’s basketball
only, no matter how small, and use that as a baseline to set new
goals for developing the women’s television product.  In Lexington, the University of Kentucky has made women’s
basketball a priority. Within a year of  Mitch Barnhart’s 
becoming athletic director in 2002, he spent $100,000 to promote
the program on billboards and radio and through direct mail.  “We made it family friendly, very affordable, built the
brand and said ‘Hey, come try it out,’” Barnhart said.  Kentucky upgraded Memorial Coliseum, where the women play,
with an $800,000 video scoreboard, $380,000 floor and $100,000
sound system. It built a $30 million practice facility that the
men and women share.  In nine years, the Wildcats’ attendance jumped to a record
6,364 this season from an average 1,694 in 2002. Season ticket
prices increased to an average $45 from an average $20.  Last season, under third-year  coach Matthew Mitchell , the
school went 28-8 and was one of the final eight teams in the
NCAA tournament. Mitchell was named the Southeastern
Conference’s Coach of the Year, and Barnhart was praised for his
skill as a turnaround specialist.  Still, financial managers reported a $1.98 million
operating loss in fiscal 2010.  “There are only two sports that carry the ball for us in
terms of our finances: football and men’s basketball,” Barnhart
said. “I respect what others say about this all needs to be
financed, but I don’t think it’s realistic at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  