-- 
Yuan Finishes Weekly Gain on Oil Cost Rise, Manufacturing Health

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-04-01T09:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/yuan-set-for-weekly-gain-on-oil-price-rise-manufacturing-health.html
China ’s yuan completed a third
weekly gain as  oil prices  surged and a report signaled exporters
are withstanding the currency’s appreciation.  Crude prices in  New York  surged to $107.12 a barrel, adding
to pressure on authorities to seek a stronger yuan to reduce
import costs. Manufacturing growth accelerated for the first
time in four months, easing concern that monetary tightening may
lead to a sharp slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy.
China’s central bank set the  reference rate  0.06 percent higher
at 6.5527, the strongest level since July 2005.  “The move reflects continued need to fight imported
inflation via currency appreciation as oil prices continue to
climb,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB. “China remains in a
tightening mode and will use a variety of tools, including
stronger currency, to bring price pressures under control.”
Kowalczyk forecast the yuan to reach 6.3 per dollar by the end
of this year.  The yuan gained 0.15 percent this week and rose 0.01
percent today to close at 6.5479 per dollar in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
currency touched 6.5452 today, the strongest level since the
country unified official and market exchange rates at the end of
1993. In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the currency was unchanged
at 6.5475.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.02 percent to
6.42 per dollar as of 5:03 p.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting bets
the currency will strengthen 2 percent from the onshore spot
rate in a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Group
of 20 finance chiefs meeting in China yesterday held out the
prospect of an enlarged global role for the yuan to encourage
the government to free up a currency described by the U.S. as
“substantially undervalued.”  Manufacturing Strength  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 53.4 in March from
52.2 in February, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement on its website today. The reading
compared with the median forecast of 54 in a Bloomberg News
survey of 17 economists.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is seeking to restrain surging prices
for homes and consumer goods while sustaining economic growth to
create jobs. Inflation topped the government’s target in the
first two months of this year and officials will boost  interest
rates  again this quarter, according to all 20 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  