-- 
Zimbabwe Gem Exports Can Continue Amid Objections, Kimberley Process Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-04-01T11:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-01/zimbabwe-gem-exports-can-continue-amid-objections-kimberley-process-says.html
Zimbabwe  can export diamonds from
its Marange fields under the  Kimberley Process  Certification
Scheme even after some member countries protested the resumption
of shipments, the head of the organization said.  Kimberley Process Chairman Mathieu Yamba said on March 19
the southern African nation could begin shipping gems from
Marange “with immediate effect.” His decision was questioned by
 Kimberley Process  members including  Canada  and the U.S., who
called for a consensus agreement before shipments resumed.  The organization won’t reverse its decision because of the
objections of some member countries, Yamba said in a March 30
phone interview. A review will be conducted at future meetings
of the group, he said.  The Kimberley Process was started in 2003 to stem the trade
in so-called “ blood diamonds ” that fund conflict. Restrictions
were placed on the export of Marange gems in 2009 after a
Kimberley Process review mission found human-rights violations
and smuggling at the site. In 2008, more than 200 people were
killed when Zimbabwean security forces took over the
concessions, according to a  Human Rights Watch  report.  Yamba’s decision proves Zimbabwe is adhering to the rules,
Zimbabwean Mines Minister Obert Mpofu said yesterday.  “We are going ahead because we are compliant,” Mpofu said
by phone from Harare. Complaints by countries like Canada, the
U.S. and  Australia  are “political games,” he said. “They are
bent on frustrating our economic development. Zimbabwe has acted
responsibly and will continue to act responsibly.”  1 Million Carats  Production from the Marange diamond fields is about 1
million carats a month, Chaim Evan-Zohar, president of industry
consultant Tacy Ltd., said in February, citing government
information. The country earned at least $174 million from sales
of the gems so far this year, the state-owned  Herald  newspaper
reported in February.  Yamba is from the Democratic Republic of Congo, which holds
the revolving chairmanship of the Kimberley Process this year.
“Congo and Zimbabwe have a good relationship,” Yamba said.  “The unilateral decision by Yamba is very dangerous to the
future of the KP,” Elly Harrowell of U.K.-based advocacy group
 Global Witness  said by phone from  London . “The Process is
entirely governed by consensus. Those are the rules and
everyone, most especially the chair, has to comply with those
rules,” she said.  Global Witness  is one of the civil society
observers of the Kimberley Process.  The New York-based World Diamond Council has advised
members of the international diamond industry to refrain from
trading in diamonds from Marange “until the situation becomes
clearer,” according to a statement on the group’s website.  Mpofu said he wasn’t surprised by the council’s decision,
calling it “an extension of the U.S. government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 