-- 
What They Don’t Want You to Know About 4G: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-03-03T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/4g-or-not-4g-what-they-don-t-want-you-to-know-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
You can hardly turn on the
television or walk into an electronics store without being
assaulted by hype about the new, faster data networks being
rolled out by the major U.S. wireless carriers.  Sprint Nextel Corp. has “the Now Network.” T-Mobile
claims “the nation’s largest.”  Verizon Wireless  is “Lightning
Fast, Lightning Strong.” Everyone is pushing new phones,
tablets and other mobile devices that take advantage of all that
power.  There’s just one problem. Some of these new networks aren’t
so new, some aren’t so fast, coverage is spotty and they can be
expensive. Did I say one problem? That was four. And here’s a
fifth: Wireless carriers and device manufacturers are creating a
confusing mess for consumers.  The confusion stems from a lack of agreement on what
constitutes a 4G, or fourth-generation, data network. As
initially defined by the standards-setting  International
Telecommunications Union , 4G was supposed to refer to networks
that would be orders of magnitude faster than the 3G networks
now widely in use.  That idea was largely ignored by carriers, especially those
in the U.S., in the rush to convince consumers they were missing
out on something new and cool. Late last year, the ITU basically
threw in the towel on its original definition. Now almost
anything goes.  4G Creep  The U.S. carrier most affected by 4G creep is probably
Sprint, which last year began rolling out service on a new network
based on a technology called WiMax in conjunction with  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)  It’s a genuinely new network, and if you’re a Sprint 4G
customer who is lucky enough to live in an area with 4G
coverage, you’ll see data speeds that are noticeably faster than
3G.  Here’s where it gets complicated.  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon
Wireless both have embraced an alternative technology called LTE
(for Long Term Evolution) and Verizon began rolling its network
out late last year. Meanwhile, AT&T and the fourth major U.S.
carrier, Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile, have begun tweaking and
rebranding their existing 3G networks as 4G.  In promoting the Inspire, a smartphone from  HTC Corp. (2498) 
running Google Inc.’s Android operating system, AT&T offers this
explanation in faint, fine print, next to an asterisk: “4G
speeds delivered by HSPA+ with enhanced backhaul.” Gee, doesn’t
that make everything clear?  More Confusion  Adding to the confusion, the AT&T phones being labeled 4G
because they can run on the HSPA+ network may not run on AT&T’s
LTE network, which is likely to appear later this year.  “4G is now officially meaningless,” says Will Strauss, a
wireless analyst who is president of Forward Concepts, in Tempe,  Arizona .  While all carriers cite sky-high theoretical maximum speeds
that normal human beings will never see, the only thing that
counts is what users can actually expect on a daily basis. In
recent months, I’ve tested a variety of allegedly 4G devices
from all four major U.S. carriers, using Ookla’s  Speedtest  app
linking to the same remote server to compare speeds.  It’s hard to generalize, because network performance can
vary widely from location to location, from device to device and
even from hour to hour, depending on the volume of data traffic.
But in my tests, conducted in both the  San Francisco  Bay Area
and  Los Angeles , I have consistently found that Sprint’s WiMax
network is much faster than AT&T’s and T-Mobile’s HSPA+
networks.  Speedy Sprint  For instance, in my San Francisco tests, the Sprint EVO
Shift -- a phone made by HTC that runs  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system -- averaged download speeds that were seven
times faster than AT&T’s Inspire, another Android-based HTC
phone, and 16 times faster than T-Mobile’s Galaxy S 4G, an
Android phone made by Samsung Electronics Co., which were
connecting over their respective 4G networks.  The fastest results belonged to Verizon’s LTE network,
which it switched on in December and is now available in 38
markets and more than 60 airports. I obtained speeds that were
50 percent faster even than Sprint’s.  There’s a huge caveat, though: The only devices that now
take advantage of the network are a couple of laptop-computer
adapters. The first Verizon LTE phone, the  HTC Thunderbolt ,
isn’t yet for sale, and the true test of the network’s speed
won’t come until it’s crowded with a few million phone users
updating their Facebook pages and streaming YouTube videos. My
early experiences were akin to speeding down a highway where I
was essentially the only car on the road.  Pricing Puzzle  Meanwhile, pricing for 4G service is a murky work in
progress. Sprint, for example, charges $49.99 a month for
unlimited 4G service, which sounds pretty good until you
remember that not everywhere you go may have 4G service. So
you’ll likely end up needing the $59.99 plan, which couples
unlimited 4G with up to five gigabytes of 3G data.  Verizon is currently charging users of its laptop adapters
$50 a month for five gigabytes of data, and $80 a month for 10
gigabytes. There’s no definitive word on the cost for phones,
but I bet that one way or another, 4G customers will find
themselves paying more.  The moral of the story, if there is one, is to treat any 4G
label skeptically for the foreseeable future. Your shiny new 4G
phone may turn out to be as fast as you expect, or it may not;
just don’t expect the carriers to give you much help figuring it
out.    Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 