-- 
AB InBev Fourth-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates on Cost Savings

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-03-03T11:25:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/ab-inbev-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-cost-savings-at-anheuser.html
  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
largest brewer, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates and more than doubled its dividend as cost
savings exceeded the company’s target.  So-called normalized earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization rose 25 percent to $3.9 billion in
the three months ended Dec. 31. The median estimate of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was $3.4 billion. AB InBev
increased its dividend to 80 cents a share from 38 cents.  “The numbers seem reasonably good,” said  Trevor Stirling ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London. “The big surprise
for me is the doubling of the dividend.”  AB InBev, formed when InBev NV bought Anheuser-Busch Cos.
in 2008, has pledged to save $2.25 billion by the end of 2011 as
it closes breweries. Savings from the purchase in 2010 were $620
million, exceeding the company’s $500 million target, and the
brewer aims to deliver at least a further $270 million in 2011.  AB InBev gained as much as 3.7 percent in Brussels trading
and was up 1.09 euros, or 2.7 percent, at 41.26 euros at 12 p.m.  The dividend exceeded the 66-cent average estimate of 27
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The payout level was increased
as debt was cut by $5.5 billion to $39.7 billion in 2010, Chief
Financial Officer Felipe Dutra said today on a conference call.  Debt Target  “We remain committed to bringing our net debt-to-Ebitda to
below two times” by the end of 2012, Dutra said today,
referring to the company’s normalized Ebitda figure. “We’re
fully on track to get there.”  AB InBev said it expects the volume of beer sold globally
to be “soft” in the first quarter as U.S. unemployment and
heavy rains in  Brazil  drag on sales. The company sees “momentum
building from the second quarter into the second half.”  Fourth-quarter revenue rose to $9.5 billion. Excluding
acquisitions, sales growth was 5.9 percent, more than the 4.3
percent median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The volume of beer sold on the same basis rose 1.3 percent as
higher sales in central and eastern Europe and  Asia  offset
weakness in the U.S. and western Europe.  “Our financial results for 2010 showed very good progress
in spite of the persistent challenging economic environment in
several of our markets,” the company said today. “However, our
culture is one of continuous improvement and there are several
areas where we know we can still make progress.”  Outlook Unclear  The volume of beer sold in  North America , where the brewer
gets 44 percent of profit, slid 1.3 percent as high levels of
unemployment in the U.S. weighed on consumption.  “The economic outlook for the U.S. obviously remains
unclear,” Dutra said today. AB InBev “believes economic
recovery in the U.S. is a question of when, and not if.”  The brewer raised prices in the country in September,
leading to a loss of volume in its so-called “sub-premium
brands.” The Bud Light, Stella Artois and Michelob brands
increased market share. Budweiser’s share of the market dropped,
though the decline “decelerated” toward the end of the year.  Fourth-quarter net income slid to $968 million from $1.28
billion a year earlier, the company said.  Volume at the Latin America North unit rose 3.4 percent as
beer increased 3.5 percent and soft drinks gained 3.4 percent.  Brazilian Growth  The volume of beer sold in Brazil, the “main source of
profit growth” outside the U.S., according to Bernstein, rose
11 percent in 2010 as the company started distributing beer in 1
liter bottles and sold products including Antarctica Sub Zero
and Skol 360. AB InBev had an average 70.1 percent share of the
Brazilian beer market, it said, although it lost 20 basis points
of share in the fourth quarter compared with a year earlier as
it increased prices ahead of its competitors, it said.  The volume of drinks sold in the Latin America South
division rose 2.6 percent in the quarter. A 5 percent increase
in beer volume offset a 1.3 percent decrease in soft drinks.  Fourth-quarter sales volume in Western  Europe  slid 3.6
percent, hurt by snowfall and icy conditions across the region.
Beer volume slid 10 percent in Germany and  Belgium  amid “tough
competitive conditions.” U.K. volume rose 2.4 percent.  Asia Pacific volume gained 8.4 percent in the last three
months of the year, aided by 8.6 percent growth in China, where
the company introduced its Budweiser Lime beer. AB InBev said on
Feb. 14 it will acquire a 25 percent stake in Dalian Daxue
Brewery Co. from Kirin Holdings Co. as part of a “strategy for
expanding its footprint” in the world’s largest beer market.  Budweiser  The amount of Budweiser sold grew 1.7 percent in 2010,
according to the brewer, and the brand expanded its market share
in the U.K.,  China  and  Canada . The company aims to start selling
Budweiser in Brazil in the second half of this year.  “Plans are in place, programs are in place -- we are very
excited about that opportunity,” of beginning to sell Budweiser
in the country, CFO Dutra said. “The brand has stronger-than-
expected brand awareness given the influence of the U.S. across
all Latin American countries. Brazil is not an exception.”  Dutra declined to comment today on whether AB InBev plans
to bid for the remaining shares in Grupo Modelo SAB, the largest
Mexican beermaker, in which it owns a 50 percent stake.  Modelo appointed Dutra, CEO Brito and Sabine Chalmers, the
brewer’s chief legal officer, to its board in November.  “We have been attending board meetings and interacting
with Modelo’s management,” Dutra said. “We are very excited
about building this relationship even further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 