-- 
February Retail Sales Beat Estimates, Led by Saks, Macy’s

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-03-03T21:22:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/macy-s-limited-surpass-february-sales-estimates-as-u-s-confidence-gains.html
U.S. retailers posted a gain in
same-store sales in February that surpassed analysts’ estimates,
driven by luxury chains and department stores, as more confident
shoppers embraced the arrival of warm-weather goods.  Same-store sales at high-end retailer  Saks Inc. (SKS)  jumped 15
percent compared with the 5.3 percent average gain from
analysts’ estimates compiled by Retail Metrics Inc. Department
stores  Macy’s Inc. (M) , J.C. Penney Co. and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) , also
surpassed projections.  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose last month to the
highest level in three years, according to a Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index, as a drop in unemployment
helped overcome concern over rising food and fuel costs.
Customers also returned to stores that were closed for several
days in January because of snowstorms.  “Department stores are continuing to make a comeback,”
Keith Jelinek, a director in the retail practice at consultant
AlixPartners, said in an interview. “They’ve focused on
localization and they made a push to make it a fun and
interesting place to shop.”  Saks, based in New York, rose 45 cents, or 3.8 percent, to
$12.18 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, added 6 cents to $23.64. J.C.
Penney, based in Plano,  Texas  fell 29 cents to $33.94. Kohl’s,
based in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , gained 25 cents to $54.29.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index advanced 1 percent.  18th Straight Gain  Same-store sales rose 4.3 percent last month, beating an
overall compilation of analysts’ estimates for a gain of 3.8
percent at the 27 chains tracked by Retail Metrics, based in
Swampscott,  Massachusetts . That marked the 18th straight monthly
gain from September 2009 and the fifth time in the past seven
months that sales have beaten projections.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. This revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  An improving U.S. job market and gains in the stock market
boosted consumers’ outlook and willingness to spend, said  Ken Perkins , president of Retail Metrics.  Employment increased by 217,000 last month, more than
forecast, according to a private report based on payrolls
released yesterday by ADP Employer Services. The median estimate
in the Bloomberg News survey for the Labor Department’s report
tomorrow calls for a 190,000 gain, after employment increased by
36,000 in January.  Gap, Target Miss  Those job gains didn’t help all retailers as several missed
projections. Sales at apparel chain  Gap Inc. (GPS)  dropped 3 percent,
compared with analysts’ projections for a decline of 0.3
percent. Discounter  Target Corp. (TGT) , drugstore chain  Walgreen Co. (WAG) 
and teen retailer The  Buckle Inc. (BKE)  posted increased sales that
fell below projections.  “Drivers of  consumer spending  are incrementally better,
but they aren’t enough to substantiate the run-up we’ve seen,”
said Steve Riordan, head of profit recovery firm  PRGX Global
Inc. (PRGX) ’s advisory services unit that consults major retailers.
“There’s reason to be feeling better off than they were a year
ago, but it’s not time to unleash the dogs from a buying
standpoint.”  Retailers in the coming months will have to increase prices
to offset rising costs of raw materials such as cotton, labor in  China  and gasoline, said Kenneth Stumphauzer, a retail analyst
at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  New York . Companies held off last
month as average prices per unit were little changed or declined
for the handful of chains that disclosed it, he said.  “If we don’t see that number increase over the coming
months it could be negative for gross margins across the
industry,” he said. “We’ll have a much better read on things
over the next 60 days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  