-- 
Madagascar Parties Want SADC Proposal on Political Crisis Signed Next Week

-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-03-03T07:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/madagascar-parties-want-sadc-proposal-on-political-crisis-signed-next-week.html
Supporters of Madagascar leader  Andry Rajoelina  said Southern African Development Community
proposals that include recognizing him as head of a transitional
government should be signed by next week.  The SADC recommendations, aimed at ending a two-year
political dispute, were agreed by 50 pro-Rajoelina parties after
government-organized talks yesterday in the capital,
Antananarivo, said Annick Rajaona, head of public relations at
the presidency. Madagascar’s three main opposition groups, led
by former presidents Albert Zafy,  Marc Ravalomanana  and Didier Ratsiraka, have rejected the SADC plan.  Yesterday’s declaration calls for SADC “to organize an
official ceremony for signature before March 8 by Madagascar’s
political crisis of the road map out of the crisis,” Rajaona
said in a phone interview today. It also urges Rajoelina “to
proceed with implementing this roadmap.”  Political parties in Madagascar have been in dispute since
March 2009, when Rajoelina, a 36-year-old former nightclub DJ,
seized power with the help of the military. The Indian Ocean
island nation, with a $9 billion economy, is the world’s largest
vanilla grower, while oil, nickel and titanium products have
also attracted investors.  The SADC proposal says Rajoelina should head a transitional
government until elections are held by Nov. 30. The document
signed yesterday “agrees to joint legislative and presidential
elections in September 2011,” according to a copy handed to
reporters.  The opposition parties led by the three former presidents
yesterday called for protests in Madagascar and said they will
set up a rival government until talks are held “to put a proper
transitional authority in place,” former president Zafy told
supporters yesterday in Antananarivo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Antananarivo via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 