-- 
Adecco Fourth-Quarter Profit Triples to $196 Million, Exceeding Estimates

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-03-03T07:30:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/adecco-fourth-quarter-profit-triples-on-mps-purchase-2-.html
  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest
supplier of temporary workers, said fourth-quarter profit more
than tripled, helped by its purchase of a U.S. staffing company
MPS Group Inc.  Net income rose to 141 million euros ($196 million) from 42
million euros a year earlier, the Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based
company said today in a statement. That beat the 115 million-
euro average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Revenue rose 32 percent to 5 billion euros, aided by the $1.19
billion acquisition of MPS, which helps place legal, computer,
finance and health-care specialists.  Economic growth is prompting companies to increase
temporary workers after cutting jobs during the slowdown, Adecco
said.  Randstad Holding NV (RAND) , the world’s second-largest staffing
company, said last month that fourth-quarter profit almost
tripled. Sales in January from continuing businesses rose 17
percent, adjusted for working days, the company said.  “The macro-trend continues to give support in the U.S.,
but also in France and  Germany , major markets for Adecco.”
wrote Eric de Graaf, an analyst at Cheuvreux with a “select
list” rating on the stock. “Growth in professionals is
gradually returning.”  Shares Gain  Adecco shares gained 8.8 percent in the past year, giving
the company a market value of 11.7 billion Swiss francs ($12.6
billion) . Fourth-quarter organic revenue rose 17 percent,
Adecco said.  “Our customers have suffered a lot during the last
downturn, and laying off workers is costly,” said Chief
Executive Officer Patrick De Maeseneire in a phone interview.
“You need a long period of sustainable growth before companies
are comfortable increasing their fixed employees
significantly.”  The company repeated its intention to make earnings before
interest, taxes and amortization to exceed 5.5 percent of sales
in the medium term. Adecco will probably reach that level by
2013, Michael Foeth, an analyst at Bank Vontobel, estimated
before today’s results.  Adecco set the goal last year and means to achieve it in
fewer than five years, De Maeseneire said.  The company said it will pay a dividend of 1.10 francs a
share this year. Adecco also said it may buy back as much as 2
percent of its stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  