-- 
Madoff Investors Ask Appeals Court to Discard Trustee's Loss Calculation

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-03T23:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/madoff-investors-ask-appeals-court-to-discard-trustee-s-loss-calculation.html
(Corrects amounts sought by trustee in 13th paragraph.)  Lawyers for victims of Bernard L. Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme  told an appeals court that the trustee
liquidating the con man’s former firm is using the wrong method
to determine who should recover part of the money they lost.  The lawyers argued in a hearing today that the law requires
the trustee,  Irving Picard , to value customer losses based on
the final account statements issued by Madoff in November 2008,
shortly before his arrest.  “The customers’ account statements are the beginning and
the end of the inquiry,”  Barry R. Lax , a lawyer for the Madoff
investors, told the court.  A decision in the case will determine how much money former
investors recover from the Securities Investor Protection Corp.,
which insures investor losses up to $500,000, and who will get
the money Picard recovers through lawsuits and settlements. The
decision may affect hundreds of former Madoff investors,
including the owners of the  New York  Mets baseball team.  Picard, who has so far recovered about $10 billion for
Madoff victims, has been determining claims by subtracting the
amount of money withdrawn from customer accounts from the amount
invested. He estimates investors lost about $20 billion of
principal in the fraud. The final statements, which reflect
phony profits based on trades Madoff never made, showed about
$65 billion in customer accounts.  ‘Other People’s Money’  David Sheehan, a lawyer representing the trustee, argued
that Picard’s method is the only reasonable way to compensate
victims of a fraud in which all the claimed profits are actually
other people’s money.  “This is a zero-sum game,” Sheehan told the court. “The
customer fund is the money that went in.”  Relying on the phony statements issued by Madoff would
allow the architect of the fraud to determine the winners and
losers among his investors, Sheehan said.  Picard’s position was supported in the hearing by lawyers
for the SIPC and the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in  North Carolina  after pleading guilty to running the
biggest Ponzi scheme in history.  The trustee has sued dozens of banks, feeder funds and
investors he claims knew or should have known that Madoff was a
fraud. These include the Mets’ owners, whose lawyer, Karen Wagner, argued today against Picard’s “cash-in, cash-out”
method for evaluating claims.    Mario Cuomo   Among the spectators at today’s 1 1/2-hour hearing was
former New York governor Mario Cuomo, who was appointed by the  bankruptcy court  to act as mediator between Picard and the Mets’
owners, which include team chairman Fred Wilpon and president
Saul Katz.  Picard has sued for the return of $300 million in alleged
false profits from the fraud. He is seeking an additional
$700 million in principal and claims that Wilpon, Katz and a
group of related investors turned a blind eye to “red flags”
that should have alerted them to the fraud.  “I think this is very complex, very big -- a lot of
interests involved,” Cuomo said after the hearing. He said he
hopes he can help Picard and the Mets’ owners settle their
dispute.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 