-- 
Thailand Plans to Sell $1.3 Billion of First Inflation-Linked Bonds in May

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-03-03T09:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/thailand-plans-to-sell-1-3-billion-of-first-inflation-linked-bonds-in-may.html
  Thailand ’s finance ministry plans to
sell inflation-linked bonds for the first time in May to help
investors preserve capital amid accelerating inflation.  The government will sell 40 billion baht ($1.31 billion) of
10-year notes, possibly to both institutional and individual
investors, Chakkrit Parapuntakul, director-general of the
ministry’s Public Debt Management Office, said today.
Underwriters will be chosen by the end of this month, he said.  Thailand will join  South Korea  and Japan in issuing
inflation-protected bonds, while Financial Secretary John Tsang
said on Feb. 23 that  Hong Kong  plans to sell as much as HK$10
billion ($1.3 billion) of the securities to individual investors
starting in six months.  China , South Korea, Thailand,  Indonesia 
and  India  all boosted borrowing costs this year to tame
inflation fueled by higher  oil prices  and food costs.  “Rising inflation has become a key issue around the
world,” Chakkrit said in a telephone interview from Bangkok.
“Foreign investors have shown strong interest in these types of
bonds as they use them as a hedging tool against inflation.”  The sale of inflation-linked debt is part of the Thai
government’s plan to develop the nation’s  bond market . The
central bank also urged the finance ministry to sell the
securities to help signal “inflation expectations to the
market,” Chakkrit said. The bonds will be traded on Thailand’s
secondary market after they are issued, he said.  Pension Funds  “The inflation-linked bond is another good development for
the Thai fixed-income market,” said Jotika Savanananda,
president of SCB Asset Management Co., Thailand’s second-biggest
private money manager with about 500 billion baht of assets.
“It provides a good instrument for investors to protect against
inflation. The biggest demand for this bond will probably come
from pension funds which want to protect the value of money from
their long-term investors.”  Consumer prices in Thailand gained 2.87 percent in February
from a year earlier after increasing 3.03 percent the previous
month, official data released on March 1 show.  Core inflation ,
which excludes fresh food and fuel prices, rose 1.45 percent,
quickening from a 1.32 percent pace the previous month.  Rates Set to Rise  The Bank of Thailand raised its benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate for the fourth time in seven months on Jan. 12,
by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.25 percent. Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul said in January that inflation is a key
risk to the economy and the central bank will need to raise the
key rate further this year.  “With the current inflation, there should be some demand
from investors for these types of instruments,” said Jessada Sookdhis, a  fund manager  in Bangkok at Ayudhya Fund Management
Co., which oversees about $2.4 billion in assets. He said he
would consider buying inflation-linked debt.  Inflation-indexed bonds in emerging markets returned 23
percent in 2010, compared with 13 percent for nominal bonds,
according to indexes compiled by Barclays Plc.  Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy is developing its  debt market  by issuing a wider variety of bonds.  The nation yesterday sold its first 50-year debt,
attracting demand for more than 1.8 times the amount of
securities offered in a 3.5 billion-baht sale of bonds that
carry a 4.85 percent coupon rate, the  finance ministry  said in a
statement. The government plans to sell an additional 3 billion
baht to 4 billion baht of the long-maturity bonds this year.  There will probably be strong demand for the 50-year bonds,
Ayudhya Fund’s Jessada said.  Thailand is the fourth country after the United Kingdom,  France  and China to sell 50-year bonds, according to the
ministry’s statement.  “We are going at full steam to develop our bond market,”
Chakkrit said. “We plan to sell the inflation-linked bonds and
the 50-year bonds on a regular basis to build the benchmarks in
the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net 
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  