-- 
Alcatel Rises to Highest Since 2008 on Chinese Bid Speculation

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   E d   L o c o c o
-- 
2011-03-03T14:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/alcatel-shares-reach-the-highest-since-2008-on-bid-speculation.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA jumped to the
highest price in 2 1/2 years in Paris on speculation that a
Chinese company may bid for  France ’s largest telecommunications-
equipment maker.  “There’s speculation in the market today of a takeover for
Alcatel from a Chinese group,” said Jean-Michel Salvador, an
analyst at AlphaValue in Paris.  Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (763)  are  China ’s top two
makers of equipment for telephone networks. Ross Gan, a
spokesman for Shenzhen-based Huawei told Bloomberg News today
that the company isn’t interested in bidding for Alcatel,
sending the Paris-based company’s stock about 3 percent lower
from its intraday level.  “It’s extremely unlikely that there will be a bid on
Alcatel-Lucent by any Chinese company,” said Janardan Menon, a
London-based analyst at  Liberum Capital . “In most cases, these
companies already have the technologies that Alcatel has, so
there is nothing much to be gained.”  Alcatel rose as much as 39 cents, or 11 percent, to 3.99
euros, the highest level since September 2008, before Huawei’s
denial. The stock traded at 3.83 euros, or 6.45 percent higher,
at 3:04 p.m. on the Paris exchange.  Alix Cavallari, an Alcatel spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Margrete Ma, a spokeswoman for ZTE, also based in
the southern city of Shenzhen, couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment after business hours.  U.S. Business  Led by Chief executive Officer Ben Verwaayen, Alcatel
generated about 33 percent of its sales in the U.S. last year.
This revenue stream may be at risk if there was a bid by ZTE or
Huawei, Menon said.  “A very large part of Alcatel’s business comes from the
U.S., which may be lost if bought by a Chinese company,” he
said.  Last fall, U.S. lawmakers asked the Federal Communications
Commission to review the security risks of domestic companies
such as  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  using equipment from ZTE and Huawei.
Sprint ultimately ordered gear from other suppliers.  The rumor of Chinese bidders for Alcatel “comes up
regularly,” said Mirko Maier, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany . Huawei and ZTE may be
interested in Alcatel-Lucent’s U.S. customers, he said.  “A European takeover could make sense,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 