-- 
Alibaba.com, Smarting From Scandal, Taps U.S. Entrepreneurs

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-03-04T10:32:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/alibaba-com-smarting-from-scandal-courts-u-s-entrepreneurs.html
  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , the Chinese e-
commerce company shaken by revelations of fraud, is heading West
as it rebuilds trust, courting entrepreneurs in the U.S. and
investing in online companies.  About 200 people attended a three-hour conference at  Stanford University  this week to hear how the company is helping
businesses find Chinese manufacturers for their wares. Small
businesses in the U.S., including peddlers of everything from
bikes to light bulbs to ballet flats, are starting to tap
Alibaba to find partners.  “In the States, nobody really knows about them,” said
Jonathan Shriftman, who began using Alibaba.com last year to
find a manufacturer for inexpensive fixed-gear bikes. Shriftman
resells the bikes on his own website, SoleBicycles.com. “If you
have an idea, it’s really easy to make stuff now.”  Alibaba, based in Hangzhou, east  China , is aiming to lure
people like Shriftman as part of its broader ambition to grow
beyond its home country. The company, which has about 60
engineers in its Santa Clara, California, office, has identified
the U.S. as its top investment priority. It bought Vendio
Services Inc. and Auctivia, both California-based companies,
last year and is looking for more acquisitions, former CEO David Wei said in an interview in August.  The Stanford seminar kicked off a tour of 15 California
schools to help people jump-start international businesses. Many
attendees were entrepreneurs, who asked venture-capitalist
panelists for advice on business ideas and mingled after the
event over dim sum Alibaba provided. Many said they came away
with interest in using Alibaba’s marketplace, which lets them
search for manufacturers around the world, helping them save
money as they nurture their small businesses.  Turning to Colleges  Alibaba.com said it’s turning to colleges after noticing
that during the economic recession, many new users were students
buying from suppliers to start their own companies.  As Alibaba courts U.S. business owners, it will have to
mend its image and rebuild customer confidence. Alibaba.com’s
shares have tumbled 8.2 percent since the company said on Feb.
21 that more than 2,300 vendors used its website to defraud
global buyers. Wei and Chief Operating Officer Elvis Lee, who
weren’t accused of wrongdoing, resigned.  Alibaba.com shares rose 3.7 percent to HK$15.32 at the 4
p.m. close of trading in  Hong Kong . The stock has gained 9.9
percent this year, underperforming Chinese Internet rivals
including Baidu Inc. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)   The company is still trying to smooth over the scandal. At
the Stanford conference, an Alibaba spokeswoman addressed the
incident, saying the company wanted to send a message to
customers that it values transparency and that it will fix any
shortcomings.  Global Customers  The Stanford event was part of a weeklong entrepreneurship
program at the university with lectures and workshops. The goal,
executives said at the conference, is getting entrepreneurs to
think about their suppliers and customers as global, rather than
simply within their country.  “If you want to start a business, Alibaba.com is a great
launch pad for you,” said Tami Zhu, who oversees business
development and marketing at the company.  There aren’t many companies offering services similar to
Alibaba.com’s to U.S. entrepreneurs, said Ryan Miller, an e-
commerce strategist at Burlington, Massachusetts-based
 DemandWare Inc.,  which helps companies such as  Barneys New York 
and Anne Klein run their websites.  “If you want to customize an iPhone case, Alibaba can put
you in contact with multiple companies in China that can provide
that,” said Miller, who founded his own Internet-commerce
company in China in 2004. “They are definitely pioneers in that
area.”  Responding to Fraud  Some students said they were reassured by Alibaba’s
response to the fraud and the resulting executive departures.  “It was a pretty noble thing, seeing how most executives
of American companies react to those types of things,”
Shriftman said.  Still, Alibaba was unable to persuade at least one
entrepreneur, Greg Wientjes, to give up his online video-
conferencing ambitions to pursue a business selling physical
wares.  “I feel more enthusiastic about building digital products
than physical goods because it seems more capital-intensive,”
said Wientjes, a student at Stanford who is developing an
application that runs on Facebook Inc.’s social-networking
website. “This is the way the world is going.”  Slowing Growth at Home  Alibaba.com, whose parent also runs  Taobao , an Internet-
auction company that’s similar to  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , is stepping up its
expansion in overseas markets including the U.S.,  India  and
Japan to counter slowing customer growth in China. Subscribers
for the export-oriented China Gold Supplier program rose by
about 12,000 in the first nine months of 2010, compared with
more than 41,000 a year earlier, according to data disclosed by
Alibaba in November.  Yahoo! Inc., owner of the most-visited U.S. Web portal, is
the biggest shareholder of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which
owns a 73 percent stake in Hong Kong-listed Alibaba.com.  As Alibaba.com promotes its site to entrepreneurs, it may
also be laying the foundation for a coming showdown with EBay,
owner of the largest e-commerce marketplace, said Scot Wingo,
chief executive officer of ChannelAdvisor Corp., which helps
more than 3,000 businesses with their online strategies.  U.S. Expansion?  “It seems they’re up to something pretty serious,” Wingo
said. “A lot of people in the industry think that behind the
scenes they’re going to start a Taobao equivalent in the U.S.
and more directly compete with EBay.”  Alibaba.com says it has no plans to target consumers and go
head-to-head with EBay in the U.S.  Key to Alibaba’s ambitions outside China will be increasing
awareness among entrepreneurs like Shriftman, who said he had
never heard of Alibaba until a year ago when he searched the
term “bicycle manufacturer” on  Google.com .  The company plans similar international-business seminars
this year at  University of California , Berkeley, and  California
State University  in Fresno, among other schools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  