-- 
Amylin, Alkermes Fall After Bydureon Doesn't Best Victoza in Diabetes Test

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-03-03T21:31:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/amylin-alkermes-fall-after-bydureon-doesn-t-best-victoza-in-diabetes-test.html
  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  and  Alkermes Inc. (ALKS)  plunged after the companies’ diabetes drug
Bydureon didn’t control the disease better than Novo Nordisk
A/S’ Victoza in a study.  The shares of San Diego-based Amylin fell 25 percent, or
$3.81, to $11.20 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading, while Waltham, Massachusetts-based Alkermes
declined 11 percent, or $1.54, to $12.56, the worst day for both
stocks since October. Bydureon marketing partner  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) , based in Indianapolis, rose 11 cents to $34.39 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Bydureon lowered average blood-sugar levels by 1.3
percentage points, compared with 1.5 percentage points for
Victoza, its developers said in a statement today. The drug is a
weekly version of Byetta, which is injected twice daily.
Victoza, approved in the U.S. in 2010, is taken once daily and
generated $433 million in sales last year.  “We thought that Bydureon would look at least as good as
Victoza,”  Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York,
said today in a report. “These data give Novo a very powerful
marketing message to use against Bydureon when it is launched.”  Novo Nordisk rose 8.50 kroner, or 1.3 percent, to 678.50 at
the 5 p.m. close of Copenhagen trading, after climbing as high
as 703 kroner.  ‘Robust Effect’  “We didn’t hit the primary endpoint, but the results do
actually reinforce the fact that this product has a very robust
effect,” Amylin Chief Executive Officer Dan Bradbury said today
in a telephone interview. “If approved, Bydureon could help
millions of people with  Type 2 diabetes .”  The study, funded by Amylin and Lilly, isn’t part of the
companies’ regulatory submission, Bradbury said.  “They wouldn’t have done this study if they felt it would
have come out like this,”  Jack Scannell , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein Ltd., said today in a telephone interview. “Why
would you put a patient on a less effective drug?”  Almost 24 million Americans have diabetes, which occurs
when people don’t have sufficient amounts of the hormone
insulin, or are resistant to it, hampering their ability to
convert blood sugar to energy.  Heart Study  Amylin lost about half its market value Oct. 20 after
saying the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  wanted a study
assessing Bydureon’s heart risks. Alkermes lost 28 percent that
day. Amylin and its marketing partners plan to submit a response
to the FDA in the second half of 2011, the companies said today
in a statement.  Bydureon’s entrance to the U.S. market “may be more
challenged than some expect, particularly given Victoza’s strong
launch and the multiple once-daily oral medications approved and
in development,” said Robert Hazlett, an analyst with BMO
Capital Markets in  New York , in a note to clients today. He
maintained his peak sales estimate of $1 billion for Bydureon.  Ami Fadia, a UBS analyst in New York, cut his estimate for
the drug’s peak annual sales from $1.2 billion to $500 million,
in a research note today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  