-- 
Manchester City Suspends Toure After Positive Test for Specified Substance

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-04T13:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/manchester-city-suspends-toure-after-positive-test-for-specified-substance.html
  Manchester City  suspended Kolo Toure
after the Ivory Coast defender tested positive for a “specified
substance” that the Premier League soccer club didn’t identify.  The 29-year-old Toure, who joined the club from Arsenal in
July 2009, was informed by the Football Association that an
“A” sample he provided had returned the positive test, City
said in a  statement  last night on its website.  “As result of this, he has been suspended from
participating in all first team and non-first team matches
pending the outcome of the legal process,” the club said.  The  World Anti-Doping Agency  defines a specified substance
as one that is “more susceptible to a credible, non-doping
explanation.” Sanctions under the World Anti-Doping Code for
such a positive test range from a warning to a 24-month ban.  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger , who coached Toure at the
London club, told reporters today that the defender made a
mistake and took a diet pill belonging to his wife.  “He wants to control his weight a little bit because
that’s where he has some problems and he took the product of his
wife,” Wenger said, adding that he’d talked to the former
Gunners’ captain since reports about the failed test.  Simon Mensing, a midfielder with Scottish club Hamilton
Academicals, served a  four-week ban  between Jan. 29 and Feb. 26
after a specified substance was detected in his system.  The 28-year-old was charged with violating the anti-doping
rules on Jan. 28 by UK Anti-Doping after testing positive for
the stimulant methylhexaneamine. The agency accepted Mensing’s
explanation that he had accidently ingested the substance while
using a dietary supplement.  UK Anti-Doping warned athletes in November to be vigilant
about the possible presence of banned substances in over-the-
counter dietary supplements.  Toure, whose brother Yaya also plays for City, was the
team’s captain until  Carlos Tevez  took over this season and is
contracted to the club until July 2013. He’s started 22 of
City’s 28 league games this campaign.  City is vying for three trophies this season. The third-
place Blues trail leader Manchester United by 10 points in the
Premier League, face Reading in the quarterfinals of the F.A.
Cup and play Dynamo Kiev in the last 16 of the Europa League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  