-- 
AngloGold Ready to Contest South African Suit on Occupational Lung Disease

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-03T17:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/anglogold-ready-to-contest-south-african-suit-on-occupational-lung-disease.html
  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Africa ’s
largest miner of the metal, is prepared to defend itself after a
court ruled a former worker was able to seek damages even if he
qualified for certain state benefits for occupational disease.  The case follows a 2.7 million rand ($392,000) lawsuit by
Thembekile Mankayi, who worked at the Vaal Reefs mine to 1995.  “AngloGold Ashanti will defend the case on its merits,”
it said in a statement today. “Should other individuals lodge
similar claims, these too would ultimately be defended.” The
company said it learned today that Mankayi had died.    South Africa ’s Constitutional Court today  overruled prior
judgements  that Mankayi was precluded from making a claim as he
was covered by the Occupational Diseases in Mines and Works Act,
according to a statement on the court’s website. Mankayi claimed
he contracted lung diseases at work when the mine had a duty to
“provide a safe and healthy work environment,” it said.  The court also ordered AngloGold to pay Mankayi’s legal
costs, including in the  Supreme Court  of Appeal and High Court.  Mankayi stopped working after contracting silicosis and was
awarded 16,316 rand compensation. The Vaal Reefs mine was owned
at the time by  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , which later set up AngloGold.
Richard Spoor, Mankayi’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
message left at his office or answer calls to his mobile phone.  ‘Significant Judgment’  Spoor estimated in February 2008, when Mankayi’s case was
heard, that as many as half a million former mineworkers are
affected by silicosis. The condition is caused by exposure to
silica dust, which causes scar tissue in the lungs, and has been
linked to  lung cancer  and tuberculosis.  “It’s a significant judgment from a legal precedent point
of view,” Warren Beech, a lawyer at Webber Wentzel Attorneys of
Johannesburg told Talk Radio 702. “It can potentially open the
floodgates for claims. You are going to have sizeable claims
against mining companies. It has the potential to cause chaos.”  Spoor won a 490 million-rand settlement from Gencor Ltd. in
2003 after it was sued by South African workers from asbestos
mines it controlled. Gencor didn’t admit liability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 