-- 
Ansip Set for Re-Election in Estonia on Euro Entry, GDP Growth

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-03-03T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/ansip-set-for-re-election-in-estonia-on-euro-entry-gdp-growth.html
Estonian Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip 
is set to extend his record term after his austerity measures
helped country adopt the euro this year and as the economy grows
at the European Union’s second-fastest pace.  Ansip’s Reform party and its main ally Isamaa ja Res
Publica Liit lead the two largest opposition parties by 17
percentage points, Aivar Voog, the head of research at  TNS Emor ,
said by phone yesterday.  The premier, who came to power in 2005, steered Estonia
through the EU’s second-deepest recession behind  Latvia  in 2008
and 2009, rejecting calls to abandon the currency peg and
directing austerity measures equivalent to 9 percent of economic
output.  “The economic recovery has been good and there is a fairly
widespread idea among Estonians that this recovery is going to
continue as long as they are not going to make serious mistakes
with policy,” Fredrik Erixon, the director of the Brussels-
based European Centre for International Political Economy, said
by phone.  Ansip’s re-election would mirror results across the Baltic
countries, where administrations avoided a collapse of public
support after budget cuts. Latvians in October re-elected Prime
Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, while Lithuanian Premier  Andrius Kubilius ’ governing party garnered twice as many votes as polls
predicted in municipal elections last week.  ‘Fairly Widespread Idea’  Estonia’s economy expanded an annual 6.6 percent in the
fourth quarter, the second-fastest pace in the EU behind  Sweden ,
following a peak-to-trough GDP contraction of almost 20 percent
during the crisis. Unemployment fell the most in the 27-member
bloc, to 14.3 percent in the fourth quarter, from 16.1 percent a
year earlier, according to Eurostat. The euro-area average was
9.9 percent in January.  The Nasdaq OMX Tallinn index has risen 37 percent over the
past 12 months, the seventh-best performance among 90 benchmark
indexes tracked by Bloomberg. It was the third-biggest gainer
last year, with a 73 percent rise. AS Tallink Grupp, the largest
Baltic ferry company, has gained 51 percent in a year.  The longest-serving prime minister since  Estonia  regained
independence in 1991, Ansip faced his biggest challenge after he
ousted the Social Democrats from the governing coalition in May
2009 over jobless support and budget measures, which left him
with a minority Cabinet for several months. For a next term,
Ansip has pledged to lower taxes and keep the budget under
control. He has also promised more investment in education.  ‘Well Placed’  “The Reform Party looks well placed to continue in
government, either alone or in a continued coalition with IRL,”
John Andrew, a London-based analyst with the Economist
Intelligence Unit, said in an e-mail.  The Social Democrats, along with the opposition Center
Party, now pledge to abandon Estonia’s flat income tax to
increase levies on the rich, cut the value-added tax on
essential goods and boost social spending.  Ansip’s Reform received backing from 29 percent of
respondents, followed by Isamaa of former Prime Minister Mart Laar with 25 percent and Center Party with 23 percent, TNS
Emor’s Voog said.  TNS Emor polled 792 eligible voters during February,
followed by phone survey this week. Support for the  Social
Democrats  of former Defense Minister Sven Mikser was at 14
percent, he said. No margin of error was given.  ‘Very Surprised’  “I would be very surprised if the opposition would manage
to win the majority,” said Erixon. “I’m not putting my money
on that side.”  The economic crisis “sobered up” election promises
compared with the 2007 campaign, said Annika Uudelepp, the
chairman of the Tallinn-based  Praxis  research institute in an e-
mailed response to questions. The biggest parties are almost
unanimous in pledging to protect Estonia’s business and
investment climate to boost competitiveness, she said.  Sweden’s Ericsson AB, the world’s largest maker of wireless
networks, in June 2009 bought the Estonian operations of the
Finnish electronics subcontractor Elcoteq SE for 30 million
euros. Ericsson’s local unit contributes 10 percent of Estonia’s
exports and a quarter of the group’s output, Swedish Foreign
Minister Carl Bildt said in January.  The  Finance Ministry  expects the $19 billion economy to
expand 4 percent this year, following a preliminary 3.1 percent
growth last year. The  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development  forecast 2011 GDP growth of 3.6 percent in a
statement on March 1.  “While the adoption of the euro and greater stability in
asset prices are likely to boost  consumer confidence , important
risks remain,” the EBRD said. “Prospects for exports may
falter should external demand from the EU weaken, while domestic
demand continues to suffer from a severe shortage of credit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  