-- 
Target to Pay $22.5 Million in California Toxic Waste Case, Official Says

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-03-04T00:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/target-to-pay-22-5-million-to-settle-san-diego-waste-case-official-says.html
  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer, will pay $22.5 million to settle claims
it illegally dumped hazardous waste in California, said San
Diego County District Attorney Bonnie M. Dumanis.  The settlement, announced today in an e-mailed statement
from Dumanis, resolves a civil lawsuit brought by former
California Attorney General  Jerry Brown  and as many as 20 of the
state’s county district attorneys. Target must pay the $22.5
million for penalties and costs of the litigation, and to fund
environmental projects, according to Dumanis.  A court order “will hold Target accountable for any
failures to follow the letter of the law down the road, even
after the civil penalties and costs are paid,” Dumanis said in
the statement.  The suit, filed in state court in Oakland in 2009, claimed
that 290 Target stores throughout  California  had been served
since 2001 with more than 300 notices for disposing of hazardous
materials, such as flammable liquids and toxic chemicals, at
landfills not designated to receive them.  Under California law, Target must properly dispose of
products such as bleach, paints and pesticides that are
returned, or damaged during shipping or stocking, according to
the complaint.  “Target has a comprehensive program to ensure our
handling, storage, disposal and documentation of hazardous
materials complies with California law, and we train our store
teams regularly as part of this program,” the company said in
an e-mailed statement. “We will continue to devote substantial
resources in order to remain a responsible corporate steward of
the environment.”  Brown’s Investigation  The lawsuit against Minneapolis-based Target stems from an
investigation started in 2006 by Brown, a Democrat who was
elected governor of California last year, and the district
attorneys. The suit claimed Target illegally dumped the products
at sites in  Sacramento , Alameda and Los Angeles counties, among
others.  Target said when the case was filed that it was
disappointed because it had negotiated with the state for almost
three years in an attempt to resolve the claims.  Hazardous waste generated by California Target stores
through damaged products, spills and customer returns must be
collected by state-registered haulers, taken to proper disposal
facilities and properly documented and accounted for, according
to Dumanis. While Target stores have begun shipments of
hazardous waste every 30 days, before the investigation those
wastes were largely unaccounted for and, according to employees,
were routinely unlawfully disposed, Dumanis said.  The case is California v. Target, RG-09457686, Superior
Court of California, Alameda County (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  