-- 
Marines Bracing for Taliban Counter-Attack in Afghanistan

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-03T22:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/marines-in-afghanistan-brace-for-taliban-spring-counter-attack.html
U.S. Marines in  Afghanistan ’s
southern Helmand Province are bracing for a Taliban counter-
attack with confidence that the insurgents won’t be able to
recapture significant territory, a coalition commander said.  The troops, working with  NATO  coalition and Afghan forces,
have targeted Taliban supply depots, cut off their access to
funding by controlling poppy-growing areas and staunched the
flow of fighters from across the Pakistani border, said Marine
Corps Major General Richard Mills.  A turnout by 1,100 of 1,500 registered voters yesterday in
a local election in the town of Marjah with “absolutely no
security incidents” is a sign that the progress achieved will
be permanent, Mills said. He cited thriving bazaars that include
book and music vendors and attendance at schools bursting with
more than 100,000 students, requiring three shifts a day.  “We are preparing for a counter-attack in the
springtime,” Mills told reporters at the Pentagon by video
conference from the Marine Corps base  Camp Leatherneck  in
Helmand. “The gains we’ve made, although fragile as any new
democracy is, I think we’re seeing a growing momentum that tells
me it is sustainable.”  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led coalition’s
ability to hold on to gains made in the past year will determine
how many troops the U.S. and its partners can withdraw from
Afghanistan this year. President  Barack Obama  has set July as a
time to begin a drawdown and start handing control to Afghan
forces.  Sustaining Security  “We have made real progress, but it’s tactical progress,”
said  Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies research group in
Washington. “We don’t know whether we can sustain the security
of these areas.”  Afghan governance and institutions don’t yet show evidence
that the civilian leadership can sustain the military success,
Cordesman said.  “The fact is that this will play out over several more
years,” he said.  Marjah was the site of one of the biggest coalition
military offensives of the war a year ago. U.S. forces and their
partners initially had difficulty preserving gains. That changed
as the U.S. began adding some of the 30,000 additional troops
Obama authorized for Afghanistan in December 2009, alongside
increased numbers of soldiers from other coalition nations.  Keeping Up Pressure  Unlike in past winters, coalition and Afghan forces haven’t
eased pressure on the militants, said Mills, who commands about
30,000 coalition troops in the region from the U.S., UK,
Estonia,  Bahrain ,  Denmark , Tonga, and  Georgia .  Afghan authorities also have eradicated poppy crops that
could have been sold for opium to generate Taliban revenue,
replacing them with wheat in a program that has attracted 44,000
farmers, he said.  Local men also are angling for jobs in various police
forces at the national and village level.  “The numbers are climbing, the capabilities are climbing,
leadership abilities are climbing, and we’ve seen a real
interest now in the local security initiatives,” said Mills,
who is winding up his unit’s tour after a year in the region.
They’ll rotate out and be replaced by another Marine unit.  Unmanned aerial vehicles, other overhead reconnaissance
assets and  General Dynamics Corp (GD) .-made M1A2 Abrams tanks have
helped the coalition secure more of the province every day.  Stemming Flow  Mills praised Afghan intelligence for helping stem the flow
of fighters across the border from  Pakistan , where most of the
insurgent groups take sanctuary in rugged, mostly ungoverned
terrain.  Marine General James Mattis, the top U.S. commander for the
Middle East, Central Asia and the Persian Gulf region that
includes Afghanistan, said, “We are making undeniable security
progress, though some of our gains remain fragile and
reversible.”  “Al-Qaeda in the border region between Afghanistan and
Pakistan is under the most pressure they have experienced since
2001,” Mattis told the House Armed Services Committee in  Washington  today. “Over the past year, our enemies have lost
leaders, they’ve lost battle space, maneuver room and the
initiative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 