-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen as U.S., China Support Economic Growth Outlook

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-03-03T08:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/asian-currencies-strengthen-as-u-s-china-support-regional-growth-outlook.html
Asian currencies advanced after the  Federal Reserve  gave an optimistic assessment of the  U.S.
economy  and China unveiled measures to boost consumer spending,
brightening the outlook for exporters.  The labor market improved throughout the U.S. early this
year, driven by rising retail sales and “solid growth” in
manufacturing, the Fed said in its Beige Book report yesterday,
outweighing concern that political unrest in the Middle East and
North Africa would push up oil prices. China’s cabinet approved
a plan to reduce the tax burden for those on low incomes.  “The message from most of Asia’s activity data since
December is that growth forecasts for much of the region are too
light,”  Tim Condon , head of Asian research at ING Groep NV in  Singapore , wrote in a research note to clients today.    South Korea ’s won strengthened 0.7 percent to 1,119.98 per
dollar as of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Taiwan dollar rose 0.4 percent to
$NT29.542, the Philippine peso gained 0.4 percent to 43.36, and
the Singapore dollar advanced 0.2 percent to S$1.2684.  Oil has rallied more than 20 percent since Feb. 15, falling
0.5 percent to $101.70 in  New York  today.  The won appreciated after a statistics department report
showed factory production grew 13.7 percent in January from a
year earlier, the most since August. Output increased a revised
10.6 percent in December.  Strong Korean Data  “The very strong data out of  Korea  is clearly helping the
won,” said  Thomas Harr , Singapore-based head of Asian foreign-
exchange strategy at Standard Chartered Plc.  The peso touched the strongest level since Feb. 21 on
speculation the central bank will start raising borrowing costs
to tame inflation as early as this month.  Consumer prices rose 3.7 percent last month, according to
the median estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before a government report tomorrow. Inflation accelerated to
3.5 percent in January, the fastest pace in four months.  “The market reading is, with the possible rate hike, peso
appreciation may be inevitable,” said Roland Avante, treasurer
at Sterling Bank of Asia in Manila.  Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened 0.1 percent to 8,807 per
dollar, earlier touching a three-year high of 8,798, as seven of
17 economists forecast a rate increase tomorrow. Ten expect no
change.  Thailand’s baht rose 0.1 percent to 30.51 per dollar on
speculation the central bank will raise borrowing costs at its
March 9 policy meeting.  “With gains in  oil prices , emerging countries with strong
economic growth like Thailand will probably need to hike rates,
providing underlying support for the baht,” said  Hideki Hayashi ,
a global economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.2 percent to 3.0310
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s
yuan was little changed at 6.5731, while India’s rupee weakened
0.3 percent to 45.07.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  