-- 
Stocks Rise Most This Year on Economy; Euro Gains

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-03T20:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/asian-stocks-currencies-oil-gain-on-u-s-employment-south-korean-output.html
U.S stocks rallied, sending the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  up the most in three months, as oil
retreated and reports signaled the global economy is
strengthening. The euro climbed as the  European Central Bank 
said an interest-rate increase may be needed to fight inflation.  The Dow climbed 204.91 points, or 1.7 percent, to 12,271.71
at 3:19 p.m. in New York and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
increased for a fifth day, the longest rally in two months. The
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index pared gains amid concern borrowing costs
will rise. The euro appreciated 0.5 percent against the dollar
and German two-year note yields jumped 23 basis points. Oil lost
0.3 percent to $101.91 a barrel, falling from its highest price
in more than two years. Treasuries and the dollar fell.  U.S. equities advanced for the fourth time in five days
after jobless claims unexpectedly fell, underscoring the  Federal
Reserve ’s assessment that the labor market is improving. Other
reports showed American  service industries  expanded at the
fastest pace in five years, retail sales topped estimates and
South Korean industrial output grew. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers must exercise “strong vigilance” as
inflation risks increase.  “The stock market has the best of all worlds,” said Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at Milwaukee-based Robert
W. Baird & Co., which oversees more than $85 billion. “The
numbers we’ve seen -- employment, ISM, retail sales --argue that
concern about a slowdown due to rising energy costs may be
overstated.”  Jobless Claims  Industrial and financial companies led gains in all 10
industry groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which
climbed 1.8 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , General Electric Co.
and Apple Inc. rallied more than 2 percent.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  fell by 20,000 to
368,000 last week, the Labor Department said. Economists
forecast claims would climb to 395,000, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The data comes before
tomorrow’s monthly jobs report, which is forecast to indicate
payrolls rose by 195,000 workers in February after a 36,000 gain
the previous month.  “The U.S. jobs data supports an improving economy,” said  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as chief investment
officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana , Pennsylvania. “There’s
also some sort of relief about  oil prices  being down. Still, how
much of an impact the recent spike in crude will have remains to
be seen.”  Improving Data  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses increased to 59.7 from 59.4 in January.
The median forecast of economists projected the index would fall
to 59.3. Same-store sales rose 4.3 percent last month, beating
an overall compilation of analysts’ estimates for a gain of 3.8
percent at the 27 chains tracked by Retail Metrics. Separate
government data showed productivity climbed more than estimated
and labor costs dropped more than forecast.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  jumped 2.2 percent, the biggest
rally in almost six months, and the won strengthened 0.6 percent
versus the dollar. Industrial production rose 13.7 percent in
January from a year earlier, Statistics Korea said today,
topping the 12.4 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rallied 2.9 percent after
Credit Suisse Group AG raised its recommendation on the equity
market to “overweight” and a report showed the inflation rate
fell to the lowest in four decades.  European Markets  More than two stocks advanced for every one that fell in
Europe’s Stoxx 600. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, the world’s largest
brewer, surged 2.3 percent and Adecco SA, the biggest supplier
of temporary workers, rallied 5.4 percent.  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  gained 3 percent to the highest price
since 2002 after Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. won U.K. government
approval for its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.7 billion) bid to take
full control of the company.  Oil fell after reports that  Venezuela  offered to mediate a
resolution to the crisis in Libya, which has cut crude supplies
from Africa’s third-biggest producer. Food prices rose to a
record in February, the  United Nations  said today. Wheat gained
1.5 percent. Cotton futures rose 2.9 percent to $2.064 a pound
for a fifth straight gain after exports jumped in the U.S., the
world’s largest shipper.  Default Swaps Drop  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate debt from default
followed the price of crude higher. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 2.6 basis points to a mid-price of 82.4 basis points,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Ten-year Treasury yields climbed 10 basis points to 3.57
percent.  The difference in yield between 10-year Treasury notes
and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectation for inflation, rose to the highest level since July
2008. The so-called breakeven rate rose to just below 2.50
percentage points.  The euro gained against all but three of its 16 major
peers, advancing 1.5 percent against the Swiss franc and 1.3
percent versus the yen. The  Swiss National Bank  reported a 2010
loss of 19.2 billion francs ($21 billion) as the euro’s
depreciation eroded the value of its reserves.  The pound declined 0.3 percent against the dollar after a
report from Markit Economics Ltd. and the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply showed an index of service industries fell
more than economists expected last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  