-- 
Audi Seeks to Win Over BMW's 5-Series Aficionados With A6 Sedan

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-03T23:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/audi-seeks-to-win-over-bmw-s-5-series-aficionados-with-a6-sedan.html
  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi luxury brand
will target executives with a revamped A6 sedan to increase
sales and lure customers from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  at the more expensive end of the product range.  “The A6 is the epitome of the top-of-the-range sedan,”
development chief Michael Dick said in an interview. “I’m
convinced it will attract many buyers in the business community.
This is an important segment for Audi.”  Audi aims to increase A6 deliveries by one-third after
selling about 1 million of the model’s previous generation
during its seven-year lifespan, Dick said at the carmaker’s
headquarters in Ingolstadt,  Germany . The overhauled version goes
on sale in Europe in April starting at 38,500 euros ($53,655).  The A6, the carmaker’s second-best selling model, competes
with the more expensive BMW 5-Series and Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz
E-Class. The model, positioned between the A4 and A8, is key for
Audi because it has better profitability than the A4 and higher
sales than the flagship A8. Audi is showing the A6 at the Geneva
auto show which began this week.  “The A6 is the most important car for Audi, it generates
both margin and volume,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director
of the Center for Automotive Research at the  University of
Duisburg-Essen  in Germany. “The model marks a gateway to the
top range of the luxury spectrum.”  The VW unit, which has a goal of toppling BMW as the
biggest luxury-auto maker in 2015, is enhancing the high end of
its 36-model lineup, introducing the new A7 Sportback last year
and an updated version of its A8 flagship sedan.  Expanding Line-Up  Audi will spend 11.6 billion euros worldwide outside  China 
on new products, plants and technologies over the next five
years. The brand aims to increase 2011 sales by about 10 percent
to a record 1.2 million cars and sport-utility vehicles this
year. Models hitting showrooms this year include the RS3
sportback, a hybrid Q5 SUV and the Q3 compact SUV.  The new A6 is shorter and wider than its predecessor and
weighs up to 80 kilograms less thanks to increased use of
aluminum and high-tech steels, Stefan Sielaff, head of design at
Audi brand, said in an interview last month.  The A6’s share of its market segment will increase to 20.7
percent next year in western  Europe  from 18.9 percent in 2011,
following the full introduction of the new version, IHS
Automotive forecasts. The 5-Series and E-Class will both decline
to 21.4 percent from 22.7 percent and 22.5 percent respectively,
the automotive industry analyst said.  A6 Competitors  BMW, based in Munich, Germany, introduced a new version of
the 5-Series sedan, priced from 40,300 euros, last March, a year
after Mercedes came to market with its updated E-Class, the
Stuttgart-based manufacturer’s second-best selling model. The E-
Class sells in Europe from 39,835 euros.  Audi is ramping up production of the new A6 and wants to
build about 200,000 of the car in the first year that output is
running at full capacity, Dick said. Audi sold 204,300 A6s last
year, second only to the 302,000 A4s, which is smaller, that the
luxury-car maker delivered.  Still, BMW doesn’t anticipate 5-Series sales being affected
by the pending introduction of the new A6, sales chief  Ian Robertson  said last month.  “The demand curve for the 5-Series will remain strong all
year,” Robertson said at a Feb. 21 event. With the model now
available in markets around the world including an extended
version for China, “we’re having very strong demand,” he said.  The new AG hits the U.S. in the third quarter and will be
priced “competitively” with the 7-Series and E-Class,
spokesman Oliver Strohbach said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreas Cremer at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 