-- 
Australia Building Approvals Slump, Exports Decline on Floods

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-03T02:36:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/australia-building-approvals-slump-exports-decline-on-floods.html
Australian home-building approvals
plunged in January by the most in eight years and exports
recorded the biggest decline in six months as floods inundated
the nation’s northeast.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments dropped 15.9 percent, the largest fall since
November 2002, after rising a revised 10 percent in December,
the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. A separate report
showed exports slid 4 percent, the most since July 2010, as coal
shipments slumped.  Torrential rains in Queensland state in December and
January affected about 30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut
rail lines and damaged crops, while the southern state of
Victoria was also flooded. The deluge caused a 30 percent drop
in Queensland approvals and slashed the state’s coking and
thermal coal exports, the Bureau of Statistics said.  “This is a bad set of data, but because the ABS advises
it’s all flood impacted, there really isn’t a lot to read into
it,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP  Australia  Ltd.
in Sydney. “It’s only if we don’t get some payback in ensuing
data that we should be worried.”  The Australian dollar weakened after the reports, falling
to $1.0151 as of 1:15 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0164 before the
data and $1.0169 yesterday in  New York .  Approvals to build private houses fell 2.4 percent to 7,933
in January from the previous month, today’s report showed.
Approvals for apartments and renovations plunged 30.8 percent to
4,044, it said.  Outlook Poor  “Today’s data shows the significance of the initial
negative impact of the recent floods,” David Cannington, an
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne , wrote after the report. “With the impact of Cyclone
Yasi yet to register with building approvals data, the outlook
for dwelling approvals in the early months of 2011 looks poor.”  Cannington said “this outlook is expected to be amplified
by the lagged impact of the November rate hike and weak house
price growth.”  Building approvals fell 24.8 percent from a year earlier,
today’s report showed, more than the 6.6 percent drop that
economists predicted.    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens left the
overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent this week, a level he
called “mildly restrictive” after seven increases since
October 2009. Australia’s jobless rate held at 5 percent in
January, the lowest level in almost two years as mining
companies boosted hiring.  Surplus Narrows  The nation’s trade surplus narrowed in January to A$1.88
billion ($1.9 billion), down from a revised A$2 billion surplus
in December, the Bureau of Statistics said in a separate report.  Total exports fell 4 percent to A$23.6 billion in January
from the previous month, as coke, coal and briquettes declined
29 percent, today’s report showed. Imports dropped 4 percent to
A$21.8 billion, led by declines in fuels and lubricants.  The Bureau of Statistics today said that while it couldn’t
quantify the total export loss tied to the floods, hard coking
coal shipments from Queensland in January fell 37 percent,
compared with the five-year average decrease for the month of 14
percent. Thermal coal exports dropped 33 percent, compared with
an average increase of 5 percent, the bureau said.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said yesterday gross domestic product
growth is likely to be reduced by about 1 percentage point in
the first three months of 2011 and will rebound in subsequent
quarters as rebuilding starts. Stevens also expects a recovery
after the flood-related drag on production.  ‘Mild Boost’  “The effects of the natural disasters over the summer have
reduced output, but production levels should recover over the
months ahead, and there will be a mild boost to demand from the
rebuilding efforts as they get under way,” the RBA governor
said in his statement this week.  Australia’s economic growth accelerated to 0.7 percent in
the final three months of last year, a report showed yesterday,
as the nation’s terms of trade advanced for a fifth straight
quarter, gaining 1.1 percent.  “Australia’s terms of trade are at their highest level
since the early 1950s and national income is growing strongly,”
Stevens said this week when he kept rates unchanged, referring
to a measure of income earned from exports. “Private investment
is picking up, mainly in the resources sector, in response to
high levels of commodity prices.”  A government report last month showed employment climbed by
24,000 in January, surpassing the median forecast for a 17,500
gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists. The jobless
rate of 5 percent matched the lowest level in two years.  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  