-- 
Australia Paves Way for Foreign-Owned Chi-X to Start Operating

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-03T02:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/australia-paves-way-for-foreign-owned-chi-x-to-start-operating.html
Chi-X Global Inc. has been given the
go-ahead to become the first foreign-owned exchange-market
operator in  Australia ’s 150-year trading history with the
release of a report today by the nation’s regulator.  The  Australian Securities & Investments Commission 
announced a timetable for the licensing of competitors to
dominant bourse operator  ASX Ltd.. (ASX)  It says Chi-X can start
offering a rival exchange service as early as September.  “By allowing competition we are promoting Australia as a
financial services hub and helping ensure our financial markets
are efficient and innovative,” Financial Services Minister  Bill Shorten , who approved the ASIC report late yesterday, said in an
e-mail today.  Introducing competition in Australia’s exchange market is a
key pillar of plans by the Labor Government led by Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  to help turn the country into a global
financial hub. The licensing of foreign competitors may help
pave the way for approval of a merger between ASX and  Singapore
Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , which is facing opposition from some lawmakers in
Canberra.  “In terms of the implications and what it might mean for
us, it reinforces the rationale for the merger proposal,”
Matthew Gibbs, spokesman for ASX in Sydney, said in a telephone
interview after ASIC’s announcement.  The timetable “sets out the steps ASIC, Chi-X and the
industry need to take to enable Chi-X to commence operations in
the Australian market, reflecting Chi-X’s plans to have a phased
‘soft launch,’” ASIC said in today’s announcement. “Market
operators and participants will need to prepare for a multi-
market environment.”  ‘Sensible Transition’  The regulatory timetable “provides a sensible set of
transitional arrangements” to help the industry move toward a
competitive environment in “an orderly way,” Chi-X Australia
Pty’s Chief Operating Officer  Peter Fowler  said in an e-mailed
statement.  ASIC said the licensing of Chi-X would depend on meeting
certain conditions on computer systems, resourcing and staffing.
One requirement is for ASX and Chi-X to have procedures in place
to simultaneously halt trading.  A start date for competing exchanges was delayed last year
by the transfer of new powers to ASIC and a general election
that returned Labor as a minority government.  Chi-X Australia sought to begin operating as early last
October before rescheduling the launch to the first quarter of
this year. The operator applied for a license in 2008 and won
“in principle” government approval last March to start a rival
service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 