-- 
Taxpayers Beat Wall Street as Biggest Lenders to Renewable Energy Projects

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-03-03T09:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/taxpayers-beat-wall-street-as-biggest-lenders-to-renewable-energy-projects.html
Government-backed development banks
in  Europe , Brazil and the U.S. arranged the most funding for
clean energy projects in 2010, taking up the slack left by
commercial lenders during the credit crisis.  The  European Investment Bank  furnished $5.41 billion of
debt for renewable energy projects last year followed by $3.16
billion from Brazil’s state development bank, BNDES, and $2.12
billion from the U.S. Federal Financing Bank, according to an
annual survey by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Banco Santander SA, ranked second in 2009, was sixth last
year with $1.82 billion in lending. HSH Nordbank AG, Caja  Madrid 
and  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , which were among the top 10 in the
previous ranking, were squeezed out in the most recent survey.  “The development banks are filling a gap that’s been left
by commercial banks,” Ronan O’Regan, a director in the
renewables and clean technology team at PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, said by telephone.  Overall, finance for clean energy projects including loans
and bridge lending facilities increased by 19 percent in 2010 to
$128 billion, the highest level on record, New Energy Finance
said. China and U.S. accounted for more than half the deals. The
U.K. and  Spain  both experienced drops in lending.  Government Priorities  The development banks are backing government priorities to
encourage cleaner-burning forms of energy, reflecting concerns
that pollution from burning  fossil fuel  such as oil and coal is
damaging the Earth’s atmosphere. Commercial lenders have scaled
back lending of all types during the financial crisis.  “Climate and renewables remain right of the top of the
bank’s agenda,” Chris Knowles, associate director for energy at
the EIB, said by telephone. The European Union’s lending arm may
reduce the amount it lends in 2012 as commercial lenders
“gradually” recover “their appetite” for risk, he said.  Knowles said demand for EIB loans has risen over the past
two years and that “it’s been important that we’ve provided
signals to the market in its moment of despair.”  The EIB also is offering lower  interest rates , giving
borrowers “a funding advantage somewhere between 50 to 100
basis points” under the price of loans from commercial lenders,
he said.  The financial crisis made commercial banks less willing to
lend, said Pierre Lestienne, chief financial officer of the
Belgian company C-Power NV, which in November signed a $1.16
billion project finance deal for its Thornton Bank offshore wind
farm with the EIB and seven commercial banks.  Favorable Terms  Without the EIB’s low interest rates, Zwijndrech-based C-
Power NV’s would have cost as much as 20 million euros ($28
million) more to build, according to Lestienne.  Not all development banks are increasing lending to the
industry. KfW,  Germany ’s lending arm, didn’t rank in the top 10
in 2010 after coming in seventh in 2009 with $946 million in
loans. A KfW spokeswoman had no immediate comment.  Officials at Banco Espirito couldn’t be reached by
telephone and e-mail yesterday.  Caja Madrid  had no immediate
comment. Nordbank said it remains committed to renewable energy.  “Unfortunately, in 2010 we had a slightly lower hit rate
than before in closing deals,” said Juergen Lange, head of
energy at Nordbank in Hamburg. “For this year we plan to do new
lending well above 500 million euros. We have a full pipeline
and are actively working on several deals” including offshore
wind projects.  U.S. Funding  The U.S. Federal Financing Bank, which didn’t appear in the
top 10 in 2009, was No. 3 last year following a loan for  Abengoa
SA (ABG) ’s Solana solar plant in  Arizona . A U.S. Energy Department
spokesman didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social,  Brazil ’s Rio de Janeiro-based development bank that’s known as
BNDES, is the nation’s only lender willing to discuss long-term
finance for some projects, said Ernesto Albrecht, chief
financial officer for small hydroelectric project developer GLEP
Energias Renovaveis e Participacoes SA, known as GLEP.  The Sao Paulo-based company is paying an annual rate of
about 8.8 percent on 206 million reais ($124 million) of BNDES
loans for two of its small hydroelectric projects, about 4
percentage points less than what it could get from a commercial
bank, Albrecht said.  BNDES loans for energy projects also can be paid back over
longer terms than commercial loans, with some maturing after 16
years, Antonio Carlos Tovar, head of the lender’s renewable
energy department, said in an interview.  Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona SA, an Argentina-based
wind energy developer maker of turbines, has opted to build most
of its projects in Brazil where financing is less expensive and
easier to arrange, Juan Carlos Fernandez, executive vice
president said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  