-- 
Bahrain Urges Quick Talks on ‘Substantial’ Political Rift

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-03T15:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/bahrain-urges-quick-talks-on-substantial-political-rift-1-.html
Bahrain’s Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa said dialogue between the government and
opposition groups must begin “as soon as practically possible”
to resolve the unrest roiling the Persian Gulf island nation.  “There are substantial differences between the various
groups and parties willing to engage in the national dialogue,”
Bahrain’s National Information Affairs Authority said in an e-
mailed statement today. “It is precisely for this reason that
the dialogue must start in order that a political settlement can
be reached by consensus.”  Thousands of Bahrainis, inspired by protests that have
toppled the rulers of Tunisia and  Egypt , have been protesting
since last month for free elections, as well as more housing and
job opportunities. Bahrain’s al-Wefaq group, the kingdom’s
largest Shiite Muslim opposition bloc, wants “significant
steps” from the government before heeding the call for national
dialogue, Abduljalil Khalil, head of al-Wefaq’s bloc in
parliament, said Feb. 22.  Shiites make up between 60 percent and 70 percent of the
population, while the royal family is Sunni. Seeking to assuage
opposition demands, King Hamad Bin Isa al Khalifa changed five
ministers, including those overseeing housing, labor and health,
the government said on Feb. 26.  “The government needs to agree in principle to a
constituent assembly” to start national dialogue, Khalid al-
Marzooq, deputy head of al-Wafaq, said in a telephone interview
today. “Our belief is that a constituent assembly, which
represents every element of society, will solve the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 