-- 
Baker Hughes Profit to Fall on Mideast Unrest, Weather

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-03-03T21:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/baker-hughes-1q-profits-to-fall-on-mideast-unrest-weather-1-.html
  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the world’s
third-largest oilfield services provider, expects profit to fall
by 4 cents to 7 cents in the first quarter because of
disruptions from unrest in the Middle East and colder weather in  North America .  All customer activity in Libya has ceased, and normal
operations have resumed in Tunisia and  Egypt , the Houston-based
company said today in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
filing.  In addition, colder-than-normal weather in North America
has caused customers to postpone some work from January and
February to March, the company said.  “First-quarter results for a number of companies in our
universe are likely to be impacted by severe weather conditions
in the United States, seasonality in the  North Sea  and other key
international regions, and political unrest in North Africa,”
according a Feb. 17 research note to investors from Barclays Plc
analysts James C. West, Anthony Walker and Zachary Freedman.  Popular uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt led to the toppling
of governments, fueling protests throughout the Arab world,
including Libya.  North Africa and Egypt represented about 3 percent of the
company’s total revenue in 2010, according to the filing. Its
North American business was the company’s largest with almost
half of all revenue last year.  Baker Hughes is expected to report earnings per share of 81
cents for the first quarter, according to the average of 12
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company climbed $1.40, or 2 percent, to $70.21 at 4:02
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares,
which have 23 buy ratings from analysts, 10 holds and one sell,
have climbed 22 percent this year.    Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  are the world’s
largest oilfield services providers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{David Wethe} in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  