-- 
Beazer’s McCarthy to Return $6.5 Million in Clawback

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-03-04T00:28:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/beazer-ceo-to-give-back-6-5-million-in-compensation-to-resolve-sec-claims.html
(Corrects name of attorney in sixth paragraph.)    Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH)  Chief
Executive Officer  Ian McCarthy  agreed to return $6.5 million in
a clawback of compensation he received while the firm doctored
financial statements as the housing crisis unfolded, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said.  McCarthy, 58, had failed to reimburse Beazer for bonuses
and other incentive-based pay in the year after the company
filed fraudulent financial statements for 2006, the SEC said
today in a  complaint  filed at federal court in Atlanta. The
settlement, which includes $772,232 in stock-sale profits and
more than 78,000 restricted shares, represents his entire 2006
bonus, the agency said.  Beazer restated financial results for the fiscal year that
ended Sept. 30, 2006 after the SEC accused the Atlanta-based
homebuilder of falsifying reports for the purpose of increasing
income, according to the complaint. In 2009, the SEC sued
Michael Rand, Beazer’s chief accounting officer at the time of
the wrongdoing, saying he inflated earnings and misled auditors.  “Today’s action makes clear that incentive compensation
and stock sale profits for CEOs and CFOs is subject to a
clawback if received while a company was deceiving its
shareholders,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in
a statement. “This provides an important incentive for senior
executives to be vigilant in preventing misconduct and ensuring
that companies comply with financial reporting requirements.”  Certified Reports  As CEO, McCarthy certified the accuracy of Beazer’s
financial reports, the strength of its internal controls, and
the lack of fraud during fiscal year 2006, the SEC said. He
wasn’t accused of participating in the fraud and settled without
admitting or denying wrongdoing, the agency said.  Samuel Winer, McCarthy’s attorney at Foley & Lardner LLP,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. Beazer
resolved the SEC’s accounting fraud claims in September 2008
without paying any financial penalties.  The  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002 gave the SEC authority to
seize bonuses and stock-sale profits from CEOs and finance
chiefs at firms that restate earnings because of misconduct even
if the executives weren’t involved in the violations. The SEC
tested that authority in 2009, demanding that Maynard Jenkins
reimburse Phoenix-based CSK Auto Corp. for $4.1 million in
incentive and stock-based pay he got as CEO from 2002 to 2006.  The CSK case marked the first time the agency invoked the
Sarbanes-Oxley clause to seize compensation from an executive.
Jenkins lost a bid to have the lawsuit thrown out.  Diebold, Dell  In June 2010, when the agency accused  Diebold Inc. (DBD)  of using
fraudulent accounting to inflate earnings, the company’s former
CEO, Walden O’Dell, agreed to give up more than $470,000 in
bonuses, 30,000 shares of stock and options for 85,000 shares.
He wasn’t accused of participating in the misconduct.  The SEC didn’t claw back pay from  Dell Inc. (DELL)  CEO  Michael Dell  after alleging that the computer maker misled investors
about how it met earnings targets and used fraudulent accounting
to pad results from 2003 to 2007. Dell, the company’s founder,
agreed to pay a $4 million fine over the alleged violations.  Congress approved Sarbanes-Oxley in response to accounting
scandals at Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc. The Dodd-Frank Act,
enacted last year, strengthened the Sarbanes-Oxley clawback
provisions, saying executives must return three years of bonuses
and  stock options  “in excess of what would have been paid”
when their employers restate results because of “material
noncompliance” with securities laws.  The SEC action against McCarthy came as Beazer shareholders
questioning how the company’s executives are paid. Beazer was
one of only two companies where shareholders voted “no” on pay
packages for company executives in advisory votes under the
SEC’s new “say-on-pay” rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 