-- 
Bernanke Says Stronger Recovery Would Help States Narrow Budget Shortfalls

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-03-03T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/bernanke-says-stronger-recovery-would-help-states-narrow-budget-shortfalls.html
  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said an improvement in state and local government
finances will depend on the rate of U.S. economic expansion.  “If the economy continues to strengthen at about the pace
projected by the Federal Reserve and many private forecasters,
states and localities may start to get a little breathing
space,” Bernanke said yesterday in a speech in New York.
Measures of risk in the market for state and local debt that
rose earlier this year are now receding, he said.  Concern that a wave of cash-strapped local governments will
default prompted investors to pull money from municipal bond
mutual funds during the past 15 weeks. Spending cuts by state
and local governments also contributed to a revision lower of
U.S. gross domestic product growth in the fourth quarter.  “Continued evidence that states and localities are
addressing fiscal shortfalls should help calm the municipal  bond
market ,” Bernanke said in the text of remarks at the  Citizens
Budget Commission ’s annual awards dinner in New York. “The
 Federal Reserve  will continue to monitor the municipal bond
market closely.”  Yields on top-rated tax-exempt municipal bonds maturing in
10 years fell about 35 basis points in February, the steepest
monthly decline since August, according to a Bloomberg Valuation
index. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  While measures of risk “remain elevated, they have been
looking somewhat better recently, presumably reflecting
expectations of continuing improvement in the finances of states
and localities,” Bernanke said in the speech. The municipal
bond market in general “seems to be functioning reasonably
well,” he said.  Perceptions of Risk  States and municipalities can help reduce investor
perceptions of risk in the market for their debt by closing
budget gaps, Bernanke said.  Investors withdrew about $610 million from U.S. municipal-
bond mutual funds last week, the least in 11 weeks, Lipper US
Fund Flows said Feb. 24.  Speculation about the possibility of widespread municipal
bond defaults intensified after  Meredith Whitney , the banking
analyst who drew attention for correctly predicting Citigroup
Inc.’s 2008 dividend cut, said in December that “hundreds of
billions” of dollars in municipal bonds may default this year.  Whitney’s analysis drew criticism from investors and state
officials, including  California  Treasurer Bill Lockyer, who said
her estimates were too high.  More Defaults  Roubini Global Economics LLC, the consulting firm co-
founded by  Nouriel Roubini , said in a Feb. 28 report that U.S.
municipal bond investors can expect about $100 billion of
defaults over the next five years.  “Because the pace of near-term economic growth expected by
most forecasters is relatively modest given the depth of the
downturn, some time will likely be required before state and
local fiscal conditions return to something approximating
normal,” Bernanke said in the speech.  Bernanke’s speech expanded on remarks in congressional
testimony this week. He said on March 1 that while it’s
“possible” U.S. states could pose a risk to the financial
system, the Fed won’t purchase state debt.  “While states are facing very tough financial conditions,
at least as long as the recovery continues, they are seeing
higher tax revenues and that will at least be helpful to some of
them,” he said March 1 in response to questioning before the
Senate Banking Committee. “Obviously, this is something we have
to watch carefully.”  Tax Receipts  California,  Texas ,  New York  and  Florida  -- the four most-
populous U.S. states -- reported better-than-expected tax and
fee receipts last month. That may foreshadow a fifth straight
quarterly gain after 41 states said revenue in the last three
months of 2010 rose 6.9 percent from a year earlier, the Nelson
A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government said Feb. 1.  Local tax revenues have held up “relatively well”
compared with states in the past couple of years, Bernanke said.
“The continued softness in real estate prices, however, does
not bode well for local government revenues” because of the
greater reliance on property taxes.  The economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter, down from a 3.2 percent initial estimate, as state and
local expenditures fell at a 2.4 percent annual rate, the
Commerce Department said Feb. 25.  “What we’d like to see is a sustainable recovery,”
Bernanke said yesterday before Congress. “We don’t want to see
the economy falling back into a double dip or to a stall-out.”  Fed on Course  Bernanke, 57, signaled in testimony this week that he will
keep the Fed on course to complete the purchase of $600 billion
of Treasuries through June to spur economic growth and hiring.
The central bank chief didn’t rule out expanding the so-called
quantitative easing program, saying he doesn’t want to see the
U.S. relapse into a recession.  “The economy’s recovery is not firmly established, and we
think monetary policy needs to be supportive,” Bernanke told
the House Financial Services Committee.  Separately yesterday, the Fed said in its regional Beige
Book survey that the labor market improved throughout the
country early this year, driven by increasing retail sales and
“solid growth” in manufacturing.  Overall, the economy “continued to expand at a modest to
moderate pace,” the central bank said in  Washington . Eleven of
the Fed’s 12 regional banks, including  San Francisco  and
Philadelphia, described their regions as expanding, improving or
experiencing moderate growth. Only Chicago reported growth “at
a pace not quite as strong” as before.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  