-- 
Better Energy, Education Policies Needed to Boost Manufacturing

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-03-03T23:49:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/better-energy-education-policies-needed-to-spur-manufacturing-in-the-u-s-.html
The president of  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) ,
the world’s largest maker of thin-film solar panels, called for
U.S. policies to encourage investment in renewable energy that
would keep manufacturing in the U.S.  Bruce Sohn said more consistent renewable energy policies
would encourage investors to support large-scale U.S. plants
needed to continue innovation. Sohn, president of the Tempe,
Arizona-based company, made his remarks at a conference in  Washington  organized by the U.S. Energy Department’s Advanced
Research Project Agency, or ARPA-E.  The meeting focused attention on the contrast between the
design capabilities of energy startups developing cutting-edge
technologies in the U.S. and the lagging manufacturing know-how
to produce them on a commercial scale.  “Other countries compete for these technologies and create
policies that attract companies like us,” Sohn said during a
panel discussion. “Frankly, I’m tired of it,” he said.  The U.S. clean energy industry “should be manufacturing
here in the U.S.,” Sohn said.  ARPA-E IS modeled after the U.S. Defense Department’s
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which helps research
and development in defense-industry technology. ARPA-E received
$400 million in stimulus funding in 2009 to distribute to
companies developing promising technology.  At the ARPA-E conference, industry executives bemoaned the
lack of skilled labor in the U.S. for renewable-energy
manufacturing.  ‘Better Paying Jobs’  “I think the focus has to be on better paying jobs, that’s
the real crisis in the country,” Tom Baruch, founder and
managing partner at San Francisco-based venture capital company
CMEA Capital, said in an interview yesterday. “We’re not
educating people to do that,” he said.  “Where we are really good is in innovation, discovery and
entrepreneurship,” Baruch said, while the public education
system is “in shambles.”  John Baumstark, chief executive officer of Norcross,
Georgia-based solar module company Suniva Inc., said the lack of
consistent energy incentive polices makes it hard for companies
to make long-term plans.  “We need policy,” he said on the panel with Sohn. “We
need to stick with that policy and give manufacturers like us,
our customers, our suppliers the confidence that the U.S. has
put a stake in the ground and that there will be demand if I
invest the capital and resources.”  Confidence  Sohn said that more consistent federal incentives would
improve U.S. manufacturing capabilities. “We need to have
bridging policies such as the Department of Energy loan programs
to provide encouragement and provide confidence to ensure people
will invest in these large, utility-scale plants, so we can
drive the costs down and continue to innovate.”    Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  is  investing  $100 million to accelerate  energy efficiency  and conservation improvements in its
operations, and Doug May, its head of energy and climate change,
said the Midland, Michigan-based company favors a renewable
power standard that includes energy efficiency, nuclear and
natural gas.  “We feel we need one,” May said, though he said it will
likely happen slowly. “You don’t move an energy system
overnight. It takes decades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  