-- 
Beware of Market Gurus Pushing New Strategies: Roger Lowenstein

-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-03T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/beware-of-market-gurus-with-new-strategies-commentary-by-roger-lowenstein.html
One cheer for James K. Glassman, the
investment writer and co-author, in 1999, of “Dow 36,000.”
That book, published when the stock market was near a dot-com-
charged speculative peak, urged investors to load up on shares.
The Dow, the authors prophesied, would reach the gaudy figure in
their title most likely in “three to five years.”  The market crashed soon after. The Dow didn’t get close to
36,000, and the book became a symbol of New Economy hysteria.
(Glassman’s co-author was economist  Kevin Hassett , a Bloomberg
News columnist and, to me, a frequently helpful source.)  Now, Glassman, the lead author, has published an apologia.  “I was wrong,” he wrote in a Wall Street Journal  op-ed 
promoting his latest book,  “Safety Net.”  In the spirit of
curiosity, Glassman asks “What happened” and sallies forth
with this: “The world changed. While history is usually the
best guide to the future, it is far from perfect.”  Give Glassman credit for fessing up. But still, his
explanation is troubling. History is always capable of doing
something new. So when we pick an investment guru, we want to
make sure the advice will endure for longer than the latest
headlines.  According to Glassman, two bombshells upended his forecast.
One is that U.S. economic growth slowed relative to those of
emerging countries. For Glassman to call this a “change” is
like an insurance underwriter blaming stormy weather. Throughout
history, growth rates have been subject to change. No prudent
analyst would overlook such a possibility.  Dependable Odds  As for Glassman’s second “change,” back in the days when
he was writing “36,000,” he considered “only one kind of
risk” -- price volatility. Volatility is what you can learn
from a price chart. If markets were dice, charts would be
sufficient. Roll enough dice and you will discover that snake
eyes occur once in every 36 rolls. And those would be dependable
odds in the future.  But markets, Glassman learned, are also subject to “a
second kind of risk” -- better known as uncertainty. This
refers to risks that can’t be captured in price data, such as
the chance of a terrorist incident or a depression. You can’t
quantify the odds of a depression simply by knowing that we had
one in the 1930s and haven’t had one since.  This revelation isn’t a “change” either. Economists such
as Frank Knight and John  Maynard Keynes  wrote about uncertainty
early in the 20th century. Modern investors have oft learned (to
their chagrin) that models based on volatility don’t capture all
relevant risks. This isn’t new. It is only new to Glassman.  I think he has papered over the real story of why
“36,000” was so off base. It wasn’t that history changed -- it
was the authors’ expectation that the market environment was
likely to persist.  Cisco, Lucent  “Some say the stock market is the most powerful and
efficient computing device in the world,” they wrote. And:
“Today’s price reflects all known information.” And again,
“We see the market as efficient.” In other words, markets are
computers. They don’t get thrown off by exuberance or self-
delusion; they simply reflect “known information.”  While urging caution on the Internet in general, they
touted then-tech favorites like Cisco and Lucent. The authors
succumbed to the prevailing hothouse fever, urging readers to
“seize the opportunity now to profit from the rise to 36,000.”  Glassman’s faith in markets explains why he has
consistently been scornful of  government regulation . (Why
regulate markets if they are basically perfect?)  Apparently, he has turned a new leaf. Glassman now writes
of Keynesian uncertainty and concedes that the market is not so
efficient -- i.e., that some investors can beat it. And where
once he was ebullient, now he is chastened. “Safety Net”
promotes a strategy that “fits the reality and danger of our
times.”  Value Conversion  Glassman argues for reducing exposure to U.S. stocks,
investing in “bear funds,” and hedging through put options. He
is full of praise for “value” stocks -- by which he means,
stocks that trade at low multiples of assets or earnings.  It may be that Glassman has metamorphosed into a value
investor like his seeming hero,  Warren Buffett . (I’m a
shareholder in Berkshire Hathaway, which Buffett controls.) But
books like his make me nervous. Glassman seems to like value
stocks because they have performed in the past. You could have
said that about Lucent in 1999.  What is missing is a deep exploration of why value stocks
do better. One looks for a patient analyst scouring the market
for bargains; what one finds is a promoter spewing statistics on
asset allocations.  Back to 1999  Glassman says value stocks benefit from “investor
psychology.” He says they offer more reward with lower risk.
But he still defines “risk” in terms of volatility. And he
doesn’t seem to have learned that psychology can change. His new
book, he says, “fits the psychology of investors” -- as if
that condition were immutable.  Glassman is gaga on  China  because, over the past decade, it
has grown much faster than the U.S. He thinks this is “a
harbinger of even greater disparities to come.”  It sounds to me that Glassman is doing exactly what he did
in 1999. He is proposing a strategy that is guaranteed to work
as long as the future mirrors the recent past. In 1999, he
counseled exuberance. Today he urges de-risking. Then he shunned
bonds; now he can’t get enough of them.  A real safety net isn’t to be found in a preference for any
class of assets over another but, rather, in the discipline of
bottom-up security analysis -- a timeless rather than a trendy
approach that urges looking for underpriced securities wherever
they reside. It requires real labor, of the sort that cannot be
reduced to boldface headings.  Glassman likens his experience and in some ways his
approach to that of Buffett, but don’t be fooled. Buffett does
not rewrite his investment philosophy with every passing decade.    Roger Lowenstein , author of “The End of  Wall Street ,” is
a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  