-- 
Birmingham Owner Yeung Pledges Own Assets to Help Soccer Team Meet Debts

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   H w e e   A n n   T a n
-- 
2011-03-03T18:20:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/birmingham-owner-yueng-pledges-own-assets-to-help-soccer-team-meet-debts.html
Birmingham City’s major shareholder,
Hong Kong-based Carson Yeung, has pledged his private properties
to lenders in a bid to raise funds for the Premier League club.  Birmingham, which won its first major soccer trophy in 48
years by claiming the League Cup four days ago, has liabilities
that exceed its assets by about HK$348 million ($45 million),
parent company  Birmingham International Holdings Ltd. (2309)  said today
in a statement.  Yeung is applying for a HK$150 million loan and has pledged
in writing that all of the money will be used to “provide
sufficient financial resources” to allow the business to meet
its liabilities and carry on “without significant curtailment
of its operation,” the statement added.  The holding company also is trying to raise a further
HK$310 million to increase working capital for the team by
selling shares and taking a loan from unidentified institutions.  The company said it was taking the action because “this
situation indicates the existence of a material uncertainty that
may cast significant doubt on the group’s ability to continue as
a going concern.”  Portsmouth last season became the first Premier League team
to seek  bankruptcy protection  after being unable to pay debts of
more than 100 million pounds ($163 million). The auditor of the
Premier League’s last-place club, Wigan, said it needed
infusions of cash from its owner to continue as a going concern,
in accounts published yesterday. Birmingham spokesman Chris
Kershaw declined to comment on the report.  Land, Buildings  The club’s freehold land and buildings, which include St.
Andrew’s stadium, have been pledged to HSBC Holdings Plc, which
has provided loans and working capital worth HK$77 million.  In April, Birmingham issued a statement that Yeung would
lose control of the club following a dispute with London-based
investment bank  Seymour Pierce  over 2.2 million pounds of
alleged unpaid consultant fees related to the 2009 takeover of
the team. Yeung, via Grandtop Holdings Ltd., had bought 29.9
percent of the club in 2007.  The Blues are 16th in the Premier League after 26 games,
two points and two places above the relegation zone, with the
teams around them having played two more matches. Goals from
Nikola Zigic and Obafemi Martins gave Birmingham a 2-1 victory
over favorite Arsenal in the League Cup final.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Hwee Ann Tan in  Hong Kong  at 
6644 or  hatan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  