-- 
Fink Says He’s a ‘Big Buyer’ of Dollars That Gross Says Avoid

-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-03-03T15:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/blackrock-s-fink-says-he-s-a-big-buyer-of-dollars-that-gross-says-avoid.html
  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink,
chief executive officer of the world’s largest asset manager,
said he’s a “big buyer” of the  U.S. dollar , which rival Bill Gross has urged investors to avoid.  Fink, 58, doesn’t see a “bear market” in bonds and would
buy U.S. Treasuries if yields rise above 4 percent, he said
today in an interview from New York with Bloomberg Television’s
Erik Schatzker. Gross, manager of the world’s largest mutual
fund, has said the best days for bonds are over. He has cut
holdings in  U.S. government debt  to the smallest level in two
years, while boosting non-dollar securities.  “We believe rates will creep up,” Fink said. Still, with
inflation likely to be muted, “we’re not calling that a  bear
market .”  BlackRock and Gross’s Pacific Investment Management Co. are
the two biggest bond-management firms, and both have advised the
U.S. government. Fink’s views have diverged from Pimco’s before.
In January, he told investors that he never believed in a “new
normal” for the  U.S. economy , a term coined by Pimco for its
forecast of a prolonged phase of below-average economic growth
and a diminished role of the U.S. in the world following the
financial crisis.  Unlike Gross, 66, who is the co-chief investment officer of
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, Fink doesn’t manage any
BlackRock funds.  Europe’s Crisis  “I’m a big buyer of the U.S. dollar,” as the sovereign-
debt crisis in  Europe  will cause volatility in the region, Fink
said in the interview.  With banks in the region needing more capital, and unrest
in the Middle East causing  oil prices  to rise, Fink said he’s
“more worried” today about equities than he was six months ago.
Political turmoil, which started in Tunisia more than two months
ago, has spread to countries including Oman, Bahrain and Libya.  “I think the market is pausing,” Fink said.    Saudi Arabia ’s benchmark stock index has plunged 15 percent
in the past week on investor concern that protests may extend to
the Middle East’s biggest oil producer. Any disruptions in Saudi
Arabia could cause the price of oil to reach $150 per barrel in
the near term, Fink said.  “If there is uncertainty around Saudi Arabia that produces
a slowdown of oil production, we will have severe issues in the
world,” Fink said.  In the U.S., “inflation may be a problem in the short run,
but in the long run not so,” he said.  BlackRock, co-founded by Fink in 1988, in 2009 acquired
Barclays Global Investors to more than double its assets under
management and add passive strategies such as exchange-traded
funds. The firm manages $3.56 trillion in assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Schatzker in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  