-- 
Boston Investors Aim to Revive Italian Soccer With Roma Purchase

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f ,   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-03-03T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/boston-investors-aim-to-revive-italian-soccer-with-roma-purchase.html
A group of U.S. money managers may
buy A.S. Roma, becoming the only foreign owner in  Italy ’s top
soccer league at a time clubs are struggling to fill stadiums
and boost sales.  Thomas DiBenedetto, a Boston Red Sox partner, is leading
the group that includes hedge fund manager James Pallotta and as
many as four other investors, according to two people briefed on
the discussions. They are in exclusive talks to buy the three-
time Italian champion from the Sensi family and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
the country’s biggest lender, by a March 17 deadline.  Unlike the U.K., foreign investors have shunned Italian
soccer because its “business model is decades behind” the
English Premier League, said Stephen Julius, founder of private
equity company Stellican Ltd. and the former owner of Italian
club Vicenza. Most of Italy’s Serie A teams, including publicly
traded Roma and European champion  Inter Milan  are unprofitable.  “In English football, they have squeezed the lemon and
developed the sport commercially, but that hasn’t happened in
Italy,” Julius said in a phone interview.  Roma, which last won the Italian title in 2001, was put up
for sale in July because the Sensi family accumulated debt of
more than 300 million euros ($416 million) with Milan-based
UniCredit. The bank agreed to swap the debt for equity and
jointly owns a 67 percent stake in the team with the Sensis’ oil
company Italpetroli SpA.  Tourist Attractions  The DiBenedetto group may own 60 percent of the team after
purchasing an initial stake and then acquiring additional shares
in a tender offer, according to the people familiar with the
negotiations. UniCredit would hold the rest of the stock, they
said.  DiBenedetto didn’t return calls seeking comment. Pallotta
declined to comment through a spokesman. Richard D’Amore, a
partner at Venture Partners in Waltham,  Massachusetts , and
Michael Ruane of Boston property company TA Associates Realty,
are among other investors, the person said. Roma referred
questions to UniCredit, which declined to comment.  Julian Movsesian, president of  Newport Beach , California-
based Succession Capital Alliance and one of the potential Roma
investors, said the team hasn’t taken advantage of  Rome ’s
tourism appeal.  “It’s the main team in Rome, so when tourists arrive there
should be tours of the stadium,” Movsesian said in an
interview. “The team has not done a good job at marketing.”
Roma’s cross-town rival, SS Lazio, also is publicly traded.  Stadio Olimpico  Roma, which rents the Stadio Olimpico, generated 8.7
million euros from ticket sales last year -- a tenth of
Arsenal’s at its Emirates Stadium in  London . The Italian arena
was only 56 percent full for Roma last season and 50 percent for
Lazio, according to  league statistics .  Roma posted a net loss of 21.9 million euros on sales of
118 million euros for the fiscal year ended June 2010. The
company’s stock has lost 3 percent in Milan this year, giving it
a market value of about 135 million euros.  “Even if the company isn’t profitable they could have a
bigger return from advertising and the new owners’ popularity,”
said Sergio Pigoli, chairman of Milan-based consultant Pigoli
Consulenza.    England ’s top league, soccer’s richest, has lured Russian
billionaire  Roman Abramovich , the U.S. investor  John W. Henry 
and  Abu Dhabi ’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan as investors.
Italy isn’t as appealing because no top-flight club owns its own
stadium and they haven’t developed sponsorship or apparel sales,
said Patrizio Pazzaglia, a money manager in Rome at Bank
Insinger de Beaufort NV.  Qaddafi  Owners of Italian soccer teams include Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  at league leader AC Milan, while a state
holding company of Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  owns a 7.5
percent stake in  Juventus Football Club SpA. (JUVE)   Fan violence also is hurting the soccer business in Italy,
Pigoli said. Roma fans fired flares at the team’s training
ground last month after it lost a match. Coach Claudio Ranieri
quit a day later and the club is in sixth place under interim
coach Vincenzo Montella. Fans hurled stones at Lazio’s team bus
and stabbed a 15-year-old fan before its match against Roma in
January, daily la Repubblica reported.  Stellican’s Julius said his efforts to obtain a stadium
lease in the northern city of Vicenza became a “soap opera”
because the mayor at first opposed a deal with a foreigner to
use the publicly owned arena. Julius said he eventually
convinced him and got a lease.  So far, the Agnelli family’s Turin club Juventus is the
sole Italian team that’s building its own stadium.  “It’s a challenging and unusual investment,” Julius said
about buying an Italian  soccer club . “In private equity you go
about things quietly. That’s not an option” in Italian soccer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;  Tariq Panja  in London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  