-- 
Boulud Serves Up $1,000 Scallop Feast to Fund Meals for Elderly

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/boulud-serves-up-1-000-truffled-scallop-feast-to-fund-meals-for-elderly.html
Chef  Daniel Boulud  recalls his
parents giving away extra rabbits, squabs or cheese from the
family farm near Lyon,  France , to their less-fortunate
neighbors.  Since coming to Manhattan, the restaurateur, 55, has
emulated his parents. He donates food, time and chefs to
fundraisers. In the charity auction world, Boulud is regarded as
a rainmaker whose feasts sometimes lure bids bigger than a
 Bentley ’s price tag.  In 2005,  Lance Armstrong ’s Livestrong Foundation auctioned
off two Boulud dinners for 14, including the cyclist and actor
Robin Williams. Two bidders pledged a total of $600,000 (or
$300,000 each) in just seven minutes.  “To be able to use the power of being a great chief and
the power of having people pay for the privilege is unique,” he
said. “I feel I am doing something good with my reputation.”  Boulud, whose gastronomic empire includes 12 restaurants, a
signature line of  smoked Scottish salmon  and cookbooks, will
host a $1,000-per-person fundraiser for New York’s Citymeals-on-
Wheels at his  Manhattan  restaurant Daniel.  He expects the dinner, called “Burgundy, Bordeaux, Black
Truffles & Blue Jeans,” to raise $500,000 for the nonprofit,
which provides more than two million hot meals yearly for the
homebound elderly. One ticket buyer whose identity he wouldn’t
disclose donated an additional $50,000 to the dinner’s proceeds.
Tables for 10 at $25,000 each sold out about two weeks ago.  Boulud wants attendees to let their hair down and come in
blue jeans or other casual clothing. The dinner’s highlights
include Maine diver scallops and roasted poulard and a paired
selection of fine wines from Bordeaux and Burgundy.  Marseille Chef Visits  Boulud also asked fellow three-Michelin-star chef Gerald
Passedat of  Le Petit Nice  to come from Marseille to assist him.
Passedat will serve his famous loup de mer laced with black
truffles and a  vacherin  for dessert.  “I thought it would be nice to bring a colleague like
Gerald over who has never cooked in  New York ,” Boulud said.  Boulud captured the spotlight in the French culinary world
at age 14 when he was nominated as a candidate for best cooking
apprentice while working at Lyon’s now-defunct restaurant,
Nandron. He went on to work under some of the country’s master
chefs such as Georges Blanc and nouvelle cuisine pioneers Michel
Guerard and Roger Verge.  After sharpening his skills in Copenhagen, he came to the
U.S. to become the chef of the  European Commission’s delegation
in Washington . That led to the job of executive chef at the New
York Hotel Plaza Athenee’s Le Regence.  Prestige Gig  Then he landed one of New York’s prestige culinary gigs
when he became  Le Cirque ’s executive chef in 1986. In 1993, he
launched Daniel on Manhattan’s Upper East Side and relocated it
in 1998 to the site of the former Mayfair Hotel on Park Avenue
at 65th Street. At the suggestion of a friend, Boulud
commemorated the old location’s closing with a Citymeals
fundraising event.  “Supporting Citymeals is a way to say thank you to the
people who built  New York City  and a generation of people who
have been forgotten,” he said. “These people cannot cook a
meal themselves.”  (The sold-out fundraiser for Citymeals-on-Wheels is Sunday
at 5:30 p.m. at Daniel, 60 E. 65th St. If you’re hoping for
cancellations, wait-list information is: +1-212-687-1290 or
 emily@citymeals.org )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 