-- 
BP’s Conn, CFO Grote Get 30% of Bonus After Gulf Spill

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-03-03T13:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/bp-s-conn-cfo-grote-receive-30-percent-of-bonus-after-spill.html
  BP Plc (BP/)  awarded directors Iain Conn
and Byron Grote 30 percent of their target bonuses following the
Gulf of Mexico spill last year while the rest of the company
received none.  Conn, head of the refining and market unit of BP that
wasn’t directly responsible for the spill, and Grote, the chief
financial officer who managed the $40 billion charge for the
accident, will also get a salary increase this year. The April
20 blowout at BP’s Macondo well killed 11 workers and triggered
the worst  oil spill  in U.S. history, costing Chief Executive
Officer  Tony Hayward  and exploration and production head  Andy
Inglis  their jobs.    Robert Dudley , who succeeded Hayward, was the only
executive to receive a raise to a $1.7 million salary in 2010 on
his promotion and won’t get a raise this year. Conn’s total
compensation last year was 1.04 million pounds ($1.7 million),
and Grote’s was $2.01 million. Hayward and Inglis both received
a year’s salary on their departures and no bonus.  “While the tragedy of lost lives and environmental damage
remains foremost in everyone’s minds, the committee also wished
to fairly acknowledge the good business results in many parts of
BP,”  DeAnne Julius , chairman of BP’s remuneration committee,
wrote in the company’s annual report published today. The
bonuses “reflected no payout on the portion related to group
results, as with all executive directors.”  New Fields  BP will start pumping oil and natural gas from new fields
in Angola, Trinidad and Tobago and  Norway  this year, it said in
the report today. It aims to pump 3.4 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day this year, down from 3.8 million last year.  The London-based company sold off $22 billion of assets to
shore up its finances after the spill. Today it said the
disposals reduced its proved recoverable crude oil and natural
gas reserves by 1.2 percent to 18.071 billion barrels of oil
equivalent.  BP shares fell 22 percent in 2010 as it posted its first
annual loss in two decades and suspended its dividend for the
first three quarters. The company restored the dividend at half
the previous level for the fourth quarter.  BP said it has so far spent about $14 billion on cleanup
and litigation from the  Gulf of Mexico  spill. It also disputed
the amount of oil that gushed into the waters, arguing that it
was about 3.2 million barrels, compared with a U.S. estimate of
4.1 million barrels in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  