-- 
Brazil Treasury to Lend BNDES 55 Billion Reais

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-03-03T17:25:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/brazil-treasury-to-lend-bndes-55-billion-reais-mantega-says-1-.html
(Corrects spelling of deputy minister’s name in second
paragraph.)    Brazil ’s Treasury will lend an
additional 55 billion reais ($33.2 billion) to the country’s
 national development bank  in 2011 to ensure companies have
access to funding for long-term investment.  The loan will allow the Rio de Janeiro-based bank, known as
BNDES, to lend to its clients up to 145 billion reais this year,
said Alessandro Teixeira, deputy minister of development,
industry and trade. The bank, which received 80 billion reais
from the Treasury last year and 100 billion in 2009, lent 168.4
billion reais last year, according to the BNDES website.  BNDES will reduce subsidies it provides companies by
increasing interest rates on some of its credit lines as the
government cuts funding from the Treasury, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters today in Brasilia. The cut in
subsidies is one of a series of measures the government is
taking to cool the economy to bring inflation back toward its
target.  “We are reducing resources to the BNDES to stimulate
private banks to finance investments in Brazil,” Mantega said.
“We are reducing the funding to BNDES, but we can’t eliminate
it until the private sector is able to fill in the need for
funding for investment.”  Mantega said the government will further reduce loans to
the BNDES next year.  Credit Line  The BNDES credit line that backs subsidized loans, known as
the PSI program, will amount to 75 billion reais this year and
will cost the Treasury 4.1 billion reais in subsidies, Mantega
said.  The central bank yesterday raised borrowing costs 0.5
percentage point for the second time this year, pushing the
benchmark interest rate to 11.75 percent. The government
announced cuts to subsidies, defense, education, housing and
payroll spending last month, as part of its plan to pare 50.1
billion reais from this year’s budget to help slow growth.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2012 rose basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
12.54 percent at 11:50 a.m. New York time.  Credit growth in the Brazilian economy expanded in January
at its slowest pace in almost two years after the central bank
raised reserve and capital requirements in December. Outstanding
loans rose 0.5 percent in January from December, the smallest
increase since April 2009. Economists surveyed by the central
bank estimate that the measures will have the same impact on
inflation as a 0.75 percentage point in borrowing costs.  Inflation accelerated to 6.08 percent in the year through
mid-February, its fastest pace since December 2008. The central
bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  Gross domestic product growth expanded 7.5 percent last
year, its fastest pace since 1985, the national statistics
agency said today. The Brazilian economy may have become larger
than the economies of  France  and Britain, Mantega said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  