-- 
Brazil's Central Bank Says Increase to 11.75% Part of `Adjustment Process'

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-03-03T14:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/brazil-s-central-bank-says-increase-to-11-75-part-of-adjustment-process-.html
  Brazil ’s central bank signaled it
will raise the benchmark interest rate for a third straight
meeting next month, after pushing borrowing costs yesterday to a
two-year high to cool inflation.  Policy makers raised the overnight rate to 11.75 percent
from 11.25 percent in a unanimous vote, saying the decision was
the “continuation of the adjustment process.” The move matched
estimates of 44 of 51 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Seven
economists had forecast the bank would step up the pace of
tightening after a half-point rate increase in January.  Annual inflation in the $1.57 trillion economy has
accelerated every month since August, prompting the bank to
raise interest rates in January for the first time since July.
The statement accompanying the decision suggests policy makers
aren’t considering bigger rate increases to rein in the fastest
inflation in more than two years,  Gray Newman , chief Latin
America economist for Morgan Stanley in New York, said.  “A month or so ago, a lot of market participants were
expecting a much more aggressive hiking cycle,” Newman said in
a phone interview from New York. “They could move by a half-
point in April, then a quarter-point after that. But April could
certainly be the last hike of the year.”  Newman forecast policy makers will increase rates to 12.50
percent by June.  Market View  Traders, on the other hand, are wagering policy makers may
raise borrowing costs to as high as 13 percent by year-end,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  The yield on interest rate futures contract maturing
January 2012 fell two basis points to 12.51 percent at 10:43
a.m.  New York  time.  Brazil is relying on a mix of higher interest rates,
spending cuts and measures to curb credit growth to cool
inflation.  Bigger rate increases will fail to bring inflation back to
target this year, said Jose Francisco de Lima Goncalves, chief
economist at Banco Fator SA, who expects consumer prices to
increase 4.6 percent next year.  “The short end of the yield curve should re-price the risk
that the Banco Central do Brasil would step up the pace of
hikes,” Marcelo Salomon, chief economist for Brazil at Barclays
Plc, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  “The statement
indicates to us that they have chosen not to.”  Prices  Inflation, as measured by the benchmark IPCA-15 index,
accelerated to 6.08 percent in the year through mid-February,
the fastest pace since December 2008. In the month through mid-
February, prices rose 0.97 percent, the highest since April
2003.  Gross domestic product grew 0.7 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous quarter, compared with a revised 0.4
percent in the third quarter, the national statistics agency
said today in  Rio de Janeiro . The growth rate compares with the
median forecast of 0.8 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 32
analysts.  “Following the process of adjustment of monetary
conditions, the monetary policy committee decided, unanimously,
to raise the rate to 11.75 percent a year, without a bias,”
policy makers said in the one-sentence  statement  announcing
their decision.  “The fact the statement was very short and clean signals
policy makers will keep their plan of carrying out three 50
basis-point increases,” said  Roberto Padovani , chief economist
at Banco WestLB do Brasil. “The statement doesn’t signal any
change to the strategy the central bank laid out when it started
the hiking cycle”  Economists expect consumer prices to rise 5.8 percent this
year before slowing to 4.78 percent next year, according to a
central bank survey of about 100 analysts published this week.  ‘Probably Insufficient’  The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent with a
two percentage point leeway either side to accommodate for price
shocks.  “This move is probably insufficient to reverse the recent
sharp deterioration of inflation expectations,  Alexandre Schwartsman , chief economist at Banco Santander SA in  Sao Paulo ,
wrote in a note to clients after the rate decision. ‘‘The
absence of any sense of urgency from the central bank should
imply additional deterioration of inflation expectations.’’  Total outstanding credit in the Brazilian economy expanded
in January at its slowest pace in almost two years after the
central bank raised reserve and capital requirements in December
to prevent a credit bubble.  The credit measures will have the same impact on inflation
as a 0.75 percentage-point interest rate increase, according to
a central bank survey of economists published Feb. 24.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government this week announced
cuts to spending on defense, education, housing, subsidies to
companies and farmers and payroll outlays as part of its plan to
cut 50.1 billion reais ($30.2 billion) from this year’s budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at   wfaries@bloomberg.net  