-- 
Brazil's Economy Decelerates to Slowest Pace in a Year in Fourth Quarter

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-03-03T19:38:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/brazil-s-growth-quickened-less-than-expected-0-7-in-fourth-quarter-2010.html
Brazil’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace in a year in the last quarter of 2010, cementing
expectations the central bank may pause after raising  interest
rates  in April.  Gross domestic product rose 5 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, down from 6.7 percent in the previous
quarter. Economists expected 5.2 percent growth, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 33 analysts.  The figure shows the economy is cooling as domestic
consumption slows and industrial output suffers from weak
international demand and a strong real, said  Newton Rosa , chief
economist at Sul America Investimentos. Policy makers, after
raising the benchmark interest rate to a two-year high
yesterday, signaled they will lift borrowing costs for a third
consecutive meeting in April to contain the fastest inflation in
more than two years.  “It’s more comfortable for the central bank to see that
the economy is decelerating, and this should help bring
inflation closer to the center of the target range,” Rosa said,
in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  The real, which gained 46 percent in the past two years,
rose 0.4 percent to 1.6509 per dollar at 2:16 p.m. New York
time. Yields on interest-rate futures contracts maturing January
2012 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.55
percent.  Rosa said he may revise his 2011 GDP forecast to around 4
percent from 4.5 percent.  Faster Inflation  Inflation accelerated to 6.08 percent in the year through
mid-February, the fastest pace since December 2008. The central
bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  “We won’t allow inflation by any means to get out of
control,” President  Dilma Rousseff  told reporters today in
Brasilia.  GDP grew 0.7 percent from the previous quarter, compared
with a revised 0.4 percent in the third quarter, the national
statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro . Analysts
expected 0.8 percent growth, according to the median forecast
from 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Industrial activity fell 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous one, the national statistics agency said. The
GDP gain was fueled by a 1 percent expansion in services.  “The economy isn’t growing as fast as everyone thought,”
said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, speaking by telephone from Sao Paulo. “The
number reinforces the central bank’s view that growth is
accommodating at a level more consistent with the economy’s
potential.”  Benchmark Rate  The central bank raised its benchmark interest rate by half
a percentage point to 11.75 percent last night. The government
is using a mix of tools, including spending cuts, measures to
curb credit and higher borrowing costs, to slow economic growth.  Higher interest rates “will only moderate the pace of
demand expansion that was a bit too high,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters today. “It won’t prevent the
economy from growing.”  Latin America’s largest economy expanded 7.5 percent in
2010, its fastest pace since 1985, after registering year-on-
year growth of more than 9 percent in the first and second
quarters.  Family consumption rose 7 percent last year, while
investments jumped 21.6 percent, the statistics agency said  Brazil’s economy is still facing the risk of overheating
and the government is aware of that,  Dominique Strauss-Kahn ,
managing director at the  International Monetary Fund , told
reporters today in Brasilia after meeting with Mantega.  Mantega said domestic demand will continue to drive
economic growth this year.  Economists covering the Brazilian economy expect growth to
slow to 4.3 percent this year, according to a central bank
survey of about 100 economists published Feb. 28.  Rousseff said  Brazil  will seek “sustainable” economic
growth of 4.5 percent to 5 percent a year.  Brazil’s economy entered a “new growth cycle” after the
financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 that’s being fueled by
domestic demand, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
in an e-mailed statement this morning.  Brazil’s retail sales stalled in December for the first
time since April, as lending slowed on higher borrowing costs.
Credit in the Brazilian economy expanded in January at its
slowest pace in almost two years after the central bank raised
reserve and capital requirements in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Alexander Ragir in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at   wfaries@bloomberg.net  