-- 
Buy Bristol-Myers Calls as Stock May Advance, Goldman Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-03T21:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/buy-bristol-myers-calls-as-stock-may-advance-goldman-says-1-.html
Investors should buy  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  calls as approval for a melanoma treatment may boost
the drugmaker’s stock price, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Equity derivatives strategist John Marshall recommended
investors buy April $26 calls because 30-day implied volatility,
the key gauge of option prices, is now low and below three-month
implied volatility. The strategist cited drug analyst Jami Rubin, who’s kept a “buy” rating on the stock since June and a
price forecast of $30. Bristol-Myers gained 3 percent to $26.14
today.  “Bristol-Myers remains the most (in fact, only) compelling
new product story in the pharma sector, with significant room
for consensus upside earnings-per-share revisions,” New York-
based Marshall wrote in yesterday’s report. “Given our
expectation for higher volatility than normal over the next
month, we believe options prices are attractive.”  The New York-based drugmaker is awaiting U.S. regulatory
approval for its ipilimumab treatment for melanoma, which was
originally scheduled for Dec. 25 and got delayed until March. If
approved, the drug would be the first new melanoma medicine in
more than a decade and may produce up to $1 billion in annual
sales within five years, said Linda Bannister, a health-care
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri .  Calls would more than double if Bristol-Myers gains at
least $1.50 by the end of March, the note said.  Bristol-Myers rose 7.4 percent in the past year, more than
the 4.2 percent increase for health-care companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 