-- 
BMW’s $92,000 Sexy Convertible Springs Ahead for U.S. Buyers

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-03T07:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/bwm-s-92-000-convertible-springs-ahead-for-u-s-drivers-jason-h-harper.html
The U.S. release of the all-new BMW
6 Series convertible is like a promise to buyers: Winter really
will end.  Abetted by southerly climes and convertibles, spring blooms!  Consider this: Every time you’ve gone on vacation to
someplace like Miami and rented a sorry Chrysler Sebring “sun
machine,” you were actually dreaming of the BMW 650i. It’s the
kind of car for those who believe they can have it all.  By nature convertibles are exercises in compromise. Either
they’re small and fun but have no space, or are too big and
lumbering. The 6 is an exception.  First, it’s sexy. Honed and a tad bit dangerous, its lines
are long and flaunting, undeniably special. Good thing, because
when you’re ponying up at least $92,375 for a plaything, it
better not be mistaken for a Chrysler.  The previous generation coupe and convertible were released
in 2003 and 2004 respectively. They were the rare BMWs under
head designer Chris Bangle’s aegis that really looked good. I
remember a long weekend in the Hamptons with a pre-production
convertible that felt fresh and stylish. Even the guys in their
Ferrari 360 Spiders were checking it out.  More Heroic  This time the convertible is being released before the
coupe, and the 2012 model is wider, longer and has a lower roof.
Aesthetically that’s a big bonus, making it even more heroic.  The older 6 had an odd protrusion growing out of its trunk
-- a foible Bangle was infamous for. It’s gone now, and the twin
tailpipes have grown into mean rectangles.  The front is better too, with a reworked hood and
headlights and a sharper nose which creases over the twin kidney
grills. Overall the car is leaner and more directed.  What it doesn’t lose is space. It will hold four reality-
sized adults, even on spirited trips that last several hours.
It’s a happy refutation to cars like the Porsche 911 convertible,
with rear perches that look like seats but are mostly an optical
illusion.  Competitors in the four-passenger regard include the
spacious Maserati GranTurismo Convertible, which has Italian
cool and a price tag of some $136,000, and the Mercedes-Benz
E550, which starts around $66,000, but which I frankly find
rather ugly.  Highway Speeds  Sports-car punch? No worries there, with the 650i’s 4.4-
liter V-8. Horsepower is 400 and torque is 450 pound-feet. The
motor is both direct injected and turbocharged.  What that means is a 0-to-60 mph charge in 4.9 seconds and
the general ability to off-handedly punch through traffic at
highway velocity. The engine sounds good, too.  BMW chooses to limit the top speed of its vehicles, and the
650i’s last call is 130 on regular models and 155 for those
equipped with a sport package.  The failing, if there is one, is to maneuver around tight
roads at speed. The 650i drives like a wide car (and is, at 6.2
feet, or 1.9 meters) and you’re also managing 4,500 pounds
(2,041 kg). It has a complement of advanced technologies to
prevent mishaps, including an optional system which helps corral
body roll.  Still, on the narrowest lanes I found it best to relax my
foot away from the gas and savor the landscape. The shiny rims
protrude from the tires and would be all-to-easy to scrape.  Wind Noise  The windshield is high enough that it keeps the breeze from
funneling into your face, and you can still hold a normal-voice
conversation. Buffeting is worse in the back seat, but helped by
rolling up the windows.  Top up, the car is quiet, and you can raise or lower it
while driving up to 25 mph.  The car I tested had an eight-speed automatic transmission
which can also be commanded with behind-the-wheel paddles. The
U.S. will also get a six-speed manual and, for the first time,
we’ll be offered all-wheel-drive versions, sure to be popular in
the Northeast.  Dare you drive the convertible in winter? Absolutely. Just
be sure you’re not on performance summer tires.  The final winning bit is the interior -- next to the 7
Series sedan, it’s the best I’ve seen on a recent Bimmer. The
beautifully stitched, leather-covered dash lavishly curls around
the driver. Controls are distinctly canted toward that occupant
as well.  The navigation screen is big (10.2 inches) and graphics
beautifully rendered. It sits on the front console looking like
an attached iPad.  Orders for the 650i are being taken now, with deliveries
expected in May. The coupe version will go on sale in the summer.
(The convertible historically outsells it by 10 percent.) The
even more powerful M6 will come along later.  The only question is, can we really afford to wait that
long?  The 2012 BMW 650i Convertible at a Glance  Engine: 4.4-liter, turbo and direct-injected V-8 with 400  hp and 450 lb-ft of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed automatic or six-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.9 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 17 city; 25 highway (estimated).  Price as tested: $103,375.  Best feature: Seats four in a hot convertible.  Worst feature: High price; hard on gas.  Target buyer: The free-spending sun-worshiper.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 