-- 
CDO, CDS Fraud Probes to Be 2011 Priority, Prosecutor Says

-- B y   D a v i d   E v a n s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-03T22:45:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/cdo-cds-fraud-probes-to-be-2011-priority-new-york-u-s-prosecutor-says.html
U.S. criminal investigators will
step up probes into possible fraud involving collateralized debt
obligations and credit default swaps, a top federal prosecutor
in  New York  said.  Christopher Garcia, chief of the Securities and Commodities
Fraud Task Force in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan ,
told white-collar criminal-defense lawyers at a conference today
that his office will spend this year investigating possible
fraud involving CDOs and CDSs.  “If there’s crime there, we’re going to find it and we’re
going to pursue it,” Garcia said at an  American Bar Association 
meeting in  San Diego . Investigators won’t be deterred by the
complexity of the financial instruments, he said.  CDOs are pools of assets such as mortgage bonds packaged
into new securities. Interest payments on the underlying bonds
or loans are used to pay investors.  Credit default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt.  Garcia said in an interview after his presentation that his
office is “bringing in people with expertise in these areas.”  “It’s an enforcement priority,” he said.  Garcia declined to say whether he expected his office to
file cases this year.    Joseph Cassano   U.S. prosecutors in  Washington  last year decided not to
bring charges against former  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
executive Joseph Cassano after a probe into whether executives
in the firm’s Financial Products Division misrepresented the
value of a portfolio of “super senior” credit-default swaps,
which insured bond losses tied to the U.S. housing market.  “The cases are complex because the products at issue are
not inherently fraudulent -- they have economic value,” Jim Walden, a lawyer for Cassano, said in an interview. “They
involve fraud only when the company lies to the public about the
risks or the valuation.”  Walden, co-chairman of the white-collar group at Los
Angeles-based Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, said a company’s risk
and valuation disclosures are usually considered by dozens of
internal and external accountants, lawyers and auditors.  “If everyone said the disclosures were accurate at the
time, it is hard to blame someone later when, after the fact,
the government wants to show they should have said something
more or different,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Evans in  Los Angeles  at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in federal court in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 