-- 
CFTC, SEC Funds Needed to Prevent Crisis Repeat, Stabenow Says

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-03-03T19:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/cftc-sec-funds-needed-to-prevent-crisis-repeat-stabenow-says.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  and  Securities and Exchange Commission  must be given
resources to carry out  derivatives market  oversight to avert a
repeat of the 2008 credit crisis, Senator Debbie Stabenow said.  “I am concerned that if our agencies don’t have the tools
they need, we are asking for a repeat of the crisis,” Stabenow,
a Michigan Democrat who leads the  Senate Agriculture Committee ,
said today in a remarks prepared for a hearing in Washington.  Budgets for the CFTC and the SEC, the agencies assigned to
impose derivatives oversight under the Dodd-Frank Act, have been
caught in a stalemate between Republicans aiming to cut spending
and Democrats looking to pay for new rules. Stabenow’s statement
aligns her with CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  and SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who are scheduled to testify at today’s hearing.  Lawmakers moved to increase oversight of the derivatives
market after largely unregulated trades helped spark the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression. Dodd-Frank, enacted
in July, aims to reduce risk and boost transparency by having
most swaps traded on exchanges and guaranteed by clearinghouses.  The CFTC’s $169 million budget for the current fiscal year
is “far less that what is required to properly fulfill our
significantly expanded mission,” Gensler said in his prepared
remarks. President  Barack Obama  has requested an increase to
$308 million for fiscal 2012 and users fees to help the CFTC
carry out its responsibilities.  In her prepared remarks, Stabenow also pushed for the so-
called end-user exemption, saying the regulators should follow
Congress’s intent and exempt manufacturers and commercial end-
users of derivatives from requirements to post margin.  “While Congress greatly expanded the authority of the SEC
and the CFTC, that authority came with a warning -- they must
not overreach,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  