-- 
China Turns to Turkmen Natural Gas as Gazprom Seeks Price, Pipeline Deal

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-04T15:06:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/china-may-increase-gas-purchase-from-turkmenistan-minister-says.html
  China  is turning to  Turkmenistan  for
more gas as Russia’s OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest producer,
has yet to agree on prices and pipeline routes with  Asia ’s
fastest-growing market.  The central Asian nation may sell China an additional 20
billion cubic meters a year of gas, or a 50 percent increase
from the 40 billion it plans to supply by 2015, Turkmenistan’s
First Deputy Prime Minister Baymurat Hojamuhamedov said in
Singapore yesterday. That would boost China’s imports from the
Caspian country to two-thirds of its 2009 demand.  “Turkmenistan has enormous oil and gas reserves,” Oil
Minister Bayramgeldy Nedirov said at an oil and gas conference
in Singapore today. “There are 160 discovered fields and 50
under development.”  The country, holder of the world’s fourth-largest gas
reserves, opened a link to China in 2009 as shipments to  Russia 
collapsed following an explosion on a Soviet-era pipeline in
April of that year. Russia, holder of the world’s biggest
deposits, is struggling to complete a deal with China.  “Russia’s bargaining position is weakened by the
availability of central Asian gas,” Julia Nanay, a senior
director at Washington-based PFC Energy, said by e-mail.
“Turkmenistan has considerable available spare capacity that it
needs to find market outlets for.”  China and Russia  Chinese companies will pump gas themselves in central Asia
whereas they don’t have equity positions in Russia, she said.  In 2009, Gazprom said plans to deliver gas to China would
be delayed to 2014 or 2015 from this year as the sides failed to
reach a consensus on price and volume. The company aims to close
a deal by July to supply 30 billion cubic meters of  natural gas 
a year for 30 years starting in 2015, via the Altai region to
China’s northwestern border. Supplies of as much as 40 billion
from an eastern route near Russia’s Pacific coast may come at a
later date, according to Gazprom.  “If they can continue to ramp up volumes from
Turkmenistan, it may put pressure on Gazprom to deliver into the
east of the country if it wants a deal,” Julian Lee, senior
energy analyst at the London-based Centre for Global Energy
Studies, said by telephone from  London  yesterday. “I don’t
think China particularly wants gas in the west.”  Turkmenistan will sell 17 billion cubic meters of the fuel
to China this year and 20 billion next year, Hojamuhamedov said.
Turkmenistan sent 2.59 million metric tons, or about 2.9 billion
cubic meters, last year, according to China’s customs data.  Chinese Demand  The  International Energy Agency   estimates  that Chinese
natural-gas demand will rise to 142 million tons in 2015 and 181
million tons 2020.  Gazprom aims to reach an agreement with China by the middle
of this year, a Gazprom Export official said yesterday in an e-
mail, declining to be identified in line with company policy.
Demand growth in the world’s most populous nation will allow for
both Russia and Turkmenistan to ink supply deals, the official
said. China will want Russian supplies as it seeks to balance
its import sources, according to the Moscow-based company.  Russia began building a domestic pipe in the  Far East  to
transport gas to Vladivostok, near the Chinese border, from
energy-rich Sakhalin Island before 2012.  The pipe, slated to eventually have a capacity of up to 47
billion cubic meters a year, traces a similar route as proposed
by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  for gas sales to China from the Sakhalin-1
project operated by the company. That agreement remains on hold
as Exxon negotiates with Gazprom, Russia’s monopoly exporter.  Turkmenistan plans to extract as much as 30 billion cubic
meters of natural gas a year from the South Yoloten area, and
obtained a credit line of $4 billion from  China Development Bank 
in 2009 for the project, according to the Turkmen government.
The country aims to increase gas production fourfold to 250
billion cubic meters a year by 2030.  The nation’s gas reserves were 8.1 trillion cubic meters at
the end of 2009, according to the BP Plc’s Statistical Review of
World Energy. Turkmenistan  estimates  its gas reserves at 21
trillion cubic meters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in  Singapore  at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  