-- 
China Stocks Fall on Concern Economic Growth is Slowing, Inflation Rising

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-03T07:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/china-s-stocks-rise-on-consumer-spending-outlook-led-by-automakers-gree.html
  China ’s stocks fell, driving down
the benchmark index by the most in a week, on concern higher
material prices will fuel inflation and the nation’s tightening
policies are slowing the world’s second-biggest economy.  Air China Ltd. and China Southern Airlines Co. led losses
for airlines after an industry group cut its forecast for
carriers’ profit because of oil prices. China CNR Corp., the
nation’s second-biggest trainmaker, slid to the lowest this year
on investors’ speculation spending in railways will slow.
China  Merchants Bank  Co. rose 4.2 percent, leading gains for
financial companies, as Sanford C. Bernstein became the latest
brokerage to predict lenders’ earnings may exceed estimates.  “The inflationary pressure is still there and controlling
inflation will be the government’s priority throughout the
year,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “It’s difficult for
stocks to perform well in an inflationary environment.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slid 10.8 points, or 0.4 percent, to
2,902.98 at the 3 p.m. close, as three stocks fell for every one
that advanced. The CSI 300 Index slipped 0.7 percent to 3,221.72.
The CSI Smallcap 500 Index slumped 2 percent.  China’s stocks rose earlier today on the prospect the
government’s plan to reduce the tax burden for individuals will
boost  consumer spending . The legislature is holding annual
meetings in Beijing and investors speculate it will introduce
policies to increase domestic consumption and spur investment in
new areas such as technology and alternative energy.  Tightening Outlook  The Shanghai gauge has advanced 3.4 percent this year,
after plunging 14 percent in 2010, on signs the world’s second-
biggest economy is withstanding tightening measures. The central
bank has boosted banks’ reserve requirement ratio eight times
since the start of 2010, while raising  interest rates  three
times to rein in inflation that reached 4.9 percent in January,
near the 28-month high of 5.1 percent in November.  The central bank will raise the reserve requirement ratio
“shortly” to ease liquidity pressure, the China Securities
Journal reported on its front page today, citing analysts. Yuan
positions at Chinese banks accumulated from sales of foreign
exchange to the central bank will remain high in short term, the
report said, citing analysts.  The non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index fell to
44.1 in February from the previously reported 56.4 in January,
according to a statement released today by the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics and the Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  Air China, the nation’s biggest international carrier,
dropped 1.8 percent to 11.47 yuan. China Southern Airlines, the
largest domestic carrier, slid 2.1 percent to 8.51 yuan.  Airlines Outlook  The International Air Transport Association yesterday cut
its forecast for this year’s profit in the  airline industry  to
$8.6 billion from the $9.1 billion projected three months ago,
as rising  oil prices  limit the benefits of a rebounding economy.  Oil dropped from the highest close in 29 months in  New
York , falling as low as $100.37 a barrel. Crude fell as much as
1.8 percent, the biggest intraday decline in a week, after the
Wall Street Journal reported that Venezuelan President  Hugo
Chavez  called Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and offered to help
create a multinational mediation commission.  China CNR fell 3.1 percent to 7.77 yuan, the lowest since
Dec. 31. China Railway Construction Corp., builder of more than
half of the country’s railroads, lost 0.4 percent to 7.05 yuan.  “The market is telling us the downfall of the two major
players in the Ministry of Railways is bad for rail stocks
because investment in high-speed rail may slow,” said  Zhang Qi ,
an analyst at Haitong Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “These stocks
were really ramped up before and now there’s doubts whether
their earnings growth can be sustained.”  Banks Gain  The official Xinhua News Agency reported Feb. 12 former
Railways Minister Liu Zhijun Liu was under investigation on
accusations of accepting bribes. The government also removed
Zhang Shuguang as deputy chief engineer at the Ministry of
Railways as authorities investigate him for alleged “severe
violation of discipline,” Xinhua reported yesterday.  A gauge of financial companies in the CSI 300 gained 0.9
percent, the only industry group to advance. China Merchants
Bank rose 4.2 percent to 14.03 yuan. Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest lender, advanced 0.5
percent to 4.30 yuan. China Construction Bank Corp., the second-
largest, climbed 1.4 percent to 4.94 yuan.  Mike Werner and Wangshu Qiu, Hong Kong-based analysts at
Bernstein, boosted their 2011-12 earnings estimates for banks by
an average of 7 percent to reflect higher net interest margins
because of increases in the nation’s interest rates. They
predict “strong” first-quarter earnings for banks and
“prefer” ICBC and China Construction Bank because they can
“take advantage” of the tightening environment.  Tax Changes  While the central bank has boosted borrowing costs three
times since early 2010, the demand deposit rate has increased
once, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The State Council approved an amendment to the individual
income tax law which will raise the threshold for income taxes,
according to a statement on the government website yesterday.
The government intends to reduce the tax burden for low-income
individuals and adjust income tax rates, it said.  China’s legislature will hold its annual plenary meetings
from March 5 to March 15 in Beijing, during which time they wi
review and approve the government’s economic development plans
covering the five years from 2011 through 2015.  The government set an economic growth target of 7 percent
for the five-year plan period, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last
weekend. China’s target was 7.5 percent for the period from 20
through last year, with actual growth exceeding that each year
Growing inequality is a threat to social stability, he said.  --Zhang Shidong. Editor: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  