-- 
China’s Undervalued Yuan Reason Behind Record Carbon Emissions, Study Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-03T08:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/china-s-undervalued-yuan-reason-behind-record-carbon-emissions-study-says.html
  China ’s undervalued yuan is
subsidizing energy-intensive export industries that have led to
record carbon dioxide emissions, negating the nation’s
conservation efforts, a study said.  China’s “depressed exchange rate” has protected coal-
powered export industries, such as iron, steel and cement
factories and the supply chains producing laptops, electronics
and plastics, according to a  report  by  CO2 Scorecard Group , a
Winter Park, Florida-based environmental research group whose
executives include a former World Bank economist and former
energy specialist at the U.S. White House’s budget office.  “China’s macro-economic policies have made its economy a
magnet for energy intensive and greenhouse-unfriendly
industries,” it said. “The country is actually reversing the
gains it made in energy and emissions efficiency.”  The yuan has fallen 18 percent since China scrapped its
dollar peg in July 2005 and is only allowed to trade up to 0.5
percent on either side of the official rate. The currency is
“substantially undervalued” and puts other countries at a
competitive disadvantage, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  said on Jan. 12.  Largest Emitter  China has been responsible for 10 of the largest single-
year increases in emissions, the report said. Its record 2004
increase put an additional 1 billion tons into the atmosphere,
roughly equal to what Japan vented in all of 2009, according to
Bloomberg data.  Those increase in emissions have coincided with China’s
entry into the  World Trade Organization  in 2001, which began a
period of export-led economic growth as the yuan declined from
over 8 per dollar to under 7 by 2008, the report said.  “The incentives for industrial growth and energy
generation created by the weak currency policy have contributed
to defeating the efforts to meet (environmental) targets,” said
the report, whose co-authors are Shakeb Afsah, a former World
Bank environmental economist, and Kendyl Salcito, an executive
director at  Nomogaia , a Denver-based human rights and corporate
policy research group.  China plans to cut carbon dioxide intensity, or emissions
per unit of gross domestic product, by 45 percent by 2020. The
country’s energy audits, shuttering of old factories, and
imposed blackouts to meet that intensity target are insufficient
to tackle the rate at which is emissions are rising, the report
said.  “Almost singlehandedly, China negated global emissions
reductions last year,” the report said. That trajectory “won’t
stop until the monetary policy changes and Chinese companies
compete with other industrializing nations on an even playing
field.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 