-- 
Hong Kong's Chinese Estates Aims to Purchase Two Goldman Offices in London

-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-03-03T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/chinese-estates-wants-to-acquire-two-of-goldman-s-london-office-buildings.html
  Chinese Estates Holdings Ltd. (127) , a
property company controlled by  Hong Kong  billionaire Joseph Lau,
wants to buy two buildings in the  City of London  occupied by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Chinese Estates aims to add Peterborough Court and Daniel
House after purchasing River Court, a Goldman building on the
same street, in January. The two properties were put up for sale
last month for at least 300 million pounds ($488 million),
according to Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., which is marketing them.
They are part of Goldman’s European headquarters.  “Chinese Estates is very interested in buying the Goldman
Sachs buildings in London,” Alison Yeung, a spokeswoman for
Chinese Estates in Hong Kong, said yesterday by telephone.    London  was one of the first real estate markets to see a
pickup in deals and prices after the financial crisis. Sales of
existing commercial property in the U.K. capital generated more
money than any other city last year, according to Real Capital
Analytics Inc.  The Goldman buildings are the kind of assets that attract
“strong interest from overseas investors who view London as
their preferred investment location and a safe haven during this
period of global economic uncertainty,” said Stephen Down,
managing partner of Gresham Down Capital Partners.  Gresham Down, a London-based property broker, handled the
280 million-pound sale of River Court.  Knight Frank LLP  advised
Chinese Estates.  Peterborough Court and Daniel House have total space of
370,526 square feet (34,500 square meters). The buildings on
Fleet Street in central London were put on the market after the
former owner, Canadian developer Jesta Group, defaulted on debt
repayments,  Jones Lang  said.  Goldman has two other  office buildings  in London, both of
which are in the city’s main financial district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 