-- 
Christie Says He'll Fund Hudson River Tunnel Only If New York Chips In

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-03-03T15:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/christie-says-new-jersey-will-fund-hudson-tunnel-only-if-new-york-chips-in.html
  New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he’s willing to put money into construction of a rail
tunnel to  New York  City only if the state and city contribute.  Christie in October killed a planned conduit under the
Hudson River, citing the prospect of overruns of as much as $5
billion on the $8.7 billion project. The governor, a first-term
Republican, said New York state and city weren’t putting in
enough.  Since that decision,  Amtrak , the U.S. long-distance
passenger railroad, has raised the prospect of digging a tunnel
to New York’s Pennsylvania Station, the governor said. He and
city transportation officials have also discussed a plan to
extend the No. 7 subway line to Secaucus, he said.  “Do we need another tunnel under the  Hudson River  for
mass-transit?” Christie, 48, said yesterday at a transportation
summit in Trenton. “Yes, I’ve never denied that. I am not going
to sign on as governor to deals that are bad for the taxpayers
of New Jersey; bad deals in terms of the way the project is put
together; and bad deals in terms of fairness in the region.”  After the demise of the tunnel project, known as Access to
the Region’s Core, Christie also received calls from New York’s
then-Governor  David Paterson , Mayor Michael Bloomberg and
Manhattan real-estate developers, the governor said. “That
shows you who stood to benefit the most from that project,” he
said.  The 8.8-mile (14-kilometer)  tunnel  was expected to double
rush-hour capacity to and from  New York City . Christie’s
administration has rejected a demand from the U.S. government to
repay $271 million in federal funds spent on the project.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 