-- 
Christchurch Quake May Have Killed 100 Foreigners

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-03-03T04:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/christchurch-quake-may-have-killed-100-foreigners.html
As many as 100 foreign nationals
may have perished in the earthquake that struck Christchurch
last week, the  New Zealand  government said as the mission to
rescue survivors officially became a search for bodies.  Search teams in the South Island city’s central business
district will start recovering bodies as no survivors have
been rescued since Feb. 23,  Civil Defense  Director John
Hamilton told reporters today. Foreigners from as many as 20
countries may be among the deceased, Foreign Minister Murray McCully said.  The death toll from last week’s 6.3-magnitude temblor
climbed to 161 with more than 200 people missing, New Zealand
 police  told reporters today. The earthquake, the second to hit
Christchurch within six months, devastated the city’s central
business district.  “We now face the reality that there is no chance that
anyone could have survived this long,” Hamilton said. “We
cannot ever rule out the possibility, however small, of a
miracle survivor.”  Police have  released  the names of 13 victims, including
two Israeli citizens. Seventy people were rescued from the
central business district, most in the 24 hours after the
quake. Teams are preparing to enter Christchurch’s iconic
cathedral to search for bodies in the ruins of the 130-year-
old building. As many as 22 bodies may be entombed in the
rubble.  A steel support has been secured to the cathedral’s brick
wall,  Fire Service  assistant national commander Russell Wood
told reporters today. One of the collapsed spire’s supporting
walls may be removed to allow rescuers to search the building
and surrounding rubble, he said.  Heritage Sites Damaged  Almost 700,000 people a year visit the cathedral to
admire its stained-glass windows and climb the spire. A third
of all those who visited Christchurch last year said they did
so to look at heritage sites such as the cathedral, according
to  Tourism New Zealand .  The city, modeled after Oxford in  England  by mid-19th
Century settlers, drew 519,000 tourists who flew in from
abroad last year, or 21 percent of all visitors to the country,
according to Tourism New Zealand.  Buildings in the central business district were damaged
by a 7.0-magnitude temblor that struck on Sept. 4. The
estimated repair costs for Christchurch may be as much as
NZ$20 billion ($15 billion) after both earthquakes, Prime
Minister John Key said this week.  Key said yesterday he expects the central bank to cut  interest rates  as the nation grapples with the aftermath of
the deadly earthquake.  “We’d certainly welcome” a rate cut, Key said in an
interview in Wellington. “The market has priced in a cut from
the  Reserve Bank . That would probably be my expectation, that
the Reserve Bank would cut, but it’s for them to determine
that.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  