-- 
Christie No-Tax Austerity Message Wins With New Jersey Voters, Poll Says

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/christie-no-tax-austerity-message-wins-with-new-jersey-voters-poll-says.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s
calls for paring budgets are winning over voters, as majorities
embrace cuts and oppose higher taxes, according to a  Rutgers
University  poll.  Voters surveyed after Christie’s Feb. 22 budget speech were
less likely than a year earlier to oppose cuts in local aid,
easier environmental regulations and reduced college and
university support, said the Rutgers-Eagleton poll released
today. The survey showed rising resistance to tax increases.  “The take-home is a little different from last year,”
David Redlawsk, the poll’s director, said in a statement with
the results. “After a year of hearing how bad things are,
voters are more willing to accept program cuts to balance the
budget. But for the most part they are still completely
uninterested in paying more,” he said.  Voters in the most recent survey were 8 percentage points
less likely to oppose municipal-aid cuts than in a survey taken
in March 2010, poll results show. Respondents were also 10
percentage points less supportive of protecting environmental
programs, while opposition to college and university funding
reductions slid 12 percentage points.  The same survey showed that 72 percent of voters backed
reauthorizing a lapsed tax increase on residents with incomes of
$1 million or more, according to results released March 1.
Voters split on Christie’s $29.4 billion budget, with 45 percent
“pleased” to 48 percent “displeased,” a difference that was
within the poll’s error margin.  Past Opposition  After Christie slashed $820 million in school aid last
year, 57 percent of those surveyed by Rutgers pollsters said
they opposed such cuts. Today’s poll shows half of respondents
remain opposed to them. In his fiscal 2012 budget, to start July
1, Christie would boost the assistance by $250 million.  A higher income tax drew the strongest opposition, at 73
percent, the survey said. A rise in the gas tax was opposed by
70 percent, while 61 percent were against applying sales taxes
to clothing, the poll said. A highway toll boost was panned by
57 percent and more than half rejected raising business taxes.  Respondents were more inclined to back higher levies on
sales of  luxury goods  if they had greater income, the poll
showed. While those making less than $50,000 a year supported
such taxes, 81 percent of those earning more than $150,000
backed them, the survey said.  “New Jerseyans seem happy to ask the rich to pay more,”
Redlawsk said. “It is interesting that high-income voters are
even more supportive. Maybe they also recognize the need to
share the pain of the state’s financial troubles.”  Researchers at New Brunswick-based Rutgers surveyed 811
registered voters by landline and mobile telephone from Feb. 24-
26. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.4
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton,  New Jersey , at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 