-- 
Cobham Says Profit Rises on Military Orders; Announces Buyback

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-03-03T08:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/cobham-says-profit-rises-on-military-orders-announces-buyback.html
  Cobham Plc (COB) , the world’s largest
maker of airborne-refueling equipment, announced a share buyback
program after full-year profit rose 3.7 percent on orders
including work on U.S. military programs.  So-called underlying profit before taxation, which excludes
financing and restructuring costs, climbed to 306 million pounds
($499 million) from 295 million pounds a year earlier, the
Wimborne, England-based company said in a statement today.
Revenue rose 1.2 percent to 1.9 billion pounds. Analysts in a
Bloomberg survey had estimated sales at 1.93 billion pounds.  Cobham won more work on projects including the CH-53K
helicopter, the Aegis surveillance and fire control radar
system, and the F-35 fighter aircraft. Boeing Co. picked Cobham
to equip new U.S. Air Force tanker jets, in a deal that could be
worth $1 billion to the company over the life of the program, it
said Feb. 25. Cobham will start a share buyback program of as
much as 150 million pounds, it said today.  “We have configured the business with a prudent view of
top-line growth for the current year and have already
accelerated integration plans to deliver 21 million pounds of
cost savings in 2011,” Chief Executive Officer Andy Stevens
said in the statement.  Cobham rose 1.8 percent to 212.7 pence at 8:37 a.m. in  London  trading.  “In defense, aerospace and commercial, we do continue to
see challenges in some of our markets, particularly with the
continuing resolution in the U.S. budget affecting growth,”
Stevens said on a conference call today.  The U.S. Defense Department has been funded since October
at fiscal year 2010 levels through a stopgap measure known as a
continuing resolution. That funding legislation will expire
March 4. The U.S. Senate and House are negotiating a measure to
finance the government until Sept. 30, the end of fiscal year
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  