-- 
Income Optimism Keeps Comfort Index Near 2008 High

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-09T21:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/consumer-confidence-holds-near-three-year-high-in-bloomberg-comfort-index.html
(Corrects index levels in second paragraph of article
published on March 3.)  U.S. consumer confidence last week
held close to the highest level in almost three years as more
Americans said their finances were in good shape.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC News
U.S. Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 39.7 in the period
to Feb. 27, compared with minus 39.6 the prior week, a report
today showed. Respondents’ view of their financial situation
climbed to an almost two-year high.  A two-percentage-point cut in payroll taxes this year, part
of the compromise reached by President  Barack Obama  and
Congressional Republicans, is trickling into consumers’ bank
accounts. The extra cash and an improving job market are helping
cushion the pinch from the biggest one-week jump in gasoline
prices since the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005.  “Consumers are comfortable with where we are right now,”
said  Lindsey Piegza , an economist at FTN Financial in New York.
“It’s very likely we’ll see the income from the tax cuts seep
into retail sales. There’s increasing optimism on better times
to come, even though rising gas prices are a cause for some
concern.”  Stocks rose as an unexpected drop in jobless claims
bolstered confidence the labor market is improving. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.3 percent to 1,325.36 at 11 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  dropped, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-Year Treasury note up to 3.53 percent from 3.47
percent late yesterday.  Employment Forecast  Payrolls rose by 195,000 workers in February, the biggest
advance since May, after a 36,000 gain the previous month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed before a
Labor Department report tomorrow. The acceleration in hiring
reflects a pickup in growth and a rebound from the weather-
depressed January level, economists said.  The comfort reading for week ended Feb. 20 was the highest
since April 2008.  The comfort index of personal finances rose to 2.4 last
week, the highest since May 2009, from minus 2.3. Fifty-one
percent of those polled held positive views on their financial
situation, up from 49 percent the previous week and the first
time since January 2010 that the reading topped 50 percent.  A gauge of Americans’ views of the economy fell to minus
70.6 last week from minus 69.4. The share of households with a
positive view of the economy held at 15 percent for a second
week, matching the highest since September 2008.  An index of the buying climate fell to minus 50.9 from
minus 47.1. Those people saying it was a good time to buy needed
items dropped to 25 percent from 27 percent the previous week.  Improving Sales  J.C. Penney Co.,  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  Ross Stores Inc. (ROST)  were
among retailers today reporting February same-store sales that
topped analysts’ estimates. Purchases at stores open at least a
year climbed 6.4 percent at J.C. Penney, 5 percent at Kohl’s and
3 percent at Ross, company data showed.  “We are encouraged by our solid start to the year,”
Michael Balmuth, chief executive officer of Pleasanton,
California-based discounter Ross Stores, said in a statement.
Even so, “the much more important March/April holiday selling
period is still ahead.”  The average price of regular gasoline at the pump jumped 20
cents to $3.37 a gallon in the week ended Feb. 27, according to
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization. It was the
biggest increase since the period ended Sept. 5, 2005, after
Katrina slammed into  New Orleans .  “The key question is what lies ahead for prices at the
pump,” Gary Langer, president of Langer Research Associates LLC
in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a
statement. “A long run-up will do far more damage than a short
spurt.”  Bernanke’s View  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  echoed that view
in testimony before Congress this week.  “Sustained rises in the prices of oil or other commodities
would represent a threat both to economic growth and to overall  price stability , particularly if they were to cause inflation
expectations to become less well anchored,” Bernanke told
legislators in his semiannual comments on monetary policy.  Gasoline prices and the comfort index have shown a strong
inverse correlation since 2004, according to calculations by
Joseph Brusuelas, a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York. Additionally, changes in the four-week average of claims
for jobless benefits have been in sync with the comfort gauge
about 72 percent of the time.  Jobless Claims  Another report today showed claims unexpectedly declined
last week to the lowest level since May 2008. Applications
decreased by 20,000 to 368,000 in the week ended Feb. 26,
according to the Labor Department. Economists forecast claims
would climb to 395,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  Renters, who have less at stake as home prices fall, were
among the categories in the comfort survey that showed the most
improvement last week, according to today’s report. Their
outlook gauge rose to minus 41.1 last week, the highest since
March 2008.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over.  Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their views on the
economy, personal finances and buying climate; the percentage of
negative responses is subtracted from the share of positive
views and divided by three.  Margin of Error  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  The responses are broken down by participants’ sex, age,
income level, race, region of residence, political affiliation,
marital and employment status.  Readings of minus 40 for the index, which is based on a
four-week average, have historically been the threshold
indicating Americans think a recovery from recession has begun,
said Langer.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  