-- 
Continental Posts Profit, Calls Schaeffler Stock-Sale Report 'Speculation'

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-03T10:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/continental-ag-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-higher-car-parts-demand.html
  Continental AG (CON) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest tiremaker, reported fourth-quarter profit and revenue
that beat analysts’ estimates and predicted rising sales in  Asia 
will offset additional costs from rubber’s surge.  Net income was 213 million euros ($295 million), compared
with a loss of 154 million euros a year earlier. Profit topped
the 163 million-euro average estimate of seven analysts compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales rose 21 percent to 6.9 billion euros,
Hanover, Germany-based Continental said today.  Continental forecast revenue may jump about 10 percent this
year, with growth in emerging markets in Asia helping to offset
as much as 700 million euros in additional costs because of high
rubber prices. Benchmark rubber futures have jumped more than
fourfold since reaching a six-year low in December 2008,
prompting tiremakers from  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)  and Michelin & Cie.
to increase prices.  “The numbers are solid and the outlook is positive,” said
Aleksej Wunrau, an analyst at BHF-Bank AG in Frankfurt with a
“market weight” recommendation on the shares. “The uncertainty
about ownership may be weighing on the shares today.”    Schaeffler Group , Continental’s biggest shareholder with a
holding of 75.1 percent, may sell a portion of the stake as
early as this month, Financial Times Deutschland reported today.
Continental Chief Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart said at a
briefing in Frankfurt today that the report is “speculation.”  Shares Slip  Continental fell as much as 1.80 euros, or 2.9 percent, to
59.82 euros and traded at 60.79 euros as of 11:19 a.m. in  Frankfurt . Before today, the stock had gained 4.2 percent this
year.  Schaeffler, the world’s second-biggest maker of roller
bearings, is seeking to reduce more than 10 billion euros in
debt accumulated from acquiring shares in Continental in 2008.
Continental said Jan. 28 that it’s pursuing a merger with
Schaeffler in the medium term. Today, Degenhart said there are
currently “no joint activities” to prepare a merger.   Continental, which is also Europe’s second-biggest car-
component maker, returned to an annual profit last year as  China ’s car market jumped 32 percent and U.S. auto sales
recovered. The company aims to cut debt to less than 7 billion
euros this year from 7.3 billion euros at the end of 2010,
Degenhart said.  This year, earnings before interest, taxes and one-time
items as a percentage of sales will remain steady at 2010’s 9.7
percent while sales will probably grow about 10 percent to
exceed 28.5 billion euros, Continental said.  Loan Terms  “We grew at a faster rate than the recovering automotive
markets, especially in the emerging Asian markets,” Degenhart
said. “We have started the new fiscal year on stable ground -
with a great deal of confidence and healthy optimism.”  Continental is “confident” it will be able to reach
better conditions as it negotiates new terms with banks on 6.5
billion euros in debt coming due in 2012, Chief Financial
Officer Wolfgang Schaefer said. Current bond yields indicate the
level of refinancing costs the company is looking for, he said,
adding that the talks should be concluded within a “short
time.”  The company’s outlook on forecast for raw-material prices
assumes natural rubber prices at $5.50 a kilogram, Degenhart
said. Lower-than-usual supply and speculation are leading to the
price rally and are making tire-price increases this year
“inevitable,” he said.  “We are more concerned about natural rubber prices” than
oil, the CEO said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Continental forecast cash expenses for restructuring of 300
million euros for this year, matching the amount spent in 2010.
The company won’t pay a 2010 dividend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  