-- 
Correa Opens Door to Bond `Monsters' He Shunned as Ecuador Seeks Expansion

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y ,   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-03-03T14:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/correa-opens-door-to-bond-monsters-he-shunned-as-ecuador-seeks-growth.html
Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa ,
who in 2008 called bondholders “true monsters,” is reviewing
proposals from banks to sell bonds and is seeking to lure
private investors to finance infrastructure and energy.  Correa, speaking at the Bloomberg Ecuador Summit in Quito
yesterday, said the Andean nation is the most stable politically
it has been since 1996 and is ready to seek “responsible”
private investment to boost economic growth above the
government’s 5.1 percent forecast for this year. The government
is listening to proposals from banks interested in helping the
country sell debt to cover financing needs, Finance Minister
Patricio Rivera said.  “We know perfectly well that Ecuador needs local and
foreign investment to develop, but this must be done in a way so
it benefits the country,” Correa, 47, said at the summit. “We
welcome private investment. Ask any foreign investor if he lost
money here.”  Under Correa, Ecuador defaulted on $3.2 billion of bonds
and required oil companies including  Spain ’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  to renegotiate contracts as part of his “21st
century socialist” agenda. He said yesterday that the South
American country has a “sincere interest” in attracting
investors to help finance more than $7.5 billion in
infrastructure, tourism and energy projects.  Bond Performance  Yields on Ecuador’s only international bond have declined
to the lowest level since the debt default two years ago as a
rally in crude, the nation’s biggest export, eases concern over
the government’s 121 percent increase in public spending since
2006.  Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds due in 2015 is the highest
returning bond among developing nations tracked in JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI - Global Diversified index. In 2011, the
securities gained 5.2 cents on the dollar to 95.71 cents,
reducing the yield by 1.44 percentage point to 10.53 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  Ecuador, whose Caa2 credit rating by Moody’s Investors
Service is two levels below Argentina and Belize, is rebounding
from its slowest economic growth in a decade as oil surges to
about $100 a barrel and agriculture and manufacturing expand.
The economy expanded about 0.4 percent in 2009 and 3.7 percent
in 2010.  Reduce Poverty  Correa, a former economics professor and ally of Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez , took office in 2007 promising to reduce
poverty in a nation where about 40 percent of people can’t meet
basic needs, according to the  United Nations . As part of that
effort, in September 2008 he rewrote the constitution to
increase state control over oil and mining and eliminated the
central bank’s autonomy.  Three months later, Correa called bondholders “true
monsters who won’t hesitate to crush the country” and later
said he had “rebelled against the system that established
odious, unfair, illegal, immoral debts.” In June 2009 the
government bought back 91 percent of its defaulted bonds due in
2012 and 2030, offering investors 35 cents on the dollar.  In a constitutional referendum scheduled for May 7,
Correa’s third, he proposes stripping the judiciary of its
independence for 18 months to improve crime fighting while
banning financial and media companies from owning companies
outside their industry to limit potential conflicts of interest.  ‘Socialist Bogeyman’  “There have been winds of change and that always brings
fear at the beginning,” Santiago Peralta, founder of Pacari
Chocolates, said at the summit when asked about the policies
brought by Correa. “Socialism was the bogeyman, and now he’s
gone. But there’s still a lot to be done.”  Correa has boosted infrastructure spending on highways,
airports, and the nation’s energy grids to 8.7 percent of gross
domestic product from 3.2 percent in 2006 in an attempt to spur
productivity, according to a government statement.  The percent of children studying and not working climbed to
about 86 percent last year from 77 percent in 2006, the year
before he took office, Correa said.  Ecuador will invest $4.7 billion in public works this year
on items including the construction of a $1.68 billion, 1,500-
megawatt dam in the country’s Amazon region, according to the  Finance Ministry .  “You can perceive our sincere interest in bringing the
economy closer to new investment and find the path to mutual
benefit,” Correa said.  May Raise Estimate  The government may raise its 5.1 percent growth forecast
for this year if  oil prices  remain high, Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  said at the summit. The country isn’t benefiting
enough from higher oil prices and a weak dollar, economists
including former finance minister Mauricio Yepez said.  “The lack of growth in the Ecuadorean economy, given the
level of revenue we have, is the result of the government’s
economic model,” said Yepez, who is now regional vice president
of Banco de Guayaquil SA. “The government mainly follows the
idea that the state is the motor that drives the economy.”  Consorcio Nobis, an Ecuadorean agricultural and energy
holding company, said it plans to invest $200 million to produce
ethanol in Peru or  Costa Rica  to take advantage of free-trade
agreements those countries have with the U.S.    Ecuador  doesn’t yet have a strictly defined path as far
as free trade is concerned,” Chief Executive Officer Roberto
Dunn said in an interview at yesterday’s summit. “We won’t be
competitive with the world if we build the plant here.”  Ecuador sees “enormous potential” in further developing
trade with the U.S. and is seeking a bilateral agreement
following the expiration of a preferencial trade accord, known
at ATPDEA, Deputy Trade Minister Francisco Rivadeneira said
yesterday.  The government is considering deepening the Manta port, on
Ecuador’s Pacific coast, to 24 meters from 18 meters to better
connect Latin America with Asian markets, Correa said.  ‘Open to Investment’  Companies including Portec and  Brazil ’s Bertolini Group are
studying concessions there, and Spanish investors are seeking
airport cargo operating concessions, Production Minister
Nathalie Cely said.  “Infrastructure investment is fundamental for our exports
to be able to compete,” Cely said at the summit. “At least
seven companies have shown interest in port and airport
concessions.”  Public  capital expenditures  will represent 13 percent of
gross domestic product this year, up from 12 percent last year,
Correa said. Spending on social programs increased to 8.2
percent of gross domestic product last year from 4.7 percent in
2006, he said.  “Ecuador is a country open to investment, with clear and
stable rules,” said Correa. “We have everything an investor
looks for: an honest government, clear rules of play and
extremely profitable projects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in  Quito  News at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Quito News at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Gill in Quito News at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  