-- 
U.S. Cotton Is `Sold Out,' Boosting Australian Sales, Shippers Group Says

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-03-03T07:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/cotton-sales-surge-in-australia-as-u-s-is-sold-out-shippers-group-says.html
Cotton buyers have purchased more
than 80 percent of the coming harvest from  Australia , the
fourth-largest shipper, stepping up the pace of advance sales as
a shortage pushes prices to a record, an industry executive said.  The amount of so-called forward sales compared with usual
levels of 50 percent to 60 percent at this time, Phill Ryan, a
director of the Australian Cotton Shippers Association, said in
an interview. “The U.S. is the biggest exporter in the world
and they are sold out,” Ryan said yesterday in Canberra.  Cotton traded near a record today on signs global supplies
will remain limited amid increased demand from China, helping to
drive a surge in farm-commodity prices that’s also included
rallies in wheat, corn and soybeans. The most-active May-
delivery cotton contract ended yesterday at a 56 percent premium
to the December price, indicating a near-term supply squeeze.  “The market is demanding cotton, which is why you have
this massive invert,” said Ryan, who’s trading and export
manager at  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) ’s Queensland Cotton unit.
Australia will next month begin shipping the harvest, which will
be about a record 4 million bales, he said. Each bale weighs 227
kilograms, or 500 pounds.  The May contract jumped by the daily limit for a fifth day
today, rising by as much as 7 cents to $2.076 per pound on ICE
Futures U.S. and nearing Feb. 18’s all-time high of $2.0893. The
contract for delivery in December, when the next U.S. harvest
will be available, traded at $1.2580 at 3:29 p.m. in  Singapore .  “Consumers around the world have clearly taken the view
that they need to lock in supplies before the market potentially
moves higher,”  Luke Mathews , commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , said from Sydney today.  Supply Void  There’s a supply void in the market after Australian and
South American crops are harvested and before an expected jump
in Northern Hemisphere output later this year, Mathews said.  Cotton is the best performer over the past year on the UBS
Bloomberg CMCI Index and prices have more than doubled. Sid Love,
president of Joe Kropf & Sid Love Consulting Services LLC, said
last month that cotton “bulls have gone berserk.”  China purchased more than 40 percent of Australia’s cotton
shipments in 2009-2010, while Indonesia and  Thailand  were the
next largest buyers, according to government data. Cotton output
in  China  fell 6.3 percent to 5.97 million metric tons last year,
the National Bureau of Statistics said on Feb. 28.  Cotton exports are also in short supply from central  Asia 
and west Africa, and India may not be able to ship more than a
flagged 5.5 million bale quantity, Ryan said.  Boost Output  Global production will rise 11 percent to a record 27.6
million tons in the year from Aug. 1 as higher prices prompt
farmers to boost output, the  International Cotton Advisory
Committee  said on March 1.  U.S. production may reach 4.24 million tons, the advisory
committee said. The U.S. is forecast to be the largest exporter
in 2010-2011 followed by  India ,  Uzbekistan , Australia and  Brazil ,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Australian production may surge to a record 1.106 million
tons for the next crop, which will be planted later this year
and harvested in 2012, the Australian Bureau of Agricultural &
Resource Economics & Sciences  forecast  March 1. That’s up from
839,000 tons from this season’s harvest, which was smaller than
initially expected after floods in Queensland. The forecast for
next year would equate to 4.9 million bales.  Australian production in 2012 would likely gain after
rainfall raised the water level in reservoirs, Ryan said,
without giving a forecast. The demand to ship cotton out quickly
this year would stretch ginning capacity and that could be more
of a problem next year, depending on prices, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  