-- 
Crude, Heating Oil, Gasoline Dip on Libya Reports: Oil Products

-- B y   R i c h a r d   S t u b b e
-- 
2011-03-03T21:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/crude-heating-oil-gasoline-dip-on-libya-reports-oil-products.html
Crude oil, heating oil and gasoline
declined by 0.3 percent or less after Venezuela offered to lead
a multilateral commission to mediate the conflict in Libya,
Africa’s largest oil producer. It was the fifth straight day the
three commodities moved in the same direction. Ethanol slipped
for a second day.  Crude Oil  Crude oil for April delivery dropped 32 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $101.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Crude has gained 4.1 percent this week.  Futures also declined after the  Associated Press  reported
Libyan army deserters secured oil facilities in the rebel-held
port of Brega on the Gulf of Sidra. Forces loyal to leader
Muammar Qaddafi briefly seized Brega yesterday before losing
control of it.  Gasoline  Gasoline for April delivery declined 0.33 cent to $3.0262 a
gallon on the Nymex. Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged
nationwide advanced 4 cents to $3.427 a gallon yesterday, AAA
said on its website, the highest level since Oct. 7, 2008. The
daily gain was the ninth in a row.  Heating Oil  Heating oil for April delivery fell 0.84 cent, or 0.3
percent, $3.0493 a gallon on the Nymex. Heating oil has risen 46
percent in the past year.  Ethanol  Denatured ethanol for March delivery dropped for a second
day after reaching a 31-month high, falling 0.7 cent, or 0.3
percent, to $2.583 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Ethanol has gained 56 percent in the past year.  Refineries and Transport    Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the nation’s second-
largest energy company by market value, plans to have its
Horizon oil-sands project at “full plant production rates” in
the third quarter after a January fire halted output.    Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s Aruba refinery has returned to
planned rates, Bill Day, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.    Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Beaumont,  Texas , refinery has restarted
its fluid catalytic cracker after a Feb. 28 shutdown that
followed a leak, two people familiar with plant operations said.    ConocoPhillips (COP)  reported a process upset in a fluid
catalytic cracking unit at the Borger refinery in Texas,
according to a filing with state regulators.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  