-- 
Daimler Steel Headwind Saps Profit as Rubber Hits Continental AG

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-03-03T23:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/daimler-s-steel-headwind-saps-profit-as-continental-ag-s-rubber-costs-soar.html
  Europe ’s largest carmakers and auto
suppliers forecast that raw-material prices, pushed up by
increasing demand and tight supply, will eat into 2011 profit.    Daimler AG (DAI) , the producer of Mercedes-Benz cars, and
tiremaker  Continental AG (CON)  both expect higher prices for goods
such as steel and rubber to wipe 700 million euros ($975
million) from earnings this year. PSA Peugeot Citroen
anticipates a 500 million-euro hit.  “It’s definitely one of the headwinds in an otherwise good
environment,” Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche
said this week at the Geneva auto show.  Rubber prices may advance as much as 32 percent to 605 yen
a kilogram ($7,407 a metric ton) by December, according to the
median estimate of 10 analysts and traders. Steel prices will
rise faster than raw-material costs in the first half of 2011 as
steelmakers themselves cope with higher iron ore costs, European
trade association Eurofer said last month.    Raw materials  which have an impact on carmakers, such as
steel, are close to record levels,” said Michael Palatiello, a
commodities analyst at Wings Partners in Milan. “The increase
in raw materials is linked to low  interest rates . The turning
point will be when central banks start to raise rates.”  Carmakers don’t have much choice other than to pay the
higher steel prices as rising car demand in the U.S. and  China ,
the world’s two largest auto markets, tightens supply.  U.S. light-vehicle sales in February ran at a seasonally
adjusted 13.4 million annual rate, the fastest pace in 18
months, Autodata Corp. said March 1. Chinese car sales in
January, the most recent month available, gained 16 percent.  ‘Volatile’ Market    Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, forecast Feb. 25
that higher “commodities prices will weaken the positive volume
effect” of a gain in revenue this year on increased profit.  “The entire raw material market has become more
volatile,”  Rupert Stadler , head of VW’s Audi brand, said at the
Geneva auto show. “Of course we are concerned about this
because at the end of the day we have to buy these materials.”  Peugeot’s forecast for a 500 million-euro negative earnings
impact represents a 10 percent increase in raw material costs,
CEO Philippe Varin said in Geneva March 1. Peugeot, Europe’s
second-largest carmaker, is currently negotiating second-half
steel contracts.  “We’re on six-month contracts so our costs for the first
half are locked in,” Varin said. “At one point steelmakers
wanted to move us onto three-month contracts, but we resisted.”  Stockpiles Drop  The price of  iron ore , the raw ingredient used to make
steel, at the end of February rose to the highest since at least
2008 on stronger Chinese demand and speculation that  India , the
world’s third-largest exporter, will further curtail supplies.  Rubber harvests in  Thailand ,  Indonesia  and  Malaysia , the
biggest growers, will fail to meet demand for a second year in
2011, leaving stockpiles equal to 69 days of demand, the lowest
in more than a decade, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates.
Continental, Europe’s second-largest tiremaker, said at the
current rubber price of $5.50 per kilogram material costs will
rise 700 million euros.  “They have more or less exploded in the last 1 1/2 to 2
years,” Continental CEO Elmar Degenhart said yesterday in a
Bloomberg TV interview. “We need to increase prices in the
market and increase efficiencies in our own production” to help
offset the rising costs.  Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-largest tiremaker,
raised prices March 1 in  Africa , the Middle East and India by 8
percent for passenger tires and 12 percent for truck tires.  Surging Oil  Carmakers are also challenged by the price of oil, which
has surged beyond $100 per barrel due to political unrest in  Libya , Africa’s third-largest supplier. Crude oil hit $102.23 in
New York trading this week, the highest since September 2008.  “It’s going to be a real challenge for the car industry,”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  CEO Norbert Reithofer said in
Geneva. “We have forgotten in a very short time that U.S.
petrol prices were higher than $4 per gallon -- that can come
back sooner than we think.”  The price of regular gasoline has gained 27 percent in the
last year to an average $3.43 per gallon in the U.S., AAA, an
organization for driving enthusiasts, said on its website.  Consumers are likely to shift to purchasing smaller, more
fuel-efficient vehicles, which are less profitable for
carmakers, if the price of oil remains high, Morgan Stanley
analyst Stuart Pearson said.  Infiniti Brand  “The most obvious impact of higher fuel prices is a weaker
mix,” Pearson, who is based in  London , said in a note to
investors this week. “Profitable SUVs, MPVs and pickups fare
badly, while unprofitable compact cars find new customers.”  The oil-price surge also threatens sales for premium
carmakers that haven’t invested in smaller engines. Nissan Motor
Co.’s Infiniti brand, which currently offers nothing below a V6,
is racing to introduce smaller models and more efficient four-
cylinder engines supplied by Daimler under a partnership deal.  “The days of the big V8s are clearly in decline,” Nissan
Senior Vice President Andy Palmer said in an interview in
Geneva. “Like all luxury carmakers, Infiniti is working very
hard to improve fuel-efficiency and reduce emissions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  