-- 
Default Risk Tumbles to Four-Month Low on Tata Coal Control: India Credit

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-03-04T09:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/default-risk-tumbles-to-four-month-low-on-tata-coal-control-india-credit.html
Debt of Tata Power Ltd.,  India ’s
biggest non-government electricity producer, is viewed by
traders as the safest in four months after purchases of
Indonesian mine stakes increased its control over coal prices.  Traders are paying 299 basis points annually to insure the
debt of Mumbai-based Tata Power, down from 641 basis points on
Nov. 23. That’s the largest decline among the eight Indian
companies with credit-default swaps for the period, according to
CMA prices. Contracts on Essen, Germany-based power producer RWE
AG was little changed at 71 and those for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Duke Energy Corp. slid 10 to 37.  Tata Power may be able to rely on its Indonesian mines for
50 percent of coal supplies, making the utility less vulnerable
to price swings as India seeks to sustain expansion in the
fastest-growing major economy after  China . Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans to spend $1 trillion in the five years
starting April 2012 to build power stations, roads and ports
needed to support the economy, which expanded 8.2 percent last
quarter.  “Tata Power is partially shielded from the rise in coal
prices,” Manoj Kulkarni, the head of credit research at
brokerage SJS Markets Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said in a telephone
interview. “Investors don’t have doubts about its ability to
pay back debt.”  The company plans to spend 700 billion rupees ($15.5
billion) to increase capacity eightfold to 25,000 megawatts by
2017. It’s evaluating options to fund the expansion and no
decision has been made, the company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The utility plans to sell $1 billion of
bonds to finance the expansion, the Economic Times reported Feb.
17, citing three people it didn’t identify.  Rising Costs  Tata Power and  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  are among companies
adding capacity to plug a deficit of 10.5 percent of peak power
demand and cut blackouts. Industrial production increased in
January at the slowest pace in 20 months as manufacturers
struggled to cope with climbing raw materials costs.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Tata Power’s credit Ba3,
while  Standard & Poor’s  has it at BB-, both three notches below
investment grade. The utility, part of the  Tata Group  that also
makes the world’s cheapest car, has 273 billion rupees of debt
outstanding after raising 6 billion rupees in the third quarter
of last year selling 9.15 percent bonds with maturities from one
to 15 years, according to Bloomberg data.  The yield on Tata Power’s 8.5 percent dollar-denominated
bonds due August 2017 fell four basis points to 5.98 percent on
March 3, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. It’s up two
basis points this year, after falling by 86 in 2010.  Covering Debt  Tata Power has $1.1 billion of debt maturing in the next
five years, while Reliance Power has $2 billion to pay over
three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A  presentation  on Tata Power’s website shows the company
plans to start 800 megawatts of its 4,000 megawatt power project
in Mundra in the western state of Gujarat in September and have
all units running next year. The plant will use as much as 12
million metric tons a year of imported coal and the company is
seeking additional mines in Australia,  Mozambique ,  South Africa 
and  Indonesia , according to the presentation.  “Two large projects are coming up this year, and if
scheduled on time, increased cash flows will help offset debt,”
Mehul P. Sukkawala, a credit analyst at Standard & Poor’s in
Mumbai, said. “That could lead to a credit upgrade and lesser
risks.”  Balancing Act  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned  State
Bank  of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, fell six basis points this week to 183. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value for the underlying securities
should a borrower breach its debt agreements. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The yield on India’s 7.8 percent note due May 2020 fell
three basis points to 7.93 percent. The yield difference to  U.S.
Treasuries  narrowed to 440 basis points from as high as 567
reached on Oct. 20. The rupee gained 0.1 percent to 45.01 a
dollar, paring this year’s loss to 0.7 percent.  Coal Needs  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-rated Indian
corporate bonds for 10 years instead of government debt has
risen 14 basis points this year to 118, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Indian utilities will need to boost coal imports as the gap
between domestic supplies of the fuel and demand will triple
within seven years, Moody’s local unit ICRA Ltd. said last month
in a report. The installed capacity of coal-based power plants
may jump 70 percent from the current 90 gigawatts in the next
five to seven years, according to ICRA.  Rains have crimped coal output in Colombia, Indonesia and  Australia , pushing up power-station coal prices at Australia’s
Newcastle port, an Asian benchmark, by 41 percent over the past
six months to $129.70 a metric ton. The cost reached $138.50 a
ton in the week ended Jan. 14, the highest since September 2008.  Shares of Reliance Power, which has no publicly traded debt
according to Bloomberg data, dropped 17 percent over the past
year and Tata Power declined 9 percent, compared with a 9
percent advance for the Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index,
or Sensex.  “The utility that has coal supply will be able to protect
itself from pricing and supply risks in the future,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , an analyst at SMC Global Securities Ltd.
in  New Delhi . “Cutting supply risks as raw material prices rise
will be a winner for Tata Power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 