-- 
Delta Agrees to Buy Nine Used MD-90 Jets From Japan Airlines

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-03-03T21:45:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/delta-air-agrees-to-buy-9-used-md-90-jets-from-japan-airlines.html
  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s
second-largest carrier, said it is buying nine used MD-90 jets
from Japan Airlines Corp. to replace older DC-9s that are being
retired.  Deliveries will start in January after the planes are
refurbished to match the rest of Delta’s fleet, and Delta will
“continue to look for opportunities to acquire used MD-90s,”
Nat Pieper, vice president of fleet strategy, wrote yesterday on
the Atlanta-based airline’s internal employee website.  The 160-seat, twin-engine MD-90s will be flown on domestic
routes instead of the DC-9s, which average 34 years old, said
Pieper, who didn’t disclose financial terms. Newer planes offer
better  fuel efficiency , and  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s last MD-90 was
delivered in  2000 .  “MD-90s have appraised values of $5 million to $9 million,
depending on vintage, and it is highly unlikely that Delta would
be paying more than that range for the Japan Airlines
aircraft,” said Douglas Runte, managing director at Piper
Jaffray & Co. in  New York , who follows aircraft transactions.  A Delta spokesman, Trebor Banstetter, declined to comment
beyond confirming the website posting’s authenticity.  Delta plans to purchase about 50 of the used MD-90 jets
over the next two years because it is a “very capital-efficient
aircraft,” President Ed Bastian said at a December investor
presentation.  The airline had had 815 planes in its fleet as of December,
including regional jets. It trails only  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  in global traffic.  Delta rose 11 cents to $10.26 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have slid 21 percent in
the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 