-- 
Delta Electronics of Taiwan Considers Acquisitions, to Boost Solar Output

-- B y   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 
2011-03-03T05:58:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/delta-electronics-of-taiwan-considers-acquisitions-to-boost-solar-output.html
  Delta Electronics Inc. (2308) , which has
half of the global market for notebook computer power-supply
packs, is considering acquisitions of renewable energy companies
as it doubles solar-cell production capacity this year.  Its  DelSolar Co.  unit plans to spend NT$7 billion ($236
million) in 2011 to boost its annual solar cell manufacturing
capacity to 800 megawatts, said Yancey Hai, chief executive
officer of  Delta Electronics . The Taipei-based company is
seeking to buy companies with “reasonable valuation,” he said.  “It may be as little as a 3 percent stake, or 5 percent,
or as much as 100 percent,” he said in an interview in Taipei
yesterday. “We’re looking for deals.”  Delta Electronics, whose products run electricity in  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  computers, generates NT$20 billion
to NT$30 billion in free  cash flow , or operating cash minus
capital expenditures, a year. Increasing spending in investments
and acquisitions “isn’t a problem,” Hai said. Delta
Electronics is targeting industries that can help protect the
environment and earn profits, he said.  Delta Electronics, founded in 1971, has expanded into
manufacturing of light-emitting-diode lights, photovoltaic
inverters, and  wind turbines .  “Green energy is an inevitable trend over the long term
because of dwindling global resources,” said Ellen Shen, a
Taipei-based  fund manager  at Union Securities Investment Trust
Co., which oversees NT$40 billion of assets, including Delta
Electronics stock. “Delta Electronics is at an advantage
because of its resources and its early start.”  LED-related industries such as packaging will be the focus
for possible acquisitions, Hai said. Last month, the company’s
board approved a plan to invest as much as $35.25 million
setting up a joint venture with  Epistar Corp. (2448)  of Hsinchu,  Taiwan 
to make LED chips, according to a stock exchange statement.  Solar Cell  DelSolar, about 60 percent owned by Delta Electronics, has
an annual capacity to produce 400 megawatts of solar cells
currently and also makes solar modules and systems, Hai said.  By engaging in solar system manufacturing, DelSolar can
reduce the impact from falling cell prices, he said. The cost to
install a 1-megawatt solar system has declined by about half
over the past three years to $4 million, Hai said.  Solar panel prices may drop 15 percent to 20 percent a year
as supply increases, he said.  DelSolar aims to sell 20 million shares in an initial
public offering in the first half before starting trading on the  Taiwan Stock Exchange , he said.  Delta Electronics rose 2 percent to close at NT$129.50 in
Taipei trading as of 1:30 p.m. local time, compared with the 1.4
percent gain in the benchmark Taiex index.  The parent company, which posted net income of NT$12.4
billion for the nine months to September, doesn’t have any other
fund-raising plan, he said.  Delta Group, including DelSolar, plans capital spending of
NT$15 billion this year, compared with NT$8 billion in 2010.
Most of the sum will be in automation, which will enable the
company to cut jobs by 10 percent, Hai said.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Yu-huay Sun in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 