-- 
Democratic Senator Akaka of Hawaii Decides Not to Seek Re-Election in 2012

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-03T05:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/democratic-senator-akaka-of-hawaii-decides-not-to-run-in-2012.html
Senator Daniel Akaka of  Hawaii 
announced he wouldn’t seek re-election next year, becoming the
fifth Democratic caucus member to bow out of 2012 elections in
which the party may struggle to keep control of the chamber.  Akaka, 86, a former U.S. House member, issued a statement
yesterday calling his retirement “a very difficult decision for
me.”  “However, I feel that the end of this Congress is the
right time for me to step aside,” he said. Akaka said he plans
to spend time with his family, as well as “documenting my life
and career, and serving as a mentor to future political
leaders.”  Akaka was appointed to the Senate upon the death of Senator
Spark Matsunaga, a Democrat, in 1990. He won a special election
that year and was re-elected in 1994, 2000 and 2006. He is the
chairman of the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, which is
responsible for matters pertaining to American Indians, Native
Hawaiians and Alaska Natives, and also serves on the Armed
Services, Banking and Veterans’ Affairs panels.  Democrats Jeff Bingaman of  New Mexico ,  Kent Conrad  of North
Dakota and Jim Webb of  Virginia  have previously announced their
retirement from the Senate after next year, as has independent
Joe Lieberman of  Connecticut , who caucuses with the Democrats.  Republican Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison of  Texas  and Jon Kyl of  Arizona  have also said they won’t seek re-election in
2012.  Senate Battle  Democrats will be seeking to hold onto their majority in
the Senate, which stands at 53-47, and the increasing number of
open seats among their ranks will make their task more
difficult.  Also working against the Democrats is the number of seats
they must defend. Including Lieberman and Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, another independent who caucuses with Democrats and is
up for re-election next year, the party has 23 seats at stake
next year compared to 10 for Republicans.  President  Barack Obama , who was raised in Hawaii, praised
Akaka in a statement last night, saying the senator “spent his
career fighting for our troops, veterans and their families and
for the rights of Native Hawaiians.”  Akaka’s lackluster fundraising had led to speculation that
he might retire, and he faced a potential challenge from former
Republican Governor Linda Lingle. Still, Hawaii is a
traditionally Democratic state.  Hawaii Lieutenant Governor Brian Schatz and Representative
Colleen Hanabusa, both Democrats, are considered potential
candidates to succeed Akaka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  