-- 
Democrats Press Obama to Take Stronger Stance in Debate on Spending Cuts

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-03T20:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/democrats-press-obama-for-stronger-stance-in-spending-cut-debate.html
Congressional Democrats are prodding
the White House to take a more active stance against Republicans
in budget negotiations, concerned that President  Barack Obama  is
ceding ground on spending cuts.  The White House stepped up its involvement by setting up a
meeting later today at the Capitol among Vice President  Joe Biden  and congressional leaders of both parties to jump-start
budget negotiations.  Still, some Democrats are worried Obama may be too willing
to compromise with Republicans who are insisting on deep cuts as
part of any deal to fund the government through Sept. 30, the
end of the 2011 fiscal year.  “I feel a tremor or two” of concern, said Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat. “We’re down a hopeless slide
right now.”  Some Democrats believe the president has so far taken too
passive an approach in the debate on spending, allowing
Republicans to set the agenda for slashing federal expenditures
and position themselves to gain credit for such moves.  “I would hope that they would ratchet it up big-time,”
Democratic Senator  Robert Menendez  of  New Jersey  said of the
White House, echoing sentiments aired privately at a closed-door
lunch meeting of Senate Democrats earlier this week, according
to several people who attended or were briefed on the session.  Stopgap Measure  Obama yesterday signed a stopgap measure Congress approved
to fund the government through March 18 and avert a shutdown.
Internal rifts among Democrats threaten to weaken the party’s
hand in the coming round of bargaining with Republicans over
spending for the remainder of this year.  A shutdown still looms if the two sides can’t reach a
budget agreement, and Democratic strategists have privately told
lawmakers they risk a voter rebuff if they aren’t seen as
embracing cuts. All sides recognize that spending reductions
beyond what Obama and his congressional allies want appear
inevitable. The question is how deep they will be and whether
Democrats can protect their priorities in the process.  Some Democrats say they don’t want to talk about spending
cuts until Congress considers ways of raising more federal
revenues through taxes, such as increases on those earning more
than $250,000 a year or ending breaks for oil and gas companies.  Revenue Push  “I’m not going to vote for anything unless there’s
revenues in it,” said Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat and
one of four members of his party’s caucus to oppose the
temporary funding measure in a Senate vote yesterday. “From now
on, if there’s something that’s just cutting spending, I’m not
for it. We’ve got to do both.”  Obama phoned House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  on March 1
and the two spoke for about 10 minutes on budget matters, though
the discussion came too late to alter the $4 billion in cuts
Republicans put in the stopgap spending measure. White House
Chief of Staff  William Daley  also phoned House Majority Leader
Eric Cantor to discuss funding the government through Sept. 30,
Cantor told Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Upon signing the temporary spending measure, Obama said he
was dispatching Biden, Daley and White House budget chief Jack Lew to work with congressional leaders on a longer-term deal.
Lew, Daley, Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and other aides
met with House Democratic leaders last night to plot strategy.  ‘Reached Without Delay’  A future funding agreement “should cut spending and reduce
deficits without damaging economic growth or gutting investments
in education, research and development that will create jobs and
secure our future,” Obama said yesterday in a statement. It
“should be bipartisan, it should be free of any party’s social
or political agenda, and it should be reached without delay.”  Democratic lawmakers said they expected Obama to address
the issue in public in the coming days. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  said Obama “is going to get involved in
this.”  “The president’s going to take this to the American people
because the only message that we have from the Republicans is to
wipe out programs that are so important to people, especially
people who can’t help themselves, the middle class and other
programs,” Reid told reporters on March 1.  Republican Plan  Republicans last month won House approval of a plan to cut
$61 billion from 2011 spending, which would mean reductions of
10 percent or more in hundreds of programs. Democrats call the
proposal a nonstarter. They have yet to publicly identify a set
of spending reductions they would back for the remainder of the
year, saying such cuts would have to be part of a negotiation.  “Putting a meeting on the schedule doesn’t change the fact
that neither the White House nor a single Democrat in Congress
has proposed a plan that would allow the government to remain
open and that would respond to the voters by reining in
spending,” Senator  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , the Republican
leader, said today. “All we get is talk.”  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking
Democrat, said yesterday that reaching agreement over the next
two weeks to fund the government through Sept. 30 would take a
“superhuman effort.”  During the private lunch session this week, some senators
complained that Obama and his aides had offered no concrete plan
to counter the Republican budget bill, creating the potential
that more short-term funding extensions would be needed that
could come at a steep price for programs Democrats care about.  $4 Billion in Cuts  The measure that cleared Congress yesterday on a Senate
vote trims $4 billion in spending by enacting cuts proposed by
Obama in his  2012 budget  and zeroing out money set aside for
lawmakers’ pet projects, which members of both parties already
agreed to abandon. That means noncontroversial cuts have mostly
been adopted, and future spending reductions will be more
painful for Democrats to back.  “Some of us, if what we’re going to get is every two weeks
an extension with the equivalent of $2 billion a week in
spending cuts, that won’t work for us,” said Menendez.  Obama acknowledged as much in his statement, saying,
“Living with the threat of a shutdown every few weeks is not
responsible, and it puts our economic progress in jeopardy.”  House Democrats  Concern about his approach is shared among Democrats in the
House, where many say they feel powerless to stop the
Republican-engineered march to big cuts. Faced with the choice
of endorsing Republicans’ stopgap measure or opposing the bill
that would avert a government shutdown, 104 Democrats opted
March 1 to side with Republicans in House passage of the
measure, while 85 voted “no.”  Representative Elijah Cummings of  Maryland  cast one of
those opposing votes.  “The White House has to be very careful, because the
people who are going to be hit hardest -- the most vulnerable
people who depend on these programs -- that’s their base, and
they cannot turn their backs on that,” said Cummings, whose
district includes much of inner-city Baltimore.  If Obama doesn’t vigorously oppose cuts to cherished
programs, he and Democratic lawmakers will pay a price in the
2012 elections, Cummings said. “He’s got to let people know
that he feels their pain. He can never get off that message.”  Some Senate Democrats, particularly those running for re-
election in 2012, say they are eager for the White House and
Congress to press ahead with broader talks about how to bring
down the deficit, projected to reach $1.6 trillion this year.  “We need to get this budget year done and get on to the
intellectually honest discussion about what the structural debt
really is and how we deal with it,” said Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat seeking a second term next year.  She said she didn’t want to comment on whether the White
House has been sufficiently involved in the budget discussions.
“I think they’re trying to find the right way to lead on
this,” McCaskill said, “and I’m confident before it’s all over
they will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  