-- 
DirecTV Video Plan May Revive Hollywood, Cinema Clash

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-03-03T21:08:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/directv-premium-video-plans-may-revive-clash-between-hollywood-cinemas.html
  DirecTV (DTV) ’s plan to offer movies as
soon as a month after the theatrical debut is setting the stage
for a renewed confrontation between Hollywood studios such as
News Corp.’s Fox and cinema owners.    Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , the largest U.S. exhibitor, is
among theater chains that said yesterday they oppose showing
movies on pay-television four to six weeks after their release.  DirecTV, the largest satellite pay-TV service, said last
week it’s talking with studios about video-on-demand offerings
within the earlier window. The initial price being discussed is
$30 for a one-night rental, said a person with knowledge of the
talks.  The plan, aimed at offsetting sales lost to a decline in
DVD revenue, risks reigniting a conflict similar to the one that
erupted last year, when  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  decided to release
“Alice in Wonderland” on DVD in  Europe  13 weeks after its
theatrical open -- four weeks sooner than typical. Exhibitors
complained before ultimately agreeing to show the movie.  Theater chains are again balking as studios now consider a
premium video-on-demand release that would shrink the amount of
time theaters have exclusive access to new releases even
further.  Regal, based in Knoxville,  Tennessee , won’t provide screen
time to movies that studios plan to market on pay TV four to six
weeks after release, Chief Executive Officer Amy Miles said in
an e-mail. Studios haven’t mentioned that time frame in
discussions with the chain, she said.  Marketing Buzz  A theatrical run is the best way to set a movie up for
successful home-video sales, Alan Stock, chief executive officer
of Plano, Texas-based Cinemark USA Inc., the third-largest
chain, said in an e-mailed statement. He stopped short of
refusing to show movies scheduled for earlier VOD showings.  “The excitement or marketing buzz created by the
successful theatrical release of a film has and will continue to
be in the future the one matrix that guarantees a film’s success
in the auxiliary in-home window platforms,” Stock said.  DirecTV is working with  Sony Corp. (6758) , Fox and  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. and is seeking to start service by June, the
Los Angeles Times reported earlier.  Gerry Lopez, chief executive of  Kansas City , Missouri-based
AMC Entertainment Inc., owner of the second-largest chain, told
the newspaper that his theaters also would not show films
scheduled for such an early VOD run.  “We’re very, very bullish on the opportunity that we see
with movies,” El Segundo, California-based DirecTV’s CEO,  Michael White , said on a Feb. 23 conference call. “I expect
you’ll see some trials this year with some of the studios,
probably around midyear, I would guess, where perhaps we’ll try
something that’s four weeks or six weeks from theatrical
release.”  In Demand  No agreements have been reached, DirecTV spokesman Robert Mercer said yesterday in an e-mail response to a question.  Home video sales and rentals fell 3.1 percent to $18.8
billion last year, the sixth straight drop, according to the
industry’s Digital Entertainment Group.    News Corp. (NWSA)  President  Chase Carey  said on a Feb. 2
conference call that the company is considering a 60-day window
for video-on-demand release.  Julie Henderson, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Fox,
declined to comment, as did  Paul McGuire , a spokesman for Warner
Bros.  A partnership of cable systems including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and
Time Warner Cable, was in talks with Sony Pictures, Warner Bros.
and Burbank, California-based Disney to offer films for as much
as $30 a showing soon after they run in theaters, Bob Benya, CEO
of the In Demand venture, said in September.  DirecTV rose 87 cents to $46.26 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading and has gained 16 percent this year.
Regal fell 4 cents to $14.29. The stock has fallen 5.6 percent
in the past 12 months. News Corp. rose 28 cents to $17.64 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market and has gained 29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  