-- 
Dollar Set for Weekly Advance Versus Yen Before Jobs Data; Aussie Slides

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-04T04:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/dollar-trades-near-one-week-high-versus-yen-before-u-s-employment-report.html
The dollar headed for its first
weekly gain versus the yen in three weeks before data forecast
to show U.S. employers added the most jobs since May, providing
evidence the world’s largest economy is gaining momentum.  The greenback strengthened against most major counterparts
before a report economists say will show U.S. factory orders
increased for a third month. The yen rose for the first time in
three days versus the euro on speculation that Japan’s exporters
bought the currency after it touched a four-month low. The
Australian dollar fell to the lowest in five weeks against the
euro on prospects the  European Central Bank  will raise interest
rates faster than the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia .  “Nonfarm payrolls should be a cracker number,” said  Matthew Brady , executive director for foreign exchange at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “You’ve got to start buying
U.S. dollars across the board over the next three months, but
probably not against the euro.”  The dollar traded at 82.37 yen as of 12:57 p.m. in Tokyo
from 82.44 yen in  New York  yesterday when it touched 82.52 yen,
the strongest since Feb. 24. The U.S. currency is poised for a
0.8 percent advance against the yen this week. The greenback was
at $1.3955 per euro from $1.3969 yesterday.  The euro fell to 114.94 yen after earlier reaching 115.17
yen, the most since Nov. 4, from 115.16 yen yesterday. The so-
called Aussie declined 0.1 percent to 72.59 euro cents, after
dropping to 72.44 earlier, the weakest since Jan. 28.  U.S. Economic Reports  U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased by 196,000 in February,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before
today’s Labor Department report. The jobless rate may rise to
9.1 percent from 9 percent in January, a separate survey showed.  “We’re forecasting nonfarm payrolls will rise by 200,000
and the jobless rate will be at 9 percent,” said  Masafumi Yamamoto , chief currency strategist at Barclays Bank Plc in
Tokyo. “Dollar-yen is likely to strengthen toward 83, also
helped by the firm tone of euro-yen post-ECB.”  American factory orders climbed 2 percent in January, after
a 0.2 percent increase in December, a separate Bloomberg survey
showed before today’s report.  There’s a 39 percent chance the Fed will increase borrowing
costs by December, futures contracts on the Chicago Board of
Trade showed yesterday. The probability was 34 percent a day
earlier. The benchmark rate has been at a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Japanese Exporters  The yen rose against most major peers on speculation that
Japanese companies bought the currency to bring home overseas
earnings before the nation’s fiscal year ends this month.  “Firms led by exporters are probably buying the yen,”
said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of foreign exchange at
Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow Ltd., Japan’s largest currency broker.
“The yen’s level may be attractive to them.”  Japan’s large manufacturers expect the yen to average 86.47
per dollar in the year to March 31, according to the Bank of
Japan’s latest Tankan business-confidence survey on Dec. 15.
That’s the strongest level since the currency forecast was
included in the report in 1996.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday an
“increase of interest rates in the next meeting is possible,”
after the central bank kept its benchmark interest rate at 1
percent. Trichet and board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi are among
the ECB policy makers scheduled to speak in Paris and  Cape Town 
today.  “It’s absolutely clear that the ECB will raise rates in
April, with some now expecting 75 basis points worth of hikes
this year,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-exchange
department at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
Tokyo. “The euro will likely strengthen further, initially
targeting $1.4080,” the Nov. 8 high, he said.  Higher Euro Rates  Futures show traders added to bets on higher borrowing
costs in the 17-nation euro bloc, with the implied yield on the
three-month Euribor contract expiring in December rising 0.23
percentage point to 2.17 percent yesterday. The currency touched
$1.3974 yesterday, the most since Nov. 9.  Swaps traders are betting the RBA will raise its benchmark
by 36 basis points over the next 12 months, according to a
Credit Suisse AG index. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Given the ECB is very hawkish, crosses like Aussie and
euro are starting to come under pressure,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in Singapore at Westpac Banking
Corp. “The RBA will be on hold for quite some time.”  Stronger Korean Won    South Korea ’s won rose, headed for a weekly gain, as signs
the global economic recovery is gaining momentum brightened the
outlook for exports and bolstered demand for emerging-market
assets.  The Asian nation’s exports rose 17.9 percent in February
from a year earlier, the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said on
March 1. Industrial production expanded 13.7 percent in January
from the prior year, Statistics Korea said yesterday. The Kospi
stock index climbed 1.1 percent after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 1.7 percent yesterday.  “Equities in the U.S. are helping Asian currencies
strengthen and the Middle East crisis seems to be taking a back
seat,” said  Robert Reilly , co-head of Asian fixed income at
Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .  The won rose 0.3 percent to 1,116.35 per dollar after
touching 1,115.75, the strongest level since Feb. 21. It was set
for a 0.8 percent gain this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 