-- 
Dorothy, Toto Hit the Road, Million-Dollar Foursome: Review

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-03-03T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/dorothy-toto-hit-the-road-million-dollar-foursome-review.html
Monsters fly into the auditorium,
the yellow-brick road tilts and turns over multiple hydraulic
revolves and a tornado spins Dorothy’s shack about like a leaf
in a gale. If ever there was a show that screams “money,” it’s
“The Wizard of Oz.”  That’s cash well spent.  Andrew Lloyd Webber ’s new
production (designer  Robert Jones ) at the Palladium Theatre in
London hits every emotional button and then some. The first-
night audience, including  Michael Caine  and David Frost, cheered
it royally.  Lloyd Webber has added a few songs to the ones already made
famous by the 1939 MGM movie. He creates a forlorn dust-bowl
atmosphere with a plucking banjo sound for the opening ensemble
“Nobody Understands Me.” There’s a gleeful waltz, “Red Shoes
Blues,” for the Witch, and a couple of effective numbers for
Michael Crawford as the Wizard/Professor Marvel.  If they’re unlikely to rival the show’s original hits in
their longevity, they still do the job nicely. A few snatches of
Mussorgsky’s “Night on Bald Mountain” add a note of fun to
some of the Witch’s scenes.  The mythic, ambiguous power of the story -- Is it a fairy
story? A political metaphor? A religious parable? -- transfers
beautifully to the stage in Jeremy Sams’s fast-paced staging. He
never forgets that it’s ultimately about a little girl who longs
for home. Toto is played by possibly the cutest dog ever to
tread the boards, adding an “aah” factor.  Rainbow Star  It says a lot that Toto still doesn’t manage to upstage
Dorothy (Danielle Hope), who has a sweet, sparky manner, a great
voice and a healthy dose of star quality. Hope won the role in a
talent contest on  BBC television  called “Over the Rainbow.”  To read some grumbling groaners on the issue, you’d think
Lloyd Webber had started televising animal mutilations for fun:
all that free advertising for his show, all those poor wannabe
Dorothies, publicly rejected.  Hey, that’s showbiz. All power to him, I say.  The supporting cast is excellent too, with Crawford in fine
form and Hannah Waddingham cackling up a storm as an evil and
gleeful witch.  Amazing sets, superb performances and hit songs... No need
to go over the rainbow. It’s as good as it gets right here.  Rating: ****.  Elvis and Friends  The same can’t be said for the Broadway show “Million
Dollar Quartet,” which has opened in the  West End .  It’s loosely based on an afternoon in 1956, when  Elvis Presley ,  Johnny Cash , Jerry Lee Lewis and Carl Perkins met in
the Memphis recording studio of Sun Records. That event provides
a cue here for some famous numbers including “Hound Dog” and
“Great Balls of Fire.”  As with many compilation musicals, the problem isn’t the
musical material, it’s the dialogue. This is a mix of clunky
expository narration (dished out by Sun Records’ owner Sam Phillips, played by Bill Ward), shoed-in flashback material, and
knowing winks at the future. “I’ve just signed a little-known
singer called Roy Orbison,” says Phillips. Groan.  On a simple set that recreates the look of a 1950s studio,
the cast delivers the numbers live. They’re fine, though they
don’t reach any heights of greatness. It’s only at the end, when
the dialogue is over and they perform a straight medley of hits,
that their energy levels begin to rise.  That’s a shame, because after 90 minutes it’s also when you
begin to feel you’ve had enough.  A few dollars short of a million, I’d say.  Rating: **.  “The Wizard of Oz” is at the  London  Palladium.
Information:  http://www.wizardofozthemusical.com  or
+44-844-412-2957.  “Million Dollar Quartet” is at the Noel Coward Theatre.
Information:  http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or
+44-844-482-5141.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 