-- 
Draper Fisher Leads 2010 Clean Energy Venture Funding

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-03-03T20:29:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/draper-fisher-leads-28-increase-in-clean-energy-venture-capital-funding.html
Venture capital investors poured
$4.6 billion worldwide into clean energy companies last year,
the most since 2004, fueled by Silicon Valley’s Draper Fisher
Jurvetson and initial share offerings such as  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)   Private equity and venture capital funding rose a combined
28 percent from 2009 to $8.8 billion, according to an annual
ranking by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Venture capital funding increased 71 percent over 2009 and
accounted for most of the total gains, especially from U.S.
companies such as Draper Fisher and  VantagePoint Venture
Partners , which are betting that renewable energy will deliver
significant returns over the long haul. That strategy was
validated by the IPO last year of Tesla.  There is a disruption happening “as we shift from fossil
fuels to sustainable energy,” Don Wood, a Draper Fisher
Jurvetson managing director who focuses on clean technology
investments, said in an interview. “It will create many
successful companies, billion-dollar opportunities. We like
giant markets that are undergoing a disruption.”  Companies developing smart grid, solar or bioenergy
technologies received $4.2 billion from venture investors in
2010, or about 90 percent of the money committed globally, New
Energy Finance said. Investments in smart grid companies alone
doubled to $2 billion from 2009, the highest level in that
category since 2004, according to the league tables.  Solar Boom  “By far the largest amount of dollars have been in solar
areas,” Tye Thorson, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
said by telephone. “Transportation and smart grid are picking
up slack where it seems lesser dollars were going in.”  VantagePoint Chief Executive Officer Alan Salzman said
“the turmoil in the Middle East only accentuates our need to
diversify our energy sources away from oil,” leaving clean
technology companies close to “people’s hearts and minds.”  Draper Fisher, of  Menlo Park , California, completed the
most deals among venture capital companies for the second
consecutive year, with 17 separate investments, according to the
New Energy Finance study. VantagePoint Venture Partners and Good
Energies Inc., the investment arm of Cofra Holding AG, took the
next two spots with 15 investments each.  Venture capital companies in the U.S. accounted for 221 of
293 investments last year and supplied 90 percent of the total
funding. Global private equity funding was little changed at
$4.1 billion.  Draper Fisher’s Portfolio  Draper Fisher Jurvetson invests about a third of its money
in clean energy, and the company is optimistic its bets will pay
off, Wood said. Its portfolio for the industry is “young,” he
said, with just two out of 45 companies going public in the last
four years, including  EnerNOC Inc. (ENOC)  in 2007 and Tesla.  “We have the early proof points that we are on the right
track, but we have a large portfolio, and we are confident we
will have exits this year and next year,” Wood said.  VantagePoint, which has funded six clean energy companies
since December, anticipates that 2011 will be a “bellwether
year for the industry,” Salzman said by telephone.  “We expect to invest several hundred million dollars,” he
said, and expect about a half-dozen “high profile IPOs this
year within our portfolio and others.”  Those deals may involve companies developing technologies
in light-emitting diodes, smart grid, solar thermal, thin-film
solar and biomaterials, Salzman said.  VantagePoint, of San Bruno,  California , is already backing
companies that work in those areas including BridgeLux Inc.,
 Trilliant Inc. , BrightSource Energy Inc., Miasole Inc. and
Serious Materials Inc.  ‘Significant Revenue’  “We think the interesting aspect that is developing is the
maturation of the sector, and we’re seeing companies in our
portfolio and others with significant revenue,” Salzman said.
“The commercialization aspects of the clean tech universe are
coming to the forefront.”  VantagePoint was an investor in Tesla, which has gained 40
percent since it went public in June through March 1.  Investments in clean energy “are a little different than
the Internet boom, when things were really hot,” said Thorson
of PwC. “There is a longer period in terms of the market
accepting the technologies,” and the higher dollar investments
have made venture capitalists “think twice about how long the
period is going to be before they have an exit.”  Predicting the timing of exits is not easy though “we’re
not in any hurry,” Wood said. “When you look at statistics,
the bulk of exits are from mergers and acquisitions but the
biggest successes are when companies remain independent and then
go public,” he said. “In some cases, the longer they stay
private the more value they can create.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Andrew Herndon} in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  