-- 
Dubai Stocks Extend Drop on Concern Mideast Unrest May Spread; Emaar Falls

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-03T09:08:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/dubai-stocks-extend-drop-on-concern-mideast-unrest-may-spread-emaar-falls.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
declined for a second day to the lowest intraday level in seven
years on concern political unrest in the region may spread to
Saudi Arabia and after Libyan warplanes bombed rebels.    Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, retreated 5.6 percent and  Dubai Financial Market (DFM) 
PJSC tumbled to the lowest in two years. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
declined 2.5 percent to 1,339.81, the lowest level since June
2004, at 12:56 p.m. in Dubai. The gauge has lost 18 percent
since Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted in January.  Investors are shunning assets in the Middle East and North
Africa as the political turmoil, which started in Tunisia more
than two months ago, expanded to Oman, Bahrain, Yemen, Libya and  Iran . Websites have called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of
Rage” on March 11 and March 20,  Human Rights Watch  said in a
statement on its website on Feb. 28.  “It is the Saudi March 11 protest that is spooking
investors here in the  United Arab Emirates ,” said Nabil Farhat,
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities. “Investors are
apprehensive about holding any positions over the weekend on
worry over any deterioration in political situation.”  New Protests    Saudi Arabia ’s benchmark stock index plunged 15 percent
this week on concern protests may extend to the kingdom, the
biggest supplier in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Prince Talal Bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud, a member of
Saudi Arabia’s royal family, said on Feb. 17 that the kingdom
may see protests unless King Abdullah introduces reforms,
according to BBC Arabic TV. The king last week announced plans
to spend about 110 billion riyals ($29 billion) on programs
aimed at boosting housing, education and social welfare.  In Libya, Qaddafi’s ground forces fought unsuccessfully for
a main Libyan oil port and opposition leaders appealed for
foreign nations to launch airstrikes against regime mercenaries
amid violent protests demanding the ouster of the leader. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf stocks retreated 0.2
percent, bringing the drop this year to 15 percent.  “Investors are worried about fresh calls for protests” in
the region, Farhat said. “If these calls die down then we might
see a sharp rebound in stock prices.”  Emaar retreated 5.6 percent to 2.36 dirhams, the lowest
since December 2009. Dubai Financial Market, the only Gulf Arab
stock market to sell its own shares to the public, slumped 7.7
percent to 1.08 dirhams, the lowest since March 2009.  Tunisia Closed  Bahrain’s BB All Share Index lost 0.9 percent. Kuwait’s SE
Price Index fell 0.5 percent and Qatar’s measure declined 2
percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.3 percent and
Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  advanced 0.7 percent. Saudi Arabia’s market
is closed for the weekend.  The Tunisian bourse suspended trading from Feb. 28 until
further notice, it said that day. Egypt stock trading is set to
resume March 6 after a suspension of more than a month amid a
popular revolution that toppled the 30-year-old regime of former
President Hosni Mubarak. The measure lost 16 percent in the week
ended Jan. 27, when it last traded.  -- Editor: Claudia Maedler, Shanthy Nambiar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  