-- 
Dutch Cabinet May Lack Upper-House Power After Regional Vote

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-03-03T09:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/dutch-ruling-bloc-fails-to-win-upper-house-majority-in-provincial-ballots.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s
ruling bloc failed to gain a majority of votes in yesterday’s
provincial elections, indicating it will have a minority in the
new upper house of the national parliament.  Rutte’s  Liberals , his Christian Democratic Alliance
coalition partner and Geert Wilders’s anti-Islam  Freedom Party ,
which supports the minority government, are set to have 37
upper-house seats, one short of a majority, national news agency
 ANP  reported with almost all votes counted.  Rutte’s coalition relies on an agreement with Freedom Party
for its majority in the lower chamber. The coalition has lacked
a majority in the  upper house  in  The Hague  since taking office
in October and needs to gain control to ensure it can push
through planned legislation including budget cuts.  “A scenario in which the government becomes reliant upon
small parties with the potential for blackmail is becoming
reality,”  Andre Krouwel , who teaches political science at VU
University in Amsterdam, said by telephone. “Prime Minister
Rutte will have to negotiate well” with groupings that draw
their support from devout Protestants and the elderly.  The  Christian Democrats  are set to lose 10 of their seats
in the upper house, leaving them with 11, according to the
preliminary results. The  Liberal Party , known as the VVD in
Dutch, increased its number of seats to 16 from 14, according to
ANP. The  Freedom Party , which currently isn’t represented in the
chamber because it didn’t contest the last provincial elections
in 2007, is set to take 10 seats.  ‘Still One Short’  The ruling bloc is “now on 37 seats, that’s still one
short of a real majority,” Rutte said late last night.  Among Rutte’s possible allies, the Reformed Political
Party, known as the  SGP  in Dutch, which appeals to Protestants,
is set to lose one of its two seats. The new  50PLUS  party is
forecast to get one seat.  The elections in the 12 Dutch provinces, the youngest
reclaimed from the waters of the IJsselmeer only in 1968, were
to choose regional councilors. They will in turn vote on May 23
to select members of the upper house, which has to approve all
new laws passed by the lower chamber. Turnout yesterday rose to
56 percent from 46 percent in 2007, reflecting the increased
national relevance of the regional polls.  While the makeup of the upper chamber can be extrapolated
from the provincial results, it isn’t certain that all regional
representatives will vote for their own party in the  upper
house .  “If these results turn out to be right, then the Cabinet
will have to adjust its policy in a way which is good for the
Netherlands,” Job Cohen, the head of the main opposition  Labor
Party , which is set to take 14 seats, said late last night.  That’s a change of tack from last month, when Cohen
suggested that new elections to the lower chamber might be the
consequence if Rutte and Wilders can’t secure an upper-house
majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  