-- 
Health-Care Centerpiece in Law Lacks Clarity, FTC Member Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-03T21:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/health-care-centerpiece-in-law-lacks-clarity-ftc-member-says.html
Thomas Rosch, a Republican member of
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, urged the Obama
administration to clarify a centerpiece of the new health-care
law that raises antitrust issues.  An administration rule implementing the new program should
specify whether the FTC or the  Justice Department  has authority
to determine when there is anticompetitive behavior, Rosch said
today in Washington.  At issue are so-called  accountable care organizations  which
allow hospitals, insurers and groups of doctors to form combines
with the aim of cutting health costs. Rosch said he is also
concerned that the administration’s new rules, to be announced
soon, won’t be able to measure cost reduction adequately.  The lack of specificity would “result in sub-optimal
enforcement” and could trigger “a turf war” between the FTC and
Justice Department, said Rosch, one of five FTC commissioners.
He said the FTC should have jurisdiction because of its superior
expertise in ensuring the new groups are not so powerful that
they raise costs.  If antitrust issues aren’t addressed in the rule governing
accountable care organizations, hospitals may hesitate to form
the new partnerships, said Amanda Forster, a spokeswoman for
Premier Inc., a hospital-group purchasing organization based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  “Would you want to apply without knowing whether or not
your model was legal?” she said in a telephone interview.  President Barack Obama plans to establish the health-care
groups as Republicans push to repeal the law, claiming it gives
government too much of a role in medical decisions and raises
costs.  The Justice Department has said it will speed up reviews of
the proposed combines to help participants avoid antitrust
violations.  Rosch said he is also concerned that the rule won’t gauge
whether the new groups shift costs from Medicare to private
insurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  