-- 
ECB Holds Benchmark Rate at 1% as Trichet Grapples With Surging Oil Price

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-03T12:45:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/ecb-holds-benchmark-rate-at-1-as-trichet-grapples-with-surging-oil-price.html
The  European Central Bank  kept  interest rates  at a record low today as policy makers grapple
with an oil-price shock that’s driving inflation beyond the
bank’s limit while also threatening to damp economic growth.  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt set the benchmark rate
at 1 percent for a 23rd month, as predicted by all 53 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. President Jean-Claude Trichet, who
holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m., may toughen his
inflation-fighting language and leave open the option of raising
borrowing costs later this year, economists said.  “Inflation fighting is definitely Trichet’s first
priority,” said  Nick Kounis , an economist at ABN Amro in
Amsterdam. “A significant and sustained rise in the price of
oil could derail the recovery, but at the moment the focus is on
keeping prices under control.”  Investors last week increased bets on the ECB raising rates
as soon as August after policy makers including board member  Juergen Stark  said they will act if needed to stop soaring
commodity prices from driving up price expectations. Trichet
must balance those inflation concerns against the risk of
exacerbating Europe’s sovereign debt crisis by removing stimulus
too soon. In addition to keeping rates low, the ECB is lending
banks as much cash as they want and buying  government bonds .  ‘Upside’ Risks  Trichet may indicate whether the ECB intends to resume its
exit from non-standard policy measures. It has so far pledged to
keep offering banks unlimited amounts of cash in its weekly and
three-month refinancing operations through the first quarter.  He will also unveil the central bank’s latest growth and
inflation forecasts.  The ECB will probably raise its 2011 inflation estimate to
more than 2 percent from 1.8 percent and may conclude that risks
to the outlook have moved to the “upside,” Governing Council
member Yves Mersch said in an interview published on Feb. 22.
Inflation, which the bank aims to keep just below 2 percent,
accelerated to 2.4 percent last month.  “We’ll see significant changes in inflation forecasts,
especially for this year,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “But the projections will
already be outdated because the latest oil-price spike came too
late to be included.”  $100 a Barrel  Political tensions in  Libya , the latest country to
experience a wave of anti-government protests in North Africa
and the Middle East, pushed crude prices above $100 a barrel on
Feb 23. Libya, which ships most of its crude and fuels to
Europe, has cut oil production by more than half, the
International Energy Agency said on Feb 25. Oil traded as high
as $102.94 a barrel today.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on March 1
that the surge in oil and other commodity prices probably won’t
cause a permanent increase in broader inflation and repeated
that U.S. borrowing costs are likely to stay low.  By contrast,  China  on Feb. 8 raised rates for the third
time since mid-October, and three of the  Bank of England ’s nine
policy makers last month voted for an increase.  ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in an
interview published on Feb. 18 that commodity-price increases
will have an “unavoidable impact” on euro-region inflation and
the bank may need to take “pre-emptive actions.”  Second-Round Effects  The ECB is concerned about so-called second-round effects,
when companies raise prices and workers demand more pay to
compensate for soaring energy and food costs, entrenching faster
inflation.  Henkel AG, a German maker of industrial and consumer
chemical products, said on Feb. 24 it will raise prices in all
businesses and all regions this year in response to rising raw
material costs.  The ECB is “prepared to act decisively and immediately if
needed” to prevent an “un-anchoring” of inflation
expectations, Stark said on Feb. 21.  Investors expect the ECB to raise its key rate to 1.5
percent by the end of the year, with the first quarter-point
increase fully priced in for September, Eonia forward contracts
show.  The euro-area economy is showing signs of gaining strength.
Manufacturing growth accelerated to the fastest pace in more
than 10 years in February as companies ramped up production to
meet export demand. In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
business confidence unexpectedly rose to a record high and
unemployment dropped to 7.3 percent, the lowest in two decades.  ‘Real Challenge’  Volkswagen AG, Europe’s biggest automaker, on Feb. 25 said
profit surged sevenfold last year and forecast higher earnings
in 2011 on Chinese sales.  Still, demand within the 17-nation euro area may be curbed
as governments from  Spain  to Ireland cut spending to reduce
deficits and shore up their financial systems.  The oil shock may further “handicap” the region’s
recovery, ECB council member  Guy Quaden  said on Feb. 23.  Surging  oil prices  will be a “real challenge for the car
industry,”  Norbert Reithofer , chief executive officer at
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, said this week.  “The ECB would be sensible to leave itself some room to
maneuver,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP
Paribas SA in  London . “If the oil price went up another $20 a
barrel because of spreading unrest in the Middle East, then all
bets are off. But if that scenario is avoided, the ECB is
getting closer to thinking that its current policy stance is
inappropriate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  