-- 
Egyptian Prime Minister Shafik Quits as Protesters Demand Quicker Changes

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-03T22:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/egyptian-prime-minister-shafik-quits-as-protesters-demand-faster-changes.html
Egyptian Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik
quit yesterday, pushed out by pressure from protesters who are
demanding faster changes and the exclusion of cabinet members
named by former President  Hosni Mubarak .  Since Mubarak ceded interim authority to the military
council on Feb. 11, protesters have said they were frustrated by
the slowness of progress and concerned that members of the old
regime would return to power. Activists plan another
demonstration today.  “The only way to protect the achievements of the
revolution and to realize more accomplishments is for the people
to keep the pressure on,” said Khaled El-Sayed, a member of an
alliance that helped organize mass protests that ended Mubarak’s
30-year reign. “We have the will to continue.”  The ruling Supreme Council of the Armed Forces accepted
Shafik’s resignation and asked former minister of transportation
Essam Sharaf to form a new cabinet. After assuming power, the
army council suspended the constitution and dissolved
parliament, saying it would rule for six months or until a vote
is held.  “This resignation signifies the strong influence that the
Egyptian youths and intellectuals have exerted to bring about a
real change,” said Nabil Abdel Fattah, director of the Al-Ahram
Center for Social and Historical Studies. “For this to become a
revolution, the political, constitutional and social nature of
the regime has to change. This has yet to happen.”  ‘Right Path’  Opposition leader  Mohamed ElBaradei  called the resignation
“a step on the right path” in a message on his Twitter Inc.
account. Ayman Nour, a former presidential candidate, welcomed
the departure and said in an interview that prominent ministers
under Mubarak shouldn’t be part of a new cabinet.  Egypt’s protests were inspired by a mass uprising in  Tunisia  that led to the ouster of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and his replacement by a caretaker government headed by
members of the former regime. Protesters demanding that ties are
severed with the Ben Ali era forced Tunisian Prime Minister
Mohammed Ghannouchi to resign on Feb. 27.  The toppling of Ben Ali and Mubarak has fueled protests
throughout the Arab world including in  Libya , which some warn is
on the brink of civil war.  Oil prices  have risen to the highest
in 2 1/2 years on concern that the turmoil will disrupt the flow
of crude.  Protests Fueled  Shafik’s resignation is “the first tangible response to a
real demand” made on the interim military rulers following the
departure of Mubarak, said Emad Gad, an analyst with the Al-
Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo. The
army was forced to make the change “because doing away with the
government has become a main demand,” he said.  Sharaf, 58, has held a number of teaching positions
including one at Cairo University’s school of engineering.  Sharaf “has clean hands -- he was one of the most
efficient ministers in Mubarak’s era as the transport minister
and so he is an acceptable face,” said Khalil al-Anani, a
political analyst affiliated with the Al-Ahram Foundation in
Cairo.  The Alliance of the Youths’ Revolution will gather today in
Tahrir Square, a focal point for earlier demonstrations, Nasser
Abdel Hamid, a member of the group, told  Al Arabiya .  “There will be a protest to thank the armed forces,
celebrate this positive step and to stress the remaining
demands,” he said.  Tahrir Square  These include releasing political prisoners and putting on
trial those responsible for attacks on protesters during the
unrest, he said. Demonstrators are also calling for increased
democracy, a crackdown on corruption and the dissolution of the
state security agency.  If demands are not met “we will go back to the street,”
alliance member Moustafa Shawky said in a phone interview.  Some 365 people were killed and 5,500 injured during the
uprising, state TV reported on Feb. 17, citing the Health
Ministry.  Authorities freed Khayrat al-Shater and Hassan Malik, two
leading members of the Muslim Brotherhood, senior group member
Ali Abdel Fattah said yesterday. Al-Shater and Malik were
sentenced in 2008 by a military court to seven years in prison
amid a crackdown on the Brotherhood,  Egypt ’s largest organized
opposition group.  Mubarak named Shafik, a former air force official, as prime
minister on Jan. 31.  Following renewed demonstrations, the cabinet was shuffled
on Feb. 22 and for the first time in decades included members of
opposition parties. That cabinet had a new deputy prime minister
and 10 new ministers  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 