-- 
Egyptian Prime Minister Shafik Resigns, Caving Into Key Protester Demands

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-03T15:54:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/egypt-military-accepts-shafik-resignation-asks-sharaf-to-form-government.html
Egyptian Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik
resigned, caving in to protesters who are insisting that Cabinet
members named by former President  Hosni Mubarak  leave office.  The ruling Supreme Council of the Armed Forces said it
accepted the resignation and asked former minister of
transportation Essam Sharaf to form a new Cabinet, the council
said on its Facebook page.  Opposition leader  Mohamed ElBaradei  called the move “a
step on the right path” in a message on his Twitter account.
Ayman Nour, a former presidential candidate, welcomed the
departure and said prominent ministers under Mubarak shouldn’t
be part of a new Cabinet. “The pressure must continue,” he
said in a phone interview.  The move comes a day before protests planned by opposition
groups calling for an end to Shafik’s government. Mubarak was
forced from office last month after 18 days of mass
demonstrations, ending three decades of rule. He ceded authority
to the army council, which suspended the constitution and
dissolved parliament, saying it would rule for six months or
until elections are held.  The protests were inspired by a mass uprising in  Tunisia 
that led to the ouster of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and
his replacement by a caretaker government headed by members of
the former regime. Protesters demanding that ties are severed
with the Ben Ali era forced Tunisian Prime Minister Mohammed Ghannouchi to resign on Feb. 27.  Fueled Protests  The toppling of Ben Ali and Mubarak has fueled protests
throughout the Arab world including in  Libya , which is on the
brink of civil war.  Oil prices  have risen to the highest in 2
1/2 years on concern that the turmoil will disrupt the flow of
crude.  Shafik’s resignation is “the first tangible response to a
real demand” made on the interim military rulers following the
departure of Mubarak, said Emad Gad, an analyst with the Al-
Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo. The
army was “kind of forced” to make the change “because doing
away with the government has become a main demand,” he said.  Sharaf, 58, has held a number of teaching positions
including at Cairo University’s school of engineering.  Sharaf “has clean hands -- he was one of the most
efficient ministers in Mubarak’s era as the transport minister
and so he is an acceptable face,” said Khalil al-Anani, a
political analyst affiliated with the Al-Ahram Foundation in
Cairo.  Tahrir Square  The Alliance of the Youths’ Revolution, a coalition of
protest groups, called off marches planned for tomorrow after
the announcement, Nasser Abdel Hamid, a member of the alliance
said on Al Arabiya television. People will gather in Tahrir
Square, a focal point for earlier demonstrations, Friday to
welcome the move and press forward other demands, he said.  “There will be a protest to thank the armed forces,
celebrate this positive step and to stress the remaining
demands,” he said. These include releasing political prisoners
and putting on trial those responsible for attacks on protesters
during the unrest, he said. Demonstrators are also calling for
increased democracy and a crackdown against corruption. No date
for elections has been set.  Some 365 people were killed and 5,500 injured during the
uprising, state TV reported on Feb. 17, citing the Health
Ministry.  Muslim Brotherhood  Authorities freed Khayrat al-Shater and Hassan Malik, two
leading members of the Muslim Brotherhood, senior group member
Ali Abdel Fattah said today. Al-Shater and Malik were sentenced
in 2008 by a military court to seven years in prison amid a
crackdown on the Brotherhood,  Egypt ’s largest organized
opposition group.  Mubarak named Shafik, a former  air force  general, as prime
minister on Jan. 31.  Following renewed demonstrations, the Cabinet was shuffled
on Feb. 22 and for the first time in decades included members of
opposition parties. That Cabinet had a new deputy prime minister
and 10 new ministers  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 