-- 
Henkel Will Raise Prices as Commodity Costs Soar on Speculation, CEO Says

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-03-03T14:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/henkel-will-raise-prices-as-commodity-costs-soar-on-speculation-ceo-says.html
Henkel AG, the German maker of
Persil detergent, will raise prices as speculation drives up the
cost of raw materials such as palm oil and silver, Chief
Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said.  The price of home- and beauty-care products, which include
Schwarzkopf shampoos and Dial shower gel, will rise by 1 percent
to 3 percent, the 49-year-old Dane said in an interview in  London . Henkel began raising industrial-adhesive prices in the
third quarter of 2010 and these will increase further, he said.  “If raw materials are dramatically increasing at a given
stage you’ve got to make the decision, even though it’s
difficult, and say you’ve got to put pricing through,” Rorsted
said. “I’m sure it will have an impact, but I’m also 100
percent certain that any that company we are competing with are
sitting with the exact same scenario as we do.”  Henkel, which is based in Dusseldorf, will raise prices for
as long as raw-material costs increase, the CEO said. Its main
priority is to meet a 2012 profitability target for adjusted
Ebit of 14 percent, the CEO said. Meeting the goal would trigger
a special reward for 3,000 senior managers. Rorsted said he has
no plans for major acquisitions in the next four years.  Henkel preferred shares have risen about 59 percent since
Rorsted became CEO in April 2008, compared with  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) ’s 18 percent drop in the same period and Unilever’s 4.2
percent gain. The stock was up 95 cents, or 2.2 percent, at
45.06 euros as of 3:03 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Speculation  Higher prices usually translate into lower sales volume,
according to the CEO, who spends 160 days travelling each year.  “We need to find the right balance having the right volume
strategy and the right pricing strategy,” Rorsted said. “If
you go back and look at what we’ve done in previous years, every
time we have raised pricing we have negative volume in the
quarter. In the following quarter we have stable volume and in
the following quarter we have increasing volume.”  Commodity prices are being driven mainly by speculation
rather than market demand, the CEO said. Volatility on commodity
markets is higher than in the last two years, he said.  “The biggest concern we have is speculation, not demand,”
Rorsted said. “The current pricing volatility is not driven by
demand, it’s driven by speculation.”  Oil settled above $100 a barrel this week for the first
time since September 2008, while silver, used by Henkel in
electronic materials, climbed to a 31-year peak this week.  Acquisition Prices  Henkel has the capacity to spend 2 billion euros ($2.8
billion) to 3 billion euros on acquisitions, Rorsted said.
Potential takeover candidates include adhesive makers which
supply the electronics and aerospace industries, he said.  “I can’t rule that out, but the priority is to meet the
targets,” the executive said.  Henkel hasn’t made a major acquisition since the 2008
purchase of the adhesives and electronic materials businesses of
National Starch for 2.7 billion pounds ($4.4 billion) -- the
industry’s biggest transaction in at least a decade, according
to Bloomberg data.  Prices being paid for consumer-goods businesses in emerging
markets such as  China  are too high, according to Rorsted. Henkel
aims to increase the share of revenue it generates from those
regions to 45 percent by 2012, from last year’s 41 percent.  “A lot of companies have paid exuberant prices where the
return has been very, very slim,” he said. “You have got to be
careful that you don’t get driven by the fashion of going to
emerging markets, paying prices that are very hard to justify.”  Adhesives Market  The global market for adhesives is expected to grow at
about twice the pace of gross domestic product, according to
Rorsted, who aims to outpace the industry.  Henkel sells glues, sealants and surface treatments mainly
to industrial users in a market it estimates was worth 47
billion euros in 2009. The company, which supplies glues for
Airbus SAS’s A380 superjumbo plane, delivered adhesives for the
gluing of 90,000 square meters of parquet flooring in Dubai’s  Burj Khalifa , the world’s tallest building.  Henkel controls about 13 percent of the global market,
which has more than 1,500 businesses. The segment’s 10 biggest
companies, including  3M Co. (MMM) , HB Fuller Co. and  Sika AG , have a
combined market share of 38 percent, the company says.  The adhesives unit’s earnings before interest and taxes
more than tripled to 878 million euros last year while revenue
rose 17 percent amid the global economic recovery.  The IVK adhesive-manufacturers association in  Germany 
 estimates  industry sales last year rose 6 percent, and is
forecasting comparable growth in 2011, driven by exports.  Egypt, Tunisia  “In the medium to long term, I don’t see any indication of
a slowdown in growth in the adhesives market,” said Rorsted,
who joined the company in 2005.  Henkel’s business in northern  Africa  is “completely back
to normal” after sales in Egypt and  Tunisia  were reduced by 10
million euros a month during the period of political unrest in
the countries earlier in the year, Rorsted said.  The CEO said he’s “not happy” with the performance of
Henkel India Ltd., the company’s consumer-goods unit on the
subcontinent, which has been unprofitable since 2004. It posted
a wider loss of 589 million rupees ($13.1 million) last year.  “Over time you have got to find solutions,” Rorsted said,
declining to comment on a possible disposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 