-- 
Merkel Risking Clash Over Ireland's Bailout Terms in Push to Rescue Euro

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-03-04T11:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/merkel-risks-clash-on-calls-to-cut-irish-bailout-terms-in-euro-rescue-push.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
resisting calls to ease Ireland’s bailout terms, underscoring
the gulf on crisis-fighting steps that persists even among
political allies.  Merkel and incoming Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , who
was elected on a platform of renegotiating the bailout, Polish
Prime Minister Donald Tusk and European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  are among those scheduled to attend a meeting of
European People’s Party leaders in Helsinki today. Their host is
Finnish Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen, who has signaled he
opposes lowering Ireland’s average loan rate of 5.8 percent.  “Authorities are drifting away from making big changes”
to the rescue effort that they’d indicated earlier this year,
Colin Fan, head of credit trading at Deutsche Bank AG in  London ,
said in a note today.  As the EU’s end-of-the-month deadline for a reinforced plan
to aid debt-strapped countries looms, German officials are
showing more reluctance to forge a grand bargain to protect the
euro. The  European Central Bank ’s hints of rate increases as
soon as April add yet more urgency to fix the finances of
peripheral euro states.  The ECB’s indication of a rate rise “is a shock to us,”
said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of  Scotland  in London. “The risks assigned to such a decision are
high in a context of the periphery situation remaining under
stress.”  Barroso, Leterme  Leaders including EU Commission President Jose Barroso,
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and Belgium’s caretaker
Prime Minister Yves Leterme gather in Helsinki as investors
speculate that Portugal will be the next euro country to ask for
a bailout after Ireland and  Greece .  Risk premiums for Spain, Portugal and Italy have increased
since the last EU summit, on Feb. 4, failed to endorse economic
competiveness proposals floated by Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy as a condition for aid. The euro has climbed as
euro-area inflation accelerated.  The Finnish talks, which begin at 7:30 p.m., are billed as
an opportunity for European People’s Party heads to discuss
strategy before an EU summit on March 11. A second summit on
March 24-25 at which leaders have pledged a “comprehensive”
package of crisis-fighting and prevention measures will be a
“turning point,”  Van Rompuy  said March 2 in Brussels.  “We will decide a global package for the euro zone and, at
the end of March, we should be out of the woods,” he said.  Merkel’s Demands  For now, Merkel, as leader of the country that contributed
the largest EU share to bailing out Greece and Ireland, is
sticking to her demands: euro countries should strive to be as
competitive as Germany and join it in setting national debt
limits. She hasn’t signaled any change in her opposition to
expanding the EU’s rescue fund.  “We can’t artificially reduce  interest rates ” to bailed-
out countries, Merkel said March 2. “The Irish package was
negotiated just a few months or weeks ago. I can’t say today
whether we even need to make a change in that package.”  Her allies in the euro region include Katainen, whose
National Coalition Party is among those facing a challenge from
the anti-euro True Finns in April 17 parliamentary elections.  Merkel and Katainen’s comments highlight  Europe ’s north-
south divide as peripheral states struggle to win investor
confidence. Kenny and Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou
separately visited Merkel in Berlin last month to lobby for a
cut in the interest rates; both came away empty-handed.  “It is possible that comments out of  Germany  at the moment
are simply establishing its bargaining position in order to get
greater concessions from other Euro area countries,” David Mackie, chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
London, said in a note yesterday.  Papandreou hosts a two-day meeting of European Socialist
party leaders in Athens also beginning today, including Austrian
Chancellor Werner Faymann and German opposition leader Sigmar Gabriel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  