-- 
Merkel Said to See Deal on Irish, Greek Bailout-Loan Rate Cuts as Unlikely

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-03-03T10:09:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/merkel-said-to-see-deal-on-irish-greek-bailout-loan-rate-cuts-as-unlikely.html
  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told German
parliamentary leaders that it was unlikely she’d agree to cut  interest rates  on rescue loans to Ireland and  Greece , said two
officials present at the meeting.  Merkel told the lawmakers in Berlin this week that she
didn’t expect the two countries to accept additional budget cuts
she would demand in exchange for the bailout concession,
according to the officials, who declined to be named because the
comments were made in a closed-door meeting. The extra
conditions would be aimed at keeping pressure on each country to
curb spending, the officials said, without elaborating.  “We can’t artificially lower interest rates,” Merkel said
in Berlin late yesterday after talks with Portuguese Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates . They “are ultimately an expression of
confidence in a country.” Interest rates “have to reflect
refinancing costs. We can’t get to a point where Ireland pays
lower interest rates than  Portugal .”  Merkel’s comments underscore the divisions among European
leaders as they seek to forge a reinforced rescue effort for
debt-strapped euro-area countries before their March 25
deadline. She is preparing for talks tomorrow with European
allies in Helsinki, including incoming Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , who aims to cut the rate on emergency loans.  Kenny and Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou both
visited Merkel in Berlin last month to canvass support for a cut
in the interest rates.  Irish ‘Problem’  In a Feb. 28 RTE television interview, Kenny said he will
try to gain support for easing the conditions of the 85 billion-
euro ($118 billion) bailout Ireland received last year from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . He’s seeking
to lower the 5.8 percent interest rate on aid loans and end the
protection of senior bank bondholders.  “If the Irish government now has a problem with interest
rates, our job is to figure out what we can do -- or whether we
can do anything,” Merkel said yesterday.  In return for its Nov. 28 bailout, Ireland pledged to cut
15 billion euros from its budget and push down its deficit from
12 percent of gross domestic product in 2010, or 32 percent
including a bank rescue, to below 3 percent by the end of 2014.
Greece, which pays about 5 percent on bailout loans, agreed to
narrow the deficit to below 3 percent of GDP in 2014 from an
estimated 9.4 percent in 2010.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  insisted on the
“conditionality” that countries must suffer if they seek aid
during in a Feb. 28 speech in Stuttgart, the capital of Baden-
Wuerttemberg.  One of seven states to hold elections this year, Baden-
Wuerttemberg has been controlled by Merkel’s CDU uninterrupted
since 1953. Polls show her bloc is running neck-and-neck with
the opposition before the March 27 vote.  “We can’t back off from this conditionality,” Schaeuble
said. “That would be the end of the foundation we’ve built for
the European currency. This is why the German government is not
ready to make any compromises on this issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  