-- 
Europe Investment Falls Most in a Year, Slowing Economic Growth

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-03-03T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/europe-investment-falls-most-in-a-year-slowing-economic-growth.html
European companies cut spending by
the most in a year in the fourth quarter and export growth
weakened, curbing economic growth even as  consumer spending 
strengthened.  Euro-region investment dropped 0.6 percent from the third
quarter, when it fell 0.1 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Export growth slowed
to 1.8 percent from 2.2 percent and construction slumped. Gross
domestic product rose 0.3 percent, in line with a Feb. 15
estimate.  The  European Central Bank  will probably keep its main
lending rate unchanged today as officials weigh up the threat of
accelerating inflation and the timing of their exit from non-
standard policy measures. The euro-area recovery is maintaining
momentum, led by Germany, as global demand boosts exports,
helping to offset tougher austerity measures. Economic
confidence improved last month to a 3 1/2-year high.    Germany  is flying and will remain the main driver of
activity in the first half of the year,” said  Alan McQuaid ,
chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “Growth is
predominately export driven, with countries including  Spain ,
Ireland,  Greece  and  Portugal  lagging.”  Government-spending growth slowed to 0.1 percent in the
fourth quarter from 0.4 percent in the previous three months,
today’s report showed. Imports rose 1.1 percent, down from 1.4
percent, and consumer spending increased 0.4 percent, up from
0.1 percent.  Germany, France  From a year earlier, euro-area GDP rose 2 percent in the
fourth quarter, after increasing 1.9 percent in the third
quarter. In Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, growth slowed to
0.4 percent in the fourth quarter from 0.7 percent in the
previous three months. In  France , GDP rose 0.3 percent, the same
as in the third quarter, while Italian expansion cooled to 0.1
percent from 0.3 percent.  A separate report today showed retail sales advanced 0.4
percent in January from the previous month, when they dropped
0.4 percent.  The ECB will probably keep its main rate at a record low of
1 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
It will publish its decision at 1:45 p.m. and ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will speak to reporters 45 minutes later.
The ECB is scheduled to publish its latest economic projections
for this year and next after today’s meeting.  Economic Projections  The European Commission raised its forecast for 2011 euro-
region economic growth to 1.6 percent from 1.5 percent, citing
by faster-than-projected growth in Germany, France, Spain and
the Netherlands. The “improved outlook for the external
environment will provide a boost” to exports, it said.  Danone (BN) ,
the world’s largest yogurt maker, said on Feb. 15 it entered the
year “with confidence.”  Today’s report highlights an ongoing divergence among euro-
region countries as governments toughen budget-cutting measures
to fight the debt crisis. Greece’s economy contracted 1.4
percent in the third quarter and Portugal shrank 0.3 percent.
The statistics office didn’t publish data for Ireland.    Standard & Poor’s  said on March 1 that the debt ratings of
Portugal and Greece remain at risk of being cut further. Policy
makers in both nations have trimmed wages and raised taxes to
convince investors that they’re able to trim budget deficits.
Portugal could “find itself forced to approach” the EU’s
rescue facility, the ratings company said.  Emerging Markets  With governments cutting spending and raising taxes to plug
budget gaps, companies have been reliant on faster-growing
economies to fuel sales.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
automaker, said on Feb. 25 that 2010 net income jumped
sevenfold, led by surging demand in  China . The Wolfsburg,
Germany-based company plans to add two plants and double
production to 3 million cars annually in China.  Danone plans to expand in emerging markets such as China,  India , Indonesia and  Mexico , Chairman Franck Riboud said on Feb.
15. Asian sales surged 27 percent in 2010, compared with a 5.5
percent gain in Europe, the Paris-based company said.  Adding to signs the economy is strengthening, unemployment
fell to 9.9 percent in January from 10 percent in the previous
month. That’s the lowest since March 2010. European economic
confidence improved more than economists forecast to the highest
in 3 1/2 years in February and German business sentiment surged
to a record. Manufacturing growth also accelerated last month.  Reviving confidence is giving companies more room to pass
on surging commodity costs, while labor unions seek more pay.
Euro-region inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent last month and
producer prices jumped more than economists forecast in January.  ECB officials have already signaled concern about price
threats. Executive Board member Juergen Stark said on March 21
the bank is ready “to act decisively and immediately” if
needed. Council member Yves Mersch said the same day that he
“would not be surprised at most colleagues concluding that we
have upside risks to price stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  