-- 
Euro Will Climb to 13-Month High, Then ‘Fade,’ Says Taylor of FX Concepts

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-03-03T18:33:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/euro-will-climb-to-13-month-high-then-fade-says-taylor-of-fx-concepts.html
The euro will rally to a 13-month
high by June as the European Central bank raises  interest rates ,
then “fade away” as the economy weakens, said  John Taylor  of FX
Concepts LLC, the world’s largest currency hedge fund.  The shared currency will reach $1.45 per dollar, the
highest level since Jan. 15, 2010, before declining, Taylor said
in a Bloomberg Television interview on “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu. He spoke after ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said
in  Frankfurt  the bank may raise interest rates next month for
the first time since 2008 to curb accelerating inflation
pressures. The ECB kept its key rate at 1 percent today.  “He’s acting on inflationary threats,” said Taylor, 67,
founder and chairman of the New York-based firm. “That leads to
the euro going up at least momentarily because interest-rate
spreads are very, very important in currency valuations, and the
dollar interest rates are not going anywhere.”  The  Federal Reserve  has kept the U.S. benchmark at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008, and Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said yesterday in congressional testimony the American economy
still needs the support of a low rate. The Fed also began buying
$600 billion of Treasuries in November in the second round in a
stimulus strategy called quantitative easing.  The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.3940 today in  New York ,
from $1.3866 yesterday.  The 17-nation currency will weaken against the dollar after
June as the economy slumps, Taylor said.  “There’s a recession coming,” Taylor said. “We see a
slowing in the European economy and the  U.S. economy  already.
The euro will fade away on its own.”  FX Concepts reaped gains in the first half of last year
betting on a slide in the euro. The company, which kept its
long-term view that the common currency would weaken, boosted
2010 returns by wagering on a short-term appreciation of the
euro following its fall to a four-year low of $1.1877 in June
after  Greece  became the first European Union nation to seek a
rescue during the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  