-- 
Texas May Provide Charter-School Debt Guarantees Under Pending Senate Bill

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/texas-may-provide-charter-school-debt-guarantees-under-pending-senate-bill.html
  Texas  may become the second U.S.
state to back charter-school bond offerings under a Senate bill
from a Republican leader that is opposed by local school boards.  Bonds from charter districts with investment-grade ratings
would be backed by the Permanent School Fund, a AAA rated state
endowment that guarantees debt issued by local systems, under
the  proposal  from Senator Florence Shapiro. The Plano Republican
heads the Senate’s Education Committee.  Charter schools, which enroll 2 percent of public-school
students in Texas, could issue up to 2 percent of the guaranteed
debt, under terms of the bill. The ratio would fluctuate with
enrollment levels. The  endowment  had a 2010 return of 13
percent, rising to a value of $25 billion, according to the
Texas Education Agency. The fund’s backing may cut bond yields
by as much as 4 percentage points for an issuing district.  Opponents who run Texas public-school districts “aren’t
happy” about her proposal, Shapiro said. “It’s a relatively
small amount of money and once they understand the issue, they
may come around,” she said in a March 1 interview.  Texas lawmakers are considering proposals to cut public-
school funding by about 10 percent over the next two years while
enrollment is projected to rise by about 80,000 annually. The
spending reductions, aimed at helping to close a budget gap of
as much as $27 billion, may eliminate as many as 100,000 school
district jobs, Moak Casey & Associates, an Austin-based
consulting firm, said in a January report.  Charter Financing  Unlike traditional school districts, charter schools
educating about 1.6 million U.S. children don’t have taxing
authority to finance school construction, according to a
February study by the  Local Initiative Support Corp. , a New
York-based nonprofit focused on community development. Between
1999 and 2009, about $2.4 billion in rated tax-exempt debt was
issued to finance charter schools with support from alternative
education groups, the organization said in June.  Charter schools are typically open to the public and
operate independently of local governments and their union
contracts. The schools set their own goals, manage their own
budgets and hire and fire teachers using their own criteria.  Backing from the top-rated Texas endowment typically would
enable a charter-school district to pay about 1.50 percentage
points less on new debt issues in a stable market, said Elise
Balboni, a project director at the Local Initiatives group. That
savings could rise to as much as 4 percentage points when
markets are more volatile, she said.  The Texas School Boards Association is concerned that
charter schools’ use of the bond guarantees may crowd out school
districts that need the endowment’s backing, said Jackie Lain,
the Austin-based group’s head lobbyist.  Student Growth  “With 80,000 new students coming into our schools annually,
we want to make sure that independent school districts have
access to these much-needed funds,” Lain said.  Shapiro’s bill requires charter schools to have investment-
grade ratings and lets Texas’s education commissioner reject
offerings that would lower ratings for bonds issued by adjacent
school districts.  “There’s plenty of accountability in the bill,” she said.  If Shapiro’s proposal passes into law, Texas would become
the second state after  Colorado  to provide guarantees to
charter-school debt offerings.  More than 60 charter schools in Colorado have sold bonds
totaling $860 million since 2003 through a “moral obligation”
program that requires the state to cover debt service when
necessary, said Jo Ann Soker, executive director of the Colorado
Educational and Cultural Facilities Authority in Denver.  Popular in Colorado  About 8.8 percent of Colorado’s kindergarten through 12th
grade enrollment is in charter schools, according to the Local
Initiative group. Nationwide, the ratio is about 3 percent.  In Texas, about 120,000 students attend 520 open-enrollment
charter schools, said Josie Duckett, a spokeswoman for the Texas
Charter Schools Association in Austin. About 60,000 children are
on waiting lists, she said.  The largest, Houston-based  Harmony Public Schools , has 33
campuses and 16,000 students statewide, according to President
Soner Tarim. The organization was started by Cosmos Foundation
Inc., a nonprofit group in Texas, according to its website.
Cosmos has issued more than $150 million in debt to finance the
schools since 2007. He said with endowment backing, the
foundation could have saved about $42 million on one $90 million
issue in October.  “Other states may be looking at Texas as a model for
providing capital for charter schools,” said Maria Sazon,
senior director for facilities initiatives at the  National
Alliance  for Public Charter Schools. “Having Permanent School
Fund backing would save schools a ton of money that could be
used to reinvest in education.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  