-- 
Obama, Calderon Lift U.S. Ban on Mexican Trucks, Retaliatory Quotas

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-03-03T20:47:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/mexico-u-s-are-said-to-reach-agreement-on-end-to-border-trucking-dispute.html
Mexico and the U.S. agreed to end a
ban on Mexican trucks crossing the border to operate across the  United States .  The agreement, announced today after a meeting by Mexican
President Felipe Calderon and U.S. President  Barack Obama  in
Washington, would lead to Mexico dropping tariffs on $2.4
billion worth of U.S. pork, cheese, corn and fruits, the White
House said in a statement today.  “We finally have found a clear path to resolve the dispute
over trucking between our two countries,” Obama said at a White
House news conference with Calderon.  The dispute between the two nations, which have a $393
billion trading relationship, dates to the  North American Free
Trade Agreement  in 1995. U.S. officials have promised on
multiple occasions to resolve the standoff.  The U.S. initiated a pilot program in 2007 that let as many
as 100 Mexican trucking companies haul cargo into the U.S. It
was canceled in 2009 under a provision in a spending bill passed
by Congress.  Mexico  responded by placing retaliatory tariffs on
U.S. imports.  Under the agreement today, half the tariffs will be lifted
as soon as the deal is signed, and the remainder once the first
Mexican truck is allowed to enter the U.S.  On-Board Recorders  All Mexican trucks will be required to have electronic on-
board recorders that track compliance with hours-of-service and
related laws, according to the White House. In addition, the
Department of Transportation will review drivers’ records,
ensure they all understand English and require that they are
tested for drugs.  Opponents such as the Teamsters Union, which represents
U.S. truck drivers, have said the Mexican vehicles are unsafe.  “This agreement caves in to business interests at the
expense of the traveling public and American workers,”
Teamsters President James Hoffa said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Mexican trucks simply don’t meet the same standards
as U.S. trucks. Medical and physical standards for Mexican
trucking firms are lower than for U.S. companies.”  Under the current system, three haulers are required to
ship goods from Mexico to the U.S.: One in each country and a
“middleman” hauler operating across the border, raising the
costs of Mexican imports into the U.S. by millions of dollars,
according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Business groups called the agreement an important signal
that the U.S. is adhering to its obligations under global trade
pacts. The U.S. had agreed to allow the entry of Mexican trucks
under the terms of Nafta, and panels of judges set up under that
accord ruled against the U.S. ban.  ‘Lead by Example’  “It’s great that we can lead by example,” said Doug
Goudie, director for international trade policy at the  National
Association of Manufacturers  in Washington, in an interview. The
deal may take months to put in place, he said.  Independent truckers said that allowing Mexican haulers
into the U.S. may drive small trucking companies out of
business.  “For all the president’s talk of helping small businesses
survive, his administration is sure doing their best to destroy
small trucking companies and the drivers they employ,” Todd
Spencer, executive vice president of Owner-Operator Independent
Drivers Association, said in a statement.  The American Trucking Association said it welcomed the
announcement.  “We hope this agreement will be a first step to increasing
trade between our two countries, more than 70 percent of which
crosses the border by truck,” Bill Graves, the Arlington,
Virginia-based trade group’s president, said in a statement.
Government rules should “ensure that carriers from both
countries are treated equitably.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Jens Erik Gould in Washington at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  