-- 
Billionaires Slim, Salinas, Azcarraga Spar Over Telecom Fees, Investment

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-03-03T22:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/mexican-telecom-billionaires-spar-over-fees-investment-2-.html
  America Movil  SAB, the Latin
American wireless provider owned by billionaire  Carlos Slim ,
challenged Mexican rivals to invest $1 billion each this year
after competitors including  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  and Grupo Iusacell
SA called for lower fees to connect to America Movil’s networks.  The dispute places Slim, listed by Forbes magazine as the
world’s richest man, against the broadcasters controlled by
billionaires Emilio Azcarraga and  Ricardo Salinas  that are
seeking to expand their businesses in wireless, Internet and
fixed-line communications.  “Would these operators be willing to invest $1 billion
each in reciprocal terms in Mexico in the present year?”
Telcel, America Movil’s Mexico unit, said in an e-mailed
statement late yesterday. Competing companies are
“characterized by a poor rhythm of investment in  Mexico ” and
“uniting so they can avoid paying services provided by
Telcel,” the company said in the statement.  Earlier yesterday, Iusacell, units of Televisa, Axtel SAB
and Megacable Holdings SAB sent joint statements titled
“Operators unite against Telcel’s abuses.” The statement asked
Mexico’s government for “pro-competition regulation in the area
of inter-connection to benefit 90 million Mexican consumers.”  “It’s important to highlight that this group of operators
is willing to not charge Telcel for interconnection in exchange
for reciprocal treatment,” the statement said.  ‘Greater Competition’  The government “will promote greater competition and legal
certainty so that better levels of quality and price are
achieved,” according to a joint statement from Mexico’s Federal
Telecommunications Commission and the Communications and
Transportation Ministry, issued after the statements from Telcel
and its competitors.  The regulators said they have taken actions to reduce
connection fees and are waiting for the resolution of court
challenges to their rulings so they can be implemented.
Authorities will continue meeting with telecommunications
providers, the statement said, without providing details.  Telcel and Telmex each plan to spend about 10 billion pesos
($830 million) in infrastructure investments this year, Slim
said in January.  America Movil fell 2 centavos to 34.12 pesos at 4 p.m.  New
York  time in Mexico City trading. Telmex dropped 6 centavos to
10.81 pesos, and Televisa gained 59 centavos to 57.1 pesos.
Iusacell is closely held.  Affecting Sales  Slim’s companies, which also include holding company Grupo
Carso SAB and miner Minera Frisco SAB, have stopped advertising
with Televisa because of a disagreement on prices, Televisa
Executive Vice President Alfonso de Angoitia said Feb. 18.  On Feb. 23, Slim’s companies said they also rejected an ad
contract with TV Azteca because the broadcaster tried to
negotiate a side deal for its sister company, mobile-phone
carrier Iusacell. TV Azteca wanted Slim’s carriers to charge
lower fees for connecting Iusacell customers’ calls to their
networks, an official of Slim’s group said at the time.  TV Azteca has said it gets 3 percent of its sales from
Slim’s companies, while Televisa has said Slim’s advertising
purchases last year contributed 1.5 percent of Televisa’s 57.9
billion pesos ($4.8 billion) in sales.  Slim is the controlling shareholder in America Movil, which
has 71 percent of Mexico’s wireless market, and Telefonos de
Mexico SAB, operator of about 79 percent of Mexico’s fixed phone
lines. Telmex, as the Mexico City-based company is known, is
also the nation’s largest Internet provider. Mexico’s government
has not yet authorized Telmex to bundle  cable television  with
phone and Internet, known as triple play.  Economy Underperforming  Slim’s companies will invest 44 billion pesos in Mexico
this year, he said at a press conference on Jan. 31.  Azcarraga is chairman, chief executive officer and
controlling shareholder of Televisa, Mexico’s largest
broadcaster, which has captured market share from Telmex by
offering cable, phone and Internet.  Salinas is Mexico’s second-richest man after Slim and
controls TV Azteca SAB, Mexico’s second-largest broadcaster, and
Iusacell, which trails Telcel and  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  in the
country’s wireless market.  Mexico’s economy has underperformed peers in the region
because of lack of competition in industries including
telecommunications, banking and energy, antitrust chief Eduardo Perez Motta has said.  ‘Growing Conflict’  The Federal Competition Commission, known as Cofeco, is
prioritizing telecommunications cases and will conclude a probe
into dominance in the market for completing phone calls to
mobile networks by July, Perez Motta said March 1. The Federal
Telecommunications Commission must also establish a reference
price to resolve disputes over how much carriers charge each
other to connect calls between their networks, he said.  “There has been growing conflict in the industry,” Perez
Motta said. “Like all crises, this should be an opportunity.”  Telmex should receive authorization to offer pay television
services after disputes in Mexico’s telecommunications industry
are resolved, Perez Motta said today.  Telefonica, which is Mexico’s second-largest wireless
provider, reached a separate agreement with Telmex and Telcel in
December to reduce interconnection fees for calls to mobile
phones to 69 centavos (5.7 cents) a minute by 2014 from 95
centavos this year.  The rate set for this year by government regulators to
resolve disputes between carriers is 42 centavos a minute.
Telcel is challenging that decision in court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 