-- 
Faber Says Now Is Time to Buy Japanese Stocks After a 20-Year Bear Market

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 
2011-03-04T08:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/faber-says-now-is-time-to-buy-japanese-stocks-after-20-year-bear-market.html
After a two-decade bear market, now
is the time to buy and hold Japanese stocks,  Marc Faber ,
publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, said.  Faber, who is credited with predicting the 1987 stock 
market crash and said two years ago that shares would decline 
just as they began the biggest rally in more than 50 years, said
the Japanese government will be forced to print money to 
monetize the country’s public debt, the developed world’s 
biggest. That will cause the yen to weaken, helping boost 
earnings for the nation’s exporters and buoying stock prices.  Faber joins other bullish investors on Japan, such as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and David Herro of Oakmark
International Fund, in countering skepticism about Japan earned
through four recessions and dismal stock returns after the 1990
crash of the bubble economy. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has
fallen about 73 percent since it peaked in December 1989.  “If I had to make a bet for the next ten years in terms of
equity markets, I would seriously consider a very strong
weighting here in Japan,” Faber said yesterday at the CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets’ annual conference in Tokyo. “Once the  debt market  starts to go down, the yen will begin to weaken and
that will lift equity prices. I would buy equities at the
present time.”  Nikkei’s Rise and Fall  The Nikkei rose for a second day, advancing 1 percent and
extending gains for the year to 4.5 percent.  Still, investors have had reason to be wary. Japan’s
rebound from the crash after the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. has also lagged behind that of every
other major market. The Nikkei has gained about 52 percent since
its low in March 2009, while in the U.S. the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 Index has surged about 97 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service last month joined Standard &
Poor’s in lowering Japan’s debt outlook. Moody’s cut its rating
to negative from stable, saying political gridlock will hamper
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s ability to cut the debt, which has
risen to about twice the country’s gross domestic product.  “If I look at the next five to ten years, the interest
payments on the government debt in Japan and the fiscal deficits
will become very burdensome and that will necessitate
monetization,” Faber said. “That will bring about a huge shift
of money out of cash and bonds into equities.”  Oakmark’s Herro  Faber isn’t the only one recommending Japan. Oakmark’s
Herro said last month it was time to buy Japanese shares as they
“are a steal” considering that companies are exporting more to  China  and have started to pay bigger dividends. Goldman
strategist Kathy Matsui said in December the Topix is likely to
surge 20 percent in the first six months of this year as a
retreating yen boosts profits for exporters.  Faber has a mixed record for predictions. In March 2007,
the 65 year-old investor said the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
was more likely to fall than rise because the threats of faster
inflation and slower growth persisted. The S&P 500 then climbed
10 percent to a record 1,565.15 seven months later, ending the
year up 3.5 percent.  Faber said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on
March 9, 2009, that it was “very difficult to see a scenario
where you wouldn’t make any money” owning stocks over the next
10 years, while also warning the  S&P 500  might lose 26 percent
before the bear market ended.  Predictions  The benchmark gauge for American equities began its biggest
advance in five decades that day, climbing from 676.53 to
1,295.02 on Jan. 18, 2011.  Faber said on Sept. 17, two days after Japan’s government
intervened in foreign-exchange markets for the first time since
2004 to weaken the yen, that the nation’s stock prices would
rise in the next 12 months as the yen depreciates.  The Topix index has climbed 12 percent since then, while
Japan’s currency has appreciated about 3.9 percent against the
dollar since the government’s intervention on Sept. 15. The yen
is trading near its strongest level in 15 years versus the U.S.
currency.  Japan has been in a “20 year  bear market ,” Faber said.
“Statistically speaking, after a 20 year bear market, if it
continues to go down, then it’s game over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  