-- 
Family Dollar Rejects Buyout Offer From Peltz's Trian, Adopts Poison Pill

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-03-03T15:44:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/family-dollar-rejects-buyout-offer-from-peltz-s-trian-adopts-poison-pill.html
  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  rejected a
hostile takeover offer from  Nelson Peltz ’s Trian Fund Management
LP, saying it “substantially” undervalues its business, and
adopted a defense to discourage unsolicited offers.  A plan outlined last year to accelerate store openings and
remodelings, and to repurchase shares, is the best way to
deliver value to shareholders, the Matthews, North Carolina-
based discount retailer said today in a statement.  Family Dollar shares had fallen seven of the ten days since
Trian’s offer Feb. 15, through yesterday, signaling investors
were skeptical about the bid of $55 to $60 a share, or as much
as $7.7 billion. Peltz, an activist investor who rarely buys
entire companies, hadn’t arranged financing for what would be
the biggest acquisition of a U.S. retailer in six years.  It’s unlikely Family Dollar will get a higher bid,  Matt
Arnold , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri ,
said today in a telephone interview. “Family Dollar is still
run by a member of the founding family. Usually people in that
position are passionate about maintaining control of day-to-day
decisions.”  Arnold cut his rating on the stock to “sell” from
“hold” after Trian’s offer, betting the shares would decline.   Family Dollar fell 42 cents to $49.97 at 10:13 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares jumped 21
percent on the first trading day after the offer and had since
slumped 5.4 percent through yesterday.  Contacted CEO Levine  The Trian offer is “not in the best interest of
shareholders,” the discount retailer said.  Trian declined to comment on Family Dollar’s decision, said
Carrie Bloom, a spokeswoman for the hedge fund.  Trian is one of Family Dollar’s largest shareholders, with
a stake of about 8 percent, according to a securities filing
last month. Trian contacted Family Dollar Chief Executive
Officer Howard Levine, also one of the largest shareholders and
son of the founder, on Feb. 15 to give him the opportunity to
participate as an investor, according to the filing on that day.  The shareholders’ rights plan adopted by the board will
last 12 months and has a 10 percent ownership threshold, Family
Dollar said today. The so-called poison pill will reduce the
likelihood that any person or group will gain control of the
company by buying shares on the open market or without paying a
premium for all shares, the company said.  Family Business  Analysts including Mark Miller of William Blair & Co. in  Chicago  had predicted Family Dollar would resist a takeover.  The retailer, started as a single store in 1959 by Levine’s
father Leon, has a “paternalistic culture” and may accelerate
stock buybacks and cost cuts to remain independent, Miller said
in a Feb. 16 note.  Trian disclosed a stake in Family Dollar last year and
urged the retailer to boost sales growth.  Levine has since accelerated the opening and remodeling of
stores. Family Dollar also has added more groceries and other
consumables to grab shoppers from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other
rivals competing for consumers pinched by high unemployment.  Family Dollar, which operates more than 6,800 stores,
increased sales at outlets open at least 13 months by 6.9
percent in the quarter ended Nov. 27. By the same measure,
larger  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  boosted sales by 4.2 percent in the
three months ending Oct. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  