-- 
Fed’s Kocherlakota Says ‘Highly Accommodative’ Policy Warranted on Jobless

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-03-03T17:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/fed-s-kocherlakota-says-highly-accommodative-policy-warranted-on-jobless.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s policy of
near-zero  interest rates  and large-scale asset purchases is
warranted, given a natural rate of unemployment that may be as
high as 8.9 percent, said Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota .  “My conclusion: it is appropriate for monetary policy to
be highly accommodative,” he said in a speech today in St.
Cloud, Minnesota. Fed officials “will continue to reevaluate”
their stance as new data comes in.  The regional bank chief, who votes on policy for the first
time this year, affirmed his support for the Fed’s plan to buy
$600 billion of  Treasury securities  through June. He voted with
the rest of the Federal Open Market Committee at a Jan. 25-26
meeting, pledging to move forward with the purchase plan to
stimulate growth and reduce unemployment.  The committee “will need to remain vigilant to the
possibility of changes in the gap between the  unemployment
rate ” and natural jobless rate, Kocherlakota, 47, said in his
remarks at the St. Cloud State University Annual Winter
Institute. The natural rate of unemployment is the lowest level
that can be reached without fueling inflation.  “When that gap is big, we need a lot of accommodation,”
the central banker said. “I myself will be paying close
attention to the behavior of  core inflation ,” or prices
excluding food and energy.  ‘Solid Growth’  The labor market improved throughout the U.S. early this
year, driven by rising retail sales and “solid growth” in
manufacturing, the Fed said yesterday in its Beige Book report.  “Labor market conditions continued to strengthen modestly,
with all Districts reporting some degree of improvement,” the
Fed said in the anecdotal account of the economy released two
weeks before meetings of the  Federal Open Market Committee . Its
last survey, released Jan. 12, said the job market was “firming
somewhat.”  U.S. equities rose after jobless claims unexpectedly fell,
underscoring the Fed’s assessment that the labor market is
improving. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index rose 1.5 percent to
1,327.31 at 12:15 p.m. in  New York .  Another report released today showed American  service
industries  grew at the fastest pace in five years.  The jobless rate unexpectedly declined in January to the
lowest level in 21 months, dropping to 9 percent from 9.4
percent in December, the Labor Department said last month.
Employers added just 36,000 workers.  Less Than Forecast  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, slower than previously calculated and less than
forecast as state and local governments made deeper cuts in
spending. The revised figure for gross domestic product compares
with a 3.2 percent earlier estimate and a 2.6 percent gain in
the third quarter, Commerce Department figures showed last week.  “The challenge for policy makers is that we don’t have a
data set for” determining the natural rate of unemployment,
said Kocherlakota, who has led the  Minneapolis Fed  since October
2009 and is former chairman of the economics department at the
University of Minnesota.  “What’s more, the natural rate of unemployment changes
over time,” he said. “It moves in response to shocks in the
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  