-- 
Ferguson Faces Two-Game Ban for Referee Outburst, Guardian Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-03T05:45:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/ferguson-faces-two-game-ban-for-referee-outburst-guardian-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Two-Game Ban  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is facing the
prospect of a minimum two-match touchline ban for criticizing
referee  Martin Atkinson  following his team’s 2-1 loss at Chelsea
two days ago, the Guardian  reported .  The Football Association is deliberating whether to open
proceedings against Ferguson after he castigated Atkinson for
not sending off Chelsea defender David Luiz and blaming the
defeat on a series of refereeing decisions, the newspaper said.  Ferguson has a suspended two-game touchline ban hanging
over him for saying in 2009 that Alan Wiley was not physically
fit enough to referee in the Premier League, a punishment that
will be triggered if he’s found guilty of misconduct for his
criticism of Atkinson, the Guardian added.  Villa Cull  Aston Villa manager  Gerard Houllier  is set to cut 11
players from his squad in the offseason as he tries to reduce
the team’s outlay on wages, the Sun  reported .  Brad Friedel,  John Carew , Nigel Reo-Coker, Robert Pires,
Stephen Ireland and  Stephen Warnock  are all likely to leave, the
newspaper said, while Isaiah Osbourne, Habib Baye, Brad Guzan,
Moustapha Salifou and Shane Lowry may also be forced out.  “With the financial fair play rules coming up, we need to
keep a balance between what we’ve spent and the turnover of the
wage bill,” the Sun cited Houllier as saying.  Old Firm Fight  Celtic manager Neil Lennon and Rangers assistant coach Ally McCoist face “severe punishment” from the Scottish Football
Association for clashing after their teams’ Scottish Cup fifth-
round replay in Glasgow last night, the Mail  reported .  Lennon and McCoist squared up to each other on the
touchline following Celtic’s 1-0 win, during which Rangers had
Steven Whittaker and Madjid Bougherra sent off before El Hadji
Diouf joined them on a red card for dissent after the final
whistle, the newspaper added.  Riise Return?  Newcastle is interested in signing former Liverpool
defender John Arne Riise as a replacement for Jose Enrique, who
may leave for Anfield in the offseason, the Mirror  reported   Riise, 30, has one more year left on his contract with
Italian club Roma and would be available for a cut-price fee,
the newspaper added.  Owl Mascot Dies  Panama defender Luis Moreno was suspended for two matches
and fined for kicking an injured owl that landed on the field
during a Colombian league game, the  Mirror said .  The bird, which was an unofficial mascot for Barranquilla
club Atletico Junior, died after local vets worked for 30 hours
to save it, the newspaper reported. Moreno, who plays for
Deportivo Pereira, apologized and said that he was just trying
to get the owl off the pitch, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  