-- 
FIFA Says 2010 World Cup in South Africa Brought in $3.7 Billion of Sales

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-03T16:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/fifa-says-2010-world-cup-in-south-africa-brought-in-3-7-billion-of-sales.html
The 2010 World Cup in South  Africa 
brought in $3.7 billion in sales, according to soccer’s
governing body, FIFA.  The tournament, played in Africa for the first time since
it was established in 1930, was won by  Spain . The majority of
the tournament’s income came from the sale of television rights,
which generated $2.4 billion. Marketing and sponsorship sales
brought in $1.1 billion, according to FIFA, which presented its
annual accounts today.  The quadrennial event accounts for the majority of the
group’s income. The governing body said it had revenue of $4.2
billion over the past four years and its reserves have reached
$1.3 billion. FIFA President Sepp Blatter faced opposition when
he lobbied for South Africa to host the event.  “I’m a happy president because if you come with such
financial results at the end of a four-year period when people
said you are going against the world,” Blatter told a press
conference.    South Africa  hosted 62 World Cup matches, and 97 percent of
tickets were sold, generating $300 million. Still, many matches
were played in stadiums with empty seats.  “We were surprised about this too,” FIFA’s deputy General
Secretary Markus Kattner said of the less than full stadiums.
“We do not know exactly what the reasons for this are.”  Collapse  FIFA  has built its reserves since 2001 when it nearly went
bankrupt following the collapse of a television partner. The
reserve pool was $76 million in 2003 and probably won’t grow
much higher in the next four years, Kattner said.  The pool is needed to protect FIFA from a financial shock
like the cancellation of the  World Cup , the world’s most-watched
sport event, Kattner said. The event brought in 87 percent of
its revenue.  While the World Cup generated record income, the
organization also spent a record amount over the past four
years. FIFA expended $3.7 billion, including $1.2 billion on
arranging the  World Cup  in South Africa, where FIFA was forced
to spend more than budgeted to ensure the country was ready for
the June 30 kickoff. The rest was spent on developing the sport
around the world.  Discretionary Spending  Kattner said the governing body spends the majority of its
development money directly on specific projects, rather than
distributing it to individual associations to spend at their
discretion. Blatter, who is standing for re-election, earlier
this year announced each of the 208 member associations, which
are guaranteed $1 million over four years, would get an extra
$300,000. He also announced an extra $250,000 payment last year
as a “gift to our shareholders.”  Kattner said there wasn’t a problem with monitoring how the
money is spent.  “Each association has to present to us a locally audited
statement that we analyze every year,” he said. FIFA’s auditor
KPMG LLP then carries out spot checks on 21 countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at   lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 