-- 
FIFA Ignores North & Central American Request for Extra Berth at World Cup

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-03-03T15:32:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/fifa-votes-to-ignore-americas-request-for-extra-soccer-world-cup-slot.html
Soccer’s governing body won’t give
an additional  World Cup  spot to the North and Central America
region for the 2014 event, ignoring lobbying from countries
including the U.S. and  Mexico .  Each of the six qualifying regions will get the same number
of spots for the event in  Brazil  as they had for last year’s
tournament in  South Africa , FIFA decided today. The sport’s
organizing group in North and Central America wanted a fourth
slot, which would have meant another region losing a national
team in the 32-nation event in Brazil.  “In terms of slots for the confederations, they will stay
unchanged,”  FIFA  General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  said at a
press conference following the first meeting of FIFA’s Executive
Committee since it selected Russia and Qatar to host the 2018
and 2022 World Cups.  Jack Warner, a FIFA vice president who heads soccer’s
governing body in North and Central America, CONCACAF, has said
the performances of the regions teams merited an extra place.  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said the panel’s decision upset
representatives who wanted a change. FIFA will alter
qualification to give the fourth-best CONCACAF team a chance to
advance without playing a South American country in a playoff as
currently occurs. Blatter said there would be a draw featuring
all nations that reach the playoffs.  The U.S. and Mexico reached the second round at the World
Cup in South Africa, while Honduras finished bottom of its pool.
The decision means Africa keeps the additional 5th slot it
received for the first time in 2010, even though only one of its
teams, semifinalist Ghana, made it out of the opening phase.
South Africa qualified automatically as hosts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at   lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  