-- 
Ford's Accounting Revision May Add $13 Billion to Profit, Tax Expert Says

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-03-04T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/ford-s-accounting-revision-may-add-13-billion-to-profit-tax-expert-says.html
  Ford Motor Co. (F) , after earning $9.3
billion in the last two years, may make an accounting change
this year to reflect confidence in its recovery, a move one tax
expert said could boost its 2011 profit as much as $13 billion.  Ford in the second half may eliminate from its balance
sheet a valuation allowance held against deferred tax assets, it
said in a federal filing this week. The reserve was created in
2006 as Ford began four years of operating losses. Eliminating
the allowance may add $10 billion to $13 billion to Ford’s net
income this year, said  Robert Willens , president of Robert
Willens LLC of New York, a corporate tax specialist.  “This is a very positive statement from Ford,” Willens
said. “If you take the radical step of eliminating your
valuation allowance, then you’ve developed a high degree of
confidence in your future profit-making ability.”  Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy in
2009, revealed in its Feb. 28 10-K filing that its valuation
allowance at the end of 2010 was $15.7 billion, one of the five
largest among U.S. public companies, Willens said. Once a
company believes it has entered a sustained period of
profitability, it must remove the item from its books, he said.  “We have had a sustained period of profitability in our
operations and if that continues, we would remove our valuation
allowance,”  John Stoll , a company spokesman, said yesterday.
“We’ve said we plan to deliver continued improvement this year
in our pretax operating profit.”  ‘Special Item’  When Ford removes the allowance from its balance sheet, it
will record the accounting move as a “special item for the
quarter” to avoid “a large negative effective tax rate,” it
said in its filing. Without the allowance, The Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker said it would “experience more normal
effective tax rates, approaching the U.S. statutory rate of
35 percent.”  Ford, which hasn’t paid U.S. taxes since 2005, may not pay
federal taxes until the end of the decade because it still would
have tax-loss benefits on its books from $31.4 billion in
operating losses sustained from 2005 to 2009, said  Brian Johnson , a Chicago-based analyst with  Barclays Capital .  “Releasing the valuation allowance is purely an accounting
move,” Johnson said in a March 2 interview. “It has absolutely
no bearing on cash taxes and the U.S. government won’t collect
from Ford for quite some time.”  Weighing Valuation  The potential change in the reported tax rate has weighed
on Ford’s shares this year, Johnson said. Investors apparently
don’t understand Ford won’t pay additional taxes, he said.    Wall Street  is focused on how Ford will need to reflect a
35 percent tax rate,” Johnson said. “But what investors should
look at is that Ford still won’t be paying cash taxes.”  Ford rose 10 cents to $14.76 in composite trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange yesterday. The shares have fallen
12 percent so far this year.  In 1998, Ford recorded a $16 billion gain from spinning off
Associates First Captial Corp., a consumer and commercial
lender. The automaker had net income that year of $22.1 billion
on operating income of $8.98 billion.  Ford earned $6.56 billion last year, the most since 1999,
when new models such as the Fiesta subcompact and redesigned
Taurus sedan helped the automaker’s U.S. sales rise 17 percent,
outpacing the industrywide gain of 11 percent. Ford’s U.S. sales
are up 9.7 percent so far this year, according to Bloomberg,
trailing the industry’s overall increase of 22.6 percent.  “People won’t pay attention to the size of the special
item,” Willens said of the boost to net income Ford may realize
from removing the valuation allowance. “When you eliminate a
reserve like this that you had on the books, you’re making a
strong and bold statement about the outlook for the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  