-- 
Ex-UBS Adviser in California Pleads Guilty to Fraud, Accepts 65-Month Term

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-06-09T16:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/former-ubs-adviser-in-california-charged-with-fraud-1-.html
Steven Kobayashi, a former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
financial adviser in  California , pleaded guilty to  wire fraud 
and agreed to serve over 5 years in prison for improperly
transferring client funds to his bank accounts, U.S. Attorney
Melinda Haag said in a statement today.  Kobayashi, 39, of Livermore, California, was charged in
March with taking money from his clients’ UBS accounts and
putting it into his accounts, sometimes gaining customer
authorization to withdraw their money by telling them it would
be used to purchase investments, prosecutors said.  An adviser at the UBS Financial Services LLC office in
Walnut Creek, California, from 2004 to September 2009, Kobayashi
also forged investors’ signatures or copied and pasted their
signatures from other documents to facilitate funds withdrawals,
Haag said.  Between 2006 and 2009, Kobayashi transferred over $5.4
million in client funds to his bank accounts, prosecutors said.
In March he settled a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
lawsuit alleging he misappropriated $3.3 million in a scheme
that included bilking investors in a private investment fund and
spending $1.4 million of their money on cars, prostitutes and
gambling. He didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  He started a company called Life Settlement Partners LLC in
2004 and raised millions of dollars from his UBS customers for a
fund to invest in the purchase of life insurance policies, the
SEC said.  Kobayashi pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court in
northern California to one count each of  money laundering  and
wire fraud. In a plea agreement with prosecutors, Kobayashi
agreed to serve 65 months in prison and pay $5.4 million in
restitution, Haag said.  Joyce Leavitt, an attorney with the federal public
defender’s office in Oakland, California who represented
Kobayashi, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message.  The criminal case is U.S. v Kobayashi, 11-106 and the SEC
case is U.S. v Kobayashi, 11-981, in U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 