-- 
Fortum May Almost Triple Polish Assets With Wroclaw, Zabrze Power Plants

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-03-03T09:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/fortum-may-almost-triple-polish-assets-with-wroclaw-zabrze-power-plants.html
  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V)  may almost triple its
investment in  Poland  by building new power plants, and spending
could rise further if the Nordic region’s second-largest utility
buys heat and electricity assets in Warsaw.  Fortum will decide by the end of the year whether to build
a 400-megawatt gas-fired heat and power plant in the
southwestern city of Wroclaw, Mikael Lemstrom, head of the
company’s Polish unit, said in an interview yesterday. The
Wroclaw facility and one of as much as 200 megawatts in Zabrze
would cost Fortum more than 700 million euros ($970 million).  Fortum has spent more than 1 billion zloty ($349 million)
in Poland so far, and is joining utilities including PGE SA,  Tauron Polska Energia SA (TPE)  and PKN Orlen SA, which are planning
gas-fired power units of at least 3,000 megawatts, or about 10
percent of Poland’s total capacity, as the country that relies
on coal for about 90 percent of electricity generation seeks to
cut carbon-dioxide emissions.  Fortum is in talks with four potential gas suppliers for
the Wroclaw plant, including  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA (PGN) , Poland’s dominant supplier of the fuel. The
Helsinki-based utility could import the plant’s 600 million
cubic meters of the fuel a year from  Germany .  Fortum may also bid for SPEC SA, the biggest municipal heat
distribution network in the European Union, which the city of
Warsaw is selling, while Vattenfall AB, Fortum’s bigger rival in
the Nordic region, will probably start selling the heat and
power plants that are SPEC’s main suppliers.  “The sales of SPEC and Vattenfall’s Warsaw asset go more
or less together, but I still wouldn’t take it for granted that
the same investor will buy both,” Lemstrom said. “I also can’t
rule out us bidding only for SPEC, but investing solely in
distribution is not really our field,” he added.  Initial bids for SPEC are due by March 28. Vattenfall,
which has started evaluating its Polish assets, hasn’t begun the
official sale process yet.  Fortum, which is looking at SPEC with “great interest,”
has yet to decide whether to place a bid, Lemstrom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  