-- 
Freeport-McMoran Lured in Equinox Lowball Lundin Bid: Real M&A

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-03-03T23:39:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/freeport-mcmoran-lured-in-equinox-lowball-bid-for-lundin-mining-real-m-a.html
  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN) ’s counter
offer for  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  is so low that it’s leaving an
opening for  Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  to enter the
bidding war.  Lundin, a Toronto-based copper and zinc producer, was 1.5
percent above Equinox’s average cash-or-stock offer of C$7.80 a
share as of today, signaling traders who bet on mergers and
acquisitions expect a competing bid. Equinox, owner of Africa’s
largest copper mine, made its unsolicited C$4.6 billion ($4.7
billion) proposal Feb. 28, a month after Lundin agreed to a
takeover by  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)  Equinox has offered a 14 percent
premium, the lowest counter bid for a diversified-minerals
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Freeport, the world’s largest publicly traded copper
producer, is likely to make a rival proposal as it seeks to
increase its stake in a  copper mine  in the Democratic Republic
of Congo jointly owned with the government and Lundin, said
WallachBeth Capital LLC’s Yemi Oshodi. Companies are competing
to acquire mining assets amid a dearth of new projects after
demand from China pushed copper prices to a record last month.  “The market is betting that if Lundin gets sold, it’s
going to be at a higher price than the first price Equinox
bid,” said Oshodi, managing director of M&A and special
situations trading at New York-based WallachBeth. “The
speculation that Freeport is going to come in is a no-brainer.”  Eric Kinneberg, a Freeport spokesman, declined to comment.  Today’s Trading  Freeport’s shares advanced 42 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$52.40 in  New York  Stock Exchange trading today. Lundin climbed
6 cents, or 0.8 percent, to C$7.92 in Toronto.  Inmet of Toronto announced an agreement Jan. 12 to purchase
Lundin for 0.0954 of a share for every Lundin share, the
equivalent of a 2.2 percent premium above the 20-day trading
average, to create a new company named Symterra Corp. Inmet,
with operations in Turkey, Spain and Finland, has the right to
match any other offer and is entitled to a breakup fee of C$120
million if the deal falls apart.  “Inmet recognized the risk that someone else comes in with
a better deal,” said Raymond Goldie, an analyst at Salman
Partners Inc. in Toronto who recommends buying Inmet shares.
“If someone else does come in with a better deal, Inmet gets
compensated for it.”  Inmet rose C$1.24, or 1.8 percent, to C$69.12 in Toronto.  Equinox Bid  Equinox countered the agreement this week by offering
investors C$8.10 in cash, 26 percent above the previous day’s
closing price, or 1.2903 shares and 1 cent for each Lundin
share. The proposal is capped at a maximum cash portion of C$2.4
billion. Based on half stock and half cash, the takeover was
worth an average of C$7.80 as of today.  Shares of Equinox have fallen 7.2 percent since the bid was
announced. The West Perth, Australia-based company advanced 6
cents, or 1 percent, to C$5.82 today in Toronto.  The competing premium of 14 percent more than the 20-day
trading average before Inmet’s original offer is the lowest ever
for a diversified-minerals company, Bloomberg data show.  “It’s not a particularly huge premium, so it does leave
the door open,” said Timothy Parker, who manages $8.5 billion
in natural-resource stocks at T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in
Baltimore, part of the firm’s $482 billion under management
globally.  Equinox Chief Executive Officer  Craig Williams  said it’s
possible there will be another competing bid for Lundin.  ‘Can’t Discount It’  “It’s quite late in the day, but you can’t discount it,”
Williams said yesterday in a telephone interview from Toronto.
“On the basic metrics, it’s a pretty clear-cut decision for the
Lundin shareholders in favor of our deal.”  Phil Wright, Lundin’s CEO, said in an e-mail that the
company’s special committee is reviewing the offer from Equinox
and will respond after it’s been “properly considered.” Jochen Tilk, Inmet’s CEO, didn’t respond to a message left at his
office in Toronto.  In the last 12 months, companies that stepped in with rival
bids had to pay a competing premium of at least 49 percent to
prevail in deals greater than $1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.    Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  in Parsippany,  New Jersey , paid a 49
percent premium to the 20-day average before the bidding war in
its $1.33 billion takeover of Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group
Inc. to fend off Park Ridge, New Jersey-based  Hertz Global
Holdings Inc. (HTZ)   Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , based in  Palo Alto ,
California, pushed the competing premium for the $2.1 billion
acquisition of storage-systems maker 3Par Inc. to 235 percent in
August, beating out  Dell Inc. (DELL)  in  Round Rock , Texas.  Congo Mine  Lundin owns 24 percent of Tenke Fungurume, a copper mine in
the south of the Congo that is scheduled to produce 290 million
pounds of copper this year.  Freeport, with a 56 percent stake in the $2 billion
project, said Jan. 20 that it’s evaluating expanding copper
output there by as much as 200 million pounds within three
years. Phoenix-based Freeport is “prepared to make acquisitions
if opportunities come to us,” though it’s not part of the
company’s strategy, CEO Richard Adkerson said at an analyst
conference this week in Hollywood, Florida.  The company is boosting output at mines in  North America 
and  Africa  to offset lower copper and gold sales at its Grasberg
mine in Indonesia, the world’s largest combined copper and gold
mine. Freeport slid 13 percent this year, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Materials Index added 2.2 percent.  Orest Wowkodaw, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc. in
Toronto, said in a research note this week Freeport may join the
takeover battle because of its joint interest in the Tenke mine.  Tenke Stake  Gecamines,  Congo ’s state-owned mining company, holds the
remaining 20 percent of Tenke, which was completed in 2009. The
project has an expected mine-life of more than 40 years,
Lundin’s  website  said. That’s longer than Lundin’s projections
for its other operations, including the  Neves-Corvo  copper and
zinc mine in Portugal and mines in Sweden, Spain and Ireland.  The Equinox deal values Lundin at 9.6 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, in line with the
median for deals greater than $500 million in the diversified-
minerals industry since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Inmet’s all-stock deal valued Lundin at 8.3 times Ebitda.  “I really think Inmet will just walk away,” said George Topping, a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. who
rates Equinox “hold” and Lundin “buy.” “They cannot afford
to offer cash, and without cash they’re not going to succeed.
Investors just want the money.”  Return on Equity  Any of the suitors for Lundin may boost  shareholder value .
Lundin’s return on equity, a measure of how much a company earns
for each dollar it invested, was 10 percent last quarter,
trailing Freeport’s 46 percent return, Equinox’s 19 percent and
Inmet’s 14 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The price of copper, used in electric cables and plumbing,
climbed 32 percent in the past year through yesterday after
demand rose in  China , the largest user of the metal. Global
consumption exceeded production by 34,774 tons in the first 11
months of last year, according to Bloomberg data.  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange traded at a record $10,190 a ton on Feb. 15. The metal
will average $9,725 this year and $10,000 in 2012, according to
the median of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Mining
companies haven’t kept pace with demand because new reserves are
becoming harder to find and the quality of ore is declining,
meaning less copper is extracted from each ton of rock.  ‘Healthy Equation’  Equinox said it will finance the cash component of its
offer through a $3.2 billion bridge loan arranged through  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  of New York and Zurich-based Credit
Suisse Group AG.  “We have a very healthy  cash flow ,” Equinox CEO Williams
said in the interview. “And when you look at the cash flow of
the combined entity, it’s a very healthy equation that gives us
the ability to finance the acquisition.”  Lundin CEO Wright criticized the Equinox offer at an
investor  conference  Feb. 28, saying Lundin-Inmet is a superior
portfolio combination and that the Equinox bid should be all
cash to make it easier for investors to evaluate. The Equinox
deal would create a “very high level of debt,” he said,
according to a transcript.  “Do you want to be in the hands of your lenders? Have we
learned really nothing out of the last three years?” Wright
said. “I have to tell you from my point of view, it’s been an
uncomfortable experience back through 2008, and it’s not
something that I would like to see our assets re-subjected to.”  Credit Ratings  Freeport has long-term debt of $4.66 billion, and cash and
equivalents of $3.74 billion. The company is rated A1L by
Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings, the seventh-highest level of
investment grade. Even if the company paid for Lundin entirely
with debt, its ranking would only fall one level, according to
Bloomberg’s ratings, which analyze borrowers based on their
indebtedness, profitability and other financial ratios.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 