-- 
Frere, BNP Offer $2.1 Billion for Nationale a Portefeuille

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-03-03T20:22:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/frere-bnp-offer-2-09-billion-for-nationale-a-portefeuille-1-.html
Belgian billionaire  Albert Frere  and
BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s largest bank, offered 1.5 billion euros
($2.1 billion) to buy out minority investors in Cie. Nationale a
Portefeuille SA.  Fingen SA, based in Loverval,  Belgium , plans to offer 48.64
euros a share, a 21 percent premium to the latest closing price,
for the 27.8 percent of Nationale a Portefeuille not already
owned by Frere-Bourgeois SA, Erbe SA and related parties,
Belgian market regulator CBFA said today in a statement. Fingen
is a unit of Erbe, which is 53 percent held by Frere’s family
holding. Paris-based BNP Paribas owns the remaining 47 percent.  Taking Nationale a Portefeuille private will eliminate an
investment firm in the cascade structure of holding companies
through which Frere, 85, jointly controls  Groupe Bruxelles
Lambert SA (GBLB) , whose holdings include stakes in Total SA, GDF Suez
SA, Lafarge SA, Pernod-Ricard SA and Imerys SA. The offer price
is less than Nationale a Portefeuille’s adjusted net asset
value, or assets minus liabilities, of 51.90 euros a share as of
Feb. 24.  The offer is conditional on getting at least 90 percent
acceptance, CBFA said. The statement didn’t specify when Fingen
plans to start the offer, which also includes 770,874 shares
held by Nationale unit Cie. Immobiliere de Roumont SA to cover  stock options  for its management.  A telephone call to the office of Nationale a Portefeuille
outside of business hours was not immediately returned. Carine Lauru, a spokeswoman of  BNP Paribas (BNP)  in Paris, said by telephone
she wasn’t aware of the offer and passed on questions to her
colleagues. Antoine Sire, a spokesman for BNP Paribas, couldn’t
be reached on his office phone outside business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  