-- 
Gap May Start Online Shop, Introduce Old Navy in Japan Amid Asia Expansion

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a ,   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   M i k e   F i r n
-- 
2011-03-03T05:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/gap-may-start-online-shop-introduce-old-navy-in-japan-amid-asia-expansion.html
  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S. apparel
chain, said it may introduce online shopping and its Old Navy
brand in Japan as the retailer competes for Asian customers with  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ’s H&M.  “We’re still bullish on Japan,” John Ermatinger, head of
the Asia-Pacific region at Gap, said in an interview in Tokyo
today after opening an outlet in Ginza, one of Japan’s biggest
shopping districts. The San Francisco-based retailer may outline
plans for the online business “in the near future,” he said.  Gap plans to add 50 company-owned stores overseas this year
as Chief Executive Officer Glenn Murphy closes outlets in  North
America , where Gap-brand sales fell 8 percent in December, the
peak shopping month. The company is vying for Asian customers
with Inditex, the world’s biggest clothing chain, and H&M, which
also opened Ginza outlets in the past three years.  “The international business has been a neglected venue, a
neglected opportunity for Gap,” said  Richard Jaffe , an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York with a “buy” rating on
the stock. “Gap should be able to do more business in Japan.”  Gap’s international sales rose 12 percent in the fourth
quarter to $620 million, the company said Feb. 24. That helped
the company post a 3.7 percent profit gain for the three-month
period, beating analysts’ estimates.  ‘Good Growth’  The retailer has 353 company-owned stores outside the U.S.,
out of a total 3,068. The chain had about 130 Gap outlets and 29
Banana Republic stores in Japan as of January, it said Feb. 21.  “Our business has been very consistent, very steady, and
we enjoy good growth here in Japan,” Ermatinger said. About 30
to 35 percent of products at the Ginza store were made
specifically for the Japanese market, he said.  The four-story, 1,435-square-meter (15,000 square feet)
Ginza store is located in the spot where  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  scrapped plans to build a 12-story outlet in
2008, and across the street from a  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA
outlet selling items including bags and jewelry. PPR SA’s Gucci
has a shop on the same street, and Zara, H&M and Fast Retailing
Co.’s Uniqlo operate stores located within a 10-minute walk.  “H&M and Zara have better variety and designs,” said Koji
Sasaki, a 26-year-old who passed by Gap’s new store at the
weekend. “I’ll visit the store and buy something if I find that
Gap has better quality,” he said.  ‘Ginza’s Prestige’  H&M, based in  Stockholm , opened its first store in Japan in
 Ginza  in 2008. Inditex, based in Arteixo, Spain, chose the area
for its  35th Japanese store , which opened the same year. Inditex
plans to introduce the Bershka brand in Japan later this month.  Ginza had the world’s third-most expensive store rents,
trailing  New York ’s Fifth Avenue and Hong Kong’s Causeway Bay,
according to a survey last year by  Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  The
Tokyo district rose two places in the rankings, advancing along
with Seoul’s eighth-ranked Myeongdong area as retailers and
luxury brands head to  Asia  to tap the region’s economic growth.  “Ginza’s prestige as a place you can buy anything genuine
won’t change, so having a store in the area is beneficial,”
said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute in Tokyo. “Retailers can also attract a
number of tourists from  China  and other Asian countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Firn in Tokyo at 
 mfirn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  