-- 
IPad, Rival Tablet Demand Crimping PC Growth, Gartner Says

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-03-03T18:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/gartner-lowers-pc-forecast-as-consumers-diversify-across-devices.html
Personal-computer shipments will
grow at a slower pace than previously forecast as consumers
reach for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and other tablet devices,  Gartner
Inc. (IT)  said.  Gartner lowered its projection for worldwide shipments this
year to 387.8 million units, or 10.5 percent growth, from an
earlier projection of 15.9 percent growth, according to a  report 
today. The Stamford, Connecticut-based research firm cited
decreased demand for  laptop computers  as the main reason.  The recalculation is also the result of a slowdown in  China 
of mobile-PC sales, Gartner said. Laptops and simpler netbooks
have driven growth in the global computer market during the past
five years. Consumers who used those devices to e-mail and
search the Web are now often turning to tablets. In addition,
laptop owners are holding on to their machines longer instead of
buying new ones, Gartner said.  “We expect growing consumer enthusiasm for mobile-PC
alternatives, such as the iPad and other media tablets, to
dramatically slow home mobile-PC sales, especially in mature
markets,” said George Shiffler, a research director at Gartner.  In 2012, shipments will total 440.6 million units, a 13.6
percent increase from 2011 projections. That’s down from an
earlier assumption of 14.8 percent growth.  Tablet Versus PC  Apple Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook , who met with
analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. last week, said that
tablet sales will eventually surpass those of personal
computers. The growth will come mostly at the expense of
netbooks, a category of smaller and inexpensive laptops that can
handle basic tasks like Web surfing and e-mail, he said.  Apple introduced a new version of the iPad yesterday that’s
thinner, lighter and faster because of a dual-core processor,
which is found in many PCs. The price of the iPad 2 ranges from
$499 to $829, depending on the model.  A host of competitors are also building tablets. Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. introduced its Xoom last month, and
Samsung Electronics Co. started selling the Galaxy Tab last
year.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  also plan
to sell tablets.  There are 102 tablets from 64 makers either on sale or in
development, according to consulting firm PRTM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 