-- 
Gasoline Slips on Speculation Saudi Arabia Increasing Shipments

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-03T14:49:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/gasoline-slips-on-speculation-saudi-arabia-increasing-shipments.html
Gasoline slipped from yesterday’s
30-month high as Brent crude in  London  declined on indications
that  Saudi Arabia  will ship more oil to  Europe  to compensate for
lower production from Libya.  Gasoline fell as contracts tied to the cost of shipping
Middle East oil rose 11 percent on speculation Saudi Arabia will
ship more crude. Aramco, the Saudi state oil company, was said
yesterday to have offered two European refiners additional
cargoes of Arab Light oil. Libya normally pumps 1.6 million
barrels of oil a day, selling most of it to Europe, which
exports gasoline to the U.S. and imports American diesel fuel.  “There’s talk among ship brokers the Saudis plan to move
product into Europe, alleviating some concerns on supply,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “And all these energy markets,
with the exception of natural gas, are overbought.  Gasoline for April delivery dropped 3.52 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $2.9943 a gallon at 9:38 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , after settling yesterday at the highest
level for the contract closest to expiration since Aug. 27,
2008.  April-delivery Brent crude on London’s ICE Futures exchange
dropped $1.97 to $114.38 a barrel. Products futures are
vulnerable to changes in Brent because refineries supplying fuel
to New York Harbor, the delivery point for heating oil and
gasoline futures, process crude grades priced relative to Brent.  Gasoline futures have risen 20 percent since anti-
government protests began Feb. 15 against Qaddafi in  Libya , a
member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The
Libyan uprising follows the ousting of longtime rulers by
protest movements in Tunisia and Egypt. Anti-government
demonstrations have also erupted in Yemen, Bahrain, Oman,
Jordan, Algeria, Morocco, Iran and Iraq.  Heating oil for April delivery lost 2.85 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $3.0292 a gallon.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
4 cents to $3.427 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  