-- 
Defense Secretary Gates Chides U.S. House Panel for Protecting AM General

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-03T10:56:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/gates-chides-u-s-house-panel-for-protecting-am-general.html
Defense Secretary Robert Gates
yesterday chided a key House committee for failing to approve a
budget shift he says is needed urgently to protect troops in  Afghanistan .  Three of the four primary defense spending committees in
Congress have approved taking $900 million from funds set aside
for AM General LLC  Humvee  vehicles the Army says it doesn’t
want. Gates seeks to use the money for enhanced intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance requested by General David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan.  Appearing yesterday before the panel that has yet to act,
Gates told the House defense appropriations subcommittee that
the budget shift is “a matter of grave concern and urgency”
for the safety of U.S. soldiers. “We should not put American
lives at risk to protect specific programs or contractors,”
Gates said.  Florida Republican Representative C.W. “Bill” Young, the
subcommittee chairman, said the committee needs to examine the
Pentagon’s rationale more closely before acting, because the
Army previously said it needed the vehicles.  Gates, in closing remarks at a hearing on the fiscal 2012
budget, told the panel that “our troops need this force
protection equipment and they need it now.” Every day of delay,
he said, means “the lives of our troops are at risk.”  Celeste Ross, a spokeswoman for  South Bend , Indiana-based
AM General, said in an e-mail it was “not appropriate to
comment” on Gates’s remarks.  Alternate Funding  Young, a Florida Republican, said in an interview after the
hearing, that the committee “is going to take care of the ISR
money,” referring to intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance. He said Petraeus had a valid requirement.  Still, “in the last couple of years, any time we tried to
cut back on the Humvee we were told we can’t do it, the
requirements are so great,” Young said. “We’ll resolve the
issue” while seeking another source of funding for Petraeus’s
request, he said.  Young said he had no parochial interest in the Humvee,
which is built in Mishawaka,  Indiana . The engines are  built  in
Franklin,  Ohio , by AM General’s General Engine Products LLC.  “The only thing made in my district for the Humvee is the
release button for the seatbelt,” he said. “That’s all that’s
done in my district.”  Campaign Contributions  Still, Young since the 2006 election cycle has been one of
AM General’s top campaign contribution recipients, according to
Open Secrets, a public interest group. Young in the 2010
election cycle received $5,000 of $30,500 AM General gave to
House Republican candidates, according to the group’s  figures.   He received in the 2008 election cycle $10,000 of the
$27,000 AM General gave House Republican candidates, and $6,000
of $48,000 in the 2006 cycle to Republican candidates, according
to the group’s figures.  Gates said the U.S. has over 180,000 Humvees, of which
154,000 are in the Army. While Gates acknowledged the vehicle
has been a “workhorse,” he said the Army “determined more
than a year ago we have more than enough.”  The reprogramming request said the Humvee “has
demonstrated that it cannot survive in a battlefield situation
that involves improvised explosive devices and other lethal
threats.”  The company has 3,885 Humvees on order for Afghan security
forces using $579 million in fiscal 2009 and 2010 funds,
according to Pentagon data.  U.S. commanders forecast that Afghan forces will need an
additional 5,116 vehicles that will be paid for with fiscal 2011
Afghan Security Force Funds, the Pentagon said in a Feb. 8
information paper to Congress.  ‘Persistent Stare’ System  The shift of dollars supports a series of actions and
programs that “General Petraeus believes are critical to the
warfighting activities in Afghanistan,” said the reprogramming
document.  The largest shift of fund requested is $629 million for a
“Ground-Based Persistent Surveillance System” described as a
“persistent stare system that enhances force protection.”  Almost $74 million is shifted into U.S. Special Operations
Command missions and equipment, including $13.1 million to
increase to 600 hours from 200 hours the planned flying time of  Boeing Co. (BA)  ScanEagle drones that have use in counter-terror
missions.  The Boeing ScanEagle weighs 40 pounds and has a wingspan of
10 feet (3 meters). The planes, under the direction of seven-
member Navy Special Warfare teams, have flown more than 5,600
hours of reconnaissance since November 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  