-- 
GDF Suez Wants More Spot Pricing in Gas Supply Contracts

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-03T12:58:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/gdf-suez-wants-more-spot-pricing-in-gas-supply-contracts-1-.html
  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, owner of  Europe ’s
biggest natural gas network, is seeking to modify long-term
supply contracts to integrate more  spot-market  pricing.  The utility wants the agreements “more in line” with the
spot market, Vice-Chairman Jean-Francois Cirelli said today at
presentations of full-year results in Paris. “It’s the major
challenge for this year.”  These changes would come on top of those obtained last year
that integrated a spot price component in long-term contracts
with GDF Suez’s biggest suppliers of about 10 percent, he said.
Cirelli called for a “revision in the structure” of the deals
and for “more than 10 percent” linked to the spot market.  GDF Suez, the former natural gas monopoly in  France , has
been under pressure from the government and consumer groups to
lower prices so they better reflect a spot market that’s awash
with supply. The utility’s supply comes from long-term contracts
for the fuel that are more expensive, in part because of the
development in recent years of unconventional gas in the U.S.  “We are using the flexibility of our contracts to a
maximum,” Cirelli said at a press conference today. The price
gap between long-term agreements and spot market prices resulted
in losses for 2011 of 500 million euros, he said.  “This unfavorable situation isn’t over,” Cirelli said.
“We have a new round of negotiations with our suppliers, all of
them can be revised over the next 12 to 18 months.”  Unfavorable Difference  About 100 terawatt hours of natural gas are “exposed” to
an unfavorable price difference between spot and long-term
contract prices compared with 80 terawatt hours last year, he
said. This “spread” or difference in price is currently in the
range of 6 or 7 euros, he said.  The utility’s biggest suppliers are  Norway ,  Russia ,  Algeria 
and the Netherlands, from which it gets about 59 percent of
long-term contract supplies, according to figures published
today.  GDF Suez has calculated that French regulated household
rates for natural gas should rise by about 5 percent April 1 to
take into account supply cost fluctuations, Cirelli said.  GDF Suez increased prices for households heated by natural
gas by an average of 9.7 percent from last April 1 and 4.7
percent from July 1. The utility said today it didn’t lose money
on supplying the French market last year, a situation that
occurred regularly in past years because state-set prices didn’t
cover costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  