-- 
GDF Suez CEO Says France Should Explore for Shale Gas

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-03T16:44:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/gdf-suez-ceo-says-france-should-explore-for-shale-gas-1-.html
  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA Chief Executive Officer
Gerard Mestrallet said  France  should evaluate the extent of its
shale gas reserves before deciding whether to exploit them.  “Some people are saying that we should not even give
ourselves the right to know,” whether France has reserves of
the unconventional gas, Mestrallet said today on BFM radio. “We
want to know. It’s in the country’s interest to know.”  The government should then decide whether to allow
development of the reserves and leave companies to decide
whether to proceed, Mestrallet said.  GDF Suez is in talks with Schuepbach Energy LLC on taking a
stake in two permits it holds in southern France to explore for
the energy, which is extracted by fracturing shale rock. The
French government last month announced a drilling moratorium for
shale oil and gas exploration projects until at least mid-April
when the first conclusions of a report on the economic, social
and environmental implications will be published.  “The first question is whether this gas exists in
France,” Mestrallet said later at a press conference. “The
next question is whether we can develop it while protecting the
environment.”  French environmental groups have said drilling risks
contaminating the water supply because chemicals are used when
blasting shale to extract oil and gas, a method that has also
met opposition in the U.S.  “We don’t even know whether there is shale gas in
France,” Total Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie
last month. “When we look at a map of the world, France isn’t
considered the most attractive country for it.”  Schuepbach was planning to drill two wells in October to
search for shale gas while  Total SA (FP)  had plans for a first well
at the start of 2012, Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko- Morizet and Industry Minister Eric Besson said in a joint
statement in February.  “Imagine if we found very large amounts of gas. France
should then ask itself some questions,” Mestrallet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tara Patel at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net  