-- 
General Growth Taps UBS, Morgan Stanley as Lenders Vie to Refinance Malls

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-03-03T17:28:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/general-growth-taps-ubs-morgan-stanley-to-refinance-u-s-mall-properties.html
  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the
U.S. mall owner planning to refinance $5 billion of mortgage
debt, tapped UBS AG and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to fund loans as banks
rebuild inventory to back bonds tied to commercial real estate.  UBS agreed to provide a $375 million loan on the 977,000-
square-foot Providence Place Mall in  Rhode Island , according to
a person with direct knowledge of the deal who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. Morgan Stanley will
lend about $150 million for a Humble, Texas property, according
to a person familiar with those negotiations. The banks plan to
package the loans for sale as securities, the people said.  General Growth, which emerged from the largest real estate
bankruptcy in U.S. history in November after piling up $27
billion in debt, plans to refinance $5 billion in mortgages in
2011, Chief Executive Officer Sandeep Mathrani said during a
March 1 conference call with analysts. Property owners
nationwide are benefiting as the  Federal Reserve  keeps its
benchmark  interest rates  near-zero to stimulate economic growth.  “We’ve embarked upon a significant mortgage refinancing
plan,” Mathrani said during the call. “An environment of low
interest rates allows us to achieve more favorable terms than we
had imagined before.”  Shopping Six Loans  The loans arranged through Morgan Stanley and UBS are two
of six the Chicago-based mall operator is shopping to lenders,
the people said.    Kelly Smith , a New York-based spokeswoman for UBS, declined
to comment as did Mary Claire Delaney, spokeswoman for  New York- 
based Morgan Stanley.  General Growth buckled under its debt load when the market
for commercial-mortgage backed bonds shut down in 2008 and the
company was unable to refinance properties. The real estate
investment trust has $18.2 billion in outstanding mortgage debt,
Mathrani said.  “We’re pleased with the quality of the bidding field and
support we have received from the lending community,”  David Keating , a spokesman for General Growth, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The large-loan market is quite strong, which is
encouraging as we opportunistically seek to extend term and
enhance our financial flexibility.”  Wall Street banks are competing to fund commercial real
estate loans as property prices recover and investor demand
surges for bonds tied to the properties. Banks have arranged
about $6.5 billion in commercial mortgage-backed securities this
year, compared with $11.5 billion in all of 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales may rise to $45 billion this year, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. They plummeted to $3.4 billion in 2009 as
credit markets seized. The market peaked with $234 billion in
CMBS sales in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  -- Editors: Sharon L. Lynch, Mitchell Martin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  