-- 
Frankfurt Airport Gun Suspect May Be `Radicalized Muslim' Who Acted Alone

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-03-03T15:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/german-prosecutor-probes-islamist-link-in-airport-shooting-of-u-s-airmen.html
The Kosovar man suspected of killing
two U.S. airmen yesterday at  Frankfurt Airport  during a
personnel transfer to  Afghanistan , may be a “radicalized
Muslim” acting alone, a German state official said.  The alleged gunman, a 21-year-old postal worker at the
airport who wasn’t based in a high-security area, admitted to
the attack, said Boris Rhein, interior minister of the  state of
Hesse . The suspect, previously unknown to authorities, was
arrested while fleeing to the terminal when his gun jammed as he
was attacking the U.S. military bus picking up the airmen, Rhein
said today.  “It’s the type of attack that comes out of the blue,”
Rhein said at a press conference in the state capital of
Wiesbaden. “We can’t see a network in the sense of a network,
in the sense of a terror cell.”    Germany ’s Federal Prosecutor office, which has taken over
the case from counterparts in Frankfurt, said it’s looking into
whether the attack “had Islamist motivations.” The office
assumes control from local authorities if investigations concern
“grave crimes” that are linked to a foreign terrorist group or
threaten the security of the country, and are deemed to be “of
particular importance,” according to its  website .  Two Injured  The bus had been scheduled to take a group of 15 airmen
traveling from the Royal  Air Force ’s Lakenheath base in  England 
to the U.S. Air Force’s Ramstein base in southwest Germany. The
driver, who was stationed at Ramstein, and one of the passengers
were killed, the U.S. base said on its  website . Two other airmen
are being treated at a  Frankfurt  hospital, with one patient in
critical condition and the other in serious condition, it said.  Rhein said the assailant walked up to the parked vehicle
and started a conversation to determine that the passengers were
U.S. soldiers before opening fire. The suspect started the
attack outside the bus and then entered the vehicle, according
to Frankfurt police.  U.S. Air Forces in  Europe  use Ramstein as a transfer point
in the deployment of troops to zones such as Afghanistan and  Iraq , said Gabriel Myers, a spokesman at Ramstein air base.  About 50,000 U.S. troops are stationed in Germany,
according to Myers. The Air Force is withholding the names of
the victims until their families are notified. Two airmen were
also injured in the incident.  Temporary Postal Worker    Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , Germany’s main mail operator, said the
shooting suspect was a temporary worker at its mail-handling
operation at the airport. His contract was due to expire at the
end of this month, said Stefan Hess, a spokesman for the Bonn-
based postal service.  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , in a phone call
with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  last night, pledged
his support for a “rapid and comprehensive clarification of the
attack.” Chancellor Angela Merkel, speaking to reporters in
Berlin yesterday, said the government will do “whatever is
needed to determine what happened” in the “terrible event.”  Kosovo Interior Minister Bajram Rexhepi said in a phone
interview that he condemned the attack. Residents of the Kosovar
capital, Pristina, lit candles yesterday in the city center in a
group that included Foreign Minister Enver Hoxhaj.  Relatives of the suspect in  Kosovo  described him as a
devout Muslim who was born and raised in Germany and worked at
the airport, the  Associated Press  reported, citing an uncle
identified as Rexhep Uka. Alfred Schmoeger, a spokesman for
airport operator Fraport AG, declined to comment on the AP
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Wiesbaden via 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  