-- 
German Retail Sales Increases for a Second Month as Unemployment Declines

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-03-03T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/german-retail-sales-increases-for-a-second-month-as-unemployment-declines.html
German retail sales rose for a
second month in January as declining unemployment boosted  consumer confidence  and spending power.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings,
increased 1.4 percent from December, when they climbed 0.3
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a 0.5 percent gain, according to the median
of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier,
sales advanced 2.6 percent.  Unemployment fell to a two-decade low of 7.3 percent in
February as companies ramped up production and hiring to meet
export demand, pushing up household income expectations. The
German economy,  Europe ’s largest, may grow 2.5 percent this year
after expanding a record 3.6 percent in 2010, Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber  said on Feb. 23.  “This year should mark the comeback of consumption,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “The
labor market is doing excellently and wages are rising faster
than in previous years. But there are a few clouds on the
horizon and the biggest one of them is called inflation. It’s
not yet critical, but could gain in significance.”  German inflation accelerated to 2.2 percent in February,
the fastest in 2 1/2 years, after oil prices surged amid
political tensions in North Africa and the Middle East. European
Central Bank officials meeting in Frankfurt today may revise up
their inflation forecast for this year, council member Yves Mersch said in an interview published Feb. 22.  Rewe Group, Germany’s second-largest food retailer, said on
Feb. 25 that full-year revenue rose to a record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  