-- 
German Prosecutor Probes Islamist Link in Airport Shooting

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-03T11:22:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/germany-s-top-prosecutor-probes-fatal-shooting-of-u-s-airmen-in-frankfurt.html
  Germany ’s top prosecutor has taken
charge of an investigation into the fatal shooting of two U.S.
airmen at Frankfurt Airport yesterday in a sign the attack may
have Islamist links.  The Federal Prosecutor in Karlsruhe took over the case from
local investigators, it said in an e-mailed statement today. Two
U.S. servicemen died and two were seriously wounded when a 21-
year-old male Kosovar allegedly fired on a bus picking up U.S.
military personnel from a U.K. flight.  Germany’s Federal Prosecutor assumes control from local
authorities if investigations concern “grave crimes” that are
linked to a foreign terrorist group or threaten the security of
the country, and are deemed to be “of particular importance,”
according to its  website . Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle ,
in a phone call with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
last night, pledged his support for a “rapid and comprehensive
clarification of the attack” in an e-mailed statement today.  “Owing to the circumstances of the action, it is suspected
that the attack had Islamist motivations,” the prosecutor said
in a statement today. The suspect will appear before a federal
judge today, according to the statement.  Arrested  The alleged perpetrator, a Frankfurt resident, was arrested
after the shooting, which occurred during an altercation that
started outside a bus transporting a group of U.S. servicemen to
the  Ramstein Air Base  in Germany, police spokesman Manfred
Fuellhardt said yesterday.  U.S. Air Forces in  Europe  use the German airfield as a
stopover in the deployment of troops to zones such as
Afghanistan and Iraq, said Gabriel Myers, a
public affairs spokesman at the base by phone today.  The security forces team was assigned to RAF Lakenheath air
base in  England , said Myers. The  Air Force  is withholding the
names of the victims until their families are notified. About
50,000 U.S. troops are stationed in Germany, according to Myers.  Spiegel Online , citing unidentified officials familiar
with the matter, said the gunman specifically targeted American
military personnel and was carrying a large amount of
ammunition. Frankfurt police spokesman Juergen Linker declined
to identify the suspect or give further details pending an
investigation of the incident.  Devout Muslim  Relatives of the suspect in  Kosovo  described him as a
devout Muslim who was born and raised in Germany and worked at
the airport, the  Associated Press  reported, citing an uncle
identified as Rexhep Uka. Alfred Schmoeger, a spokesman for
airport operator Fraport AG, declined to comment on the AP
report.  In  Washington , U.S. President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
will work with German authorities and “will spare no effort in
learning how this outrageous act took place.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , speaking to reporters in
Berlin yesterday, said the government will do “whatever is
needed to determine what happened” in the “terrible event.”  Obama said in his remarks that U.S. and German authorities
will “ensure that all of the perpetrators are brought to
justice.”  Germany raised its terrorist threat level in November amid
signs that Islamic extremists planned an attack in the country
and the discovery of air-freight bombs. The anti-terrorist
police presence at airports and train stations was scaled back
Feb. 1.  Interior Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  condemned the
killing in the “strongest terms” in comments to reporters today
in Berlin. Friedrich, who was appointed interior minister today,
said there is no indication yet that the attack gave reason to
raise police presence nationwide.  Obama said the shooting was “a stark reminder of the
extraordinary sacrifices that our men and women in uniform are
making all around the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  