-- 
Gillard's Concern at Aussie's Impact Shows 'Dutch Disease' Risk

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 
2011-03-03T23:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/gillard-concerned-strong-australian-currency-imposes-burdens-.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
highlighted risks posed by Australia’s ties to a global
commodity boom, with a patchwork economy emerging from export
gains accompanied by subdued domestic spending.  “I’m very conscious that a strong Australian dollar has
benefits and it has burdens,” Gillard said in an interview
yesterday in Canberra, citing stresses posed by currency gains
for the manufacturing and tourism industries. The local dollar,
spurred by revenue from shipments of coal and  iron ore  to China,
has reached levels unseen since 1982 in recent weeks.  Gillard’s comments reflect a challenge faced by policy
makers from Brazil to China, where strengthening exchange rates
risk undermining exports unconnected to the climb in global
commodity prices. While emerging markets have taken steps to
stem currency gains, such as through limits on capital inflows,  Australia  has refrained from such measures and Gillard said she
favors letting the market set the so-called Aussie.  “The domestic economy is probably weaker than expected and
that reflects the fine balancing act for policy makers,” said
Tom Vosa, director of economic research at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in  London . “There is a risk of a Dutch disease
effect,” he added, referring to the Netherlands’s experience of
a surge in growth in its  energy industry  that drove up the
currency and hurt manufacturing.  Highest Since Float  Australia’s dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency,
in December reached its highest level against its U.S.
counterpart since before it was floated in 1983, and has climbed
12 percent in the past year. It fell as much as 0.2 percent
after Gillard’s comments, and was 0.1 percent lower at $1.0134
as of 10:18 a.m. in Sydney today. It touched $1.0256 on Dec. 31.  “I’m concerned about the burdens that this places on some
industries and some parts of the country,” Gillard said. At the
same time, Australia accepts the implications of a freely
floating currency and chooses to “live with the disciplines
that come from that,” she said when asked whether her
government would consider intervening to weaken the dollar.  The currency’s advance has been propelled by demand from  China  for iron ore and coal, which have helped make Australia
the world’s biggest shipper of the two commodities.  “For this current resources boom, we anticipate that it
will be sustained,” Gillard, 49, said two days before departing
on her first visit to the U.S. as prime minister. “We have very
strong demand from growing economies like China for our
resources. We anticipate there will be strong demand and good
prices for a long period of time to come.”  U.S. Trip  Gillard said she will discuss the global economic recovery
and strategic developments in  Asia  during her nine-day visit to  Washington  and  New York . Gillard is scheduled to meet President  Barack Obama , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner . She will address Congress March 9,
the first Australian leader to do so since  John Howard  in 2002.  Australia’s economic growth accelerated to a quarterly pace
of 0.7 percent in the final three months of last year, a
government report showed two days ago. The nation is benefitting
from its strongest terms of trade, a measure of income from
exports, since the early 1950s, according to the central bank.  Outside of mining, the economy is doing less well.
Australia’s services industry contracted in February, a survey
showed yesterday. The performance of services index was 48.7
from 45.5 in January, Commonwealth Bank of Australia and the
Australian Industry Group said in Sydney. A figure below 50
indicates contraction.  ‘Very Optimistic’  “High commodity prices, record terms of trade, a strong
dollar, puts some pressure on other sections of the economy,”
she said, declining to comment on the outlook for  interest rates .
“The fundamentals are strong and consequently I am very
optimistic for our economic outlook.”    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens gave no
indication this week that he’s ready to resume increasing the
benchmark overnight cash rate target, now at 4.75 percent, in
coming months. Bond investors have raised bets on higher
inflation as the mining-investment boom holds down unemployment.  The nation recorded its biggest annual gain in employment
on record in 2010 as resource and energy companies boosted
hiring to meet demand from China in what the RBA has called a
once-in-a-century mining boom. The jobless rate was 5 percent in
January, compared with 9 percent in the U.S.  Mining Investment  BG Group Plc, based in Reading, U.K., said Oct. 31 it will
begin work on a $15 billion liquefied natural gas venture in
Queensland, generating 5,000 jobs. BG,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and ConocoPhillips are among companies investing
about A$200 billion in proposed LNG projects in Australia.  Gillard’s Labor government has vowed to return the
country’s budget to surplus by 2012-13 after recording a deficit
of A$54.8 billion ($55.5 billion) last fiscal year, which
reflected spending to avoid a recession during the global
financial crisis.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said two days ago flooding in the
state of Queensland trimmed fourth-quarter economic expansion by
0.4 percentage points. Growth will be cut by a percentage point
in the first quarter of 2011 because of natural disasters, he
said.  The world’s biggest supplier of iron ore, coal and wool
expects to earn a record A$211 billion from raw materials
shipments in the 12 months ending June 30.  “The immediate focus is on returning to surplus and
repaying debt,” said Gillard, a former lawyer who replaced  Kevin Rudd  as leader in June 2010. “We have very low debt
levels by the standards of the world. We want to make sure we
are surplus budgeting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  