-- 
Gingrich's Appearance in Georgia Gives 2012 U.S. Presidential Race a Nudge

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-03-03T20:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/gingrich-appearance-in-georgia-to-give-2012-u-s-presidential-race-a-nudge.html
Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich
today moved closer to jumping into the 2012 presidential race,
announcing that he was setting up a  website  to raise money and
explore a run for the White House.  “We will look at this very seriously,” said Gingrich, 67,
appearing in his home state of  Georgia .  The Republican stopped short of setting up a campaign
committee to raise money. Under federal election law, Gingrich
can raise and spend money to explore the feasibility of a
presidential campaign without having to disclose contributors.
If he becomes a candidate, he then has to identify all of his
donors.  “We believe that it is possible to re-establish American
exceptionalism” as a core U.S. value, he said today.  Gingrich’s remarks nudged forward a Republican primary race
that so far has been marked by prospective candidates biding
their time.  Joe Gaylord, one of Gingrich’s longest-serving advisers,
said he expects him to challenge President  Barack Obama .  ‘Contract With America’  Gingrich was one of the authors of the 1994 “Contract with
America,” the manifesto advocating limited government and lower
taxes that helped sweep Republicans into control of the  House of
Representatives  for the first time in 40 years. With similar
themes defining the Tea Party movement that has energized
today’s Republican Party, Gingrich sees an opportunity, Gaylord
said.  “He says 2012 clearly is time for a new Contract with
America,” said Gaylord.  Gingrich, who served 20 years in the House, is also
associated with fostering a culture of hyper-partisanship in
Washington. The four years of his speakership in the late 1990s
were marked a standoff with President  Bill Clinton  over  government spending  that led to a government shutdown and the
House’s impeachment of Clinton stemming from the Monica Lewinsky
sex scandal.  He became the first speaker rebuked by the House and paid a
$300,000 penalty. The  House Ethics Committee  said he had used
tax-deductible money for political purposes and gave inaccurate
information to investigators.  ‘Pretty Polarized’  “Opinions about him are pretty polarized,” said Merle Black, a political science professor at Emory University in
Atlanta. “He starts out with a lot of opposition, as well as
some support.”  In a sign of the growing expectation that Gingrich will
seek the presidency, Fox News announced yesterday that it is
suspending its on-air contract with him while he mulls a run.
The network made the same move with former Senator Rick Santorum, a Pennsylvania Republican who is considering a
presidential candidacy.  A  Gallup poll  conducted Feb. 18-20 of registered
Republicans and Republican-leaning independents showed Gingrich
trailing three other prospective candidates, though no one was a
clear front-runner. Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who
sought the Republican nomination in 2008, led with 18 percent
support, followed by former Governors  Mitt Romney  of  Massachusetts  and Sarah Palin of  Alaska , each with 16 percent.
Gingrich had 9 percent support in the survey, which has a margin
of error of plus or minus three percentage points.  Laying the Groundwork  Gingrich has been laying the groundwork for a presidential
bid for more than two years, and his candidacy would key off his
policy achievements as speaker, including the overhaul of the
U.S. welfare system and spending policies that helped create a
temporary federal  budget surplus .  His Georgia visit revolved around a meeting with Governor
Nathan Deal, a Republican, to discuss the state’s rights under
the U.S. Constitution.  Along with former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty and
Santorum, Gingrich has been among the most active prospective
candidates traveling to Iowa, the state that hosts the first
official presidential nominating contest.  Matt Strawn , chairman of the Iowa  Republican Party , said
Gingrich has attended events and raised money through his
political action committee for numerous local and state
lawmakers who would be pivotal to a successful showing in Iowa’s
caucuses.  Heading to Iowa  Gingrich will travel again to Iowa on March 7 to address
the Iowa Faith and Freedom Coalition. The trip will be his third
to the state this year and his 10th since January 2010.  He also will appear in  New Hampshire , which holds the
nation’s first primary, on March 17 when he attends an annual
St. Patrick’s Day breakfast in Nashua.  Gingrich’s speech to the Faith and Freedom Coalition could
be an early test of his standing among members of his party’s
religious conservative wing, which traditionally has been
influential in  Iowa .  Twice divorced, he had an affair with a House staff member
while he was married to his second wife and while he led the
push to impeach Clinton for lying to a federal grand jury about
sexual liaisons with Lewinsky, a former White House intern.
Gingrich later married the staff member.  “In a Republican primary, which is a very pro-family
context, it’s going to be a very, very tough sell,” David Hill,
a Texas-based Republican pollster, said of Gingrich’s personal
history.  Presidential Window  Gingrich may also struggle with an impression within his
party that his presidential window closed years ago, said Hill,
describing the sentiment.  “Newt had his turn,” said Hill. “It was a long time ago,
and it didn’t work out. Opportunity passes us by once.”  He raised $13.7 million last year for an independent
political committee that under the U.S. tax code can take in
unlimited corporate, union and individual donations. Though he
can’t use those funds to run for president, he can spend the
money to travel around the country and to aid Republicans on the
state and local level.  Also today, former Louisiana Governor Buddy Roemer, a
Democrat-turned-Republican, said he will form an exploratory
committee and begin raising money for a possible presidential
run. He said he would cap all donations at $100 and not take
money from political action committees. Roemer, a former U.S.
House member, served as governor from 1988 to 1992.  “Electability should not be discussed in terms of who can
raise the most money, but rather who has the best ideas to raise
America,” he said in a statement.  Roemer, 67, also will participate in the forum sponsored by
the Iowa Faith and Freedom Coalition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at   or
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 