-- 
GM Estate to Liquidate as Creditors Question Stock Value

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-03T21:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/gm-s-bankruptcy-plan-for-unwanted-businesses-to-be-confirmed-judge-says.html
General Motors Corp.’s unwanted
businesses won bankruptcy court approval to liquidate, subject
to minor changes, paving the way for creditors to be repaid amid
concern that they won’t be protected from volatility in new GM’s
stock.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber said in  Manhattan  court
today that he will confirm the wind-down plan in a written
ruling. His decision seals the government-backed separation of
the automaker’s liabilities from its most profitable operations,
which took place almost two years ago. Motors Liquidation Co.’s
plan pays creditors with stock and warrants in the new company,
and sets aside $773 million to clean-up 89 polluted sites in 14
states.  “GM’s rebirth, its recent public offering, the growth of
its market share, the revenues it’s been generating, and the
continued employment of tens of thousands of people worldwide”
is due to the success of the bankruptcy, said Stephen Karotkin,
a lawyer for the bankrupt estate, known as Motors Liquidation
Co..  Detroit-based GM filed the third-largest bankruptcy in
history, after that of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
WorldCom Inc., in June 2009. On its first day in bankruptcy, it
sold some assets to a newly formed company. The  U.S. Treasury 
provided the 100-year old company with billions of dollars in
loans that converted into an equity stake in the streamlined
company, which is now public.  Loan  Unwanted properties were left under Chapter 11 protection,
and the U.S. Treasury and  Canada ’s export credit agency loaned
the estate what is now $1.2 billion to wind down.  “It is critical to the public interest that the plan be
confirmed and become effective promptly so creditors can be paid
and U.S. taxpayers can stop bearing the expense of running a
complex Chapter 11 proceeding,” said  David Jones , a lawyer for
the U.S. Attorney’s office.  He added that the U.S. and Canada’s export agency will get
any assets that remain after the wind-down.  Creditors including New York State and a group of  hedge
funds  and banks holding about $2 billion in claims expressed
concern over their ability to control when they would receive
distributions, given the possibility that new GM’s stock could
decline in value.  Other Creditors    Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and hedge funds
holding notes in a Nova Scotia subsidiary said the plan doesn’t
properly allow their claim, based on $1.3 billion in
intercompany loans that GM Canada was relieved of, preventing it
from joining the U.S. units in bankruptcy.  Appaloosa Management LP, Aurelius Capital Management LP,
Elliott Management Corp. and  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) ,
holders of notes in General Motors Nova Scotia Finance, said
their claim should be paid as part of the bankruptcy. Creditors
have said they want a lawsuit to resolve whether the claim is
valid.  “There is a cottage industry of purchasing bonds of
limited liability companies for cents on the dollar. These
claims buyers are getting about $2.6 billion in claims when the
amount in principle was $1 billion,” said Barry Seidel of
Butzel Long, conflicts counsel for the debtor.  Stocks, Warrants  Bruce Zirinsky, a lawyer for the group, told Gerber that
it risks losing value because the claim will be repaid in GM
stock and warrants, and asked that it be given rights to manage
the reserves for the claim, giving the group permission to sell
the stock or warrants.  “It’s unheard of to give a creditor the right to direct
management of a claim,” Seidel said.    New York  State also objected to the distribution of its
claim based on concerns that the value of stock in new General
Motors could change.  Maureen Leary, a lawyer for the New York Attorney General’s
office, asked that a trust to distribute stock and warrants
protect creditors who are later in line for distribution.  “We don’t want to have to worry that the more the stock is
traded and floods the market, the less we’ll get,” Leary said.
“Not only to save U.S. Treasury money but to have dollars to
put into the ground for remedial purposes. New York has zero
dollars.”  The state has a claim for costs to remediate 19 polluted
sites.  Remaining Issues  Joseph Smolinsky, a Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP lawyer for
the estate, said the risk of share volatility gives creditors
good incentive to resolve any remaining issues with the company.  “If value of stock plummets the estate would run out of
shares to settle claims,” Smolinsky said.  Under the “GUC Trust” general unsecured creditors are to
be paid through receive stock and two series of warrants, one
with an exercise price of $10 a share that expires in July 2016,
and another with an exercise price of $18.33 a share that
expires July 2019, according to court papers.  General Motors shares have hit a high of $38.98 in 2011,
and traded recently at $33.00. Holders of equity in old General
Motors were the one class that were crammed down, or
involuntarily forced to accept, the Chapter 11 plan.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York bankruptcy court at 
1459 or  tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 