-- 
Goldman Sachs Model Evokes Blood-Sucking Leeches: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-03-03T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/goldman-sachs-model-evokes-blood-sucking-leeches-caroline-baum.html
Macroeconomics really is stuck in
the Dark Ages.  Take “fiscal stimulus,” for example, the idea that the
government can step in to fill the void when the private sector
isn’t spending and boost economic growth in the process.  Economists have been  debating  the pros and cons of fiscal
stimulus since the 1930s, when  John Maynard Keynes  diagnosed the
problem as one of inadequate private investment and prescribed
public spending, financed by  borrowing , as the cure.  The discussion hasn’t advanced very much in eight decades.
Sure, economists have devised elegant mathematical models that
purport to show that $1 of government purchases translates into
-- take your pick -- no increase in gross domestic product (the
 multiplier is zero , according to Harvard’s Robert Barro) or
$1.50 of GDP (a multiplier of 1.5, according to Berkeley’s  Christina Romer , who was chairman of President Obama’s  Council
of Economic Advisers  when the $814 billion stimulus was crafted
in 2009). They haven’t really proven anything.  Keynesian economics went into hibernation in the latter
part of the 20th century following an array of stimulus failures
on the part of both Democratic and Republican administrations in
the 1970s. The only thing the spending stimulated was
stagflation.  In the 1980s, inflation came down, the  Berlin Wall  came
down, economists thought the volatility of the business cycle
had come down, and the notion of government as the solution went
out of vogue.  Keynesians All  All it took was a good financial crisis for the Keynesians
to come out of the woodwork.  The debate over fiscal stimulus went viral last week (at
least in the geek world) with an  economic forecast  from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , a counter from Stanford University economist  John Taylor  (he of the Taylor rule), and an addenda from Goldman
yesterday.  The Goldman gang projected an economic drag (that would be
the opposite of stimulus) on GDP growth of 1.5 to 2 percentage
points in the second and third quarters if House-passed budget
cuts of $61 billion for the remainder of fiscal 2011 become the
law of the land.  Asked about the Goldman forecast Tuesday following
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  demurred.  “Our analysis doesn’t get a number quite like that,” he
said. “Two percent is an enormous effect.”  He could have added: “especially when the rest of
government is growing.”  Wrong on Everything  “Total government spending is up 6.7 percent in 2011 from
2010,” Taylor told me in a telephone interview.  Defense spending is rising, as are non-discretionary
outlays for programs such as Medicare and Social Security that
are on automatic pilot.  The proposed cuts would reduce non-defense non-security
discretionary spending, a teensy share of the federal budget,
back to 2008 levels.  In a Feb. 28  blog post , Taylor said Goldman’s analysis was
“wrong.” He criticized it for failing to consider the
beneficial effects that expectations of lower future deficits
and smaller tax increases would have on the economy. He
criticized the methodology for relying on the same “large
multiplier theory” used to justify the 2009 stimulus. And he
criticized the assumption that proposed spending equates with
actual spending, which trickles out over time.  Aside from that, Mrs. Lincoln, the Goldman analysis was
spot on.  ‘Alchemists and Quacks’  This fundamental disagreement among professional economists
about whether  government spending  helps or hurts represents the
state of the art, or science, today. In what other science do
practitioners design a treatment plan based on inconclusive
proof that the medicine does any good?  There are no control studies in economics, no way to hold
everything else constant to determine the impact of one
variable, no way to falsify conclusions that models spit out.
Financial Times columnist John Kay, writing yesterday about risk
modelers, referred to them as “ alchemists and quacks .”  A bit harsh, perhaps, but he’d probably hold macroeconomic
models in the same high regard.  Whenever oil prices spike, modelers instantly project how
much the increase will subtract from GDP growth. No mention of
why prices are rising. Is it the result of a supply shock, which
results in higher prices and reduced quantity demanded, or an
outward shift in the demand curve, which equates with higher
price and quantity demanded? There is a difference.  Known Knowns  In microeconomics, which is the study of how individuals
and firms interact in specific markets, certain truths are self-
evident. Which doesn’t mean economic planners can see them.
Governments across Asia right now are using subsidies and price
controls to ease the pain of higher oil and food prices even
though their actions will exacerbate the crisis.  Goldman countered Taylor’s critique with a clarification.
The projected 1.5 to 2 percentage point hit to GDP was to the
quarterly annualized growth rate, not to the level. Thanks for
that.  As I said before, we entered the 21st century with
macroeconomics still looking for an Age of Enlightenment.  Five thousand years ago in ancient  Egypt , medics used
leeches to suck the blood of ill patients, believing the
practice could cure everything from fevers to food poisoning.  Today’s physicians have largely forsaken bloodsuckers for
modern medicine. It’s about time macroeconomics emerged from the
Dark Ages as well.    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  