-- 
Greek Tourism Gets Boost From North African Political Turmoil

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-03-03T13:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/greek-tourism-gets-boost-from-north-african-political-turmoil.html
  Greece  may get a 10 percent increase
in tourist arrivals this year because of the political turmoil
in North Africa, according to the head of the nation’s hotel
association.  Early bookings for the spring and summer season from
Britain, which accounted for 14 percent of the 15 million
tourists who visited Greece in 2009, were more than 10 percent
higher than a year earlier, said Andreas Andreadis, president of
the  Hellenic Hotel Federation . German reservations rose as much
as 5 percent while Russian bookings increased about 20 percent,
he said.  “It looks like we’re getting a part of the family business
that was going to Egypt and  Tunisia ,” Adreadis said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Families book relatively early
and they’re more affected by the fear of uncertainty or that
something might happen.”  Greece is counting on tourism, which accounts for 16
percent of gross domestic product and employs almost a fifth of
the workforce, to spur an economy that’s now in its third year
of recession. The industry was hit last year as government
budget cuts triggered violent protests and strikes at ports and
airports.  Income from international tourism dropped 8 percent in 2010
as hoteliers slashed prices, according to figures from the
 Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises . Discounting helped
limit the drop in tourist arrivals to 0.6 percent after a 6.4
percent slump in 2009.  Factors supporting the industry this year include a
stronger economic performance in the rest of  Europe  and a cut in
tourism sales tax introduced in January, which is helping prices
stay competitive, Andreadis said.  “What we hope is that if the booking trend continues the
late booking discounts will not be necessary this year,” he
said. “Income could increase, not on a par with the
arrival increase, but not very far away.”  Manny Fontenla-Novoa, chief executive officer of  Thomas
Cook Group Plc (TCG) , Europe’s second-largest tour operator, said this
week that bookings for Greece had seen a “real comeback.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 