-- 
Guggenheim May Hire as Many as 150 Prop Traders Fleeing Banks

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-03T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/guggenheim-to-hire-150-proprietary-traders-fleeing-banks.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC, the closely
held investment bank and asset manager, plans to hire as many as
150 staff being pushed out of banks’ proprietary-trading units
because of U.S. financial rules enacted last year.  Loren M. Katzovitz and Patrick Hughes, 49-year-old managing
partners who have worked together since 1993, are launching
Guggenheim Global Trading LLC in Purchase, New York, with an
initial investment of $500 million as soon as June 1, they said
yesterday in an interview. The firm plans to hire 100 to 150
traders and manage as much as $2 billion, they said.  Guggenheim, whose executive chairman is former Bear Stearns
Cos. Chief Executive Officer Alan D. Schwartz, is setting up the
new unit because regulatory changes are making experienced
traders easier to hire, Katzovitz and Hughes said. The so-called
Volcker rule has led banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Morgan Stanley to shut or spin off prop-trading units at the
same time as new registration requirements make it harder for
traders to start  hedge funds .  “Historically the people leaving a prop desk would have
gone out to a prime broker and launched a hedge fund,”
Katzovitz said. “Now launching is just more difficult unless
you have critical mass.”  Guggenheim Global Trading has already hired staff for some
technology, legal and administrative functions and is in talks
with trading teams, Katzovitz said. The new business, to be set
up as a multistrategy fund investing Guggenheim’s own money,
plans to hire 20 to 25 trading teams, he said.  Attracting Talent  “In 2007 it was difficult to attract the right talent to
build something like this,” Katzovitz said. “The environment
is just different right now and the quality of people you can
get is just remarkable.”  The company is building out 30,000 square feet of floor
space with more than 140 trading desks as well as offices and
conference rooms to accommodate the new business, Hughes said.  “Traders are coming out and they’re saying, ‘Do I want to
put out a couple of million dollars to start a fund or do I want
to find a platform where I can go and trade and have a
participation in the culture?’” Hughes said.  Katzovitz and Hughes met while at Kidder, Peabody & Co. in
1993 and worked together at Royal Bank of  Canada , where
Katzovitz was co-head of equity derivative and proprietary
trading and Hughes helped lead the alternative assets business.
They joined Guggenheim in 2002 and started a hedge fund of funds
managed account platform called Guggenheim Advisors.  In 2006, the company sold 71.5 percent of Guggenheim
Advisors to Bank of Ireland Plc, the nation’s largest bank, and
repurchased it in 2009. Katzovitz and Hughes declined to comment
on the terms of those transactions.  Katzovitz and Hughes said that Guggenheim is in a good
position because it has the resources to comply with regulatory
requirements and supply its traders with capital.  “We think we can build a very interesting institutional
presence in the hedge-fund world,” Katzovitz said. “We are
very keen to be building something a little different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 