-- 
Libya War Prompts Chavez, Arab Mediation Offer Amid Attacks

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-03T20:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/libya-war-draws-chavez-arab-mediation-offer-as-qaddafi-attacks.html
The Arab League said it’s weighing
an offer by  Venezuela ’s Hugo Chavez to mediate in Libya’s civil
conflict, as his ally Muammar Qaddafi struggles to break out of
his Tripoli base and regain rebel-held parts of the country.  The Arab League is holding talks with Venezuela on sending
mediators to Libya, said Hesham Youssef, chief of staff for the
group’s Secretary General Amr Moussa, by phone today. Venezuela
is also in talks with other countries, he said, without giving
further details.  The Venezuelan president and Qaddafi have spoken about the
proposal, Venezuela’s government said. U.S. State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley , while not ruling out talks, said if
Qaddafi’s “not responding to the many calls across the
international community for him to step down, it’s uncertain to
me what an international commission is going to accomplish.”
Oil fell from a 2 1/2-year high on news of the initiative.  Qaddafi’s air force resumed attacks today on rebel-held
Brega on the Gulf of Sidra, where army deserters secured oil
facilities, the  Associated Press  said. The eastern town was
fought over yesterday, with the government seizing control
before losing it again to insurgents. Rebels retained control of
the western cities of Zawiyah and Misrata, near Tripoli, against
loyalist attacks, the AP said. People in Zawiyah were preparing
today for an assault from pro-Qaddafi units reported to be
massing to the east, AP cited a resident as saying.  In Washington, President  Barack Obama  called anew for
Qaddafi to “step down from power and leave,” and said the U.S.
is sending military and chartered civilian aircraft to help
repatriate foreign workers who fled Libya to Tunisia and Egypt.  U.S. Military Options  Speaking at the White House, he said the U.S., along with
NATO allies, is looking at a “full range” of military options.
He said the U.S. needs options ready to use quickly if
necessary, noting the “danger of a stalemate that, over time,
could be bloody.”  Opposition leaders called for international air strikes on
Qaddafi’s forces, while U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said
yesterday that setting up a no-fly zone over the North African
country would be a “big operation” requiring the bombing of
its air defenses.  China  joined  Russia  yesterday in signaling
likely opposition to action by the  United Nations Security
Council  to authorize a no-fly zone.  The Libyan leader and Chavez spoke two days ago about a
plan to form a commission to address the situation in  Libya ,
according to an e-mailed statement sent yesterday by Venezuela’s
Information Ministry. Libya has accepted the use of a commission
to help find a negotiated solution to the crisis, CNBC cited the
Venezuelan government as saying.  Proposal for Talks  “I hope that we can have a commission of friendly
countries formed in the coming days that will talk to both
Qaddafi’s government and the opposition,” Venezuelan Foreign
Minister Nicolas Maduro said yesterday, according to the
Information Ministry. “We want to reach a peaceful agreement.”  Chavez said on Feb. 28 that the U.S. is “exaggerating”
the situation in Libya to justify an invasion to gain access to
the country’s oil reserves. He has historically had warm
relations with Qaddafi, comparing him to South American
liberator Simon Bolivar and hosting him in Venezuela in 2009 for
a summit of African and South American leaders.  While the rebels hold the military advantage, Qaddafi’s
regime is “not yet out of the fight, and a prolonged, violent
struggle is shaping up,” said Jeffrey White, a defense fellow
at the  Washington  Institute for Near East Policy and specialist
on the region. “Both sides lack the offensive capability to
bring the conflict to a rapid conclusion,” and an extended
conflict will “increase pressure for external military
intervention,” he said in a report on the group’s website.  Oil Slides  Crude for April delivery slid $1.21, or 1.2 percent, to
$101.02 a barrel at 1:31 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the biggest drop since Feb. 11. Prices have risen 25
percent in the past year.  Gulf shares extended declines, with Dubai’s main index
dropping 1.6 percent, bringing the decline to more than 17
percent since Tunisia’s president was ousted Jan. 14.  Qaddafi and some of his sons are being investigated by the
 International Criminal Court  on suspicion of committing crimes
against humanity during the unrest, Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo told reporters at the court in The Hague today
without giving the sons’ names.  Libya has no future with Qaddafi in power, U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, Steve Field, said today in
response to questions about Chavez’s offer to mediate.  Qaddafi Must Go  Qaddafi “has lost credibility and authority in that
country, and we find it very difficult to see a solution that
involves him staying,” Field told reporters in  London  today.  The conflict’s focal point moved eastward yesterday after
earlier clashes close to the capital, Tripoli, where Qaddafi has
retained control. Northeast of Brega, warplanes bombed an area
near Ajdabiya, where the rebels have seized an army camp, and Al
Arabiya television reported that 16 people were killed. The
death toll from fighting in Brega rose to 14, the AP said,
citing morgue officials.  Brega has Libya’s oldest refinery, which can produce about
10,000 barrels per day, and a gas liquefaction plant, according
to the Arab Oil and Gas Directory for 2010. The state-owned
National Oil Co. agreed with Royal Dutch Shell in 2005 to help
restore the gas plant’s capacity to 3.2 million tons a year.
Libya also has an export terminal for crude oil and refined
products.  Libya allowed the Brega plant to “fall into decay over the
years,” according to the publication.  Oil Output  Oil output in Libya, which holds  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, has dropped by as much as 1 million barrels a day
since the unrest began, the  International Energy Agency  said
yesterday.  Benghazi-based Arabian Gulf Oil Co. split from its state-
owned parent, National Oil Corp., Al Arabiya television
reported, citing unidentified Arabian Gulf officials. The split
is temporary until Tripoli is liberated, the officials told Al
Arabiya today. The proceeds of oil sales by Arabian Gulf won’t
be accessible by the regime, they said, according to Al Arabiya.  The U.S. and other countries are seeking to evacuate their
citizens from Libya and ease the plight of refugees, at the same
time as they debate measures to end the fighting.  Two U.S. Navy warships with Marines aboard will arrive off
Libya within a day or two for possible humanitarian operations,
said Josh Diddams, a spokesman for the Marine Corps at the
Pentagon. U.S. Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Gary Roughead
said two aircraft carriers are already in the region and a third
is preparing for deployment there from Norfolk, Virginia.  ‘All Eventualities’  U.K. Foreign Minister William Hague spoke with General
Abdul Fattah Younis, who resigned as interior minister on Feb.
23 to join the opposition in Benghazi, and told him Britain is
working on contingency planning “for all eventualities,
including a no-fly zone,” according to Hague’s office.  Any no-fly zone over Libya will need broad international
backing, Hague and French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said
today in a joint news conference in Paris.  “The threat to bomb civilian populations is illegal, and
we must prevent it from happening. That’s why we support
planning on a no-fly zone,” Juppe said. “It can’t just be
western countries. We need the participation of regional
governments.”  More than 150,000 people have fled Libya to neighboring  Egypt  and Tunisia since Feb. 19, the UN refugee agency said on
March 1. Thousands of foreign workers are stranded in Benghazi
and on the border with Tunisia, New York-based  Human Rights
Watch  said yesterday. The UN’s World Food Program called for
“increased humanitarian action to prevent a disaster.”  Refugee Crisis  The British destroyer York arrived in Malta today with
evacuees from Libya after delivering Swedish-donated medical
supplies to Benghazi yesterday, the Ministry of Defense in
London said on its website.  Planes chartered by the U.K. government have so far
airlifted 800 refugees to Egypt from the border, Cameron’s
spokesman said. The U.K. is aiming to transfer about 2,000
people a day to Egypt, he said. Britain has chartered three
planes to take a total of 6,000 refugees from the unrest in
Libya to Egypt, the government said yesterday.  The Libyan revolt is among regional anti-government
demonstrations that have erupted in Yemen, Bahrain, Oman,
Jordan,  Algeria , Morocco,  Iran  and  Iraq . In addition to the
toppling of  Tunisia ’s leader, the popular uprisings have also
led to the ouster of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.  Egyptian Resignation  Egypt’s ruling army council, which took power when Mubarak
stepped down on Feb. 11, today accepted the resignation of Prime
Minister Ahmed Shafik and invited former Transport Minister
Essam Sharaf to form a government. Shafik had been the target of
protesters who are urging a break with the old regime.  Tunisian interim President Fouad Mebazaa will call for
suspending the constitution and dissolving parliament, Al
Arabiya television reported today, citing unidentified people.  Yemen’s opposition coalition said today it has given
President Ali Abdullah Saleh, in power for more than 30 years, a
“road map” for a peaceful transition involving the ruler’s
departure this year.  Governments throughout the region, including the royal
family in  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s biggest oil
reserves, have announced increased spending on social programs,
such as food and energy subsidies and job-creation plans, to
assuage the unrest. The protesters are demanding moves toward
democracy as well as higher living standards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 