-- 
Libyan Sovereign Fund Official Faces Austrian Asset Freeze

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-03-03T14:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/libyan-investment-deputy-zarti-may-face-austrian-asset-freeze.html
  Austria ’s central bank is expanding
an asset freeze of 26 Libyans to include the deputy chief
executive officer of the North African country’s sovereign
wealth fund.  The National Bank ordered Mustafa Zarti’s accounts frozen
as of tomorrow, a bank spokeswoman said today. Austria’s Foreign
Ministry requested the freeze because of Zarti’s close links to  Libya ’s ruling family, spokesman Peter Launsky-Tieffenthal said
in a telephone interview.  “He is not on the original list even though he is very
close to the Qaddafi family,” Launsky-Tieffenthal said. The
Foreign Ministry is conducting a parallel investigation into how
Zarti received Austrian citizenship, he said.  Zarti’s telephone at the  Libyan Investment Authority  wasn’t
answered during business hours in Tripoli today. Libya, through
its $70 billion Investment Authority, holds shares of  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and Pearson Plc,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Muammar Qaddafi and his entourage may have invested around
30 billion euros ($42 billion) in Austria, Vienna’s Die Presse
newspaper reported yesterday citing an unnamed former aide to 
the Libyan leader. Austrian banks have 1.2 billion euros in 
deposits from Libyan clients, the central bank said March 1.  Zarti, a friend of Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, may have
funneled investments through Austrian foundations, according to
the Die Presse report. He flew from Tripoli to Vienna on Feb.
21, the newspaper said, citing an unidentified source familiar
with the investigation.  “One will certainly find something, the question is
whether one will find everything,”  Ewald Nowotny , the Austrian
central bank governor, said on ORF state television March 1.
“It is important that the money doesn’t flow away. And then you
can start discussing whom it really belongs to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  