-- 
Libyan-Backed Hedge Fund's Fundraising Challenged by Uprising

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-03-03T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/libyan-backed-hedge-fund-s-expansion-plans-challenged-by-tripoli-fighting.html
Former Bear Stearns Cos. executive
Frederic Marino started an $800 million hedge fund with the
backing of Muammar Qaddafi’s government. Now his plan to attract
new investors is being threatened by fighting in the streets of
the Libyan capital of Tripoli.  London-based  FM Capital Partners Ltd. , founded in 2009 with
financing from a Libyan sovereign wealth fund, was preparing to
raise money from other outside investors this year for the first
time, according to two people briefed on the plans who declined
to be identified because the firm is private. Those plans may
have to be postponed after governments froze Qaddafi’s assets
and global leaders rebuked his violent crackdown on dissidents,
hedge-fund industry consultants said.  Libyan money is “a huge hindrance” to soliciting new
investors, said Don Steinbrugge, managing partner of Agecroft
Partners LLC, a Richmond, Virginia-based consulting firm that
advises hedge funds and investors. “Once there is a transition
to a more stable government, their asset base should be a
positive in helping them build the business.”  The turmoil in  Libya  has triggered uncertainty over what
may happen to the nation’s foreign investments. Moody’s
Investors Service Inc. last week downgraded Bahrain-based Arab
Banking Corp., citing the fact that the company is 59 percent
owned by Libya’s central bank. Shares of Milan-based  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , of which Libya’s biggest sovereign wealth fund owns a 2.6
percent stake, have fallen 8.3 percent since Feb. 17.  Fitch
Ratings  cut Libya’s long-term issuer default ratings on March 1
to below investment grade.  Libyan Investments  Marino, 44, didn’t return three telephone calls and an e-
mail from Bloomberg News seeking comment. He worked at Merrill
Lynch & Co., Bear Stearns and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  before
starting FM Capital, according to his registration with the
U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.  Libya, through its $70 billion  Libyan Investment Authority ,
also holds shares of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and Pearson Plc, which owns the Financial Times
newspaper, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Libyan stake makes Pearson Chief Executive Officer
Marjorie Scardino “uncomfortable,” she said on a Feb. 28
conference call. London-based Pearson’s interpretation of a U.K.
asset freeze means shares owned by the Libyan sovereign wealth
fund are “effectively frozen,” the company said in a
statement.  The U.S. blocked Qaddafi and his government from accessing
$30 billion of cash and securities,  David Cohen , acting Treasury
undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, said
Feb. 28.  U.K. Asset Freeze  The U.K. Treasury plans to scrutinize any transactions
entered into by state investment funds because an  asset freeze 
imposed Feb. 27 affects enterprises acting on behalf of Qaddafi
and his family, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Libya established its sovereign wealth funds in the past
decade to try to get better returns on oil wealth than the
nation was earning through  bank deposits , according to the Las
Vegas-based Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute, an organization
that researches how government funds affect the global economy.  As Libya pursued foreign investments, Qaddafi traveled the
globe to try to assuage politicians who had concerns about the
nation’s past as a sponsor of terrorism in the 1980s, when U.S.
President  Ronald Reagan  restricted travel and oil imports.  Five Funds  FM Capital started five hedge funds in 2010 with strategies
including the FMCP Global Opportunities fund, which invests in
stocks, currencies and bonds, and a so-called systematic fund,
which relies on computers to decide when to buy and sell assets.  A fund that bets on rising and falling stock prices gained
2.4 percent from November to January, while a fund that tries to
profit from corporate events such as mergers and bankruptcies
fell 0.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The firm had been conducting trades as usual earlier this
week amid the unrest in Libya, said one of the people. FM
Capital employees include Alexander Darre, who previously led
hedge-fund strategies for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in  Europe ,  Asia  and the Middle East, according to an FSA filing.  If a client’s assets are frozen it wouldn’t typically
prevent a hedge fund or mutual fund from continuing to invest
the money, said Stephen Crimmins, a law partner at K&L Gates in  Washington . A freeze would prohibit the client from withdrawing
money from an investment fund or selling shares of companies,
said Crimmins, a former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
attorney who’s worked on asset freezes with U.K. regulators.  Questions and Hurdles  “Considering how difficult it is to raise assets at the
moment,” ties to Libya “will probably raise more questions and
hurdles,” said Jerome Lussan, founder of Laven Partners LLP in  London , which examines hedge funds for investors. “There’s also
a reputational impact.”  In addition to managing money, FM Capital trains aspiring
hedge-fund managers. The firm offers a three-year  education
program  that focuses on  portfolio management , trading, risk
management and investment research, according to its website.
Marino, in a September interview with the Financial Times, said
the firm’s pupils had the potential to be the “next generation
of hedge-fund managers in Libya.”  Mohamed Taher Siala, Libya’s former deputy foreign
minister, sits on FM Capital’s board along with Ramadan
Haggiagi, head of investments at the Libya Africa Investment
Portfolio, according to a Companies House filing.  The Libya Africa Investment Portfolio , another sovereign
wealth fund started in 2006 with $5 billion to invest, provided
the financing for FM Capital and owns 55 percent of its shares,
according to an August Companies House filing.  The remaining 45 percent of the firm is owned by companies
controlled by Marino and his business associate Aurelien Bessot,
a former London-based derivatives trader for  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  Bessot, 35, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Calls and an e-mail to the Libyan Africa Investment
Authority in Tripoli weren’t answered. The fund is overseen by
the Libyan Investment Authority, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  