-- 
Ticonderoga Securities Agrees to Buy Soleil Securities to Expand Research

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-03-03T18:55:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/ticonderoga-securities-agrees-to-buy-soleil-securities-to-expand-research.html
Ticonderoga Securities LLC, the  New
York  securities firm, said it’s buying Soleil Securities Corp.
to expand research coverage. Terms weren’t disclosed by the two
closely held companies.  Soleil adds stocks, macroeconomics and Washington policy to
the lineup of research for institutional clients of Ticonderoga,
the firm said today in a statement. The deal is expected to
close at the end of this month, the firm said.  The takeover is part of Ticonderoga’s effort to become what
it calls a “research-led sales and trading business across a
broad spectrum of asset classes.” The firm is owned and run by
Joel Plasco and Shawn McLoughlin, the former group chief
executive officer and North American CEO of Collins Stewart Plc,
the London-based advisory firm.  “It’s going to give us a wider breadth of research
offerings,” McLoughlin said today in an interview. “It’s
really going to stand us apart from our competitors.”  The combined business will have about 135 employees and
offices in New York,  Boston ,  Minneapolis ,  San Francisco  and  Cleveland . Ticonderoga concentrates on domestic and
international equities and announced March 1 it’s starting a
fixed-income business. Soleil is a research, sales and trading
firm that covers more than 200 stocks and provides research on
macroeconomics and Washington policy.  Staff Outlook  The two companies have “very little overlap” on research
coverage, sales and trading and the firm will hire new analysts
after the integration, McLoughlin said. While the company is
always looking for new talent, Plasco said, “in an acquisition
of this nature, there are going to be people who don’t make the
transition.”  Terry Gardner, Soleil’s CEO, didn’t respond to a telephone
message left at his office.  Soleil was started in 2003 following the $1.4 billion
settlement between Wall Street firms and the Securities and
Exchange Commission over allegations the banks used biased
research to gain underwriting and merger assignments.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  