-- 
Microsoft Said to Plan Windows Release for Tablets in 2012

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-03-04T21:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/microsoft-windows-for-tablet-computers-is-said-to-come-to-market-in-2012.html
  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, won’t release a competitor to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Google Inc.’s tablet operating systems until the 2012 back-to-
school season, people with knowledge of the plans said.  Public testing of a new version of Windows will begin at
the end of this year with partners and customers, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the plans haven’t
been disclosed publicly.  Microsoft is working to update its  Windows 7  operating
system with features more tailored to the touch screens, size
and battery life of tablet computers to win a place in the
surging market for the devices. The longer it takes Microsoft to
release its operating system, the more time Apple and Google
have to strengthen their hold on the market.  “If 2011 is the year of the tablet wars, Microsoft will be
awfully late suiting up for that battle,” said  Michael Gartenberg , a New Jersey-based analyst for research firm Gartner
Inc. “It’s not a good position to be in.”  A 2012 debut for Microsoft would likely put it up against a
third-generation iPad from Apple and second and third versions
of devices based on Google’s Android system, Gartenberg said.
Hewlett-Packard Co. and Research In Motion Ltd. will probably
also release second-generation tablets by then, he said.  Mark Martin, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment.  Competition Revving Up  Competition among tablet makers is mounting, with more than
100 new designs entering the market this year, according to In-
Stat. The market for tablets will grow to 118 million units by
2015, the Scottsdale, Arizona-based consulting firm said in a
report yesterday.  Apple introduced its second iPad version this week -- less
than a year after the original went on sale. Apple sold 14.8
million units of the first iPad through December.  “Battle lines are being drawn, land is being grabbed,
users are being evangelized and spending money,” Gartenberg
said.  Timelines for new versions of Windows often shift as the
company develops and tests the product. Windows Vista came out
more than two years late, while the current version, Windows 7,
was a few months early.  In response to the iPad’s popularity, Microsoft said in
January it would make a version of the next Windows software
that works on  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology for the first time.  That technology, the basis of chips made by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,
Texas Instruments Inc. and Nvidia Corp., dominates smartphones
and is in tablets that run Google’s Android operating system.
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. have
used ARM-based chips in tablets to take on the iPad.  PC Forecast  Gartner lowered its  forecast  yesterday for shipments of
personal computers this year, citing higher demand for PC
alternatives, such as tablets. Computer makers will ship 387.8
million units this year, an increase of 10.5 percent from last
year, Gartner said. That’s down from an earlier projection for a
15.9 percent increase in 2011.  Microsoft’s operating systems power more than 90 percent of
the world’s PCs. Apple, meanwhile, has more than 90 percent of
the tablet market, Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  said when
he introduced the iPad 2 on March 2.  Microsoft fell 25 cents to $25.95 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has lost 7 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  