-- 
MIDEAST DAYBOOK: Libya Crisis, Egypt T-Bills, U.A.E. Bank Rules

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 
2011-03-03T04:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/mideast-daybook-libya-crisis-egypt-t-bills-u-a-e-bank-rules.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s warplanes bombed
rebels as his ground forces fought unsuccessfully for a main
Libyan oil port and opposition leaders appealed for foreign
nations to launch airstrikes against regime mercenaries.
{EXTRA <GO>} for more on Middle East turmoil.    Egypt ’s Ministry of Finance plans to raise 6.5 billion
pounds ($1.1 billion) in treasury bills at an auction today. The
ministry seeks to sell 3 billion pounds in six-month notes and
3.5 billion pounds in 364-day securities.  The  United Arab Emirates ’ new regulations on retail lending
may hurt fee income at banks such as  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank
PJSC (ADCB)  and push them to reduce their reliance on consumer loans,
Nomura International Plc said.  Former Bear Stearns Cos. Executive Frederic Marino started
an $800 million hedge fund with the backing of Qaddafi’s
government. Now his plan to attract new investors is being
threatened by fighting in the streets of the Libyan capital of
Tripoli.  WHAT TO WATCH:
* Credit-default swaps on Saudi Arabia are the worst performing
  sovereign contracts this year, even though the kingdom has no
  debt to insure, as investors hedge the risk of political
  turmoil in the world’s biggest oil supplier.
*  Fitch Ratings  has downgraded  Tunisia ’s long-term foreign
  currency issuer default rating to ‘BBB-’ from ’BBB’ and long-
  term local currency IDR to ’BBB’ from ’A-’ and removed the
  ratings from Rating Watch Negative. The outlooks on the IDRs
  are negative.
*  Saudi Arabia  offered two European refiners additional cargoes
  of Arab Light crude for loading in March to make up for the
  loss of Libyan oil, two officials involved in the talks said.
* Saudi Arabia and Qatar expressed support for Bahrain’s economy
  and security, the official Bahrain News Agency reported,
  citing a joint statement after a meeting of Saudi and Qatari
  officials in  Riyadh .  CONFERENCES:
* Global Financial Markets Forum organized by National Bank of
   Abu Dhabi  in Abu Dhabi.
* Iraqi Oil Ministry officials will hold a press conference
  in  Baghdad  to discuss energy projects in the country.  MARKETS:
*  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 0.1 percent.
* Crude oil futures for April delivery rose 0.4 percent to
  $102.59 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
  Mercantile Exchange at 8 a.m. in Dubai.
* Gold for April delivery fell 0.2 percent to $1,434.6 an ounce.
*  QE Index (DSM)  plunged 3.6 percent, Dubai Financial Market General
  Index dropped 3.5 percent,  Kuwait  Stock Exchange Index fell
  2.6 percent,  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  declined 1.8 percent, Muscat
  Securities Market lost 1.4 percent and Bahrain All Share Index
  declined 1 percent. Morocco Casablanca Stock Exchange Index
  fell 0.2 percent.
* Tunisia’s stock exchange regulator suspends trading until
  further notice.
* Saudi Arabia’s market is closed today for the weekend.  EQUITY MOVERS:
* Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT UH), the biggest
  phone company in the United Arab Emirates, is still interested
  in buying a stake in Kuwait’s phone company Zain (ZAIN KK).
*  Qatar International Islamic Bank (QIIK) , the country’s third-largest
  Islamic bank by assets, said it may be willing to buy Shariah-
  compliant units from conventional lenders, which were told by
  the central bank to stop offering such services.
*  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  , the state-run utility
  known as Taqa, may sell bonds next year to refinance $1.5
  billion in debt maturing in October 2012, Reuters reported
  citing Chief Financial Officer Doug Fraser.
* EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO EY), the biggest publicly traded
  investment bank in Egypt, will not sell stocks bought on
  margin by small investors in the North African country without
  their permission, it said in an advertisement in Al Masry Al
  Youm newspaper.
*  National Societe Generale Bank SAE (NSGB)   was lowered to
  “underweight” from “hold” at CI Capital Holdings with a price
  estimate of 43.29 Egyptian pounds.
*  Maridive & Oil Services SAE (MOIL)  , an Egyptian marine and
  oil support services company, said it earns 97 percent of its
  revenues in U.S. dollars and 90 percent of its operations are
  located outside Egypt.  FINANCIAL RESULTS AND MEETINGS:
* Du (DU UH) to announce results, hold press conference.
*  Deyaar Development (DEYAAR)  PJSC board meets on results.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  