-- 
Record Food Prices May Persist as Economic Growth Boosts Demand, IMF Says

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-03-03T23:22:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/high-food-prices-may-persist-as-economic-growth-boosts-demand-imf-says.html
Worldwide food prices, which have
surged to a record, may remain high because rising demand
reflects “structural changes in the global economy that will
not be reversed,” the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Increasing incomes in  developing countries  have boosted
demand for meat and dairy products, requiring more grain for
livestock feed and land for grazing animals, Thomas Helbling, an
adviser for the IMF’s research department, and Shaun Roache, an
economist, wrote in an article published today in the agency’s
Finance & Development magazine. Rising demand for biofuels and
adverse weather also have tightened food supplies, the IMF said.  “Over time, supply growth can be expected to respond to
higher prices, as it has in previous decades, easing pressure on
food markets, but this will take time counted in years, rather
than months,” according to the article.  The  United Nations  said today that an index of 55 food
commodities rose to a record in February, up 2.2 percent from
January. Wheat has surged 60 percent in the past year on the  Chicago  Board of Trade after drought last year in  Russia  and
Eastern Europe spurred countries to restrict exports. Dry
weather curbed corn production in the U.S., and floods in  Asia 
have restricted rice supplies, the IMF said.  Three-quarters of the global growth in demand for major
crops in the past decade has been in emerging markets, according
to the article. High food costs still have the biggest impact on
developing countries, where consumers spend a greater percentage
of their incomes on food, the IMF said.  Tunisia, Egypt  Rising food costs and corruption have sparked political
unrest across northern  Africa  and the Middle East, ousting
leaders in Tunisia and Egypt, the world’s largest wheat
importer. As many as 1 billion people go to sleep without food
every night, former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  said in a speech
Feb. 24.  Food output will have to climb by 70 percent by 2050 as the
world population swells to 9 billion people, the UN’s Food and
Agricultural Organization said.  “The world may need to get used to higher food prices,”
Helbling and Roache wrote. “Policy makers, particularly in
emerging and developing economies, will likely have to continue
confronting the challenges posed by food prices that are both
higher and more volatile than the world has been used to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  