-- 
Iliad Wins 3G Deal From France Telecom, Opening Door to IPhone Service

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-03T13:08:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/iliad-wins-3g-deal-from-france-telecom-opening-door-to-iphones.html
  France Telecom SA (FTE)  will allow  Iliad
SA (ILD)  customers to roam on its fastest mobile networks when the
broadband company enters the mobile market in 2012, removing a
key obstacle for France’s fourth cellular operator.  The national roaming agreement will bring about 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion) in revenue over six years to France
Telecom, the country’s largest phone company, said Tom Wright, a
spokesman for the company. The deal is an extension of an
agreement on roaming over lower-speed 2G networks, and will
allow Iliad to offer fast data service on devices like  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone when it starts the mobile network next year.  Iliad, a discount broadband operator, has faced resistance
from France’s existing mobile-phone providers since pledging to
reduce prices for cellular service, which is more expensive than
in neighboring countries including the U.K.  Vivendi SA (VIV) , which
controls No. 2 mobile operator SFR, has “no reason” to co-
operate with the newcomer on 3G, Chief Executive Officer Jean- Bernard Levy said March 1.  The France Telecom deal will take effect once Iliad’s
Free Mobile brand covers 25 percent of the country’s population,
France Telecom said in a statement. Under the terms of its
mobile license, granted in 2009, Iliad committed to cover
90 percent of France by 2018.  The existing mobile operators -- France Telecom, Vivendi,
and  Bouygues SA (EN)  -- faced a “prisoner’s dilemma” over whether
to offer 3G roaming, Iliad Chief Financial Officer Thomas Reynaud said in November, predicting the promise of revenue
would persuade one or more to agree to a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 