-- 
Illegal Gold Trade to be Investigated Jointly by Team From Kenya and Congo

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-03-03T12:27:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/illegal-gold-trade-to-be-investigated-jointly-by-team-from-kenya-and-congo.html
  Kenya  and the Democratic Republic of
Congo will jointly investigate the alleged trade in illegal gold
after last week ordering a probe into speculation that 2.5
metric tons of the metal was smuggled from Congo to the East
African nation.  The decision follows talks today between Congolese
President Joseph Kabila and his Kenyan counterpart,  Mwai Kibaki ,
in Nairobi, Kibaki’s office said in an e-mailed statement from
the capital.  “The two presidents also discussed measures to cooperate
and curb illegal exploitation of naturally occurring minerals in
the Great Lakes region,” according to the statement.  An estimated 80 percent of Congo’s gold exports are
smuggled out of the country, according to the Mines Ministry.
Congo is recovering from more than a decade of war and conflict
continues in the country’s mineral-rich east, where armed
groups, including Congo’s army, profit from the illicit mineral
trade, according to the ministry.  On Feb. 4, Congo’s security forces seized more than $6
million in cash and 400 kilograms (881 pounds) of gold at the
airport in Goma, capital of North Kivu province. Soldiers in the
Congolese army are implicated in the case, North Kivu governor
Julien Paluku said Feb. 25, and the role of General Bosco Ntaganda, who is wanted by the  International Criminal Court  on
charges of  war crimes , is under investigation, Congolese
Information Minister Lambert Mende said March 1. Two Nigerians,
a U.S. citizen and a French national have been arrested and
their plane impounded.  $104 Million  Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said in an interview on
Feb. 25 there were no links between the gold smuggled in Goma
and the 2.5 tons missing in Kenya. At today’s price in  London ,
2.5 tons of gold would be worth about $104 million.  “We’re grateful for Kenya’s decision to work with Congolese
experts” on the case, Mende told reporters March 1 in Kinshasa,
the capital. Congo is asking all heads of state in the region to
follow Kenya’s example and help curb the smuggling of minerals
from the country, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 