-- 
IMF’s Chopra Says Euro Region Forecast to Grow 1.5% in 2011

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-03-03T17:04:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/imf-s-chopra-says-euro-region-forecast-to-grow-1-5-in-2011.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
continues to stand by its forecast of 1.5% growth for the euro
region in 2011, said Ajai Chopra, deputy director of the IMF’s
European department.  While grappling with the debt crisis that already has
required bailouts for Ireland and  Greece , Europe has so far been
able to implement new policies and maintain forward momentum,
Chopra said.  “We have not marked down our forecast for the euro zone in
any material way over the last year,” Chopra said at a panel in  Washington . He said the lender would continue to monitor
Europe’s banks and fiscal policies for signs of trouble.  “The downside risks are very elevated, and the downside
risk comes primarily from the fact that the tensions that are in
the periphery could spread to the core of  Europe ,” Chopra said.  Banks need to hold “a lot more capital” to return to
health and promote a sounder economy, said  Simon Johnson , a
former chief economist at the IMF who is now a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management. He said the most recent
international agreement on capital standards, known as Basel
III, doesn’t go far enough and he called on the fund to push for
tougher requirements.  “I think it is time now for the IMF to take a much clearer
stand on this issue,” he said. “We need to have capital, much
more capital, much more capital than is in Basel III.”  As it stands now, many European banks won’t be able to lend
enough to help the economy as they retrench, he said. “Under-
capitalized banks won’t lend after the crisis,” he said. “They
are not going to be lending to anyone else, they are going to be
cutting back, they are going to be dumping assets or just not
making new loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  