-- 
India Food Inflation Slows to Near Three-Month Low; Rate Pressure Remains

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-03-03T08:54:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/india-food-inflation-slows-to-near-three-month-low-rate-pressure-remains.html
  India ’s food inflation slowed
to near a three-month low after supplies of fruits and
vegetables increased from the winter harvest.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including lentils, rice and vegetables rose 10.39
percent in the week ended Feb. 19 from a year earlier, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today.
The gain is the least since Nov. 27 and compares with an
11.49 percent increase the previous week.  Food inflation still has stayed above 10 percent since
December, maintaining pressure on India’s central bank to
raise  interest rates . Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee,
who said yesterday higher oil prices are a “serious
issue,” lowered income tax and stepped up spending in the
budget this week to protect citizens from rising costs.  “Inflation will continue to remain the predominant
concern for the  Reserve Bank  of India,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, a Mumbai-based economist at  Bank of Baroda . “They
will continue with their tightening stance.”  The Reserve Bank on Jan. 25 raised the benchmark
repurchase rate for the seventh time in a year to 6.5
percent and signaled more tightening. It will announce its
next monetary policy statement on March 17.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 0.2
percent as of 2 p.m. in Mumbai. The yield on the 8.08
percent bond due August 2022, the government’s most-traded
debt, dropped two basis points to 8.08 percent. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point. The market was closed
yesterday for a public holiday.  Global Food Index  The global food price index, compiled by the  United
Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization , surged to a
record for a second month in January, driven by higher
costs of cereals, dairy and sugar.  Mukherjee plans to increase spending by 13.4 percent
to 12.6 trillion rupees ($278.3 billion) for the fiscal
year starting April 1.  Even as he reduced the income-tax burden, Mukherjee
moved to boost levies in other areas to spur revenue and
cut the budget deficit. The finance chief included more
services under the tax net including air-conditioned
restaurants, hotels, airlines and hospitals, increasing
inflationary pressures.  The minister also imposed an excise duty of 10 percent
on branded garments and raised the levy on drugs, textiles
and medical equipment to 5 percent from 4 percent. Cipla
Ltd., an Indian drugmaker, plans to pass on the increase in
excise duty on medicines to customers, its Chief Financial
Officer S. Radhakrishnan said Feb. 28.  Budget Deficit  Mukherjee is aiming to narrow the budget deficit to
4.6 percent of gross domestic product in the year starting
April 1 from 5.1 percent in the previous 12 months. The
government will “struggle” to meet the target, Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services said this week, citing growing
pressures to provide food and fuel subsidies.  “Uncertainty in the oil price is a serious issue
which we shall have to address,” Mukherjee, 75, said in an
interview with  Bloomberg UTV  in  New Delhi  yesterday.
Adjustments to the subsidy bill remain “a conjecture at
this point,” he said.  India meets about three-quarters of its annual energy
needs from imports, and Mukherjee estimated a 38 percent
drop in fuel subsidy costs next year to help lower  government borrowing .  Oil traded near the highest in 29 months as fighting
in  Libya  renewed concern that supply disruptions may spread
to the Middle East while an unexpected drop in U.S. crude
supplies signaled a recovery in demand.  Crude Prices  Crude for April delivery was at $102.29 a barrel, up 6
cents, or 0.1 percent, in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:13 p.m. in  Singapore . It
earlier gained as much as 71 cents to $102.94. Prices are
up 27 percent from a year ago.  Higher oil prices and growing consumer demand are
adding to inflationary pressures, said Shubhada Rao, chief
economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.  India’s services industry grew in February at the
fastest pace in seven months, the purchasing managers’
index released by HSBC Group Plc and Markit Economics
showed today.  Mobile-phone operators including  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) 
added 13.72 million new customers in January, a 2.53
percent from the previous month, a sign of growing demand.
Loans extended by lenders, including ICICI Bank Ltd.,
gained 23.6 percent in the week to Feb. 11, the most in six
weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 