-- 
Invesco's PowerShares Fund Leads Clean Energy Tracking With 7.6% Return

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-03-03T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/invesco-s-powershares-fund-leads-clean-energy-tracking-with-7-6-return.html
  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ’s PowerShares Cleantech
fund beat 35 other low-carbon energy funds last year by tracking
shares of companies including  Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN)  and  GT
Solar International Inc. (SOLR) , Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  The exchange-traded fund with a market value of $152
million posted a dollar return of 7.6 percent in 2010. It beat
Winslow Green Growth Fund’s 7.4-percent gain and a 4.5 percent
return for DnB Nor ASA’s Miljoinvest fund, which placed second
in 2009 and first in 2007, according an annual league table
compiled by the London-based research company.  The winner tracks the Cleantech Index produced by San
Francisco-based Cleantech Group LLC. Rafael Coven, who manages
the index, said the growth of clean technologies from recycling
equipment and water purifiers to wind and solar power is
“unstoppable,” and that the key to investing in the industry
is to avoid a broad exposure by carefully screening stocks.  “There’s going to be some winners and a lot of losers,”
Coven said in an interview. “If you’d invested in all of them,
you’d have lost money, because the terms of the losers will wipe
out what you’ve gained from the winners.”  Clean energy shares last year did worse than the stock
market’s benchmark indices, with the Wilderhill New Energy Index
declining 15 percent and the FTSE Renewable and Alternative
Energy Index falling 8 percent. That compares with a 13 percent
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and an 11 percent gain
for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  SAM Fund Drops  The top fund in 2009, SAM Smart Energy, dropped to 26th
this year after a 14.3 percent decline in value, according to
New Energy Finance. PowerShares Cleantech rose from 14th in last
year’s table.  Kristin Sadlon, a spokeswoman for Invesco PowerShares
Capital Management, which is based in Wheaton,  Illinois ,
referred questions to Coven, who manages the underlying index.  The Cleantech Index currently contains  71 companies , and is
tracked by $200 million to $300 million of funds, with a new
fund due to be announced in Latin America within a month or so,
Coven said. He declined to give details. The index is aimed at
long-term investment rather than short-term gains, he said.  Its biggest holdings were  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and  Schneider Electric SA. (SU)   Coven said for now he’s avoiding too much exposure of the
index to the wind power business, which “has become a complete
commodity,” and solar cell makers, because “the Chinese will
continue to flood the market and destroy pricing.”  At the same time, Coven said he “loves” companies such as
Meyer Burger Technology AG,  Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG (CTN) , and GT
Solar International Inc., which make the equipment used to
manufacture solar cells.  ‘Large Opportunity’  “There’s a very large opportunity to differentiate the
product,” Coven said. “As long as the Chinese in particular
want to keep adding capacity, they’re going to buy these
machines that help them lower the costs and help them produce
more.”  Chinese demand for waste paper to make the boxes they need
for their exports also benefits companies such as  Kadant Inc. (KAI)  in
Westford,  Massachusetts , and  GLV Inc. (GLV/A)  in  Montreal , which make
equipment to recycle paper, said Coven.  Another area that “really excites us” are companies whose
products make buildings, transport and manufacturing more energy
efficient, such as ABB Ltd. in Zurich and  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) 
in  Milwaukee , he said.  Coven said a measure of the care he takes in picking the
stocks in the Cleantech Index is that he puts his own money
where his mouth is.  “I invest my money and more importantly, I invest my mum’s
money” in stocks in the index and the exchange-traded funds
that track it, Coven said. “So it had really better do well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  