-- 
Invesco Sells Mortgage Swap Protection on Home Loans as Banks Seek Capital

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-03-03T16:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/invesco-sells-mortgage-swap-protection-on-home-loans-as-banks-seek-capital.html
  Invesco Mortgage Capital Inc. (IVR)  sold
$150 million of default protection on U.S. home-loan securities
owned by a European bank, as toughening capital rules for
financial companies offer opportunities for investors, Chief
Financial Officer Donald Ramon said.  The real estate investment trust, which is betting that
losses on the bonds will be below 25 percent, sold the credit-
default swaps in December as the bank sought to reduce its  capital requirements , Ramon said yesterday. He wouldn’t name the
lender or the U.S. bank he said serves as an intermediary on the
swaps. Other investors also sold the European bank additional
protection, he said.  “We believe there will be a significant return to us from
doing this,” Ramon said in a telephone interview. “We’d love
to” do similar transactions “if we could. Unfortunately it was
all that’s available right now.”  The company, which is managed by Atlanta-based  Invesco
Ltd. (IVZ) , disclosed the investment on a March 1 earnings call, with
Chief Investment Officer John Anzalone describing the deal as
part of a “Basel III-related restructuring trade.” While the
rules that international regulators agreed to last year won’t go
into full effect for eight years, banks are already adjusting
portfolios and raising capital.  State Street Corp. said it sold $11 billion of mortgage-
and asset-backed securities in December as the Boston-based firm
sought to improve its ratios “under evolving regulatory capital
standards.” Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and
Barclays Plc bought the debt as brokers, people familiar with
the matter said at the time.  Stable Prices  Invesco Mortgage Capital is being paid 3 percentage points
a year to cover any losses on the European bank’s holdings after
the first 25 percent, Ramon said. The REIT put up about $20
million in cash, and the $150 million “notional” amount will
pay down over time as the mortgage bonds are repaid, he said.  “With this deal, for the first time in awhile you’re
seeing CDS used for its original purpose, which is the transfer
of risk from banks’ balance sheets,” said  Scott Buchta , head of
investment strategy at New York-based broker Braver Stern
Securities LLC.  “One trade like this could lead to 10 because it hits the
news and 10 other banks see it and say, ‘Hey, that’s a great
idea.’”  The deal may also reflect higher and more stable prices for
mortgage debt, which allow “both sides” to see value in the
terms of such transactions, Buchta said. That’s harder in
distressed markets, he said.  ‘More Attractive’  The terms were “much more attractive” than purchases of
similar debt to Invesco Mortgage Capital, which held $3.9
billion of government-backed home-loan bonds on Dec. 31 and $5.6
billion of other mortgage securities, Anzalone said on the call.  A similar type of investment would be so-called re-remic
mortgage-bond repackagings. The senior-most classes typically
pay 1.85 percentage points to 2.10 percentage points more than
interest-rate swaps, according to Barclays Capital data.  The European bank was able to get capital relief by using a
U.S. bank with high credit ratings as an intermediary, Ramon
said. He declined to comment on whether other funds managed by
Invesco Ltd., which oversees $616 billion of assets, were among
investors selling additional protection.  Until banks comply with Basel III, they may face
restrictions on dividends or share buybacks from domestic
regulators, according to the New York-based brokerage firm KBW
Inc. Bank of America Corp. cited the coming rules in disclosing
it repackaged and sold mortgage-bond holdings in 2010’s second
quarter. In October, Deutsche Bank AG conducted its biggest-ever
share sale partly to meet a goal of complying by 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  