-- 
Iraq Oil Exports May Rise to 13-Year High as Kurdish Crude Flows

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-03-03T10:54:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/iraq-oil-exports-may-rise-to-13-year-high-as-kurdish-crude-flows.html
  Iraq ’s crude exports may rise to
their highest level in 13 years as shipments from the northern
Kurdish region increase to approach target levels, Oil Minister
Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said.  “Exports will exceed the current level of 2.2 million
barrels a day in March, which would be the highest level since
1998,” he said today at a press conference in Baghdad.  Iraq, home to the world’s fifth-biggest oil reserves, needs
foreign investment and expertise to help ramp up energy exports
and rebuild an economy shattered by years of conflict, economic
sanctions and sabotage. The country has signed 15 gas and oil
licenses since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that ousted the regime
of former President  Saddam Hussein  and resumed exports from the
semi-autonomous Kurdish region last month.  Iraq resumed exports of crude from its Kurdish region Feb.
3 after ending a dispute over revenue payments that halted them
for more than a year.  Shipments from Kurdistan have reached 93,000 barrels a day
and are scheduled to reach their target level of 100,000 barrels
a day “within a few days,” al-Luaibi said.  The Iraqi government is committed to pay foreign  oil
companies  operating in Kurdistan, al-Luaibi said. The companies
including  DNO International ASA (DNO)  of Norway and  Turkey ’s Genel
Enerji AS are still owed between $400 million and $500 million
in unpaid revenue.  Kurdish Dispute  DNO, Addax Petroleum Corp. and other companies halted crude
exports after Iraq’s central government stopped reimbursing them
for expenses amid the escalating dispute between the ministry in  Baghdad  and the provincial government.  The central government said that production-sharing
agreements between Kurdish authorities and foreign companies
were invalid as they allocate to foreign companies a share of
the oil they produce. Service contracts adopted by the Oil
Ministry that pay foreign producers a per-barrel fee.  Iraq’s exports are expected to rise further after an
offshore terminal in the southern oil hub of Basra is opened at
the end of the year, al-Luaibi said.  “Iraq’s oil exports are hampered by the lack of export
terminals,” he said.  There is still no set date for the signing of Iraq’s Akkas
natural gas-field development contract with partners  Korea Gas
Corp. (036460) , known as Kogas, and KazMunaiGaz National Co.,
Kazakhstan’s state fuel producer, the minister said. The deal
has been repeatedly delayed since Nov 14.  Negotiations also continue with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  on a project to capture associated gas at oil
fields in southern Iraq, he said.  International legal advisers have studied the contract with
Shell and Mitsubishi and their recommendations will be raised to
the government’s energy committee, al-Luaibi said.  The government wants to produce gas as fuel for  power
plants , which are struggling to meet domestic demand, and also
as a potential export. Severe electricity cuts and rationing
have triggered violent and sometimes deadly protests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  