-- 
Study: Third of U.S. Sleeps Less Than Seven Hours a Night

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-03-03T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/third-of-u-s-sleeps-less-than-seven-hours-a-night-study-finds.html
More than a third of Americans
regularly  sleep  less than seven hours a night, affecting their
ability to concentrate, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention .  Short sleep duration was found among 35 percent of adults
surveyed, and 48 percent reported snoring, an unhealthy
behavior, according to a study in the journal  Morbidity and
Mortality Weekly Report  today. About 39 percent of respondents
aged 25 to 54 reported sleeping less than 7 hours in a day.  The most common side effect of sleep-related difficulties
was loss of concentration, followed by trouble remembering,
another report found. Most adults need seven to nine hours of
slumber to avoid higher likelihood of illness and death, the
Washington-based  National Sleep Foundation  said.  “Poor sleep habits, which include not scheduling enough
time for sleep, can be assessed during general medical care
visits and improved with effective behavioral changes,” the
authors wrote in an editorial following the study by the
Atlanta-based CDC.  The duration study is the first to examine prevalence of
unhealthy sleep behaviors, the authors wrote. The second report
is the first investigation of a link between shortened sleep and
related difficulties in a non-clinical setting, the authors
wrote.  Regular Schedule Advised  Health-care providers can help patients by  advising them  to
keep a regular schedule and to sleep in a dark place with a
controlled temperature, the report’s authors wrote. People with
sleep disorders should avoid caffeine, alcohol, nicotine, and
strenuous exercise in the evening. Full or empty stomachs at
bedtime can also make sleeping more difficult.  The process included interviews for data on sleep duration
with a total of 74,571 people in  California , Georgia,  Hawaii ,  Illinois , Kansas, Louisiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Nebraska,  New
York ,  Texas  and Wyoming.  The report investigating the link between less slumber and
related difficulties involved 10,000 participants. The study
combined data from 2005-2006 and 2007-2008 surveys, the authors
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 