-- 
Ivory Coast Envoy Asks UN for Stronger Action as France Warns of Civil War

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-03T19:54:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/ivory-coast-envoy-asks-un-for-stronger-action-to-curb-violence.html
  Ivory Coast ’s ambassador to the  United Nations  appealed today to the world body’s peacekeeping
mission there to take stronger action to prevent what  France ’s
envoy called the “real danger of civil war.”  Ambassador Youssoufou Bamba, who was appointed by  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of the Nov. 28
presidential elections, asked the UN Security Council to
authorize a “more robust mandate” for the 9,000 soldiers and
civilian police deployed in Ivory Coast.  “People are killed and nothing is done,” Bamba said in
reference to the deaths today of eight women participating in a
protest in the Abobo neighborhood of Abidjan. They were killed
by security forces loyal to incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo ,
according to a spokesman for an opposition group supporting
Ouatarra.  “They are killing people along ethnic lines, people who
are opposed by Mr. Gbagbo,” Bamba said. “That is not
acceptable in the 21st century when elsewhere people are asking
for more freedom.”  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa producer, has been
divided between a government-controlled south and a rebel-held
north since a 2002 uprising of army soldiers. The insurgents
back Ouattara while Gbagbo, who has led the West African nation
for the past decade, refuses to cede power, alleging voter fraud
in parts of the north.  ‘Spiraling Down’  “The situation is spiraling down,” French Ambassador  Gerard Araud  said. “There is a real danger of civil war.”  Cocoa has surged more than 30 percent since the disputed
election in November. Cocoa for May delivery climbed $89, or 2.4
percent, to 3,753 a metric ton at 11:12 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York . Earlier, the price reached $3,760, the highest
since January 1979.  Alain LeRoy, head of UN peacekeeping, briefed the  Security
Council  in a closed meeting and later told reporters that the
situation was “clearly deteriorating and we are on the verge of
a civil war.” He said combined UN military and police units are
using tear gas to get through road blocks put up by forces loyal
to Gbagbo and have set up a cell phone communications network
for reporting human rights violations.  “We insist on full access,’ LeRoy said. He said two of
three attack helicopters authorized by the Security Council in
January have arrived and that 1,400 of the requested 2,000
reinforcements are due next month. The troops will come from
Malawi and Niger, he said.  Increased Violence  The peacekeeping mission this week reported an increase in
violent clashes in Abidjan, three kidnappings of UN contractors,
the closure of independent media outlets and fuel depots, and
suspension of electricity in areas loyal to Ouatarra. More than
200,000 residents of the Abobo neighborhood, which is loyal to
Ouatarra, have fled violence there, the UN said.  Ambassador Li Baodong of  China , president of the  Security
Council  this month, said the panel agreed to a statement that
“condemns the threats, obstructions and acts of wanton violence
perpetrated” by Gbagbo’s forces. The statement said Gbagbo
should lift his siege of Ouatarra’s headquarters in the Golf
Hotel in Abidjan and that the peacekeepers should use “all
necessary means” to carry out its mandate to protect civilians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  