-- 
Japan’s Capital Spending Rises for a Second Quarter

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-03-03T04:35:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/japan-s-capital-spending-rises-for-a-second-quarter-2-.html
Japanese companies increased
spending for a second quarter, signaling companies are confident
about the outlook for the nation’s economic recovery.    Capital spending  excluding software rose 4.8 percent in the
three months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, the same amount
as the previous quarter, the  Finance Ministry  said today in
Tokyo. The median estimate of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 5.2 percent gain.  An increase in outlays on factories and equipment may help
compensate for a slump in  consumer spending , which caused
Japan’s economy to shrink last quarter. Overseas demand has
fueled an earnings recovery even as the yen gained, prompting
Japanese manufacturers such as Toyota Motor Corp. and Unipres
Corp. to raise their profit forecasts.  “We’ve reached the point where production gains are
smoothly feeding into capital spending,” said Noriaki Matsuoka,
an economist at Daiwa Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  The yen was little changed at 81.84 per dollar at 1:25 p.m.
in Tokyo and the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.7 percent.  The Cabinet Office will use today’s report to revise
fourth-quarter gross domestic product figures on March 10, and
will probably say the economy shrank at an annual 1.1 percent
pace, unchanged from the initial projection, according to the
median estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
today.  Projections range from minus 0.7 percent to minus 1.4
percent. The preliminary report released last month showed the
economy contracted for the first time in five quarters as
exports slowed and fading government stimulus measures depressed
consumer spending.  Overseas Demand  Demand from China and the U.S., the destination of more
than a fifth of Japanese shipments, has been supporting growth.
Manufacturing in the U.S. grew in February at the fastest pace
in almost seven years, an industry group report showed this week.  China ’s growth accelerated to 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier.  Toyota Motor, the world’s largest carmaker, last month
raised its full-year profit forecast 40 percent as sales in  Asia 
and other emerging markets exceeded the company’s estimates.
Unipres, a Japanese auto-parts maker 12 percent owned by Nissan
Motor Co., last month boosted its full-year profit forecast by
30 percent.  Sales rose 4.1 percent in the final quarter of 2010, the
fourth quarterly increase, today’s report showed. Profits
climbed 27.3 percent, the fifth quarterly advance.  Increased Investment  Japanese companies have started increasing investment on
areas where they see demand expanding, such as electric car-
related parts and the environment, boding well for the recovery,
according to Naoki Iizuka, a senior economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Nippon Power Graphite Co., a joint venture between Sumitomo
Corp. and Nippon Coke and Engineering Co., said on Feb. 28 it
will spend 1 billion yen for a plant in Fukuoka, southern Japan,
to make materials used in  lithium-ion batteries .  Manufacturers’ machinery orders, an indicator of capital
spending in three to six months, are forecast to gain 16.1
percent this quarter from the previous three months, according
to a government report released last month. That would be the
biggest gain since the final three months of 2009.  Even so, the capital expenditure recovery may be slow
because consumer spending remains weak with the government’s
stimulus effects wearing off, according to Susumu Kato,　chief
economist for Japan in Tokyo at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA.  ‘Remain Cautious’  “Companies still remain cautious about new investment”
given uncertainties over the economic outlook including rising
oil prices and the stronger yen, Kato said. “Capital spending
will probably recover gradually, but may be limited to
replenishing of old facilities and equipment.”  Japan’s lower house of parliament passed Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s record 92.4 trillion yen ($1.1 trillion) budget on
March 1 amid fighting over related legislation to finance the
world’s largest public debt. Real estate transaction fees, some
tariffs and small business taxes all would rise unless the
budget-related bills are passed, and Kan’s pledge to increase a
monthly childcare allowance wouldn’t be implemented.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  