-- 
JBIC Plans to Help Fund Inpex, Toshiba Energy Projects Worth $40 Billion

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-03-03T01:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/jbic-plans-to-help-fund-inpex-toshiba-energy-projects-worth-40-billion.html
The  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  is considering helping fund overseas projects worth
$40 billion led by  Inpex Corp. (1605)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , as Japan’s
government aims to boost exports of equipment and technology.  JBIC may offer loans to Toshiba, which has exclusive rights
to negotiate to build a nuclear power station in  Turkey , and
plans to provide a preliminary loan commitment to Inpex for its
Ichthys liquefied natural gas project in Australia, said Tadashi Maeda, head of corporate planning at the state-owned bank.  Japan is pushing companies such as Toshiba and Hitachi Ltd.
to compete with rivals including  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP)  and  Areva SA (CEI)  for overseas nuclear projects to aid the nation’s
economic recovery. Ichthys, due to start in 2016, would be the
largest energy project operated by a Japanese company.  “JBIC’s assistance is part of a long-term government plan
to boost the success rate for Japanese firms,” said Daniel Aldrich, a political science professor at Purdue University in  Indiana . “France and  South Korea  certainly want to continue
their penetration of foreign markets in nuclear technology.”  Toshiba, the biggest Japanese maker of power generation
machinery, and the country’s trade ministry last year won the
right to negotiate exclusively with Turkey until March 31 to
build the power plant on the Black Sea coast, which may cost as
much as $20 billion.  The talks commenced after Turkey failed to conclude
negotiations with a group led by Korea Electric because of
differences over ownership structure and power pricing.  French Rival  Failure to reach an agreement with Toshiba this month may
allow Electricite de France SA to enter the fray. Turkey’s
Energy Ministry said Jan. 4 it had blocked a bid by  Europe ’s
biggest power producer to build the plant and would only
consider it if talks with Japan collapse.  JBIC expects to provide financing should Tokyo-based
Toshiba get the contract to build as many as four reactors with
capacity of as much as 5,400 megawatts, said Maeda, 53, who is
an adviser to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s Cabinet.    Itochu Corp. (8001) , Japan’s fourth-largest trading company, is
also involved in the bidding, while the government has asked
Tokyo Electric Power Co. to join the group, Maeda said in an
interview at the bank’s headquarters in central Tokyo on Feb.
28.  Tokyo Electric received a request for technical assistance
for the Turkish plant in November from the Japanese government,
spokesman Daisuke Hirose said. Yuko Takeuchi, a spokeswoman for
Itochu, declined to comment, saying the negotiations are being
led by Toshiba and the government. Toshiba spokesman Hiroki Yamazaki declined to comment.  ‘Galapagos Syndrome’  Toshiba shares rose 0.2 percent to 523 yen at 10:05 a.m. on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Inpex rose 0.7 percent to 577,000. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.4 percent.  The government wants to promote Toshiba’s reactors
“because if we only use them in Japan, the technology will
suffer from the Galapagos Syndrome,” Maeda said, referring to a
phenomenon where product development takes place in isolation
from other countries.  JBIC is also considering lending as much as $4 billion for
a nuclear plant project in  Texas  that would be the country’s
first state financing for an atomic power station abroad, Maeda
said in September.  Japan, the world’s third-largest nuclear power producer,
wants its reactor makers to take advantage of a global expansion
in atomic generation to spur exports and economic growth. More
than 470 nuclear reactors are planned or under consideration,
the  World Nuclear Association  said on Feb. 6. The U.S. is the
biggest followed by  France .  Funding Limits  While the world’s third-largest economy contracted last
quarter, Japan’s gross domestic product will probably expand
1.47 percent in the year starting April, according to the
average forecast of 43 economists in a survey by the government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association released on Feb. 10.  JBIC had loans, investments and loan guarantees of almost
11 trillion yen ($134 billion) in the year ended March 31, 2010,
according to its latest financial  statement .  JBIC rules allow funding of as much as 60 percent debt in
overseas projects that use Japanese equipment and technology,
according to the bank’s  website . The bank charges  interest rates 
on yen loans ranging from 1.27 percent to 1.78 percent.  For natural resource developments, JBIC may fund as much as
70 percent of the debt, with rates as low as 0.9 percent and no
set limit on the repayment period. JBIC said in June 2008 it
agreed to lend $3.7 billion to the Sakhalin-2 gas project in  Russia , in which Mitsui & Co. and Mitsubishi Corp. have stakes.  Vital Supplies  Japanese government support for Inpex, which is 19 percent
owned by the trade ministry and is the country’s biggest energy
explorer, is vital to obtaining supplies of cleaner-burning
natural gas, as shipments from  Indonesia  are  declining , Maeda
said in the interview this week.  The $20 billion Ichthys project, a joint venture with
French energy company  Total SA (FP) , is part of Japan’s target to
source more than 40 percent of its oil and gas imports from
assets it controls by 2030, from 20 percent at presently.  Inpex is preparing to finance the project and will make a
final  investment decision  by the end of this year, spokesman
Keisuke Yano said. He declined to comment on JBIC’s involvement.  Japan relies on imports for almost all of its energy needs.
The country imported 12.8 million metric tons of liquefied
natural gas from Indonesia, or 18.3 percent of its gas imports
last year, according to  data  compiled by Japan’s finance
ministry. The country imported 14 million tons from  Malaysia  and
13.3 million tons from  Australia .  “LNG supplies from Indonesia will further fall this
year,” Maeda said. “The most important alternative LNG source
is Western Australia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 