-- 
JFE’s Shipbuilder May Seek More Mergers as Japan Yards Lose Out to China

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-03-03T00:46:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/jfe-s-shipbuilding-unit-may-seek-more-partners-president-says.html
  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) ’s shipbuilding
unit, in talks to merge with IHI Marine United Inc., may invite
other Japanese companies to join the enlarged group to help it
compete with South Korean and Chinese rivals.  “A combined unit would boost competitiveness” of all
companies that joined with IHI Marine and Universal Shipbuilding
Corp., President Shinjiro Mishima said, adding that he would
welcome more Japanese yards.  Japan needs to form a shipbuilder with annual sales of
about 500 billion yen ($6.1 billion), more than double
Universal’s, to pare costs and speed investment in energy-saving
ships, he said. Japan is now the third-largest shipbuilder,
behind China and South Korea.  Japanese shipbuilders have struggled as rising steel prices
and sustained gains in the yen that reached a 15-year high in
November, made domestic-built ships more expensive than Korean
vessels. JFE and  IHI Corp. (7013)  started talks in 2008 to combine
their shipbuilding units.  Mishima said Universal and IHI Marine United need more time
to assess their merger. In November, 2009, he said that plunging
demand meant further assessment of the benefits of integration
was needed.  “We cannot read the outlook of demand,” he said yesterday
in the interview at the company’s headquarters in Kawasaki city,
near Tokyo, without specifying a decision deadline.  Combined Sales  Universal Shipbuilding was created in 2002 when NKK Corp.,
now a part of JFE, and Hitachi Zosen merged their shipbuilding
operations.  Universal and IHI Marine United have estimated combined
sales to reach 400 billion yen for the year ending March 31.  South Korea ’s Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. had sales of 11.3
trillion won ($10 billion) for shipbuilding and offshore last
year.  Universal intends to continue buying steel from Japanese
mills, predominately its parent JFE, rather than switching to
cheaper imports, the president said.  Steel accounts for about 30 percent of the cost of building
a ship, making shipbuilders more vulnerable to fluctuations in
steel prices than carmakers and consumer electronics companies,
Mishima said.    Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , Japan’s largest steelmaker, will ask
customers to pay 20,000 yen a ton more from April as it seeks to
pass on the increased costs of  iron ore  and coking coal, key raw
materials used to make steel, Executive Vice President Kozo Uchida said Feb. 28. That’s an increase of about 25 percent
based on the average steel prices estimated in January by the
steelmaker for the six months ending March 31.  Japan lost its decades-long title as the world’s biggest
shipbuilder to South Korea in 2000 before falling behind  China 
into third place in 2009. Last year, China took the No. 1 spot
with a 38 percent share, ahead of South Korea’s 33 percent and
Japan’s 21 percent, according to data from Lloyd’s Register.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 