-- 
Johnson Controls to Buy EnergyConnect to Expand Building Efficiency Unit

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-03-03T20:22:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/johnson-controls-to-buy-energyconnect-to-expand-building-efficiency-unit.html
  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , a Milwaukee-
based developer of energy management technology, agreed to pay
about $32.3 million to acquire  EnergyConnect Group Inc. (ECNG)  to
expand its building efficiency capabilities.  Under the cash deal announced today, Johnson Controls will
buy all of EnergyConnect’s outstanding shares for 22.53 cents
each, a 75 percent premium over yesterday’s closing price.  Johnson Controls, which has customers in 150 countries,
said the acquisition will complement its building efficiency
business.  “As our customers continue to demand more sophisticated
capabilities to manage their energy costs, integrating demand-
response services with  energy efficiency  makes EnergyConnect and
Johnson Controls” a good fit, C. David Myers, president of
Johnson Controls’ building efficiency unit, said in a statement.  EnergyConnect’s technologies provides real-time pricing
information that commercial, institutional and industrial energy
customers can use to manage their electricity consumption more
efficiently. The Campbell, California-based company’s systems
help clients participate in demand-response programs, which
offer incentives for curtailing consumption during periods of
peak demand.  The offer has been approved by EnergyConnect’s board, which
recommended that shareholders approve the deal in a proxy vote
anticipated in about four weeks. The sale is expected to close
by July, according to Johnson Controls.    UBS Investment Bank  was financial adviser and Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP was legal adviser to EnergyConnect.
Johnson Controls’ legal adviser was Godfrey & Kahn S.C.  Johnson Controls rose 34 cents to $40.58 at 3:20 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. EnergyConnect rose 8
cents, or 63 percent, to 21 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  