-- 
JPMorgan, Citigroup Say Madoff Trustee Breaks Agreement on Trade Secrets

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-03T19:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/jpmorgan-banks-say-madoff-trustee-would-break-secrets-pact-1-.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , sued for $6.4
billion by the trustee for Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, said the
trustee has no right to “abrogate” a yearlong agreement to
protect trade secrets by revising his rules for handling
confidential information.  The trustee, Irving H. Picard, seeking $100 billion for
investors in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme in lawsuits, has asked a
judge for more freedom to use information demanded for his
investigations. JPMorgan’s objection is one of at least eight
filed yesterday by banks and investment managers including  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   JPMorgan, based in  New York , said it gave Picard documents
22 times in the past 15 months, relying on his agreement not to
share the information with competitors or other parties.  “The proposed order would permit the trustee to disclose
JPMorgan’s confidential and proprietary information to any party
or its agent in any one of the more than one thousand adversary
proceedings that have been commenced by the trustee,” the
second-biggest U.S. bank said in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in New York. “The trustee is not entitled to abrogate
confidentiality arrangements that have been relied upon by
JPMorgan and other parties.”  If Picard has his way, the bank’s anti-money-laundering
policies, risk-assessment methods and internal reviews might be
shared with every major financial institution in New York and
thousands of other parties, it said.  ‘Fatally Flawed’  Citigroup called Picard’s proposal “fatally flawed.”
Thousands of pages of documents it delivered to Picard since
receiving his July 2009 subpoena might be passed around,
including pages identifying “potential and actual
transactions” contemplated by Citigroup, the New York-based
bank said in a court filing.  The documents were delivered under a confidentiality
agreement with Picard that he is seeking to undo, it said.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, declined to
comment.  Picard’s Feb. 1 proposal would allow him to share a bank’s  trade secrets  with more than 4,000 parties, UBS calculated in
court papers. Names and account numbers of Madoff customers,
amounts of withdrawals, redemptions, transfers and transferees
would lose their protection, UBS said in its filing.  Ignoring Red Flags  The trustee is demanding more than $18 billion from banks,
accusing them of aiding Madoff’s fraud by ignoring red flags
that should have prompted them to investigate.  The banks have denied wrongdoing. Fees earned from dealing
with Madoff or feeder funds were minor for a big bank, giving no
motive to be willfully blind, JPMorgan said in its rebuttal of
the trustee’s allegations.  The bank is seeking a  jury trial  in a different court.  Picard’s lawsuits against banks are in a “gray area” of
the law, bankruptcy lawyer  Harvey Miller  told Bloomberg
Television in December.  “It’s not clear a financial institution has fiduciary
duties to investigate fraud and go out and report it,” he said.  A court hearing on Picard’s so-called litigation protective
order is set for March 16.  The JPMorgan case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
10-ap-4932, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
  Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  