-- 
Kazakhmys Sees ‘Strong’ Copper Prices, Studies Options for ENRC

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-03-03T17:52:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/kazakhmys-sees-strong-copper-prices-studies-options-for-enrc.html
  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , Kazakhstan’s biggest
copper producer, expects prices for the metal to remain
“strong” as demand growth outpaces supply, Chief Executive
Officer Oleg Novachuk said.  “The copper price will stay very strong at least for the
next two years,” Novachuk said today on a conference call.
“Delivering copper projects isn’t easy and demand is growing
much faster than people can deliver projects to the market.”  Copper prices jumped 30 percent last year in London as
demand soared in  China , the world’s largest consumer of the
metal used in used in cables, wires and plumbing. Prices reached
a record $10,190 a metric ton on Feb. 15.  Kazakhmys rose 3.5 percent to 1,487 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London trading, the biggest one-day gain in a month,
after posting a 67 percent increase in earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization. The company is developing  Kazakhstan ’s Bozshakol and Aktogay mines as it seeks to raise
annual output by two-thirds to 500,000 tons in 2015.  Kazakhmys is considering “strategic options” for its 26
percent holding in Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., including
swapping the stake for other assets, Novachuk said. Its interest
in ENRC, a producer of ferrochrome, aluminum and iron ore in
Kazakhstan, is valued at about $5.25 billion at today’s share
price.  “We will stay as a mining company in the region where we
have expertise, and that area is where we are evaluating our
strength,” Novachuk said.  Glencore Interest  Glencore International AG, the world’s largest commodities
trader, is a potential buyer for the stake in ENRC, Liberum
Capital Ltd. said in a note to investors on Jan. 28. Glencore
declined to comment. The trader owns 51 percent in Kazakhstan’s
Kazzinc Ltd., which produces zinc, lead, gold and silver, as
well as copper concentrate, according to its website.  Kazakhmys’s net production costs in 2010 climbed 23 percent
to 89 cents a pound of copper. That cost will rise to between $1
and $1.30 this year, in part because of the appreciation of the
Kazakh tenge against the dollar, Chief Financial Officer Matthew Hird said on the conference call.  Today’s earnings figures didn’t include one-time charges
and income from the company’s ENRC stake. Kazakhmys sold copper
for an average $7,523 a ton last year, up 50 percent from a year
earlier, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  