-- 
Kenya's Government Abandons Plans to Sell of Eastern Africa's Busiest Port

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-03T12:47:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/kenya-s-government-abandons-planned-sale-of-east-africa-s-busiest-port.html
Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  and
Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  scrapped a proposal by the Transport
Ministry to sell the country’s main port in Mombasa, government
spokesman Alfred Mutua said.  “There will not be any selling or privatization of the
port,” Mutua told reporters today in Nairobi, the capital.
“The ministry wanted to privatize but the president and the
prime minister decided not to go ahead,” he said in a later
interview.  The  Port of Mombasa  is the busiest in East Africa and
serves landlocked countries in the region including  Uganda , the  Democratic Republic of Congo , Southern Sudan and  Ethiopia , as
well as Tanzania and Somalia, which are home to smaller
harbours. Hundreds of dock workers demonstrated last month
around  Mombasa , Kenya’s second-largest city, arguing that the
planned sale would lead to job cuts.  Copenhagen-based A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the owner of the
world’s largest container line, and Tokyo-based Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd., a merchant fleet operator, are among the shipping
lines that deliver and load cargo at Mombasa port, according to
the  World Port Source  website.  Kenya had arranged a 26.5 billion yen ($324 million) loan
from Japan to help finance the port sale, Transport Minister
Amos Kimunya said on Feb. 28, adding that the money would only
be released when the “privatization process is fully
approved.”  Improving Efficiency  Mutua said today that the Japanese money can still be used
to improve the efficiency of the port. “We can modernize
without privatizing,” he said.  Takehiko Suzuki, head of economic divisions at the Japanese
Embassy in Nairobi, was out of the office when called for
comment on the loan today, an assistant said.  The government also has no plans to sell its stakes in
Kenyan hotels given current economic conditions, said Mutua. The
Nairobi-based East African newspaper reported on Feb. 7 that  Kenya  planned to sell shares in 11 hotels, including the
Intercontinental and Hilton, citing Solomon Kitungu, head of the
country’s Privatization Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 