-- 
Kenya, Pakistan at Rising Hunger Risk, Anti-Ethanol Groups Say

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-03-03T17:46:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/kenya-pakistan-at-rising-hunger-risk-anti-ethanol-groups-say.html
Kenya, Pakistan and  Nicaragua  are
among countries that face  increased risk  of greater hunger
because of rising food prices, according to two advocacy groups
that oppose the use of grain to make fuel.  Those countries, along with much of sub-Saharan Africa
and South Asia, are “more vulnerable” based on the size of
their price rises, reliance on imports and availability of
government aid, according to a report from the  Environmental
Working Group  and  ActionAid USA . Increased biofuels use is
helping push world corn inventories as a percentage of use to
their lowest level since 1974, the groups said.  “We need to break up with biofuels,” Marie Brill, a
senior policy analyst with ActionAid, said today at a news
conference in Washington. Brill called for an end to U.S.
ethanol subisidies as a way to “save people and the planet.”  Global food prices rose to a record in February and grain
costs may continue to climb in the next several months, with
only rice keeping the world from a repeat of 2008, when dozens
of food riots broke out in third-world nations, the  United
Nations  said today.  An index of 55 food commodities rose 2.2 percent to 236
points from 230.7 in January, the eighth consecutive gain, the
UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization said today. Wheat surged
61 percent on the Chicago Board of Trade in the year that ended
yesterday, and corn gained 89 percent, while rice added just
2.6 percent.  High levels of hunger and political unrest do not
necessarily go hand-in-hand, Brill said, citing other factors
including distrust of the government and levels of repression.  Rising Food Prices  Rising food costs have contributed to unrest across
northern Africa and the Middle East in the last several months
that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia . Prices surged as
adverse weather ruined crops from  Canada  to  Australia , and  Russia  banned grain exports after its worst drought in a half-
century.  World grain production in 2010-2011 is forecast to drop
1.1 percent to 2.24 billion metric tons, the UN agency said,
compared with December’s outlook for 2.23 billion tons. It
estimated cereal usage at 2.28 billion tons, exceeding
production.  The U.S. provides blenders of ethanol with a 45-cent per
gallon tax credit, while imposing a 54-cent a gallon tariff on
imports of the biofuel. Congress has also approved an
escalating mandate on how much of the fuel must be used
annually to support the industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Patrick McKiernan  at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 