-- 
Khomeini, Chavez Examples Show Libya Output Drop: Chart of the Day

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-03-03T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/khomeini-chavez-examples-show-libya-output-drop-chart-of-the-day.html
Libyan oil production may not return
to recent levels if  Muammar Qaddafi  is overthrown, following a
trend set by fellow OPEC members  Iran  and Venezuela when their
own governments last changed, according to a Baker Institute
analyst.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the level of oil production in
Iran falling after the Shah was overthrown in 1979 and
Venezuela’s output sinking since Hugo Chavez was elected
president. Government ousters may have the side effect of
chasing out experienced energy industry workers, presenting
challenges to maintaining wells, pipelines and refineries.  “You could see, in the case of Qaddafi being overthrown,
particularly if it’s violent, prolonged diminished capacity from
Libya,” said Ken Medlock, an energy fellow at the  James A.
Baker III Institute  for Public Policy at  Rice University  in
Houston, in a telephone interview. “Regime change, even if it’s
good for democratic movements, it’s generally not good for
technical industries.”  Iran pumped 5.2 million barrels of oil a day the year
before the 1979  Islamic Revolution . After mass protests brought  Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini  to power, output sank to 1.3 million
barrels a day in 1981 before rising to 3.7 million last year.  Venezuela’s daily output hasn’t surpassed 3 million barrels
since Chavez took power and tightened his hold on state-owned
Petroleos de Venezuela SA. Strikes lowered oil production to
less than 1 million barrels a day in 2002.  “There’s a tremendous amount of logistical detail involved
in oil production and if you begin to shut down the chains of
command, then logistical detail is thrown out the window
basically and it becomes very difficult to maintain any
semblance of what you had prior,” Medlock said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 