-- 
Korean, Japanese Group to Buy Stake in Brazil Mining Firm

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-03T07:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/korean-japanese-group-to-buy-stake-in-brazil-mining-firm-2-.html
  Posco (005490) , the world’s third-biggest
steelmaker, and  South Korea ’s National Pension Service, will buy
a combined 15 percent stake in a Brazilian niobium producer with
a group of Japanese companies.  South Korean steelmaker Posco and the nation’s pension fund
will buy a total 5 percent stake in Companhia Brasileira de
Metalurgia e Mineracao for about $650 million, according to Kim
Seok Joo, spokesman for the fund, and an e-mailed statement from
Posco. They will sign a contract for the purchase in Japan
tomorrow, Pohang-based Posco said in the statement.  Rising prices of rare metals from niobium, which can be
used to strengthen steel, and indium, a key material used in
liquid-crystal displays, to lithium, chrome and magnesium, have
increased competition for supplies. Korean companies may more
than triple their investments in  mineral resources  this year to
boost supplies, a government survey showed in January.  “The stake purchase is meaningful in that Posco secured a
stable supply of the rare metal and also in that it helps the
nation gain more access to such rare metals of limited
availability,” Posco said in today’s statement.  A group of Japanese companies including  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) ,  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) ,  Sojitz Corp. (2768) , the Japanese state-owned Japan
Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp. will acquire a 10 percent
stake, Kim and the Posco statement said.  Hiroshi Nakashima, a spokesman for Nippon Steel, declined
to comment. A JFE spokesman, who asked not to be named because
of company policy, also declined to comment.  The Brazilian producer, established in 1955, mines and
produces niobium, a key material used to make steel for cars,
building and oil pipelines, and has about 82 percent of the
global market, Posco said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  