-- 
Natural Foods Retailer Nutiva Challenges DEA, Embraces Hemp

-- B y   G r e g   T .   S p i e l b e r g
-- 
2011-03-03T21:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/natural-foods-retailer-nutiva-challenges-dea-embraces-hemp.html
In August 1999, the U.S. Customs Service
-- acting on a Drug Enforcement Administration order -- seized a
Canadian hemp-food exporter’s truck with 20 tons of hemp seeds
entering  Detroit  from Ontario. The nongerminating seeds, en
route to U.S. natural food businesses, have always been legal to
import, though illegal to grow without a DEA permit since the
Controlled Substances Act of 1970. In addition to the truck
seizure, the agency, which declines to comment on its then
unprecedented move, ordered the exporter’s American customers to
fork over previous orders of seed and other hemp-food products.  The demand put Sebastopol (Calif.) hemp-food retailer  Nutiva  in
a tough spot. Founder John Roulac had launched the business
earlier that month, investing $30,000 in two tons of seed and
other hemp-food products with the goal of turning the legal,
nonpyschoactive plant often confused with its illegal twin
brother, marijuana, into a mainstream food product.  Confident the seizure was bogus, Roulac, a buoyant serial
entrepreneur and bestselling author of such manuals as “Backyard
Composting,” refused to capitulate. Instead of handing his hemp
to the DEA, he helped launch a public relations campaign with
all 200 members of the trade group  Hemp Industries Assn.  to turn
popular opinion against the DEA’s move.  BAN IT, PERMIT IT, REPEAT  Over the next month, they tapped friends and customers to call
the customs officers’ desk line and persuaded Pulitzer-winning
newspaper columnist Jack Anderson to pen a syndicated  piece 
lambasting the DEA. The move didn’t cost Roulac a dime. By the
fall of 1999, newspapers in the U.S. and  Canada  quoted an
unnamed DEA officer saying the agency would permit hemp exports
into the States. In March 2000, the U.S. Justice Dept. issued a
statement essentially saying the DEA couldn’t stop hemp-food
imports.  Despite the statement, frustration reigned among hemp sellers
and buyers for the next two years as the DEA’s stance on
importing hemp switched six times, from banning it to permitting
it and back again. Then, a few weeks after 9/11, the DEA
published a rule that banned hemp-food imports and sales. Nutiva
and 10 HIA members sued the DEA and won two consecutive cases --
the final one in early 2004. “I think the court recognized the
law was clear, and there was no risk to public health or safety
involved here,” says Joe Sandler, the trade group’s lawyer.  Roulac’s company gained traction shortly thereafter, reaching
$2.7 million in revenue in 2005. At the time, it was one of
roughly six companies in the U.S. selling hemp seed, protein
powders, shakes, and energy bars to food stores and individuals.
(Roulac, seeking to diversify, was also exploring other natural
products, such as coconut oil and chia, a protein-rich Latin
American seed.) Nutiva got another boost in 2008 when  RSF Social
Finance,  a foundation in  San Francisco  that supports social
entrepreneurs, began to extend credit lines worth $1.2 million,
which Roulac used to increase inventory and, last year, move
into a new warehouse six times larger than its previous space.
Ted Levinson, a senior lending manager at RSF, says Roulac’s track
record in increasing mainstream consumer awareness about natural
food products impressed him. “John has a habit of being on the
very early end of these things … and ultimately capturing the
attention of millions of people,” Levinson says.  FOUNDING FATHERS GREW IT  The American hemp-food market is growing quickly, according to
natural food market analyst  SPINS,  which pegged it at around $40
million in 2010 (not including sales at Whole Foods), up 10
percent from 2009, and reports that Nutiva leads its 26 U.S.
competitors in hemp oil and seed sales. Errol Schweizer, Whole
Foods’ global senior grocery coordinator, says hemp is “one of
the fastest-growing [natural food] trends.” Nutiva had $12
million in revenue in 2010, Roulac says, and he projects $24
million this year for the 25-employee company. “You don’t have
to be mainstream to do well,” says Harry Balzer, chief food analyst
at market research firm NPD Group, adding that shoppers will
have to view hemp as more than a novelty for the ingredient to
gain significance in the $1 trillion U.S. food and drink market.  American presidents  George Washington  and  Thomas Jefferson  grew
hemp, and Virginia required all landowners to do the same.
During World War II, the federal government spent more than $1
million to subsidize hemp farming in  Illinois ,  Indiana ,  Iowa ,  Kentucky ,  Minnesota , and  Wisconsin  to produce fibers for rope
and uniforms. In 1943, some 146,000 acres were harvested,
according to hemp historian John Dvorak. No farmers in the U.S.
grow hemp commercially today -- the last was in Wisconsin in
1957. “I don’t know if the stigma will ever go away with hemp;
if people will ever understand it’s not a THC product,” says
Anna Soref, editor-in-chief of trade publication Natural Foods
Merchandiser.  That’s one reason Roulac is glad he diversified into coconut and
chia. Coconut oil now drives 60 percent of Nutiva’s sales, and
Roulac recently bought more than 200 tons of chia seed. Still,
hemp is Roulac’s first love, and despite lower profit margins
and a tough supply chain, he has no plans to forsake it.  Neither, it seems, do policymakers. In mid-February,  California ’s Mark Leno, a Democratic state senator, introduced a
bill that would once again allow commercial hemp farming -- a
bill he plans to have on the governor’s desk by the end of
August. “I have not yet spoken to the governor, but I am hopeful
that he would understand the benefits California would
experience allowing our farmers to grow industrial hemp,” Leno
says. “It’s a safe, viable crop.” Roulac looks forward to when
he can source hemp domestically and take advantage of lower
production and transportation costs. Of course, that likely
means more competition for Nutiva. “Bring it on,” he says with
characteristic enthusiasm.  To contact the reporter on this story: Greg T. Spielberg at
 gregtspielberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  