-- 
New Jersey Men Plead Guilty to Terrorism Conspiracy Charge

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-03-03T17:31:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/new-jersey-men-plead-guilty-to-terrorism-conspiracy-charge.html
Two  New Jersey  men pleaded guilty to
conspiring to murder people outside the U.S. by joining a Somali
terrorist group.  Mohamed Alessa, 21, and Carlos Almonte, 24, admitted their
guilt today in federal court in Newark, New Jersey, where they
were charged last year. They were arrested June 5 at  New York ’s
John F. Kennedy International Airport. Both men admitted they
were flying to  Egypt  on their way to join the Islamic Al-Shabaab
movement in Somalia, and they wanted to murder people whose
beliefs they viewed as contrary to Muslim law.  The men conspired to travel outside the U.S. “to murder
individuals whose beliefs and practices did not accord with
their extremist ideology, whom they referred to as, among other
things, kuffar, kafir and apostates (‘non-Muslims’),” according
to the charge they admitted.  They pleaded under a package agreement in which both men
had to admit their guilt, U.S. District Judge Dickinson Debevoise said at today’s hearing. Either man can appeal only if
Debevoise imposes a sentence of more than 30 years, and
prosecutors can appeal only if he gives them to less than 15
years. The judge can set any sentence up to life.  An undercover police officer who spoke Arabic recorded the
men discussing and preparing for violent jihad overseas,
according to the arrest complaint by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation . The conspiracy began in 2006, when Alessa was 16.  The men both agreed to a written charge that said they
discussed traveling to Somalia from Egypt, “receiving training,
instruction and weapons from other violent extremists, and
committing acts of violence that included shooting and murder.”  Trip to  Jordan   The men admitted that in February 2007, they traveled to
Jordan to meet with people who sympathized with groups committed
to establishing Islamic law through violence.  “Through covert recordings and their admissions today,
Alessa’s and Almonte’s own words confirm they took steps down a
deadly path,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.
“The defendants planned and trained for a mission that began in
their New Jersey neighborhoods and would end with the murder of
innocent civilians.”  Alessa lived in  North Bergen  and Almonte lived in Elmwood
Park at the time of their arrests. Alessa is a dual citizen of
the U.S. and Jordan, where he has made repeated trips. Almonte
is a dual citizen of the U.S. and the  Dominican Republic , which
he also has visited, and has a criminal history that includes
assault charges, according to prior court proceedings.  ‘Kids Say Things’  “Kids say and do things when they’re kids that they don’t
necessarily believe when they’re adults,” Stanley Cohen,
Alessa’s attorney, said outside the courtroom. “No one was
killed. No one was bombed.”  James Patton, Almonte’s lawyer, said he was pleased with
the plea agreement’s cap of 30 years on the sentence that
prosecutors can seek from Debevoise.  “It’s a good deal,” Patton said. “It gives us a lot of
room in which to work.”  Debevoise set the sentencing for June 20. Cohen said he
will likely seek an extension.  “My soul cannot rest until I shed blood,” Alessa told
Almonte and the undercover agent, according to the FBI
complaint. “I wanna, like, be the world’s known terrorist.”  “They only fear you when you have a gun and when you --
when you start killing them, and when you -- when you take their
head, and you go like this, and you behead it on camera,”
Alessa said, according to the complaint.  ‘Start Doing Killing’  In the criminal charge that both men admitted today, Alessa
said: “We’ll start doing killing here, if I can’t do it over
there.”  The FBI complaint paraphrased Almonte as saying, “there
would soon be American troops in  Somalia , which was good because
it would not be fun to kill only Africans.”  Al-Shabaab, based in Somalia, was designated a Foreign
Terrorist Organization by the U.S. government in February 2008.
Both men admitted they viewed videos by Al-Shabaab and al-Qaeda,
the group run by  Osama bin Laden .  Alessa and Almonte admitted that they engaged in combat
simulation using paintball guns and computer software, that they
conditioned themselves by running and lifting weights, and that
they agreed to buy tactical clothing and hydration systems.  The cases are U.S. v. Almonte, 10-cr-594, and U.S. v.
Alessa, 10-mj-8109, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 