-- 
Hevesi Judge Shouldn’t Sentence Ex-Comptroller, Lawyer Says

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-03T20:57:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/new-york-pension-fraud-case-judge-shouldn-t-sentence-hevesi-lawyer-argues.html
Ex  New York  Comptroller  Alan Hevesi 
shouldn’t be sentenced by the judge who accepted his guilty plea
for corruption involving the state pension fund because of a
conflict of interest, Hevesi’s lawyer said in court.  State Supreme Court Justice Lewis Bart Stone in  Manhattan 
is a trustee for the estranged father of Hevesi’s lawyer,
Bradley Simon, according to a transcript of a March 1 court
hearing. The disclosure came in court after Simon asked about
Stone’s relationship with the father. The judge told Simon he
wasn’t a beneficiary of his father’s trusts.  Simon said he believed Stone’s involvement with his
family’s affairs means the judge should step down from Hevesi’s
case, according to the transcript. Simon said he would pursue
every remedy to keep Stone from sentencing Hevesi.  “I am quite frankly in shock that I’m listening for the
first time that you’re a trustee of my estranged father and have
never disclosed this matter in this proceeding,” Simon said.
“I think the ethical quagmire is overwhelming.”  “Uh huh,” the judge replied, according to the transcript.  Hevesi pleaded guilty before Stone in October to approving
pension fund investments in exchange for almost $1 million. He
is the highest-ranking official convicted in a three-year
investigation by ex-state Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , now the
governor. Hevesi may be sentenced to as little as no time in
prison or from a year and four months to four years.  Sentencing Delayed  Stone postponed the sentencing hearing from March 10 to
March 28. The judge said that if he decides to withdraw, the
sentencing will be assigned to another judge.  On Oct. 6, the day before Hevesi pleaded guilty, the judge
made a sealed statement about the relationship in the court
record, the judge said.  In the statement, made public today, Stone said the record
was to “address this court’s self-consideration of potential
conflict issues in the case.'' He created the record under seal
“to avoid disclosing to Bradley Simon that his parents had
excluded him from their estate,” he said.  Stone said that, in addition to being a trustee for Simon’s
parents, he was an executor of their wills, according to a
transcript.  “I’m not a fiduciary to you, and the fact that I have a
relationship with your father does not mean that I have a
difficulty with Mr. Hevesi,” the judge told Simon at the March
1 hearing.  ‘Judge Shopping’  When Stone mentioned a “a possible judge-shopping
attempt,” Simon objected to that characterization of his
motive, according to the transcript.  David Bookstaver, a spokesman for the state court system,
said in an interview today that “the transcripts speak for
themselves” and whether Stone will withdraw “is still up in
the air.”  Ellen Biben, the state’s inspector general who’s handling
the case for the attorney general’s office, said in court she
doesn’t believe “a relationship with a lawyer’s father creates
even the appearance of a problem” for the judge. She said she
saw no legal requirement for disqualification.  Bennett L. Gershman , a law professor at  Pace University  who
specializes in prosecutorial and judicial ethics, said in an
interview that he doesn’t think the conflict called for Stone to
disqualify himself.  “But he should have disclosed this publicly on the record
at the time when Hevesi first came before this judge with
Simon,” Gershman said.  ‘Disturbing’ Behavior  Stephen Gillers, a legal ethics expert at  New York
University School of Law , also questioned Stone’s handling of
the matter.  “The most disturbing thing about this whole story is the
judge’s behavior,” Gillers said in an interview. “First, it
was imprudent not to reveal his status as trustee. The second
thing that’s strange is the creation of a record that only he
knows about.”  Hevesi, who resigned in 2006, said he gave preferential
treatment to Markstone Capital Partners, approving $250 million
in pension fund investments in exchange for almost $1 million in
gifts, including $75,000 in travel expenses, $380,000 in sham
consulting fees for a lobbyist and more than $500,000 in
campaign contributions.  Hevesi’s former political consultant, Henry “Hank”
Morris, who pleaded guilty to a  securities fraud  was sentenced
last month to a year and four months to four years in prison.
Morris was the first of about eight defendants to be sentenced
in the probe.  In addition to the criminal cases, at least six people and
21 firms settled with Cuomo, paying about $170 million to the
state and the pension fund.  About $5 billion of the fund’s $9.5 billion in alternative
investments from 2003 to 2007 were tainted by kickbacks,
according to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which
also investigated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 