-- 
News Corp.’s Attempt to Buy All of Broadcaster BSkyB: Timeline

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-03-03T08:37:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/news-corp-s-attempt-to-buy-all-of-broadcaster-bskyb-timeline.html
The following timeline details the
progress of the attempt by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  to buy
the 61 percent stake it doesn’t already own of British Sky
Broadcasting Plc, the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV broadcaster.  November 1990: British Sky Broadcasting Plc gets formed
through the 50:50 merger of British Satellite Broadcasting with
News Corp.’s Sky Television.  June 2010: BSkyB spurns a 7.8 billion-pound ($12.7 billion)
offer from News Corp., asking for the bid to be raised by at
least 14 percent. The company’s independent directors say they
may be prepared to accept an offer of more than 800 pence a
share, higher than the 700 pence a share offered by News Corp.  June 2010: BSkyB board member Thomas Mockridge says News
Corp.’s proposed takeover of BSkyB may take one year.  July 2010: BSkyB says annual adjusted operating profit rose
10 percent as more subscribers signed up for high-definition
television service.  August 2010: The bid has become $700 million more expensive
after the pound’s 6 percent gain against the dollar.  October 2010: U.K. newspapers and public broadcaster
British Broadcasting Corp. ask the government to block News
Corp.’s bid to take over the rest of BSkyB, saying it harms the
public interest and media plurality in the U.K.  October 2010: BSkyB says fiscal first-quarter operating
profit rose 25 percent on demand for broadband and high-
definition TV services.  November 2010: News Corp. formally asks the European Union
to approve its proposed takeover, starting the regulatory
process.  November 2010: U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable calls
for a review of News Corp.’s proposed bid. Cable asks regulator
Ofcom to investigate “the public interest consideration of
media plurality.”  November 2010:  James Murdoch , News Corp.’s head of Europe
and  Asia , says the U.K. should back the company’s bid or risk
losing the investment.  November 2010: The Church of England says it opposes News
Corp.’s bid and the deal should be blocked.  November 2010: The U.K. Office of Fair Trading declines to
seek jurisdiction over the case, meaning the deal will be
reviewed by European Union antitrust regulators.  December 2010: News Corp. offers remedies to the European
Union in a bid to win antitrust approval for its takeover.  December 2010: News Corp. wins European Union approval to
take full control of BSkyB. The European Commission opts not to
impose any remedies.  December 2010: U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  is
stripped of his authority of media and telecommunications policy
and barred from a role in News Corp.’s proposed takeover of
BSkyB after he was quoted as saying he had “declared war” on
Murdoch. Conservative Minister for Culture, Media and Sport  Jeremy Hunt  takes over responsibility for media and telecom
issues, including media regulator Ofcom.  December 2010: Ofcom submits its findings on the bid
proposal to Jeremy Hunt.  January 2011: Hunt says the U.K. government’s decision on
whether to approve the bid will probably be challenged.  January 2011: A person familiar with the matter says News
Corp. may be ready to consider the separation of 24-hour news
channel Sky News as an option to address issues raised by Ofcom.  January 2011: News Corp. is given a chance to offer
remedies to avoid a full-blown U.K.  Competition Commission 
review into its planned purchase. Hunt says he intends to refer
the deal to the commission, though he is still considering
undertakings offered by News Corp.  January 2011: BSkyB says fiscal first-half operating profit
rose 26 percent on more broadband clients, beating analysts’
estimates.  March 3, 2011: Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt accepted News
Corp.’s offer to spin off Sky News into a separate company in
lieu of a referral of the takeover to the Competition
Commission. A notice of consultation on the undertakings was
launched and will expire March 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 