-- 
Murdoch's News Corp. May Have to Pay $17.4 Billion for Its BSkyB Purchase

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-03-03T15:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/news-corp-wins-u-k-approval-for-its-12-7-billion-bid-to-control-bskyb.html
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  may have
to raise its bid for British Sky Broadcasting Plc to as much as
10.7 billion pounds ($17.4 billion) to win over the pay-
television operator’s shareholders.  The New York-based company, which received preliminary
approval for the deal from the U.K. today, has offered 700 pence
a share for the 61 percent it doesn’t already own of BSkyB,
Britain’s biggest pay-TV company. With BSkyB shares now trading
at about 815 pence, News Corp. may have to raise its
offer well above that level to win shareholder approval.  “If they are going to bid 750 to 800 pence, I don’t see a
deal being done,” said David Stewart, Chief Executive Officer
of Odey Asset Management in  London , which owns about 3 percent
of BSkyB. “We don’t really want to sell; we like the investment
and we’re very comfortable with it.”  U.K. Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt today approved News
Corp.’s takeover plan after it offered to spin off Sky News,
BSkyB’s 24-hour news channel, to address media concentration
concerns. News Corp., which owns four of the largest newspapers
in the U.K. including the Times and Sun, would hold 39.1 percent
of Sky and be barred from raising its stake without government
approval for 10 years. Hunt’s decision averts a long, antitrust
review of the takeover plans.  News Corp., which made its initial bid in June, has said it
would wait until it had regulatory approval before addressing
investors’ concerns about the terms of the deal. BSkyB’s
independent directors, who rejected the News Corp. offer as too
little, had said they may accept an offer of at least 800 pence.  ‘In a Hurry’  “The evidence that News Corp is in a hurry suggests that
it may be willing to pay 900 pence to 1,000 pence to secure the
deal quickly,” Citigroup Global Markets analysts including
Thomas Singlehurst wrote in a note today.  News Corp.’s spokeswoman in London, Alice MacAndrew,
declined to comment on whether it would raise its bid or on when
and if a new offer would be made. “Any comment on price would
be utterly inappropriate,” she said.  News Corp. shares rose as much as 4.3 percent, trading 3.5
percent higher at $17.97 as of 10:07 a.m. in  New York .  Hunt today said a consultation period on News Corp.’s
undertakings starts today and will expire on March 21. If after
the consultation Hunt is satisfied that News Corp.’s Sky offer
addresses media plurality concerns, he will accept it, he said.  Under a June agreement with BSkyB, News Corp. has up to two
months after winning regulatory clearances to negotiate an
agreed offer for the rest of the pay-TV operator. After that,
News Corp. needs 70 percent of BSkyB shareholders to sign off on
the deal, including the 39 percent it owns.  ‘Grade-A Asset’  A successful offer level from News Corp. for BSkyB may
“have to have a 9 in front of it,” or be at least about 10
percent more than today’s trading price, said Johnathan Barrett,
an analyst at Singer Capital Markets in London. “The TV market
is in good health, both in pay and advertising. BSkyB is a
grade-A asset.”  BSkyb, based in Isleworth,  England , has about 16,500
employees and 10 million U.K. customers for services that
include sports, on-demand TV and high-end international content
from networks such as Time Warner Inc.’s HBO.  The company posted a 26 percent jump in first-half earnings
before interest, taxes and exceptional items to 520 million
pounds as it added more broadband clients, beating analysts’
estimates. Sales rose 15 percent to 3.19 billion pounds.  For Rupert  The value of News Corp.’s current BSkyB holding has more
than doubled since the London-based company’s initial public
offering on Dec. 8, 1994.  For Rupert Murdoch, adding 100 percent of BSkyB to his
stable of assets would expand a media empire that stretches from  Australia  and  India  to the U.S. From roots in Australia, News
Corp. has built a group run by the 79-year-old Murdoch and his
son James, 38.  News Corp.’s brands include the Fox TV networks and film
studios, the Wall Street Journal newspaper and book publisher
HarperCollins. In addition to BSkyB, News Corp. has invested in
pay-TV broadcasters in  Italy ,  Germany , and  Asia .  BSkyB’s sales growth in the latest year outpaced that of
its four bigger global rivals, DirectTV, Comcast Corp., Dish
Network Corp. and Time Warner Cable Inc., Bloomberg data shows.  News Corp. will “get a cash-generative business, a great
business,” said Nicholas Bell, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. “At 8 or 8.50 pounds, it’s about 19 times
earnings, which seems fair.’  Bundling  A comparable deal may be the acquisition of Univision
Communications Inc. by Broadcasting Media Partners Inc.,
completed in March 2007. Broadcasting Media paid $12.61 billion,
or about 17.4 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization.  Bell said the News Corp. deal may involve a cash component
of about 800 pence and a share in Sky News, whose value will need to
be determined.  BSkyB may help Murdoch make News Corp.’s newspaper business
more profitable by allowing him to bundle newspaper and pay-TV
subscriptions and spread content over several media platforms.
Murdoch is already leading the effort to get readers to pay for
online content amid losses at the U.K. newspapers.  He’s introduced online paywalls at the Times and News of
The World and removed all news content from Google Inc.’s search
engine. He also introduced a paid-for iPad news publication
called The Daily in tandem with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   News Corp.’s BSkyB bid may still face hurdles.  Protests  A group of U.K. media companies, including BT Group Plc,
Guardian Media Group Plc, Associated Newspapers Ltd., Trinity
Mirror Plc, Northcliffe Media Ltd., and Telegraph Media Group,
said today that they may challenge Hunt’s decision.  It questioned the independence Sky News would have under
the structure being proposed by News Corp.  “It has been well-documented by former Murdoch editors
that arrangements of this kind, including those put in place to
protect the independence of the Sunday Times and Times, have
proved wholly ineffective,” the group said. “Smoke and mirrors
will not protect media plurality. We shall be vigorously
contesting this whitewash of a proposal during the consultation
period, as well as examining all legal options.”  In London, a group wearing  Rupert Murdoch  and Hunt masks
protested outside a hotel that’s today hosting a media
conference the culture secretary and BSkyB officials were
scheduled to attend.  Hunt, a Conservative party legislator, took over the BSkyB
review in January from Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal
Democrat, who was removed from the probe after he was quoted as
saying he had “declared war” on Murdoch.  The Sun, a News Corp.-owned newspaper, backed the
Conservatives in the U.K.’s general election in May after
previously supporting the opposition  Labour Party .  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  