-- 
NFL, Players' Union Resume Talks as Deadline Day for Labor Deal Arrives

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-03-03T20:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/nfl-players-union-to-resume-talks-as-deadline-day-for-labor-deal-arrives.html
The  National Football League  and its
players’ union were negotiating at a mediator’s office today in
a bid to reach an agreement on a labor accord before the
existing one expires at midnight.  Union and league leaders converged this morning at the
Washington office of mediator George H. Cohen, head of the
 Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service . Failure to reach an
accord may result in a shutdown of the U.S.’s most-watched TV
sport a month after the  Super Bowl  drew the biggest audience in
U.S. television history.  They were discussing an extension of the current agreement
of at least a week, a person with knowledge of the talks said.
The person was granted anonymity because Cohen ordered the sides
to keep quiet while mediation continued.  Owners and players are wrangling over how much of the
league’s $9 billion in revenue players should receive. Other
areas of discord include a proposal to expand the regular season
to 18 games from 16, a cap on rookie pay and health-care
coverage for players.  The league may elect to lock out players when the
collective bargaining agreement expires tonight. A work
stoppage, which would end 24 years of labor peace, may empty
stadiums financed with a combined $7 billion in taxpayer money,
interrupt the schedules of the largest U.S. broadcasters and
leave fans without a sport that during the 2010 regular season
was watched by a record 207.7 million people, according to
Nielsen Co. data.  Negotiators for both sides met yesterday for a 10th time
under the supervision of Cohen, who last year helped broker a
deal between  Major League Soccer  and its players.  ‘No Actions’  “No decisions were made, no actions were taken,”  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the NFL, told reporters last night. “We
will continue to go through the mediation process.”  This morning, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, chief
negotiator Jeff Pash, Eric Grubman and Bob Batterman, and New
York Giants President John Mara were among the group of league
officials to arrive at the mediator’s office. Union Executive
Director  DeMaurice Smith  and President Kevin Mawae arrived
later.  Owners met in Chantilly, Virginia, 24 miles outside
Washington, for about three hours yesterday, with most leaving
the area after the session. Members of the labor committee
remained for about an hour.  “I never have expectations,” Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay told reporters. “It’s a chessboard that moves around and
things change.”  Late Meeting  After talks with the NFL Players Association ended
yesterday, Goodell, Pash, Mara and Green Bay Packers President
and Chief Executive Officer Mark Murphy returned to the
mediator’s building for a meeting that union officials didn’t
attend.  Cohen asked that the league not comment on the discussions,
Aiello said.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut in half to a year the
amount of time it estimated that teams can make debt payments on
stadiums during a work stoppage.  The ratings company’s decision came a day after federal
Judge David Doty in  Minneapolis  ruled that the NFL improperly
negotiated television contracts to receive $4 billion in revenue
if a work stoppage cancels games during the 2011 season.  The ruling provided “irrefutable evidence that owners had
a premeditated plan to lock out players and fans for more than
two years,” the union said.  Clubs were prepared for the ruling, which “will have no
effect on our efforts to negotiate a new, balanced labor
agreement,” Aiello said.  Extension Option  The sides may opt for a temporary extension of the existing
deal if they fail to reach an agreement today, Pash said before
the Feb. 6 Super Bowl.  “If you’re making progress, you can stop the clock,” he
told reporters.  The union says it may also abandon its role in the
negotiation, or “disclaim interest,” allowing players to seek
a court order that may block owners from shutting down the
league.  Owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the collective
bargaining agreement, saying it didn’t account for costs such as
those of building stadiums. They want to double the $1 billion
they deduct from total revenue before player payrolls are
calculated to meet costs related to stadiums, marketing,  NFL.com 
and the  NFL Network , according to Smith, the union’s executive
director.  The outgoing deal gave players too much money before
accounting for costs, Grubman, the NFL’s executive vice
president for business ventures, said before the Super Bowl.  Stadium Costs  New stadiums, he said, increase league revenue and salaries
for players, while owners bear the finance and maintenance
costs. With players receiving $3.8 billion of the league’s $5.5
billion in new revenue since 2006, owners have little incentive
to grow their businesses, said Grubman, a former executive at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The league has refused to disclose financial data to back
up its claim that players are paid too much, with Goodell
dismissing Smith’s demand as a negotiating ploy.  According to the union, players accepted an $800 million
payroll cut over 15 years to alleviate concerns about the cost
of the Giants’ and Jets’ new stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New
Jersey .  The dispute has already cost $120 million in ticket sales
and sponsorship revenue, according to the league. The total will
rise to $1 billion if it takes until the scheduled September
season opener to reach an agreement.  Every week of lost games would diminish revenue by about
$400 million, according to Grubman and Pash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  Washington  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 