-- 
NFL, Union to Reconvene After Extending Labor Talks to Avoid Shutdown

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-03-04T16:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/nfl-players-union-agree-to-extend-labor-talks-to-avoid-football-shutdown.html
National Football League owners and
players will resume talks in  Washington  today after giving
themselves another 24 hours to reach agreement on a labor
contract and avoid a shutdown of the U.S.’s most-watched sport.  Yesterday’s extension came after 10 days of negotiations
involving a federal mediator. It put at least a temporary hold
on a work stoppage a month after the biggest television audience
in U.S. history watched the  Green Bay Packers  beat the
Pittsburgh Steelers for the NFL’s Super Bowl championship.  “To all our fans who dig our game, we appreciate your
patience as we work through this,”  DeMaurice Smith , executive
director of the  NFL Players Association , told reporters after
leaving talks at the National Mediation and Conciliation Service
last night. “We’re going to keep working, we want to play
football.”  NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and Jeff Pash, the league’s
chief negotiator, entered the mediation office around 9 a.m.
local time today. Smith and union spokesman George Atallah
arrived about two hours later.  “Its worth continuing to talk,” Pash told reporters as he
entered the building.  The collective bargaining agreement between the league and
the union was due to expire at one second before midnight
yesterday. Negotiating issues include the division of $9 billion
in annual revenue, the most of any sports league; adding two
games to the 16-game regular-season schedule; limiting salaries
for rookie players; and health-care coverage for retirees.  “We’re looking forward to another day of discussions and
we’re going to keep at it and keep at it as long as it takes,”
Pash told reporters last night. “There are a lot of issues.
It’s complicated. People are working hard.”  24 Years of Peace  NFL owners had the choice of ending 24 years of labor peace
by locking out players, and the union had the option of filing
for decertification and thus opening the possibility of the
issue landing in federal court.  “The finger is on the decertification trigger, but once
pulled there is no going back,” said NFL agent Jack Bechta, who
represents players including Al Harris of the  Miami Dolphins .
“The fact we haven’t seen decertification yet is positive.”  U.S. District Court Judge David Doty, in  Minneapolis , ruled
three days ago that the league owners didn’t have access to $4
billion in television rights fees they might have tapped in the
event of a work stoppage.  A lockout that extends into the season, which begins in
September, would empty stadiums financed with a combined $7
billion in taxpayer money, interrupt the schedules of the
largest U.S. broadcasters and leave fans without the sport that
last season was watched by a record 207.7 million viewers.  Lost Revenue  The league estimates the labor dispute has cost $120
million in ticket sales and sponsorship revenue, and that the
total would increase to $1 billion if it takes until the
scheduled season-opener to reach agreement.  Every week of lost games would diminish revenue by about
$400 million, according to Pash and Eric Grubman, the NFL’s
executive vice president of business ventures.  Owners began complaining about the 2006 extension of the
collective bargaining agreement shortly after approving it by a
30-2 vote.  U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat,
joined Buffalo Bills owner Ralph Wilson in an Oct. 10, 2006,
news conference saying the agreement threatened the NFL’s
competitive balance because it left small-market teams such as
Buffalo with income pegged to the local economy and expenses
dictated by teams in bigger markets such as New York or  Dallas .  2008 Opt Out  Owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the deal, saying it
didn’t account for costs, such as those of building stadiums.  They want to set aside about $2 billion in revenue for
expenses before paying players, according to the union. Grubman,
a former executive at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said the
expiring deal gave players too much money before accounting for
costs. New stadiums raise league revenue, for example, thus
increasing income for players. Meanwhile, owners bear the
finance and operation costs.  Grubman also said paying players from the ledger’s top line
hurts incentives to build new businesses.  If an NFL team were to sell stadium food itself, rather
than hiring an outside contractor, the club would increase
revenue and would have to pay players more. At the same time,
the team would have to hire workers and buy supplies, increasing
costs. In the end, the club may triple revenue, while realizing
less profit, Grubman said.  Since the 2006 deal, the league has made $5.5 billion in
new revenue, with $3.8 billion going to players, he said.  $1 Billion Deduction  Smith says that the league and players already deduct about
$1 billion to pay for some costs related to stadiums, marketing,
NFL.com and the NFL Network. Players also accepted an $800
million payroll cut over 15 years, for example, to alleviate
concerns about the labor cost of the  New York Giants ’ and Jets’
year-old stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  The NFL’s popularity has bounced back historically from
work stoppages. Attendance rebounded one year after a 57-day
strike in 1982 and reached a then-record 13.6 million two years
after a 1987 strike was broken by replacement players.  Doty, ruling on March 1, upheld a union complaint that the
NFL improperly negotiated to receive about $4 billion from its
most prominent television partners --  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox, Comcast’s NBC,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and  DirecTV (DTV)  -- even
if a work stoppage cancels games in 2011.  Doty ordered a hearing to consider the award of money
damages and equitable relief to the players.  12 Months’ Liquidity  A day after Doty’s ruling, the rating company  Standard &
Poor’s  halved, to one year, a two-day-old estimate on the impact
of a work stoppage on the ability of the NFL to repay stadium
bonds.  NFL games accounted for the 19 top-rated shows during the
2010 season, up from 11 the year before. Lou D’Ermilio, a
spokesman for Fox, said the network hasn’t made any decision
about what to show if football games aren’t available. Jerry Caraccioli, a spokesman for CBS, declined to comment in an e-
mail. Fox and CBS carry the vast majority of NFL games on Sunday
afternoons.  The  Super Bowl  on Feb. 6, televised by Fox, drew an average
audience of 111 million viewers for the Green Bay Packers’ 31-25
win over the Pittsburgh Steelers. The previous audience record
was 106.5 million for the previous year’s Super Bowl on CBS.  The possibility of a lockout leaves governments that have
subsidized $7 billion in NFL stadiums wondering if those
facilities will stand empty during the season. Mayors and city
officials of Houston, Miami, Minneapolis,  San Diego  and  Kansas
City ,  Missouri , have written the NFL saying a lockout may cost
millions in revenue and wages for workers at stadiums, hotels,
restaurants and other businesses that depend on games.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 