-- 
North Carolina Shows How Small-Town America is Absorbing Hispanic Surge

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-03-03T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/north-carolina-shows-small-town-america-absorbs-hispanic-surge.html
Without a growing Hispanic
population in the rolling hills of rural  North Carolina ,
Bottomley Evergreens & Farms Inc., a provider of Christmas
trees to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Home Depot Inc., would be out
of business.  “If it weren’t for the Hispanic people, I couldn’t farm,
couldn’t do nothing,” said Blan Bottomley, 64, who has 4.5
million firs planted this year and fields of pumpkins, cabbage
and sweet corn taking root nearby. His son and co-owner
Mitchell, 37, said he’s gleaned some know-how from the migrant
workers.  “I know how to say, ‘Go cut cabbage’ or ‘Go cut pines,’”
he said in Spanish.  The Hispanic population in Alleghany County, at the
foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains, grew 89.4 percent from
2000 to 2010, compared with 4.5 percent overall growth in the
county, according to 2010 Census figures released yesterday.  The increase in Latino residents in North Carolina reflects
a broader national trend in which Hispanics are moving beyond
urban neighborhoods and making rural America home.  Hispanics in North Carolina rose 111.1 percent during the
past decade, and the ethnic group now accounts for 8.4 percent
of the state’s population, compared with 4.7 percent in 2000,
according to the census data. Details on state populations will
be released through the end of March by the  U.S. Census Bureau .  Haven for Migrants  “There aren’t many Americans who want to work in
agriculture,” said Xavier Iglesias, 27, owner of two
restaurants and a laundromat in Sparta, the largest town in
Alleghany County, in the northwestern part of the state. “It’s
such a haven for the migrant worker to come here.”  Alleghany County lost more than 1,000 textile and apparel
manufacturing jobs in the past decade, according to Bob Bamberg,
executive director of the county’s chamber of commerce. Economic
recovery depends upon agriculture, tourism and entrepreneurs,
such as Iglesias, he said.  “He’s an example of Latinos who come up here and start
businesses,” said Bamberg, 64, who has been in charge of the
business organization for five years. Iglesias joined the
group’s board of directors last year, an acknowledgement of the
growing Hispanic population in the rural area.  ‘Young and Outgoing’  “He’s young and outgoing and he speaks perfect English,”
Bamberg said of Iglesias. “Our best and brightest kids move
away and come back when they retire.”    William Frey , a senior fellow and demographer at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington, said Hispanics comprise at
least 11 percent of the population in four of the state’s five
biggest cities. They account for 13.1 percent of residents in  Charlotte , where  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank by
assets, is headquartered. Frey said the state is poised to have
the 11th-largest Latino population in the U.S.  The demographic changes, which helped  Barack Obama  win the
state in the 2008 presidential election, underscore how
communities evolve as the Hispanic population fans out.  The state’s white population grew 12.5 percent and accounts
for 68.5 percent of the state, down from 72.1 percent in 2000.
The black population rose 17.9 percent and makes up 21.5 percent
of North Carolinians, little changed from a decade ago,
according to the 2010 Census.  Overall Population  The state’s overall population grew 18.5 percent during the
past decade, the sixth fastest in the U.S., compared with 9.7
percent for the nation as a whole, according to government data
released Dec. 21.  “My children get to see the diversity in school,” said
Della Deal, 34, whose family operates another Christmas tree
farm near  Sparta  and who has twin boys in fourth grade at Piney
Creek Elementary School. “They ride the bus with Hispanic
children. They’re taking Spanish.”  Buddy Deal, who manages the Smokey Holler Tree Farm, which
harvests 30,000 trees a year, said he “developed the ability to
speak Spanish because I was the only one who didn’t. I can
communicate the points I need to operate the farm.” His father,
Earl, 68, said he hired his first Hispanic worker in 1993 and
has seen that labor pool expand.  “I can’t find local people to do this work anymore,” the
elder Deal said, adding that he uses workers certified by a U.S.
guest worker program, called H-2A, aimed at allowing foreign
workers to enter the country for seasonal farm jobs.  ‘They Learn’  “If you come back next year, you won’t see any of these
same faces,” Buddy Deal said. “They learn to speak English,
they start networking and they find jobs that are higher paying
and easier.”  The jobless rate in North Carolina jumped to 9.8 percent at
the end of last year from 3.4 percent in January 2000, according
to the U.S. Department of Labor. The national average during
that same period climbed to 9.4 percent from 4 percent.  At Bottomley Evergreens & Farms, compensation is based on
production, Mitchell Bottomley said, with workers earning about
$100 a day making garland or cutting trees for about $225 a day.
“They make dang good money. That’s why we get the help,” he
said.  Monique Iglesias, the migrant coordinator for the local
school district, said Hispanic teenagers sometimes opt to work
instead of going to school, even though they’re required to
attend classes.  “We do outreach to try to connect,” said Iglesias, who is
married to Xavier, the chamber of commerce board member. “We
get the vast majority of the younger children.”  ‘Very Little Diversity’  Jeff Cox, 42, superintendent of Alleghany County Schools,
remembers “very little diversity” when he was growing up in
the region in the 1980s. Now Hispanics account for 9.8 percent
of the students in the school district, he said.  The county receives federal funds to teach students English
as a second language, and the money is used to hire teachers.
The school system receives separate funding to educate migrant
students, who often live in Alleghany County for two or three
months of the school year, Cox said.  “Our Hispanic students are good students,” Cox said. “If
we get them young, it amazes me how quickly they can acclimate
and learn the language. Parents are supportive.”  The high school added a soccer team, reflecting the growth
of the Hispanic student body, and then allowed adults to play on
the fields. Their enthusiasm almost overwhelmed the school
property, Cox said, and both sides learned a lesson in
communication.  “We’ve had to work with those folks to say, ‘You can’t be
here two hours every night of the week. It’s wearing the fields
out,’” Cox said.  “They didn’t understand that there was a process and that
they needed to ask permission and sign a form,” Cox said about
the adult players. “When I approached them and said, ‘We need
to get some controls on this,’ they were understanding.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  