-- 
Norway Krone Surge May Lose ‘Juice’ Amid Libyan Unrest, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-03T13:54:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/norway-krone-surge-may-lose-juice-amid-libyan-unrest-deutsche-bank-says.html
Norway’s central bank will probably
have to shelve planned interest rate increases to counter a
surge in the krone fueled by $100 oil as Libyan unrest disrupts
supply, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “We could easily see a postponement of a quarter” until
the autumn, said  Henrik Gullberg , a London-based strategist at
the world’s biggest currency trader, yesterday by phone. “If
they lower the rate path, I think that would take some of the
juice out of the stronger appreciation trend in the krone.”  The krone yesterday climbed to a four-year high versus the
euro and was the best performing major currency against the
dollar, the euro and the yen last month as political unrest in
the Middle East intensified. Norway, the world’s seventh-biggest
oil exporter, can’t raise its production to ease price pressure,
Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said in an interview yesterday.
Nor has boosting supply “been an issue” in talks inside the  International Energy Agency , he said.  That’s adding to pressure on the central bank to contain
currency gains fueled by the surge in oil as exporters such as  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) ,  Europe ’s third-largest aluminum producer,
struggle to stay competitive.  Krone Weakening  The krone lost the most in a month against the euro was
today the third-biggest loser of the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg against dollar and the euro. It was trading
at 5.5681 versus the dollar at 2:47 p.m. in Oslo. Against the
euro, the krone slipped 1 percent to 7.7663. It was also down
0.5 percent against  Sweden ’s krona.  Oslo-based Norges Bank, which last raised the overnight
deposit rate in May bringing it to 2 percent, has signaled it
will resume tightening by the middle of the year.  “If we see continued appreciation of the krone, then
Norges Bank will probably lower its rate path at the next
meeting” on March 16, Gullberg said. “A lower rate path would
more or less offset higher  oil prices . It would stop the
appreciation of the krone.”  Clashes between Libyan rebels and forces loyal to Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  have curbed oil exports, catapulting
brent crude prices to a 2 1/2-year high this week. Riots have
toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . Protests have also spread
to Yemen, which lies south of the world’s biggest crude exporter  Saudi Arabia .  Bearish on Krone  The krone has appreciated 2 percent against the euro since
a Feb. 11 low and is up 4.8 percent against the dollar in the
same period. The currency yesterday hit a 17-month high against
the dollar.  “The krone is far stronger than Norges Bank forecast,”
Erik Bruce, senior economist at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo, said in
a note to clients yesterday. “Unless the krone weakens before
the meeting, a dovish central bank should disappoint the market
enough to weaken the krone. Either way, the outlook for the
krone is bearish.”    Norway ’s Finance Minister, Sigbjoern Johnsen, said it’s a
key policy concern to ensure the krone doesn’t appreciate to an
extent that hurts exporters.  “Of course we are concerned about the competitiveness of
Norwegian business,” Johnsen said in an interview in Oslo
today. Norway needs a “very restrictive finance policy; this is
our contribution to not putting extra pressure on the
currency.”  Inflation Lid  Stoltenberg yesterday declined to comment on government
efforts to rein in the currency’s surge following the recent
jump in oil prices.  Krone gains have contributed to keeping inflation below the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target since July 2009. Annual
underlying inflation, which excludes energy costs and taxes,
eased to 0.7 percent in January from 1 percent the previous
month.  Norway’s central bank has shown greater commitment to using
policy to cap krone gains than its Nordic neighbor the
Stockholm-based Riksbank, where Governor Stefan Ingves said in
November the currency is left to “its own devices.”  “Norges Bank is one of the central banks that typically is
most influenced by the  exchange rate ,” Gullberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  