-- 
Norway Oil Drillers Hit Record Dry Spell as Reserves Wane

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-03-03T11:09:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/norway-drillers-hit-worst-dry-spell-in-decades-as-reserves-wane.html
  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  are among
companies with plans to drill a record number of wells in
Norway’s far north this year to help the world’s second-largest
gas exporter to sustain output. So far, they’ve struck out.  All four wells drilled in the Barents and Norwegian seas
this year have failed to find oil or gas, adding to two dry
wells in the  North Sea , the biggest number of failures to start
the year since the country’s oil era began in 1966, according to
government data.  Oil companies  plan as many as 22 wells in
Norway’s Arctic this year, up from 12 last year.  Helge Lund, chief executive officer at state-controlled oil
company Statoil, says the industry has been unable to “crack
the code” of the Barents Sea, off  Scandinavia ’s northern tip.  Norway , where energy production makes up about 25 percent of the
economy, is pushing into the Arctic and relying more on gas
because oil output has slumped 50 percent since peaking in 2000.  The Barents Sea “is extremely important for Norwegian oil
production given that the mature areas are in extreme decline,”
said Torbjoern Kjus, an analyst at DnB NOR ASA in Oslo. “Every
dry well is a setback, but we have to keep trying where there
might be resources left if we’re going to maintain Norwegian
production going for as long as possible.”  Resources Cut  Explorers drilled 16 dry wells off Norway last year, part
of the reason the Petroleum Directorate cut its estimate for
undiscovered gas by 31 percent, or by 570 billion cubic meters.
That’s equal to almost six years of production for Norway.  Norway estimates the Norwegian Sea holds 455 billion cubic
meters in undiscovered gas and the  Barents Sea  520 billion cubic
meters. Total undiscovered gas resources may be 1.26 trillion
cubic meters, the directorate said in January, down from an
estimate of 1.82 trillion cubic meters last year. The country
had proven gas reserves of 2 trillion cubic meters in 2009.  “It’s disappointing that we haven’t seen any results
yet,” said Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Markets in
Oslo. “Norway is important for the oil market because we export
a lot of the oil we produce and not least because we have a
stable political situation.”  Statoil last week started work on its last well for the
year in the Barents Sea, in the Skrugard area. The other four
wells will be drilled by  Total SA (FP) , GDF Suez SA, Dong Energy A/S
and  Lundin Petroleum AB. (LUPE)  Eni also postponed two wells in the
Salina and Boenna prospects until next year because of a rig
delay, said Andreas Wulff, a company spokesman, by phone.  Heilo Prospect  GDF will begin drilling at the Heilo prospect in August or
September with the Aker Barents rig, which will then move on to
work for Dong, GDF spokesman Ulf Rosenberg said. Rocksource ASA,
which owns 20 percent in Heilo, estimates the chance of a
discovery at more than 50 percent and sees recoverable resources
at 200 million barrels of oil equivalents, according to a
 statement  on its website.  The Barents Sea has two developments, Statoil’s Snohvit gas
field, and Eni’s Goliat, an oilfield that is scheduled to start
pumping in 2013.  “A dry well is disappointing, but every new well is a new
possibility,” Ola Anders Skauby, a Statoil spokesman, said by
phone this week. “We still believe in the Barents Sea.”  A find at Skrugard would be positive for investments at
Snohvit, Skauby said. Statoil and partners including Total, GDF,
RWE AG and Hess Corp. are hoping to find more gas to enable a
second liquefied natural gas plant at Melkoeya, the onshore
production facility near Snohvit. An  investment decision  is
scheduled for 2013.  Challenging Targets  The lack of discoveries is challenging targets to maintain
production offshore Norway and imperiling the development of a
second gas hub in the Norwegian Sea. Statoil missed production
targets last year and has said a goal of keeping output in
Norway at current levels until 2020 is “ambitious.”  Producers operating off Norway are investing a record
amount in exploration and production this year to make bigger
discoveries and prolong output from existing fields. Investments
are estimated to climb 13 percent to 141.1 billion kroner
($25 billion) driven by an 11 percent increase in spending 
on exploration, the country’s statistics agency said today.  Appraisal wells last year around  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
Gro discovery in the Norwegian Sea have indicated resources may
be at the lower end of a 10 billion to 100 billion cubic meters
estimate. Total,  Europe ’s third-largest oil company, also
reduced the size of its Victoria find in the area after more
drilling in 2009.  The Norwegian Sea is also home to Shell’s Ormen Lange,
Europe’s third largest gas deposit, where the company announced
a dry appraisal well last month. The Petroleum Directorate and
the company are assessing the field after estimated reserves at
the field were cut by 24 percent last year following two
appraisal wells.  Protected Waters    Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR) , a Trondheim, Norway-based
explorer, on Feb. 28 also reported a dry well in a prospect east
of the Ormen Lange field.  Continued failure may increase pressure on the government
to open up protected waters off the Lofoten and Vesteraalen
islands in the  Norwegian Sea . Norway is also targeting areas to
the east, after signing a maritime delimitation treaty with  Russia  in September, settling a four-decade dispute. The treaty
needs to be ratified by both parliaments. The waters along the
Russian border, as well as the unexplored area around the Jan
Mayen Island are described by Norway as carrying the potential
to prolong petroleum output. There are no resource estimates.  The government is set to reach a decision this month on
whether to start a study of the consequences of exploration off
Lofoten and Vesteraalen, where 3.5 billion barrels in oil and
gas is estimated to lie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ; 