-- 
Oaktree Capital to Boost EU Distressed Investments as U.S. Returns Drop

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-03-03T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/oaktree-to-boost-eu-distressed-investments-as-u-s-returns-drop.html
Oaktree Capital Management LLC, an
$82 billion investment firm, plans to purchase more distressed
assets in  Europe  as a price rally eroded the return outlook for
U.S. corporate debt, according to Chairman Howard Marks.  “The better opportunities lie in Europe because banks have
some purification job to do on their portfolios, and in mid-cap
deals and also in debt related to commercial real estate,”
Marks said in an interview in Berlin yesterday. “We indicated
to our investors in 2008 that a return before fees of more than
25 percent is possible. Today, you can’t get that level of
returns from traditional U.S. distressed debt.”  Oaktree, founded in 1995 by Marks, Bruce Karsh, Steve
Kaplan, Larry Keele, Richard Masson and Sheldon Stone, is among
U.S.-based firms looking to add investments in European
distressed assets. New York-based Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
said on March 1 it hired Mubashir Mukadam from York Capital
Management to head its European special situations group.  Los Angeles-based Oaktree generated annual gross returns
ranging from 8.5 percent to 58 percent for its distressed-asset
investment funds, according to filings to investors seen by
Bloomberg. Oaktree manages $33 billion in distressed debt,
according to its  website.   “The biggest challenge today is sourcing high-returning
assets with safety,” said Marks, who spends about four months a
year in London. “This is time for caution because prices are
rising and deal structures are being weakened.”  Covenant-Lite Loans  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index,
which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien
leveraged loans, is near the level set on Feb. 14, when it
closed at 96.48 cents on the dollar, the highest since
November 2007 and up from a low of 59.2 cents on Dec. 17, 2008,
three months after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Leveraged loans are rated less than Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  Issuance of covenant-lite loans, or debt that doesn’t have
financial maintenance requirements, has risen to 2006 and 2007
levels, before the worst recession since the 1930s, according to
a Feb. 28 report by Citigroup Inc. Of the more than $60 billion
in new loans arranged this year, $14.3 billion of those, or 25
percent, have been covenant-lite, Citigroup said.  Marks, 64, is releasing “The Most Important Thing” in
April, a book based on his memos to more than 8,000 investors
worldwide.  As future returns from distressed assets declined compared
with 2008, Oaktree decided not to reinvest asset-sale proceeds
of its $11 billion OCM Opportunities VIIb fund after achieving a
31 percent gross annual return. It has begun distributing in
January $3 billion to investors, instead of waiting until the
start of the funds liquidation period, Marks said.  Returning Money  “People went into the 2008 fund because we told them that
was a great cyclical opportunity to make extremely high
returns,” he said. “But this kind of opportunity is not there
in today’s market so I think we should return the money to
investors and they can choose whether to come back into any of
our new funds.”  The firm raised $1.6 billion of mezzanine funds for the
U.S. market in November, Marks said.  Distressed-investment funds worldwide posted an average
15.5 percent return last year, making them the second-best
performing asset class in indexes compiled by hedge fund
advisory firm Hennessee Group LLC. That’s down from 41.9 percent
in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  