-- 
Obama Needs Clinton Rerun to Gain in Stalemate: Michael Waldman

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W a l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-03T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/obama-needs-clinton-rerun-to-win-stalemate-commentary-by-michael-waldman.html
History doesn’t repeat itself, but
it rhymes,  Mark Twain  is thought to have said. Democrats are
hoping that’s true.  Fifteen years ago, fierce budget fights between  Bill Clinton  and the  Republican Congress  forced the government to
shut down twice. The conflict boosted the president, revitalized
his vision for government and branded Republicans as extreme.  Now, as battles loom over the debt ceiling and spending,
another shutdown seems quite possible. Congress temporarily
postponed the first fight this week in a vote approving a
stopgap measure that keeps the government funded until March 18.  But the odds favor budgetary head-butting throughout 2011.
This year’s budget battle is even more tangled, more fraught and
more likely to lead to a murky result economically and
politically than in the mid-1990s.  In 1995, as today, Republicans were roaring in opposition
to the federal government. They aimed to force Clinton to sign a
draconian budget or risk a shutdown. They assumed the president
would give in. If not, many thought, citizens would cheer a
padlocking of the hated federal establishment.  After marathon negotiations, Clinton vetoed their budget
bills. Government services deemed “non-essential” were
shuttered. Tourists were turned away from national parks. A debt
crisis was averted only when Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin 
declared a 12-month “debt issuance suspension period.”  Empty House  For those of us working for Clinton, it was a charged time.
The White House echoed empty, with only a handful of aides.
Every day, Clinton strode into the White House press room and
volleyed arguments back and forth with House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. With the
public riveted, he urged “a balanced budget that honors our
values by protecting Medicare, Medicaid, education and the
environment.”  Every bit of stagecraft made the point. To veto one budget
bill, he used the very fountain pen that President  Lyndon Johnson  had used to sign Medicare into law. The ink didn’t work,
but the photo op did. Soon public opinion began to turn. When
Gingrich complained that he had been forced to leave Air Force
One through the back entrance, the entire grand confrontation
was easily caricatured as a fit of pique. Finally, Senate
Republicans, led by Robert Dole, forced a back-down. A new
consensus for a smaller, but active, government took hold, at
least for a while.  Obama’s Weakness  It’s hardly likely to play out so cleanly today. The White
House faces a different political imperative. Clinton had been
derided as “slick” and too prone to compromise. The budget
fight gave him a chance to stand up for his principles. Obama’s
weakness comes not from image but unemployment near 10 percent
for almost two years. He can stand tough all he wants: If it
doesn’t cure joblessness, the public won’t care. Obama’s
imperative is to convey a sure sense of economic management.  It’s different on  Capitol Hill , too. Tea Party lawmakers
are just as excitable as their forebears, demonstrated when they
forced a vote on deep cuts in food-safety inspection or border
security. But their leadership seems more deft. Speaker  John Boehner  is far less messianic, and less likely to self-destruct,
than Gingrich.  In any case, the public will find it hard to follow a
simple shutdown morality play. In 1995, a president of one party
faced off against a Congress of another. Today, Congress is
divided. Half-attentive citizens may not hear “president stands
up for principle” as much as “Congress bickers, deadlocks,
dysfunctional as usual.”  Media Cloud  Today’s media environment will further cloud the picture.
The 1995 shutdown dominated what quaintly used to be called
“the evening news” and received much ink in what were called
“newspapers.” The Internet was in its infancy,  CNN  was the
only widely watched cable network, and Fox News hadn’t launched.  Given all this, how can Obama prevail on policy while
making a larger point? A key goal is to manage the government as
effectively as possible, given the hairpin turns ahead.
Minimizing the public impact will prove better politics than
letting government fail. He will have to find his moments to
engage, too, since he may not have many veto statements to
issue. At each moment, he will have to choose whether to rise
above partisan passions, or step forward as a principled
advocate for his point of view.  Subtle Argument  Ultimately, he must use the bully pulpit. Democrats can’t
simply pick at unpopular cuts. Obama will have to explain that
the economy still needs investment, or risk imperiling the
recovery. And it needs real fiscal discipline, without putting
Medicare at risk. It’s a subtle argument, but he will have a
more attentive audience than before.  Clinton sealed his shutdown victory in his  1996 State of
the Union  address. Though he declared, “The era of big
government is over,” he also introduced Richard Dean, a Social
Security Administration employee in the Oklahoma City federal
building who had helped rescue people injured in the 1995
bombing by Timothy McVeigh.  Dean, Clinton noted, was kept from doing his job by the
shutdown. On Dean’s behalf, Clinton declared, “I challenge all
of you in this Chamber: Never, ever shut the federal government
down again.”  This year’s budget brawl will probably last months. If
Obama doesn’t just try to make history rhyme, he has a chance to
set the terms for the next decade of debate.    Michael Waldman , former head speechwriter for President
Bill Clinton, is executive director of the Brennan Center for
Justice at  New York University School of Law  and the author of
“My Fellow Americans.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael.Waldman.comments@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  