-- 
Obama Says Pentagon Examining Libya Options as He Offers Evacuation Help

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-03T22:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/obama-says-pentagon-examining-libya-options-as-he-offers-evacuation-help.html
President  Barack Obama  renewed his
call for Muammar Qaddafi to give up power in Libya and said he
has authorized the U.S. military to study a “full range of
options” to respond to violence in the North African country.  “We will continue to send a clear message: The violence
must stop,” Obama said today at a news conference with Mexican
President Felipe Calderon at the White House. Qaddafi “has lost
legitimacy to lead, and he must leave.”  Obama said he has ordered the Pentagon to help evacuate
Egyptians who are stranded in  Tunisia  after fleeing Libya and
authorized chartering of private aircraft to get other refugees
back home. He said he wants to continue working with
international partners as the civil strife continues in  Libya ,
holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves. The options being
studied include both military measures and humanitarian
assistance.  The U.S. must be able “to act, potentially rapidly, if the
situation deteriorated in such a way that you had a humanitarian
crisis on our hands,” Obama said. He said there  is danger that
the turmoil may end up in a “bloody” stalemate.  Military Resources  Two U.S. Navy warships, with 800 Marines aboard, will
arrive off Libya within a day or two for possible humanitarian
operations, and an additional 400 Marines have been dispatched,
according to Josh Diddams, a spokesman for the Marine Corps at
the Pentagon. Admiral Gary Roughead, the chief of naval
operations, said two aircraft carriers are already in the region
and a third, the USS George H.W. Bush, is preparing for
deployment there from Norfolk, Virginia.  The conflict’s focal point moved eastward yesterday
following earlier clashes close to the capital, Tripoli, where
Qaddafi has retained control. Northeast of Brega, warplanes
bombed an area near Ajdabiya, where the rebels have seized an
army camp, and Al Arabiya television reported that 16 people
were killed.  Jeffrey White , a defense fellow at the  Washington Institute
for Near East Policy  and a specialist on the region, said in a
 report  on the institute’s website that the battle in Libya is
likely to be an extended conflict and that a no-fly zone may be
inadequate to deal with Qaddafi’s remaining forces.  “Both sides lack the offensive capability to bring the
conflict to a rapid conclusion,” he wrote. Rising casualties
and heightened humanitarian concerns will “increase pressure
for external military intervention,” he wrote.  Call for Intervention  Opposition leaders are calling for international air
strikes against Qaddafi’s forces, and there is mounting pressure
from lawmakers in the U.S. to establish a no-fly zone over Libya
to prevent the regime from using aircraft against the rebels.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said yesterday that setting
up a no-fly zone over the North African country would first
require attacking and destroying Libyan air defenses. He told a
House panel that it would be “a big operation in a big
country.”    China  joined  Russia  yesterday in signaling likely
opposition to action by the United Nations Security Council to
authorize such action.  U.S. Options  While Obama didn’t directly answer a question about whether
he supports imposing a no-fly zone over Libya, he said it was
among the options being examined. He declined to specify what
other steps the U.S. may be willing to undertake, saying “I
don’t want us hamstrung.”  The U.S. is mounting an operation to assist some of the
people who have fled Libya since the fighting began.  State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said the
president had authorized the deployment of military and civilian
aircraft “to assist in the movement of third-country nationals
out of Libya and back to their host nations.”  Crowley said people from more than 20 nations are among
those gathering around Libya’s border with Tunisia.  The UN refugee agency said March 1 that more than 150,000
people have fled Libya to neighboring Egypt and Tunisia.  Concern that the uprisings which already have toppled
leaders in Tunisia and Egypt will continue spreading to major
oil producing countries have helped drive up  oil prices , which
have risen 26 percent in the last year. Oil output in Libya,
which produces about 1.8 percent of world supply, has dropped by
as much as 1 million barrels a day since the unrest began, the  International Energy Agency  said yesterday.  Prices declined as much as 2 percent today after the  Arab
League  said it was holding discussions with  Venezuela  about
mediating the conflict. Crude for April delivery slid 32 cents
to settle at $101.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 