-- 
Obama Tells Shuttle Astronauts Their Work Is an Inspiration

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-03T23:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/obama-tells-shuttle-astronauts-their-work-is-an-inspiration.html
President  Barack Obama  congratulated
the crews of the Space Shuttle Discovery and the International  Space Station  and told them their work is inspirational.  “We are always inspired by the images of all you guys at
work,” Obama said in a call to the space station. “You are
setting such a great example with your dedication, with your
courage, with your commitment to exploration. These are traits
that built America and you guys personify them.”  Discovery, the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space
Administration’s most flown shuttle, took off on its 39th and
final flight into space on Feb. 24 on a mission to carry
equipment to the International Space Station.  Obama said the cooperation on the space station between
countries, including the U.S. and European space agencies, and
Japan and  Russia , serves as “a pretty good metaphor for how we
need to live and work together productively in space and maybe
back down here on earth.”  Among the astronauts Obama spoke to was Scott Kelly, who is
the brother of astronaut  Mark Kelly , the husband of U.S.
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , an  Arizona  Democrat.  Giffords, 40, is recovering from injuries she suffered in a
shooting in Tucson, Arizona, on Jan. 8.  “It sounds like Gabby’s making incredible progress,”
Obama said.  “Thank you she’s really a true inspiration to all of us,”
Kelly replied.  300 Million Miles  Discovery is scheduled to return to Earth from its last
mission on March 7, after spending over its lifetime a full year
in space and traveling over 300 million miles, Kelly said.  “I just want to congratulate everybody at  NASA , all the
personnel past and present, who spent so much effort in making
the Space Shuttle Discovery part of our unique history in
space,” Obama said. “We could not be prouder of what you guys
are doing.”  Only two more missions are planned for the almost 30-year
old Space Shuttle program before it is ended. Obama has proposed
a new rocket program to carry astronauts into deep space.
Private companies would build vessels to carry astronauts into
orbit, especially to the space station, under that plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  