-- 
Obama, Mexico President Calderon to Meet Under Shadow of `Tense' Relations

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-03-03T16:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/obama-calderon-meeting-under-shadow-of-tense-relationship.html
Mexican President Felipe Calderon
and U.S. President  Barack Obama  will meet today in Washington
with little likelihood of coming to terms on many of the cross-
border issues dividing the two countries.    Mexico  has been plagued by a violent drug war that claimed
the lives of 15,000 of its citizens last year, and government
officials there have laid part of the blame on the U.S. for
failing to stop the flow of illegal weapons across the border or
reduce drug demand in the U.S.  Calderon criticized the U.S. in a Feb. 23 interview with
the newspaper El Universal, saying its cooperation in the battle
against drug cartels was “notoriously insufficient.”  The meeting also comes after gunmen linked to organized
crime on Feb. 15 attacked two U.S. customs agents, killing one
and wounding the other, as they drove on a highway in San Luis
Potosi state.  “The relationship is tense right now,” said Vanda Felbab-
Brown, a fellow at the Brookings Institution policy research
organization in  Washington .  Obama, 49, and Calderon, 48, have met one-on-one four times
before, the last time in Washington during an official state
visit May 19 that was intended to highlight the importance of
the U.S. relationship with its southern neighbor and third-
largest trading partner. The two will conduct a news conference
at the White House, scheduled for 1 p.m. Washington time.  Meeting Agenda  Among the issues the two leaders likely will discuss are
additional aid to Mexico to help fight drug traffickers, efforts
to restrict the cross-border weapons trade, increased economic
integration and an overhaul of U.S. immigration policy.  In most of those areas, Obama’s hands are tied because of
opposition from Republicans, who hold the majority in the  House
of Representatives  and can block action in the Democratic-
controlled Senate, Felbab-Brown said.  “I would be very surprised if President Obama could offer
anything beyond words of support, because a lot of these issues
depend on Congress,” she said.  The shooting of the customs agents signals the targeting of
U.S. officials may become more common in Mexico, the  Council on
Foreign Relations  in Washington said in a report published
yesterday. That risk should spur the U.S. to do more to help
Mexico strengthen its judiciary and political institutions, it
said.  Targeting U.S. Officials  “U.S. law enforcement officials are now in the cross
hairs,” David Shirk, a professor of politics at the University
of  San Diego , said in the report.  Deputy Mexican Foreign Minister Julian Ventura told
reporters March 1 in Mexico City that while the two presidents
will probably express a desire to further strengthen cooperation
on combating the drug cartels, they aren’t expected to announce
any new agreements.  “The loss of Mexican and American life in the fight
against organized crime shows that we face a shared challenge
and the need to strengthen cooperation,” Ventura said. “We
expect specific announcements on how to strengthen our
actions.”  Seeking More Aid  Ventura said the U.S. has fallen behind in its plans to
send aid to Mexico under the Merida Initiative, a $1.5 billion,
three-year program to help Mexico combat drug gangs. So far,
only $400 million has been provided.  “There’s a backlog,” Ventura said.  The total spent will increase to $900 million by the end of
this year, an administration official told reporters on a
conference call yesterday, speaking on the condition of
anonymity.  The official said the agenda for the two leaders would
include efforts their countries can take together to dismantle
the drug cartels and ways to share information between different
law enforcement agencies on each side of the border.  Deaths related to drug trafficking increased almost 60
percent in Mexico last year and total more than 34,000 since
Calderon took office in December 2006. The government estimates
the violence shaves 1.2 percentage points off economic output
annually.  The U.S. government has taken more measures in the past
year to warn and protect its employees in Mexico. The State
Department  authorized the departure  of dependents of U.S.
consulate personnel in cities along the U.S.-Mexico border after
employees of the U.S. consulate in  Ciudad Juarez  were killed.  Drug Flow  Around 95 percent of cocaine imported into the U.S. passes
through Central America and Mexico after originating in  South
America , according to the 2011 International Narcotics Control
Strategy  Report  published today by the U.S. State Department.  Marijuana production grew for the second straight year in
Mexico in 2010, increasing 45 percent to 17,500 hectares, the
report said. Opium poppy cultivation and heroin production
expanded for the fourth straight year in the country, which
provides 7 percent of the world’s heroin supply, it said.  A long-outstanding economic issue between the two countries
has been a dispute over the passage of Mexican trucks from
factories south of the border to destination points in the U.S.
Though the U.S. is bound by the  North American Free Trade
Agreement  to allow Mexican trucks through, opponents in Congress
have blocked U.S. compliance, citing safety concerns.  During his visit, Calderon will also meet with U.S. House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, and will host a forum
on Mexico’s political and economic situation organized by the
Woodrow Wilson Center and the Council of the Americas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  