-- 
Fed’s Lockhart Says Oil Adds ‘Caution’ to U.S. Outlook

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-03T17:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/lockhart-says-middle-east-turmoil-adds-caution-to-u-s-economic-outlook.html
The outlook for a faster-than-
expected U.S. recovery has been muted by rising oil prices and
turmoil in the Middle East, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said.  “Not many weeks ago, I was ready to say, with regard to
growth prospects, that I could be pleasantly surprised to the
upside,” Lockhart said today in a speech in Tallahassee,
Florida. “I still hold to the view that I could be pleasantly
surprised, but with a touch more caution.”  Lockhart is among Fed officials seeking to assess the
likely impact of rising oil prices on the  U.S. economy .
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  last month said he
saw little fallout from the Middle East turmoil.  “My sense of the balance of risks has been shifting with
world news,” Lockhart, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this
year, told the Economics Club of  Florida . “A sober assessment
of prospects for continued economic progress has to factor in
not only the risk of a sustained oil shock but also risks
associated with fiscal policies and politics both here and in  Europe .”  Oil in  New York  fell for the first time in three days after
the  Arab League  said it’s holding discussions with Venezuela
about mediating the conflict in Libya,  Africa ’s largest oil
producer.  Crude for April delivery slid 63 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$101.60 a barrel at 10:57 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have risen 26 percent in the past year.  Bernanke Testimony  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told lawmakers this week that
while a surge in  oil prices  probably won’t cause a permanent
increase in broader inflation, a sustained gain in energy and
commodity costs “would represent a threat both to economic
growth and to overall price stability.”  Lockhart said his “baseline forecast” is still for
sustained economic growth of 3 percent to 4 percent over the
next year or two, with inflation rising to about 2 percent.
While near-term inflation expectations have risen, long-term
expectations remain “quite stable.”  Lockhart devoted most of his speech to weakness in the
labor market. With unemployment at 9 percent, monetary policy
has a role to play in contributing to job growth, Lockhart said.  At the same time, a mismatch of jobs with workers’ skills
and higher productivity growth may also be impeding growth.
Lockhart said the long-term sustainable jobless rate may now be
6.5 percent to 7 percent, up from about 5.5 percent before the
recession.  Growth Estimates  Bernanke reiterated his forecast yesterday to Congress that
growth will accelerate this year, while he wants to see a
“sustained period of stronger  job creation .” Policy makers
raised their estimates for growth at their meeting last month,
according to minutes of the Jan. 25-26 meeting released Feb. 16.  U.S. initial jobless claims unexpectedly declined last week
to the lowest level since May 2008, Labor Department figures
showed today. The department may report tomorrow that employers
added 196,000 jobs in February, while the  unemployment rate  rose
to 9.1 percent, according to the median forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  The Fed said yesterday that the labor market improved
throughout the country early this year, driven by rising retail
sales and “solid growth” in manufacturing.  “Labor market conditions continued to strengthen modestly,
with all Districts reporting some degree of improvement,” the
Fed said in its Beige Book report, an anecdotal account of the
economy released two weeks before meetings of the  Federal Open
Market Committee . Its last survey, released Jan. 12, said the
job market was “firming somewhat.”  Further Evidence  The central bank was divided over whether further evidence
of a strengthening recovery would warrant slowing or reducing
the $600 billion of Treasury purchases, according to minutes of
its January meeting. Philadelphia’s Plosser, Richmond Fed
President Jeffrey Lacker and St. Louis’s  James Bullard  have
urged a review of the purchases in light of a strengthening
economy.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  