-- 
Lockhart Says Fed Should Complete Bond Buying Because Recovery `Tenuous'

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-03T19:52:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/lockhart-urges-completing-fed-bond-buying-amid-tenuous-economic-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he favors completing $600 billion
in Treasury purchases because the recovery still faces risks.  “The recovery remains sufficiently tenuous and
sufficiently bound by risk factors that the best course of
action is to play out the program as originally planned,”
Lockhart told reporters today after a speech in Tallahassee,  Florida . “I don’t think the situation yet exists that would
justify cutting the program off or reducing it, particularly
this close to the end.”  Central bankers in January were divided over whether
further evidence of a strengthening economy would warrant
slowing or reducing the pace of asset purchases, which are set
to last through June, according to minutes of their January
meeting. In public comments, Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , the Richmond Fed’s Jeffrey Lacker and St. Louis’s  James Bullard  have urged a review of the purchases in light of a
strengthening economy.  “The economic situation makes the subject of whether to
cut it short probably more debatable than whether to extend
it,” because of a strengthening of the recovery since last
November, when the purchases were announced, as well as
“concern over rising prices,” Lockhart told reporters.  Inflation Expectations  He said there’s a risk that public expectations for future
inflation might be pushed higher by gains in commodity prices.
That would be a concern to central bankers, who monitor
inflation expectations as well as actual increases in consumer
price indexes.  “Inflation itself is in a reasonable zone and moving
closer to where we want it to be, but I think there is a rising
concern, that I have dubbed inflation anxiety, that could spill
into measurable inflation expectations,” he said. “Today’s
expectations become, conceivably, tomorrow’s broad-based
inflation.”  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, matching
December’s year-over-year gain, the lowest in five decades of
record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation
of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  Lockhart said he disagreed with the view that the central
bank should extend its Treasury purchases into the third quarter
at a slower pace, a “tapering” approach similar to how the Fed
ended an earlier program to buy mortgage-backed securities.  Tapering Approach  “I wouldn’t totally rule it out, but I don’t think it
gains a lot,” he told reporters. “The amount of purchases is
manageable within the markets, and the markets understand this
program runs through June. So I don’t see a lot of gain to
reverting to a tapering approach.”  During his speech, Lockhart said Middle East turmoil and
rising oil prices have increased in the past few weeks as a risk
to the U.S. economic outlook.  “The biggest unknown is the Middle East,” Lockhart told
reporters, adding he had spent seven years in the region in an
earlier role as a commercial banker. He spent time in  Iran ,
Lebanon,  Saudi Arabia  and  Greece .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  