-- 
Crude Oil Declines Most in a Week in New York on Libya Peace Plan Report

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-03T08:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/oil-rises-for-third-day-to-near-29-month-high-amid-mideast-unrest-concern.html
Oil dropped the most in a week in  New York  after the  Arab League  said it is studying ways to end
the crisis in Libya that has cut crude supplies from Africa’s
third-biggest producer.  Crude fell as much as 1.8 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since Feb. 24, as an Arab League official said the group
has consulted with Venezuela on the plan, which involves sending
mediators to the North African country. Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi
and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez have discussed resolving
the crisis, the Associated Press reported. Oil prices may be
starting to hurt global economic growth, said  Adam Sieminski ,
chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG.  “The market perception is if there’s an end to the crisis,
there won’t be any potential supply shock,” Pearlyn Wong, a
Singapore-based investment analyst at Bank Julius Baer Group
Ltd., said in a telephone interview in Singapore today. “This
will reduce the pressure on  oil prices  because without supply
shock, there would be enough inventory to meet current demand.”  Crude for April delivery slid as much as $1.86 to $100.37 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $101.09 at 4:05 p.m. in Singapore. The contract
earlier rose as much as 71 cents after settling yesterday at
$102.23, the highest since Sept. 26, 2008.    Brent crude  for April settlement fell as much $3.26, or 2.8
percent, to $113.09 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. That was the biggest intraday decline since
Nov. 12. The contract earlier advanced as much as 0.5 percent.  Arab League  There are no deadlines to agree on the Arab League’s
proposal, Hesham Youssef, chief of staff for the group’s
secretary general,  Amre Moussa , said in a phone interview today.  Venezuela  is also discussing the plan with other countries, he
said.  Oil surged yesterday on concern the turmoil curbing exports
from Libya will spread to the Middle East, disrupting more
supplies. Violence has cut Libyan oil production by as much as 1
million barrels a day, according to the International Energy
Agency.  Qaddafi’s warplanes bombed rebels yesterday as his ground
forces fought unsuccessfully for a major Libyan oil port and
opposition leaders appealed for foreign nations to launch air
strikes against regime mercenaries. Libya pumped about 1.6
million barrels a day in January, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  “These high prices are beginning to weigh on the minds of
central bankers who are worried about what it might be doing to
inflation,” Washington-based Sieminski said in an interview
with Phillip Yin on Bloomberg Television. “As oil gets up to
$120 a barrel it begins to impinge on global economic
activity.”  Middle East  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt ,
while there have been protests in countries including Iraq,
Iran, Yemen, Oman and  Saudi Arabia , the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries’ biggest oil producer. Websites
have called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on March 11
and March 20, according to Human Rights Watch.  Oil also declined on signs the market is “overbought,”
prompting investors to sell contracts. The front-month
contract’s 14-day relative strength index yesterday rose to
74.67, the highest since June 2009, and is above 71 today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading of 70
typically indicates a price is set to retreat, while 30 suggests
it may recover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in  Singapore  at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  