-- 
Crude Oil in New York Slips From 29-Month High on Libya Mediation Proposal

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-03-03T22:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/oil-drops-most-in-two-weeks-on-arab-league-s-libya-crisis-mediation-plan.html
Oil in New York fell from a 29-month
high after  Venezuela  offered to mediate the conflict in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest oil producer.  Crude declined 0.3 percent on the Venezuelan proposal and
after the  Associated Press  reported army deserters secured oil
facilities in the rebel-held port of Brega on the Gulf of Sidra.
Forces loyal to Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi briefly seized,
then lost control of, Brega yesterday.  “There are people attempting to come up with some kind of
compromise that would allow some kind of peace settlement, and
that’s definitely a bearish sign,” said Michael Lynch,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . The government’s failure to hold Brega “removed
any thought that there would be any damage to the oil exports,”
he said.  Crude for April delivery slid 32 cents to settle at $101.91
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have risen
26 percent in the past year.  Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa expressed support for
the initiative in a conversation with Venezuelan Foreign
Minister Nicolas Maduro, Andres Izarra, the Latin American
country’s information minister, said in a Twitter post today.
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is a Qaddafi ally.  The Arab League has also discussed the plan with Venezuela,
Hesham Youssef, chief of staff for Secretary General Amr Moussa,
said in a telephone interview today.  Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, the Libyan leader’s son, said after
floor trading closed that he wasn’t aware of Venezuela’s offer.  Libya pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February,
trailing Nigeria and Angola in African production, according to
Bloomberg News estimates.  A Stretch  The idea that a Venezuelan mediation will lead to peace in  Libya  is “a real stretch, but if you look at the past couple of
days and were long crude oil and see an excuse to take some
money off the table, you’re probably going to go for it,” said
Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis .  Violence has cut Libyan oil output by as much as 1 million
barrels a day, the  International Energy Agency  has said. Crude
surged yesterday on concern that the turmoil curbing Libya’s
exports will spread to the Middle East and disrupt more
supplies.  ‘Day of Rage’  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt,
while there have been protests in countries including Iraq,  Iran , Yemen, Oman and  Saudi Arabia , the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries’ biggest oil producer. Websites
have called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on March 11
and March 20, according to Human Rights Watch.  Oil also declined amid signs the market is “overbought,”
prompting investors to sell contracts.  “The market traded up to and once again failed above $102,
and you have some bulls exiting the market,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  The front-month contract’s 14-day relative strength index
yesterday rose to 74.67, the highest level since June 2009, and
is above 73 today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
reading of 70 typically indicates a price is set to retreat,
while 30 suggests it may recover.  “These high prices are beginning to weigh on the minds of
central bankers who are worried about what it might be doing to
inflation,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at
Deutsche Bank AG, in an interview with Phillip Yin on Bloomberg
Television. “As oil gets up to $120 a barrel, it begins to
impinge on global economic activity.”    Brent crude  for April settlement declined $1.56, or 1.3
percent, to $114.79 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It touched $119.79 a barrel on Feb. 24.  Jobless Claims  Oil pared losses as U.S. initial jobless claims
unexpectedly fell last week to the lowest level since May 2008
in a Labor Department report and as service industries expanded
more than forecast in February, according to the Institute for
Supply Management. Both are signals that a rebounding economy
may boost fuel demand.  Total products supplied averaged over four weeks, a measure
of fuel consumption, rose 0.3 percent to 19.6 million barrels a
day in the period ended Feb. 25, the highest level in seven
weeks, the Energy Department reported yesterday.  Oil at $100 a barrel will have a “bad impact” on the
global economic recovery, especially on emerging economies, IEA
Executive Director  Nobuo Tanaka  said in an interview with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television today. The IEA is the Paris-
based adviser to 28 nations on energy issues.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said today that
the world has enough oil available to soften the blow of any
disruption.  Spare Capacity  “There is considerable spare oil production capacity
globally, and we and other major economies possess substantial
strategic reserves of oil,” he said in testimony prepared for a
hearing today before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
“If necessary, those reserves could be mobilized to help
mitigate the effect of a severe, sustained supply disruption.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 707,612
contracts as of 3:28 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 942,468
contracts yesterday, 19 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.57 million contracts, the
highest level since July 16, 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 