-- 
Oil-Tanker Rates' 19-Fold Increase Shows Refiners' Rush for Libyan Crude

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-03-03T17:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/oil-tanker-rates-19-fold-increase-shows-refiners-rush-for-libyan-crude.html
A 18-fold surge in oil-tanker rates
in two weeks is a sign that European refineries are rushing to
secure cargoes of crude from  Libya  as an uprising against
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  disrupts supply.  Rental income from aframax tankers, capable of carrying
about 600,000 barrels of oil, was at $46,330 a day today, from
$2,511 on Feb. 14, data from the Baltic Exchange in London
show. The ships, most commonly used to carry oil across the
Mediterranean, now cost more than supertankers, which are more
than three times bigger, according to data from the bourse,
which publishes rates for more than 50 maritime routes.    Europe  is the largest importer of Libyan crude and at
least seven  oil companies ’ output in the country, Africa’s
third-largest oil producer, has been disrupted. Six tanker
owners have said they loaded at Libyan ports in the last week,
possibly taking oil produced before disruptions. Protests in
northern  Africa  have toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt.  “The French and the Italians are trying to secure as much
cargo from the countries that are operating as normal,” said
Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an analyst at Fearnley Consultants A/S
in Oslo, part of the Astrup Fearnley A/S shipbroking and
investment banking group. “Quite a few ships are waiting off
Libya so some of the transportation capacity is also idled.”  West African and Caspian Sea crudes have surged to the
highest in more than two years as European refiners find their
grades more suitable for replacing disrupted Libyan exports.
Crude oil in  New York  rose 12 percent this year and traded at
$100.92 a barrel by 5:02 p.m.  London  time.  African Oil  The rush for northern African crude is giving ship owners
an unexpected boost in demand at a time when rates had slumped
because of a glut of vessels. Aframax rates on the
Mediterranean route fell to minus $1,623 on Jan. 14, meaning
owners were effectively paying charterers to take their ships.
The customer will still pay most of the fuel costs, making it a
better option than sailing the vessel empty.  The turmoil in Libya means oil companies are seeking
additional cargoes from  Algeria , as well as from Sidi Kerir in
Egypt and Ceyhan in Turkey, according to Svenning. Ships are
also being delayed leaving the  Black Sea  because of
restrictions at Turkey’s Bosporus strait during winter months,
he said.  Oil companies can currently book a supertanker, capable of
carrying 2 million barrels of oil, for $9,863 a day. Rates
slumped 65 percent in the past 12 months as vessels from the
biggest shipbuilding program in history left yards.  Biggest Shipbroker  Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker, and at least
five tanker owners including Athens-based Thenamaris Ships
Management Inc. reported that shipments from Libya were
continuing even as the unrest caused companies including  Eni
SpA (ENI)  and Total SA to curb operations in the country.  “The owners took advantage of the turmoil in Libya and
asked a premium for going to load there and that’s why rates
moved north,” said Nikos Varvaropoulos, a Dubai-based official
at Optima Shipbrokers Ltd. “As rates increased from Libya, the
owners used it to increase the other rates as well.”  Should Libyan oil supply stop, aframax rates would
probably reverse their gains, said Ben Goggin, head of tanker
derivatives at SSY Futures Ltd., a unit of the second-largest
shipbroker.  Charter rates for very large crude carriers on the
industry’s benchmark  Saudi Arabia  to Japan route advanced 5.2
percent today to 63.25 Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange . Returns from the route added 19 percent to
$21,586 a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 