-- 
Oil Declines Most in a Week on Arab League’s Libya Crisis Resolution Plan

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-03T13:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/oil-declines-most-in-a-week-on-arab-league-s-libya-crisis-resolution-plan.html
Oil slipped for the first time in
three days in  New York  after Venezuela offered to mediate a
resolution to the crisis in Libya, which has cut crude supplies
from Africa’s third-biggest producer.  Crude dropped the most in a week after the  Arab League  said
it’s weighing an offer by Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez to intervene
in Libya’s civil conflict. Muammar Qaddafi’s warplanes bombed
rebels yesterday as his troops fought unsuccessfully for a major
oil port, and opposition leaders appealed for foreign nations to
launch air strikes. Prices may be starting to hurt global
economic growth, said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at
Deutsche Bank AG.  “Things still look grim in Libya, with all the signs of a
prolonged conflict that will severely hamper oil and gas
exports,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker with Bache
Commodities Ltd. in London.  Crude for April delivery slid as much as $1.86, the biggest
decline since Feb. 24, to $100.37 a barrel in electronic trading
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $101.19 at 1:34
p.m. in London. Yesterday it settled yesterday at $102.23, the
highest since Sept. 26, 2008.    Brent crude  for April settlement fell as much as $3.26, or
2.8 percent, to $113.09 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange, the biggest decline since Nov. 12.  Arab League  The Arab League is holding discussions with Venezuela on
sending mediators to the North African country, said Hesham
Youssef, chief of staff for the group’s secretary general,  Amre Moussa .  Venezuela  is also discussing the plan with other
countries, he said in a phone interview today.  Oil surged yesterday on concern the turmoil curbing Libya’s
exports will spread to the Middle East and disrupt more
supplies. Violence has cut Libyan oil output by as much as 1
million barrels a day, the International Energy Agency said.  “The market perception is if there’s an end to the crisis,
there won’t be any potential supply shock,” Pearlyn Wong, a
Singapore-based investment analyst at Bank Julius Baer Group
Ltd., said in a telephone interview in  Singapore  today. “This
will reduce the pressure on  oil prices  because without supply
shock, there would be enough inventory to meet current demand.”  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt,
while there have been protests in countries including Iraq,
Iran, Yemen, Oman and  Saudi Arabia , the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries’ biggest oil producer. Websites
have called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on March 11
and March 20, according to Human Rights Watch.  Prolonged Diminished Capacity  Libyan oil production may not return to recent levels if
Qaddafi is overthrown, following a trend set by fellow OPEC
members Iran and Venezuela when their own governments last
changed, according to a Baker Institute analyst.  “You could see, in the case of Qaddafi being overthrown,
particularly if it’s violent, prolonged diminished capacity from  Libya ,” said Ken Medlock, an energy fellow at the  James A.
Baker III Institute  for Public Policy at Rice University in
Houston, in a telephone interview. “Regime change, even if it’s
good for democratic movements, it’s generally not good for
technical industries.”  Oil also declined amid signs the market is “overbought,”
prompting investors to sell contracts. The front-month
contract’s 14-day relative strength index yesterday rose to
74.67, the highest since June 2009, and is above 71 today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading of 70
typically indicates a price is set to retreat, while 30 suggests
it may recover.  “These high prices are beginning to weigh on the minds of
central bankers who are worried about what it might be doing to
inflation,” Deutsche Bank’s Sieminski said in an interview with
Phillip Yin on Bloomberg Television. “As oil gets up to $120 a
barrel it begins to impinge on global economic activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  