-- 
Carbon Falls to 1-Month Low as EU Prepares First Phase-3 Sales

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-18T16:56:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/carbon-falls-to-1-month-low-as-eu-prepares-first-phase-3-sales.html
Carbon-dioxide permits under the
European Union cap-and-trade system fell to their lowest in more
than a month as regulators prepared to sell phase-three
allowances for the first time as early as this year.  The EU Climate Change Committee may vote in mid-June on a
plan that could ready sales late this year for the phase
starting in 2013 and running through 2020, the European
Commission said. The regulator today postponed the vote, which
previously was on the agenda of tomorrow’s committee meeting.  EU permits for December dropped 5 cents to close at 16.59
euros ($23.68) a metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures  Europe , the
lowest since April 12. They ended yesterday’s session at 16.64
euros a ton, below the 50 percent retracement of the three-day
jump through March 16, a technical sell signal based on
Fibonacci charts.  “It’s a mix between the technicals and the EIB news,”
said Dennis Mignon, a trader with First Climate in Bad Vilbel,
 Germany . “I expect to hold here,” he said today by phone.
Fibonacci charts are based on the theory that prices rise or
fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low.
Permits fell as low as 16.44 euros today in intraday trade, the
least since March 25.  Carbon prices probably will rise over the next several
weeks as utilities, which have shortages of allowances for 2013
and beyond, are forced to hedge forward-power sales, Mignon
said. “In the end, they will start hedging,” he said. “It may
be a bit late this year.”  Offset Discount Narrows  The discount of United Nations emission credits to EU
allowances for December narrowed as much as 4 percent to its
smallest since April 26 as the U.K. said it may buy credits to
help meet greenhouse-gas targets through 2027.  The spread, traded as a separate contract, narrowed to 3.85
euros a metric ton on ICE and closed unchanged at 4.01 euros.
Buyers may have purchased “in anticipation” of potential
government purchasing, Mignon said.  British Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne , acknowledging his
goals to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions by 50 percent by 2027
from 1990 levels were “ambitious,” said yesterday he’d detail
by the end of this year proposals to soften the blow on energy-
intensive industries. He said the intention is to make the cuts
through domestic efforts while declining to rule out using
greenhouse-gas-offset credits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  