-- 
The Mystery of Vanishing Accounting Scandals: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-03-03T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/honesty-for-banks-is-still-such-a-lonely-word-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
So many big companies. So few big
mistakes.  Last August an electronics manufacturer named  Molex Inc. (MOLX) 
did something remarkable, at least by today’s standards for
disclosing bad news. It filed a special  report  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission known as an  8-K , saying it
had overstated its shareholder equity by $101 million and that
investors shouldn’t rely on its financial statements for the
previous three years.  What made this event so unusual is it was the only negative
restatement disclosed in this manner last year by a company in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. That’s according to  Audit
Analytics , a Sutton, Massachusetts, research firm that tracks
such data. Molex, based in Lisle,  Illinois , included its
corrected results in its fiscal 2010  annual report  the same day.  You could look at this in different ways. Perhaps the
quality of today’s financial reports is so pure that only one
S&P 500 company had to disavow its books last year because its
results weren’t as good as originally reported. Or it may be
that too few of America’s largest companies are willing to admit
their errors and disclose them prominently.  “It’s one or the other,” says Don Whalen, research
director at Audit Analytics. “Either companies’ internal
controls have improved dramatically, so they’re not making
mistakes. Or it’s too good to be true, and the information is
not getting out.”  Course Correction  Whichever it is, the number of companies correcting errors
in their books has declined dramatically. Last year 699 SEC-
registered companies filed financial restatements, according to
Audit Analytics. That was up from 640 in 2009, but less than
half the record 1,566 companies in 2006.  The figures for banks, in particular, look unnaturally low.
Forty-four banks restated last year, one fewer than in 2009.
Even more curious, there were 133 banks that issued corrections
from 2008 through 2010. That was down from 169 banks during the
previous three-year period, before the financial crisis took off
in earnest, which makes no sense.  Here we had the greatest banking industry meltdown since
the Great Depression. Hundreds of lenders failed. And yet the
number of banks correcting accounting errors declined while the
collapse was unfolding. There were no restatements by the likes
of IndyMac, Washington Mutual or Lehman Brothers, for example.
The obvious conclusion is the government has been giving lots of
banks a free pass, as have their auditors.  Bad Books  It’s not just banks, either.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
for instance, took massive bailouts in 2008 without ever
conceding errors in their balance sheets. No wonder nobody high
up in the financial world is going to jail, when regulators
won’t force even those outfits to be honest and acknowledge
their books were disastrously wrong.  Molex wasn’t the only S&P 500 company that revised its
results last year. There were 10 in all, including  Zions
Bancorporation. (ZION)  In January 2010, the Salt Lake City-based lender
 warned  investors not to rely on its financial reports for the
two previous quarters. Zions’ corrections made earnings and
equity look better, though, unlike the fixes at Molex.  The other eight S&P 500 companies that restated last year,
including  Tyco International Ltd. , disclosed revisions without
disavowing their previous financial reports in 8-Ks.  Soft Disclosure  About 53 percent of all restatements by U.S. companies in
2010 were handled this way, on the grounds that the errors
supposedly weren’t big enough to warrant more prominent
disclosures. Sometimes called “stealth restatements,” the
corrections instead got tucked elsewhere, such as footnotes in
press releases or companies’ quarterly and annual reports.  One explanation for why restatements peaked in 2006 is that
the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act , starting in late 2004, required many
companies to begin subjecting their internal financial-reporting
systems to audits by outside accounting firms. As companies
improved their  internal controls , they found more errors and
issued more corrections. Then after they completed their initial
overhauls, the theory goes, the number of errors fell sharply.  There’s another school of thought, too. In August 2008, an
SEC advisory committee released a  report  concluding there were
too many restatements and that lots of them had resulted from
accounting errors that the markets didn’t care about. The panel
recommended relaxing the benchmarks for determining when
restatements would be needed, drawing howls from some investors
and praise from the business lobby.  Who’s Restating  Sure enough, corrections are far fewer today than when the
panel began its work, especially at large corporations. The
latest increase in the overall figures was driven by tiny
companies, which tend to be less mature and easier for auditors
and regulators to push around. The number of restaters with less
than $75 million of shares available for trading rose to 551
last year from 484 in 2009. Meanwhile, the number of larger
companies that restated their books fell to 148 from 156.  Whalen says he still believes improvements in companies’
internal controls are the main reason for the broad decline
since 2006. About 40 percent of last year’s restatements had no
effect on earnings, according to Audit Analytics. So it’s not as
if humdrum errors are never getting fixed.  He’s at a loss, though, to explain how there could be fewer
banks that restated their books after the financial crisis
started than before. “As a layman, you know there’s something
wrong with that,” he says.  No kidding.    Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
in New York at   jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  