-- 
Money-Market Ratings, Stress Tests, Solvency II: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-03T13:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/money-market-ratings-eu-stress-tests-solvency-ii-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may propose dropping credit-rating references from
money-market fund regulations and using a different method for
evaluating their portfolios.  SEC commissioners may seek comment on a proposed rule to
instead use internal assessments for  money market funds ,
according to a fact sheet released by the agency. The funds
themselves would be responsible for weighing the credit quality
of the securities in the proposal, which would be open for
public comment until April 25.  The Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul enacted in July requires
regulators including the SEC to eliminate references to credit
ratings in their rules by July 21, replacing them with an
“appropriate” new standard.  Commissioner Luis Aguilar said in remarks prepared for
yesterday’s meeting that he’s concerned the proposal eliminates
an “objective standard” and relies on the existing requirement
that fund boards evaluate the strengths of their own portfolios.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Bank Authority to Publish Stress-Test Scenarios on March 18  The  European Banking Authority  will publish stress-test
scenarios and details of the lenders involved in the exams on
March 18, it said on its website yesterday.  The agency said it would give banks details of the
scenarios this week and publish the results of the tests on
banks’ capital in June after a “vigorous peer review.” The
regulators met in  London  yesterday to discuss the methodology of
the 2011 tests on banks’ capital.  Last year’s European Union stress tests were criticized for
not being stringent enough because lenders in the 27-nation
region were shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros
($4.8 billion) of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest
analyst estimate.  This year’s economic scenarios “will incorporate a
significant deviation from the baseline forecast and country-
specific shocks on real estate prices,  interest rates  and
sovereigns,” the authority said in the  statement . Last year’s
tests also examined the possible impact of a reduction in the
market price of sovereign debt.  Solvency II ‘Killed’ by Complexity, German Mutual Insurers Say  Solvency II, the proposed new risk-based regulation for
insurers in Europe, has become too complex to be useful, the
head of a group representing mutual insurers in Germany said.  “The ever-increasing complexity of Solvency II has killed
the system,” Werner Goerg, the chief executive officer of
Gothaer Group and head of the German association of mutual
insurers  ARGE , said in an interview. “Whereas risk-based
regulation is generally viewed positively, by now only a few
experts are able to understand Solvency II, which makes it
useless as a tool to help manage an insurer.”  The new directive, scheduled to come into effect in 2013,
is being developed by the European Commission and the Frankfurt-
based European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, or
 Eiopa , along with local regulators. The Solvency II rules were
tested by regulators in a fifth quantitative impact study, named
 QIS5 , from August to November. Publication of the results is
planned for this month.  The new rules are designed to align insurers’ risks with
the capital they hold to protect policyholders. The Solvency II
proposals have been criticized for being too volatile and too
complex by industry groups.  Finance Consumers Need Protection From U.K. Watchdog, Group Says  The U.K. should to do more to protect retail customers as
it scraps the  Financial Services Authority , a consumer group
said yesterday.  The Financial Conduct Authority, the U.K.’s proposed
consumer protection agency, must “do a better job than the FSA
in ensuring consumers are both adequately protected and
informed,” the chief of London’s top financial customer rights
group said.  The government is pushing through the biggest shake-up in
financial regulation since 1997, scrapping the FSA and splitting
its powers between a new regulator within the Bank of England
and a markets watchdog by 2012.  The FSA, the U.K.’s financial regulator, is increasing its
focus on consumer protection.  Hedge Funds, Brokers in U.S. May Face Fresh Calls for Risk Data  Hedge funds, broker-dealers and mortgage companies may face
unprecedented demands for data on everything from risk exposure
to trading partners as U.S. regulators seek to identify firms
that pose a potential threat to the financial system, a
confidential government report says.  The staff of the  Financial Stability Oversight Council 
identified dozens of “potential metrics” to decide which non-
bank financial firms should be designated “systemically
important” and subject to  Federal Reserve  supervision,
according to an 80-page study obtained by Bloomberg News.  The council, charged with averting another financial
crisis, will collect data that can be used to force firms to
raise capital, increase liquidity and sell assets deemed too
concentrated in any segment of the economy. Industry groups for
hedge funds, mutual funds and insurance companies are lobbying
to avoid being designated systemically important.  The council, whose members include Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , may
begin making its designations of non-bank financial companies by
midyear.  For more, click here.  Merkel’s Cabinet Approves Bank Restructuring Levy Decree  German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Cabinet approved the
terms under which a national restructuring fund will impose
levies on all banks to prevent the collapse of “crucial”
lenders.  The fee banks must pay depends on their liabilities as well
as off-balance sheet derivatives, said a Finance Ministry
proposal that the Cabinet in Berlin backed yesterday. While the
fee will be capped, banks will have to pay the levy in
subsequent years if earnings are insufficient to pay it in a
given year. The decree needs the approval of both houses of
parliament.  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest lender, will be
affected the most by the fee, Chief Executive Officer  Josef
Ackermann  has said. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has said
German banks together will pay as much as 1.2 billion euros a
year into the pool.  For more, click here.  SEC Votes on Open Access to Swap Clearinghouses, Incentive Pay  The U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  proposed
regulations that would bar clearinghouses from setting minimum
membership standards based on the volume of a company’s
derivatives transactions.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday to seek public
comment on the proposal, which would also require clearinghouses
to open membership to firms with at least $50 million in net
capital. The measure is part of the agency’s rulemaking under
the Dodd-Frank Act, would allow clearinghouses to scale a
member’s participation depending on its capital.  Separately, the SEC yesterday proposed requiring brokers-
dealers and investment advisers with at least $1 billion in
assets to disclose incentive-based compensation arrangements and
prohibit pay packages that might encourage inappropriate risk-
taking.  The agency’s commissioners voted 3-2 to seek comment on the
measure, which also is part of the agency’s rulemaking under the
Dodd-Frank Act. The proposal, part of a joint-agency rulemaking
required by the regulatory overhaul, will be released for
comment after all of the agencies involved give approvals. The
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved its version of the rule
on Feb. 7  For more about the swaps proposal, click here.    China  May Let Trust Firms, Insurers Trade Futures, News Says  China is studying policies to let trust firms, insurers to
trade stock-index futures, the Financial News reported, citing
Zhu Yuchen, general manager of the  China Financial Futures
Exchange .  The exchange is also studying stock-index futures related
to treasury bonds and foreign exchange, the report said, citing
Zhu. Rules that allow qualified foreign institutional investors
to trade stock-index futures have completed opinion collecting
phase, the report said.  Compliance Action  China Banking Regulator to Support Loans to Small Companies  China’s banking regulator will support loans of no more
than 5 million yuan to small-sized companies as it aims to
improve loan services to the small enterprises,  China Banking
Regulatory Commission  said in a statement on its website
yesterday.  Lagardere Among E-Book Publishers Raided in EU Antitrust Probe    Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre was among several e-book
publishers raided by European Union antitrust officials, the
company said.  Regulators went through “a bunch of documents” during
yesterday’s raid, said Ronald Blunden, a Paris-based spokesman
for Hachette. “We of course complied, in the spirit of full
cooperation,” he said in a telephone interview.  The  European Commission   said  earlier that it made
“unannounced inspections” at the premises of companies that
publish digital books in several countries. It didn’t name the
companies or the countries. The Brussels-based regulator has
power to fine companies the equivalent of 10 percent of their
annual sales for breaches of competition rules.  Toronto Role Won’t Be Diminished in Exchange Mergers  Toronto’s role as the hub of Canadian capital markets won’t
be diminished in any future takeovers by a merged TMX Group Inc.
and  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , LSE Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  told an Ontario parliamentary hearing.  “Regardless of the type of transaction that we, as a
merged group, may entertain in the future, separate Canadian-
based governance, management and regulatory oversight for
Canadian exchanges will always remain in place,” Rolet said.  The Ontario government established an all-party committee
last week to review the C$3.2 billion ($3.29 billion) takeover
of the owner of Canada’s main stock exchange by the LSE. The
committee scheduled hearings that began yesterday and continue
today, as well as March 9 and 10.  The TMX-LSE transaction requires approval from the federal
government and five Canadian provincial regulators including
Ontario and Quebec, as well as the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  For more, click here.  NYSE Plan to Take on CME in Rate Futures to Begin March 21    NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s plan to compete with  CME Group Inc. (CME)  by
allowing investors to reduce their margin for offsetting
interest-rate futures and U.S. Treasury positions will begin
March 21.    New York  Portfolio Clearing, the venture between NYSE
Euronext and the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., received
approval from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
offer investors the margin offset, the company said in a
statement yesterday. It’s targeting CME Group’s 98 percent share
of U.S. futures trading. Chicago-based CME Group said two days
ago that it would offer the same type of margin reduction
between futures and cash Treasury positions by the end of the
month.  NYSE Euronext’s New York-based exchange NYSE Liffe U.S.
will offer futures trading for Eurodollar contracts on March 21,
followed by futures on 2-, 5- and 10-year U.S. Treasuries
pending regulatory approval, NYSE Euronext said in a separate
statement yesterday.  For more, click here.  ASIC Releases Timetable for Licensing New Exchange Operators  Australian Securities & Investments Commission released the
timetable for the introduction of market competition.  “We intend to issue the final market integrity rules for
competition in April 2011,” the regulator said on its website.
“At the same time, we will inform the market of their operative
date which will be sometime later in 2011.”  Courts  Madoff Investor Sues U.S. for Negligence, Seeks $270,000  An investor in Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme sued the
U.S., alleging the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
failed to protect him and demanding at least $269,693 in
compensation for his losses.  “The SEC turned a blind eye to Madoff’s scheme after a
plethora of warnings and red flags,” Paul Kaye, 40, a lighting
technician from New York state, said in a complaint filed Feb.
28 in federal court in Manhattan. “The SEC owed a duty of care
to all Madoff investors.”  Kaye’s suit followed earlier allegations by Madoff
investors that the government loses its sovereign immunity from
lawsuits if its agencies are negligent. The Litwin Foundation
sued the SEC in September for $19 million plus damages.  The SEC received at least eight complaints or warnings
about Madoff from 1992 to 2008, when the fraud was exposed, Kaye
said. During formal probes and “numerous” informal inquiries,
the regulator disregarded its policy of reviewing information in
tips and complaints before drawing conclusions about their
legitimacy, he said, citing a 2009  report  by the SEC’s inspector
general.  The SEC “admitted its gross negligence through an internal
investigation” conducted by the inspector general, Kaye said.
Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to comment.  The case is Kaye v. U.S., 11-cv-1370, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Turkey Antitrust Regulator Says Bank Probe No Cause for Concern  A Turkish investigation into a complaint of breaches of
competition law by eight banks has created “excessive
concern,” the head of the  Competition Board  said, according to
Bloomberg television.  The investigation in Ankara is proceeding according to the
law and there’s no need for concern, Nurettin Kaldirimci said in
an interview with the channel.  Buffett Says He’s ‘Paranoid’ About Avoiding Insider Trading  Billionaire investor Warren Buffett said he’s “paranoid”
about keeping information about his deals secret and tries to
complete purchases quickly to prevent insider trading.  “If enough time goes by and enough people get exposed to
it, somebody’s going to talk,” Buffett, the chief executive
officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said yesterday in an
interview on CNBC television.  Buffett’s decision to invest in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
during the financial crisis was leaked to a hedge fund by Rajat
K. Gupta, who was then on the bank’s board, U.S. regulators said
yesterday.  Gupta alerted hedge-fund manager Raj Rajaratnam to
Buffett’s $5 billion investment in the company before the deal
was made public in September 2008, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in an administrative order. Rajaratnam’s Galleon
Group made more than $18 million on that tip and other insider
information from Gupta, the SEC said.  EU Says Intel-McAfee Remedies Set Tone for Future Merger Probes    Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s offer to supply information to rivals as part
of its effort to win European Union approval to buy security
software company  McAfee Inc. (MFE)  may set the tone for future merger
investigations in the technology industry, an EU official said.  Cecilio Madero Villarejo said it is “very much the
policy” of the  European Commission  to seek “interoperability
remedies” when it rules on information technology mergers.  In a speech at an antitrust conference in Brussels, he said
the EU antitrust agency saw IT as playing “a key role” in
Europe’s economic recovery.  Bernanke Says Fed May Miss Deadline for Crafting Debit-Cap Rules  The Federal Reserve may miss a deadline mandated by
Congress for coming up with a final rule to cap debit-card
interchange fees charged to merchants, according to Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke.  “Whether we can make the April 21 deadline is a question
at this point,” Bernanke said yesterday during a hearing before
the House Financial Services Committee. “We’ll have to take as
much time as we need to do the appropriate rule.” Bernanke was
referring to caps required by the Dodd-Frank law that overhauled
the financial industry.  The Fed has proposed capping debit-card fees at 12 cents
per transaction, replacing a formula averaging about 1 percent
of the purchase price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 