-- 
Honeywell, PPG Environmental Suit by New Jersey Residents to Go Forward

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-03-03T00:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/honeywell-ppg-environmental-suit-by-new-jersey-residents-to-go-forward.html
Honeywell International Inc. and  PPG
Industries Inc. (PPG)  failed to win dismissal of an environmental
lawsuit by  Jersey City ,  New Jersey  residents as a federal judge
rejected claims the suit had been filed too late.  U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton in  Newark , New Jersey,
ruled yesterday that it wasn’t clear when the six-year period
for bringing a lawsuit began, according to court papers.  Residents of Jersey City sued Honeywell and PPG in May,
claiming the companies dumped more than 1 million tons of
cancer-causing hexavalent chromium and should pay for medical
tests. The suit also seeks compensation for the owners of
properties around the city where the companies dumped hexavalent
chromium.  “This court cannot say that a reasonable person would have
been aware that they were entitled to relief when the
information available to the public denounced hexavalent
chromimum as toxic while at the same time denying its
carcinogenic effects when introduced into the environment,”
Wigenton said in the ruling.  A Honeywell predecessor company owned a plant that
generated 969,500 tons of chromium ore processing residue from
1895 to 1954, and a predecessor of PPG’s produced 300,000 tons
of the byproduct from 1924 to 1963, according to the complaint.
The residents also seek punitive damages, claiming the companies
failed to remediate properties where the waste was deposited.  Site Cleanup  Honeywell is working with the state’s  Environmental
Protection Department  to clean up chromium sites in Jersey City
and finished remediating two locations last year, Victoria Streitfeld, a spokeswoman for the  Morris Township , New Jersey-
based company, said in an e-mail.  “We are committed to continuing to work with -- and listen
to -- the Jersey City community while we safely remediate those
sites for which we are responsible,” Streitfeld said.  Jeremy Neuhart, a spokesman for Pittsburgh-based PPG,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Smith v.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and PPG
Industries Inc., 2:10-cv-03345, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 