-- 
Ontario Court Dismisses Appeal on Wind Farm Health Concerns

-- B y   G a r y   N o r r i s
-- 
2011-03-03T22:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/ontario-court-dismisses-appeal-on-health-concerns-linked-to-wind-farms.html
An Ontario court  quashed a
health-related objection to wind power generation,
eliminating a potential obstacle to wind-farm development
in  Canada ’s most populous province.  “We are satisfied that the minister complied with the
process,” a three-judge panel of the Ontario Divisional
Court said today in dismissing an attempt to strike down
four sections of the province’s Environmental Protection
Act.  Eric Gillespie, a lawyer for applicant Ian Hanna,
argued that the Ontario Environment Ministry, in setting a
minimum distance of 550 meters (1,800 feet) between
industrial wind turbines and dwellings, had failed to
adequately consider possible health impacts.  “The science is uncertain,” said Gillespie,
representing Hanna, 56, who runs a wine importing business
on Big Island in the Bay of Quinte, in an Ontario region
where a half-dozen wind farms have been proposed.  Gillespie told the panel headed by Associate Chief
Justice Douglas Cunningham that the ministry relied on
“traditional acoustical engineering” in determining the
setback. He contended that officials gave insufficient
regard to annoyance, stress, sleep disturbance and other
possible effects on residents.  Sara Blake, a government lawyer, said that the
ministry embraces a “precautionary science-based approach,”
and it considered all available studies and public comments
in formulating the 2009 regulations.  Public Consultation  The ruling by the divisional court stated that there
was a full public consultation and review of science-based
evidence, such as reports by the  World Health Organization 
and acoustical engineering experts.  “We have stated from the outset that this application
had no merit and should not have been brought before the
court,” Robert Hornung, president of the Canadian Wind
Energy Association, said in a  statement.   “Ontario’s setback regulations are among the most
stringent in the world and are designed to protect the
health and safety of the public,” Hornung said.  Hornung said last month that if Hanna’s motion
succeeded, wind projects would be stalled until the
legislation was rewritten.  Companies with existing or proposed wind projects in
Ontario include  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , Schneider Power,
International Power Plc,  TransAlta Corp. (TA)  and  Suncor Energy
Inc. (SU) , using equipment from suppliers including  General
Electric Co. (GE) , Vestas Wind Systems A/S and Siemens AG.  Ontario has about 1,500 megawatts of maximum wind
generating capacity. This is expected to increase to
2,600 MW by the end of 2011, according to the province’s
Independent Electricity System Operator.  The case is Ontario Superior Court of Justice
Divisional Court File No. 491/09.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  