-- 
OPEC to Cut Exports on Refinery Maintenance, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-03T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/opec-to-cut-exports-on-refinery-maintenance-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will cut exports through to March 19 as
refiners idle units while conducting seasonal maintenance,
according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  The drop is unrelated to any disruption in supplies from  Libya , the Halifax, England-based company said. Loadings will
slip to 23.63 million barrels a day in the four weeks to March
19, down 1.1 percent from 23.9 million a day in the equivalent
period to Feb. 19, the company said today in a report. The data
exclude Angola and Ecuador.  “Demand declines at this point in the year because of
maintenance,” Roy Mason, the founder of Oil Movements, said in
a telephone interview. Shipments will likely fall until mid-
April, he said.  Global oil consumption will shrink by 0.3 percent to 88.4
million barrels a day in the second quarter as demand for winter
fuels fades, according to the  International Energy Agency . As
much as 1 million of Libya’s 1.6 million barrels of daily
production may have been halted as a result of the uprising
against Muammar Qaddafi, the agency said.  Any reduction in Libyan exports will appear in next week’s
data, once canceled tanker bookings are reported, Mason said.  Oil climbed to the highest in in 2 1/2 years in  London  on
Feb. 24 as Libya’s violent uprising reduced supplies from  Africa ’s third-biggest producer. Brent futures for April
settlement were at $114.84 a barrel today.  In the four weeks to March 19 exports from Middle Eastern
producers, including non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen, will fall
by 1.7 percent to 17.43 million barrels a day, Oil Movements’
data show.  A total of 484.99 million barrels of crude will be on board
tankers in the month to March 19, down 0.8 percent from the Feb.
19 figure of 488.7 million, according to Oil Movements, which
calculates shipments by keeping a tally of tanker-rental
agreements. Its figures exclude supplies held on board ships
used as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran ,  Iraq ,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  