-- 
Morgan Stanley Names Michael Brennan Head of Oil Trading, Succeeding Trapp

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-03-03T16:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/morgan-stanley-s-brennan-replaces-trapp-as-head-of-oil-trading.html
  Morgan Stanley (MS)  appointed Michael Brennan as global head of its oil liquids group, replacing Goran Trapp, who gave up the position he held since 2008.  “After more than 20 years in the oil liquids group and
having headed both that business and Commodities in Europe,
Goran Trapp has asked to be able to step back from day-to-day
managerial responsibilities,” the New York-based bank said,
according to a company memo dated Feb. 10 and obtained by
Bloomberg News. Trapp, 49, is staying on as chairman of the oil-
trading group. Both are based in London.  “We have asked Michael Brennan to assume the role of
global head of oil liquids, and he will assume full managerial
and operating responsibility for this group,” the memo to
employees said. Morgan Stanley spokesman Hugh Fraser in  London 
confirmed the memo’s contents.  Brennan, who worked as Trapp’s deputy, has been registered
as a Morgan Stanley employee since 2001, according to the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority website. Morgan Stanley, which
trades crude and oil products from the U.S. Gulf coast to  Asia ,
was ranked second in Europe, behind Barclays Plc, for providing
over-the-counter derivatives for energy commodities, according
to a survey released yesterday by Greenwich Associates.  Cultural Alignment  “This appointment makes excellent business sense due to
the extensive oil market experience of Michael Brennan as well
as his longevity within the Morgan Stanley commodities
business,” said Colleen Quilty, a commodities recruiter since
1996 who is now managing director of London-based Quilty Group
Ltd. “Conversely, on occasions, when certain firms have made
strategic external appointments, the individual may not have
been totally culturally aligned and best placed to capitalize on
the business model.”  Crude oil this year exceeded $100 a barrel for the first
time since 2008 as political uprisings in the Middle East and
the civil conflict in  Libya  cut supplies of the world’s most
traded commodity. Crude for April delivery traded at $100.85 a
barrel today in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange.  Oil prices  may surge to $220 a barrel if political
unrest in North  Africa  halts exports from Libya and  Algeria ,
Nomura Holdings Inc. said Feb. 23.  Morgan Stanley considers itself the “number one or two”
bank in commodities, Chief Executive Officer James Gorman said
at the company’s U.S. Financials Conference on Feb. 1 in New
York.  Bullish Bets    Hedge funds  and other large speculators raised bullish bets
on oil to a combined 240,572 options and futures contracts in
the week ended Feb. 22, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report.  Companies acting as brokers for oil transactions, known as
swap dealers, had a net-short position of 94,046 futures and
options. That compares with a net-long position among swap
dealers a year ago of 42,086 futures and options.  Morgan Stanley’s Charles Rankin was appointed head of
commodities for  Europe , Middle East and Africa, replacing Trapp.
Rankin remains in charge of the company’s European power, gas
and emissions group.  Trapp was appointed head of global oil liquids in July
2008, replacing Olav Refvik, now global head of oil and oil
products at Noble Group Ltd. in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  