-- 
Most Swiss Stocks Increase as Adecco, Swiss Life Holding Shares Advance

-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-03-03T17:18:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/most-swiss-stocks-advance-adecco-holcim-gain-in-zurich-trading.html
Most Swiss stocks gained as  Adecco
SA (ADEN)  posted a quarterly profit that beat estimates.  Adecco climbed 5.4 percent. Swiss Life Holding AG rose for
the first day in three days as Helvea SA suggested buying the
shares.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  increased 0.1 percent to
6,599.21 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich as five stocks climbed
for every three that retreated. The gauge has gained 2.5 percent
this year as investors speculated that the global economic
recovery is gaining momentum. The broader Swiss Performance
Index added 0.7 percent today.  “The company results are pretty good so far, but there is
the uncertainty about what could happen in  Saudi Arabia ,” said
Benno Galliker, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne.
“In  Switzerland , Roche is ex-dividend today which pressures the
SMI down 27 points.”  Crude dropped from the highest close in 29 months on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  today after the Arab League said
it’s studying ways to end the crisis in Libya that has cut
supplies from Africa’s third-biggest producer.  Even so, Dubai’s benchmark stock index retreated to its
lowest level in almost seven years on concern that political
unrest may spread to Saudi Arabia.  Adecco, Swiss Life  Adecco increased 5.4 percent to 65 Swiss francs. The
world’s largest supplier of temporary workers said fourth-
quarter profit was 141 million euros ($196.6 million), beating
analysts’ estimates of 115.4 million euros.  Separately, UBS AG added the stock to its most preferred in
the European support services industry.    Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  added 5.1 percent to 154.8 francs.
Switzerland’s biggest life insurer was upgraded to “buy” from
“accumulate” at Helvea SA.  Swiss Life also had its price estimate lowered to 145
francs from 150 francs at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Goldman kept
a “neutral” rating.    Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  advanced 0.7 percent to 68.5 francs. Helvea
lifted its recommendation on the world’s second-biggest cement
maker to “buy” from “accumulate,” saying in a note that “we
expect the situation to improve gradually during the course of
the year, especially in the second half of 2011 when the basis
for year-on-year comparisons in many regions will get much
better.”  Holcim also had its price estimate trimmed to 77 francs
from 80 francs at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, which kept
a “buy” rating.    Inficon Holding AG (IFCN)  climbed 9 percent to 194 francs. The
supplier of portable poison-gas detectors said fourth-quarter
sales rose 29.5 percent to $76.3 million.    Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, increased 2.2 percent to 134.30 francs, when adjusted for
a dividend per share of 6.60 francs. Without the adjustment, the
stock fell 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 