-- 
Loughner's Lawyers Complain Prison Is Passing Psychological Records to FBI

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/loughner-s-lawyers-complain-prison-is-passing-psychological-records-to-fbi.html
Psychological records of Jared Lee Loughner, the suspect in custody for the Jan. 8 shooting rampage
in Tucson,  Arizona , have been improperly provided to the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation , his lawyers said in a court filing.  Loughner has been questioned numerous times by Bureau of
Prison psychologists who have prepared reports that contain his
verbal and non-verbal responses to their questions, the lawyers
said yesterday in a request for a court order barring further
releases of any confidential information.  Prison officials provided the FBI with much of the
information in the reports that also include details of
Loughner’s “behavior, demeanor, affect, sleeping patterns,
eating habits, facial expressions, and other visual observations
of him recorded at 15 minute increments 24 hours a day,” his
lawyers said.  Loughner, who told police he was “taking the Fifth” when
he was arrested Jan. 8, has never consented that his
psychological records can be released to outside agencies, his
lawyers said. The unauthorized disclosure of his records
violates Bureau of Prisons policy, according to the lawyers.  Robbie Sherwood, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Dennis Burke
in Phoenix, had no immediate comment and said prosecutors would
file a written response in court.  Giffords, Staff  Loughner, 22, pleaded not guilty to charges he attempted to
kill U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords  and two members of
her staff at a community meeting outside a Tucson supermarket.
He hasn’t been indicted on additional federal charges related to
the deaths of a federal judge who attended the meeting and
another member of Giffords’s staff.  A total of six people, including a 9-year-old girl were
killed and 13 wounded before bystanders tackled the suspect.  Loughner is being held at the U.S. penitentiary in Tucson,
according to the Bureau of Prisons website. The prison’s public
information officer didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment after regular business hours.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  