-- 
Palestine Fund Says Hamas Seized Control of Gaza Office

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 
2011-03-03T16:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/palestine-fund-says-hamas-seized-control-of-gaza-office.html
Hamas took control of the office of
the  Palestine Investment Fund , an arm of the Palestinian
Authority, in the  Gaza Strip .  People acting under orders from Hamas have taken over the
office and “confiscated some of its assets and properties,”
the investment fund said in an e-mailed statement that condemned
the action as illegal. The fund said it “won’t be responsible
for any future measures, deals or agreements” signed by the
Hamas-led administration in Gaza, which “doesn’t represent the
PIF or its companies and properties.”  The Hamas Interior Ministry said that the move was made to
stop the  West Bank  government, run by Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas, from moving assets to Ramallah, where
the fund is based. The takeover was condemned by the  Palestine
Monetary Authority  and banks in Gaza shut down today in protest.  Hamas, the Islamist movement that seized control of Gaza in
2007, says it is the legitimate leader of the  Palestinian
Authority  because it defeated Abbas in parliamentary elections
in 2006, and no further vote has taken place. Hamas is
considered a terrorist organization by the U.S., European Union
and  Israel .  The Palestine Investment Fund is the Palestinian
Authority’s primary vehicle for bringing foreign investment to
the West Bank and Gaza Strip and has about $800 million in
assets under management.  Palestine Monetary Authority Governor Jihad al-Wazir has
said maintaining supervision over banks in Gaza is one of the
most difficult parts of his job because Hamas threatens
periodically to impose Islamic banking rules in the territory.  Arab Bank Group, a Jordan-based lender, shut two of its
three branches in the Gaza Strip last May because of “worsening
conditions” in the territory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net 
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza through the Jerusalem newsroom at 
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  