-- 
Palm Oil Gains for Third Day on Outlook for Brazil Soybean Crop

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-03-03T10:42:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/palm-oil-gains-for-third-day-on-outlook-for-brazil-soybean-crop.html
  Palm oil  advanced for a third day on
concern that soybean output from Brazil may decline, spurring
demand for other vegetable oils as stockpiles decline.  The May-delivery contract climbed 0.3 percent to close at
3,600 ringgit ($1,188) a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange, the highest close in more than a week.  Soybeans climbed for the second straight day yesterday on
speculation that adverse weather may lower yields in Brazil,
while planting in the U.S. is slower than usual. The countries
are the biggest exports of the oilseed. Malaysian reserves of
palm oil shrank to 1.4 million tons in January, the lowest since
July, the country’s Palm Oil Board said last month.  “Crude palm oil sellers are in no hurry,” Vijay Mehta,
director at Commodity Links Pte. in Singapore, said by phone.
“They want to hold as stock levels are not so high.”  Palm oil fell 8.9 percent in February, the first drop since
June, amid speculation supplies may rebound from Malaysia and  Indonesia  as rains eased. Prices slumped to 3,336 ringgit on
Feb. 24, a three-month low, and the drop in prices is attracting
buyers, Mehta said.  Malaysian inventories may be replenished as yields recover
starting in April, HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn. said in a
report yesterday.  “The trend is looking positive because once again global
demand is emerging for palm oil,” said  Veeresh Hiremath , an
analyst with Karvy Comtrade Ltd. at Hyderabad in India.  Brazil Floods  Parts of central Brazil will get as much as 8 inches (20
centimeters) of rainfall in the next seven days, flooding some
fields, said Fred Gesser, a senior forecaster for Planalytics
Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. Wet, cold weather in the next two
months will boost the risk of flooding and delay U.S. planting
from northeast Arkansas to  North Dakota  to Ohio, he said.  There is a threat of “floods in Brazil, so the nearby
tightness is there,” said Mehta. “China and  Europe  are
switching to the U.S. for their soybean purchases.”  China will be the top export market for U.S. farm products
in the 2011 fiscal year with shipments valued at $20 billion,  Joe Glauber , the chief economist for the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, said on Feb. 24.    Soybean oil  is a rival product and has similar uses to palm
oil. Soybeans for May delivery fell as much as 0.7 percent to
$13.8425 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and was little
changed at $13.9675 at 6:10 p.m.  Singapore  time. The commodity
reached a 30-month high of $14.5575 last month.  September-delivery palm oil on the Dalian Commodity
Exchange fell 0.7 percent to close at 9,510 yuan ($1,447) a ton.
Soybean oil for delivery in the same month shed 0.7 percent to
10,308 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  