-- 
PartyGaming Posts Full-Year Profit on Bingo, Casino Games

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-03-03T16:52:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/partygaming-posts-full-year-profit-on-bingo-casino-games.html
  PartyGaming Plc (PRTY) , the Internet
gambling company planning to acquire  Bwin Interactive
Entertainment AG (BWIN) , posted a full-year profit as casino and bingo
game revenue increased.  Net income was 38.9 million euros ($54 million), or 9 cents
per share, compared with a loss of 18.5 million euros, or a loss
of 4.5 cents per share a year earlier, the Gibraltar-based
company said in a statement today. Sales gained 15 percent to
357.3 million euros.  PartyGaming, which will be called Bwin.party digital
entertainment Plc after the deal closes March 31, is combining
with Bwin to ease entry to European markets as they legalize and
regulate online gambling. PartyGaming has been trying to add
more casino and bingo business as poker has been hurt by
competition from companies that still accept U.S. bets.  “Casino has shown good growth and is developing successful
games in-house,” wrote three Numis analysts led by Ivor Jones.
They have a “buy” recommendation on PartyGaming. “Bingo is
growing and ready to roll out across  Europe .”  PartyGaming rose 9.1 percent to close at 191 pence at 4:30
p.m. in London. The shares have lost 7 percent this year, giving
it a market value of 781.3 million pounds ($1.3 billion).  ‘Confident’  PartyGaming is confident it can meet targets of annual
post-merger savings of 55 million euros per year by 2013, Chief
Executive Officer  Jim Ryan  said on a conference call.  The company spent up to 25 million euros entering the newly
opened markets of France and Italy, Finance Director Martin
Weigold said on the call.  Denmark is expected to allow web gambling by the end of the
year, with  Spain ,  Greece , the Netherlands and  Germany  to follow,
Ryan said.  Poker revenue fell 8 percent to 125.9 million euros.
PartyGaming hopes to stem the decline by the end of the year,
Ryan said. Weigold said the company boosted incentives to 25
percent last year to keep players on site.  Casino sales gained 11 percent to 151.4 million euros,
while bingo more than doubled to 52.5 million euros, the company
said on the statement.  PartyGaming’s year-earlier loss included payments toward a
non-prosecution agreement with the U.S. Justice Department over
the company’s gambling operations before 2006, when the country
restricted web betting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in  London  at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  