-- 
Petronas Sees Crude Staying Above $100/Barrel as Profit Jumps

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-03-03T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/petronas-sees-crude-staying-above-100-barrel-as-profit-jumps.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state oil and gas company, said fiscal third-quarter profit
jumped 74 percent, buoyed by gains from the sale of shares in
its units and higher crude prices.  Net income in the three months ended Dec. 31 increased to
21.2 billion ringgit ($7 billion) from 12.2 billion ringgit a
year earlier, Petronas, as the company is known, said in a
statement in Kuala Lumpur late yesterday. The group booked a 9.3
billion-ringgit gain from share sales in the quarter.  Petronas is on track to reach its pretax profit target of
80 billion ringgit for the year to March 31, Chief Executive
Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas told reporters. “It should be
achievable looking at the current price of oil, which should
easily stay over $100 per barrel in the next two months,” he
said.  Petronas’s petrochemicals unit,  Petronas Chemicals Group
Bhd. (PCHEM) , raised 12.8 billion ringgit in November in the Southeast
Asian nation’s biggest initial public offering. Malaysia Marine
& Heavy Engineering Holdings Bhd., the rig-building arm of
Petronas’s  MISC Bhd. (MISC) , had a 2 billion-ringgit share sale a month
earlier.  Worldwide demand for gasoline, diesel and jet fuel rose 3.5
percent during the last three months of 2010, driven by economic
expansion, the  International Energy Agency  said in a Jan. 18
report.  Higher Crude  Oil futures in  New York  averaged 12 percent higher in the
fourth quarter than a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Crude oil on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  has
risen 26 percent in the past year.  Petronas’s sales climbed 12 percent to 60 billion ringgit
in its third quarter, it said. The group’s key challenge will be
to maintain production, Shamsul said.  The company needs to spend as much as 55 billion ringgit
annually over the next five years for exploration and improving
recovery, he said. That’s up from a projected 40 billion ringgit
in the current year, Shamsul said.  “We need to go for growth and we need to replace aging
assets,” he told reporters. “We’ve been neglecting growth for
a while now. Aging assets are also costing more.”  Petronas has paid 30 billion ringgit in dividends to the
government for the first nine months of this fiscal year, the
company said.  “To spend on capital expenditure without eating into the
cash reserves, that’s our challenge,” Shamsul said. “We are
not in the mood of going to the bank and start borrowing just to
pay dividend to the government.”  The group may invest in unconventional oil and gas assets
in  China , Myanmar, Indonesia and  Australia , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  