-- 
Pimco Hires Seven Analysts, Traders to Help Expand Equities

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-03-03T14:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/pimco-hires-seven-analysts-traders-to-help-equities-expansion.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s largest bond fund, hired seven analysts
and traders to help expand its active stock funds.  The additions include three London-based analysts for the
emerging-markets equity team, three traders and a value-stocks
analyst, the  Newport Beach , California-based company said today
in a statement. Pimco said in October it planned to open two
emerging-markets mutual funds after hiring Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s Maria Gordon as part of the effort.  Pimco, mainly a bond investor since it was co-founded by  Bill Gross  almost four decades ago, said in 2009 it would push
into equities as part of an expansion into other asset classes.
Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian hired  Neel Kashkari , a
former U.S. Treasury official, in December 2009 to direct the
effort.  “Our emerging-markets equity strategy combines Pimco’s
unparalleled global macro expertise and the investing skills of
seasoned emerging-markets equity professionals,” Gordon, who
leads the emerging-markets equity team in  London , said in the
statement.  The new emerging-market equity analysts are Vladimir Cara,
formerly an investment manager at London-based Pictet Asset
Management Ltd., who will join Pimco by April; Ewan Markson- Brown, formerly a fund manager at Newton Asset Management in
London, who will start in March; and Amit Mehta, who joined in
February from Pictet, where he was a senior investment manager.  Nathaniel Velarde, formerly a managing director for
Chicago-based Nuveen Asset Management, will start in April as an
analyst on Pimco’s team that invests in stocks viewed as
undervalued based on financial measures such as earnings.  Gross runs the  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s largest
bond fund with $239 billion as of Jan. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , oversees about $1.2 trillion in assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  