-- 
Pound Slumps Most in Week Versus Euro After Trichet Signals ECB Rate Rise

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-03-03T16:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/pound-retreats-from-13-month-high-versus-dollar-as-u-k-home-prices-fall.html
The pound slid the most in a week
versus the euro after European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said interest rates may rise next month,
increasing the euro area’s yield allure over the U.K.  Sterling declined against the majority of its 16 most
traded peers after Trichet said today that “strong vigilance”
must be exercised as inflation risks deepened. The ECB left its
main rate unchanged at a record low 1 percent. Reports in the
U.K. showed  house prices  fell for an eighth month while  service
industries  declined more than estimated, prompting Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to say  Bank of England  policy makers will leave the
U.K.’s key rate unchanged to boost the economy.  “The ECB and BOE are taking different views on rates and
inflation; clearly that’s why the euro is doing so well across
the board, including against sterling,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann ,
head of foreign-exchange strategy in  Frankfurt  at Commerzbank
AG. Trichet’s comments were “a massive surprise to the market.
He’s basically moved rate expectations forward by five months.”  The pound lost as much as 1 percent to 85.76 pence per
euro, the steepest intraday decline since Feb. 24, before
trading at 85.75 pence per euro as of 4:43 p.m. in  London . The
British currency fell 0.4 percent to $1.6264, after rising to as
much as $1.6344 yesterday, the strongest intraday level since
Jan. 20, 2010.  Inflation ‘Persistent’  Sterling has gained 4.2 percent against the dollar this
year amid mounting speculation that the central bank will raise
interest rates from a record low 0.5 percent to quell an
inflation rate that’s twice the government’s 2 percent target.
Bank of England Deputy Governor Charles Bean said in a speech in
London today that while inflation will be “more persistent”
than policy makers forecast, the threat of rising prices needs
to be weighed against the “downside risk to growth.”  The average cost of a U.K. home fell 0.2 percent in
February from the previous month, London-based property
researcher Hometrack Ltd. said today. An index of British
service industry fell to 52.6 in February, according to Markit
Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply , lower than the 53.7 forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  “These sets of data suggest the Bank of England will adopt
a wait-and-see approach so markets might need to revise down
their rate-hike expectations,” said Sarah Hewin, a senior
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in London. “That will
exert some negative pressure on the pound.”  MPC Split  Short-sterling futures fell, raising the implied yield on
the contract expiring in December by seven basis points to 1.68
percent, following Trichet’s comments. A higher yield shows
investors added to bets the Bank of England will raise interest
rates.  Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has led calls for the central
bank to increase borrowing costs since June and last month voted
for a 50 basis-point increase. Minutes from the bank’s Feb. 10
meeting showed Spencer Dale joined Sentance and  Martin Weale  in
voting for higher borrowing costs, though they favored a 25
basis point rise.  Increasing the benchmark interest rate as a gesture in the
fight against inflation would be “self-defeating,” Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  told lawmakers in London this week.
The next rate decision is scheduled for March 10.  “We remain of the view that monetary policy will remain
unchanged in 2011 and that the first hike won’t be until next
year,” said Hewin. “To raise rates fairly soon could
potentially be very damaging to the economy.”  Money markets are favoring a 75 basis point increase by
year-end, according to sterling overnight index average
forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show. So-called Sonia rates
indicate the first 25 basis point increase will happen in May.  U.K. two-year note yields, typically more sensitive to
interest-rate expectations, rose six basis points to 1.45
percent. Yields on 10-year gilts increased eight basis points to
3.72 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  