-- 
PPL’s Purchase of U.K. Power Grid Marks Move Away From Volatile Earnings

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-03-03T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/ppl-s-u-k-power-purchase-is-move-away-from-volatile-earnings.html
  PPL Corp. (PPL) ’s $5.6 billion purchase of  E.ON AG (EOAN) ’s U.K. power grid will move the Pennsylvania power
producer away from riskier wholesale electricity markets and
toward more predictable revenue.  PPL’s shares rose the most in almost two years after it
announced on March 1 an agreement to buy the U.K. grid. PPL’s
so-called merchant plants sell power on wholesale markets
without the income assurance utilities with regulated
electricity rates get. The owners of U.K. power grids get
guaranteed rates of return from regulators.  Those stable returns are now more attractive to companies
burned by depressed power demand and low prices, said  Paul Patterson , a New York-based analyst at Glenrock Associates LLC
who doesn’t rate the shares and doesn’t own them.  “There is no question that several managements in the
electric-power sector have been looking to reevaluate their
exposure to the competitive marketplace given the painful
contraction in merchant generation margins,” Patterson said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “The generation business has
gotten a lot less sexy.”  PPL rose 84 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $25.74 at 4:01 p.m.
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading, the
biggest increase since June 1, 2009. Before yesterday, the
company had been the worst performer among the 13 members of the  Standard & Poor’s  electric utilities index.  Second Big Deal  E.ON, based in Dusseldorf, fell 11 cents to 23.29 euros in
Frankfurt trading at 5:35 p.m. local time yesterday.  The purchase from E.ON is the second transaction exceeding
$5 billion in less than a year for Allentown, Pennsylvania-based
PPL. Before last year, PPL had never bid more than $1 billion to
acquire a company, according to Bloomberg data.  The acquisition of the U.K.’s second-largest distribution
network will add as much as 15 cents a share to earnings this
year and 27 cents in 2012, PPL Chief Executive Officer James Miller said on an investor conference call yesterday. The
company will assume $800 million in debt.  PPL, which owns power plants that can generate about 19,000
megawatts of electricity, said  last month  it expects reduced
profit at its unregulated unit this year as slack demand and low
natural  gas prices  squeeze power margins.  About 75 percent of PPL’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will come from its regulated
businesses in 2013, Miller said. That compares with 25 percent
for 2010, George Biechler, a company spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  PPL Debt  PPL plans to issue as much as $3.25 billion of unsecured
debt to finance the purchase with as much as $1.9 billion of
common stock and $950 million of convertible equity units. PPL
has about $14.8 billion of debt, according to Bloomberg data.  The expected earnings accretion this year “strongly
suggests there is no burden on the cash flow of PPL’s U.S.
businesses, so there should not be much of a concern for
existing PPL debt,” Phil Adams, a Chicago-based analyst for
Gimme Credit LLC, said in an e-mail.  PPL agreed last April to buy two U.S. utilities from E.ON
for $6.7 billion as part of an earlier asset sale plan by the
German energy company.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday affirmed its Baa3
rating on PPL and its subsidiaries, one level above junk. Buying
the U.K. distribution network reduces PPL’s business risk
“making the company’s earnings,  cash flow  and dividends less
reliant on the company’s commodity business,” A.J. Sabatelle,
senior vice president of Moody’s, wrote in yesterday’s research
note.  Rating Cut  Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut its rating on PPL and
certain affiliates to BBB from BBB+, two notches above junk.
Standard & Poor’s said it could further lower the rating based
on PPL’s ability to complete its financing plan, which includes
a substantial issuance of stock.  Fitch Ratings yesterday affirmed its BBB rating on PPL,
citing the company’s transition from relying on a “commodity
sensitive-business to one that is highly regulated.”  PPL owns a  U.K. grid unit  with 83,000 kilometers (50,000
miles) of power lines that serve 2.6 million customers in south  Wales  and southwest  England , according to its website. E.ON’s
U.K. grid has 133,000 kilometers of  power lines  that serve more
than 5 million customers in central England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 