-- 
Prolonged Work Stoppage Would Affect NFL's Credit Ratings, Fitch Says

-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 
2011-03-03T17:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/prolonged-work-stoppage-would-impact-nfl-s-debt-ratings-fitch-says.html
A National Football League work
stoppage lasting for a year or more may affect the credit
ratings of the U.S. organization’s debt,  Fitch Ratings  said.  The NFL’s $1.1 billion in outstanding notes carry rankings
of A+ from Fitch, fifth-highest, with another $2.7 billion
issued by related groups rated A, one level lower, according to
a Fitch report released today on the possible credit effects of
a prolonged strike or lockout.  Work stoppages may have long-term implications because of
attendance declines when play resumes, and the potential for
decrease renewal rates of sponsorships, advertising and
television contracts, Fitch said.  “The ratings reflect the NFL’s prominent position as a
professional sports league in the U.S. driven by both strong
game day attendance and television viewership,” Chad Lewis and
Scott Zuchorski, Fitch analysts, wrote. “The league ratings
could potentially withstand a two-year work stoppage scenario,
although  credit quality  would be pressured in a work stoppage
scenario in excess of one year.”  In the event that NFL pre-season games are missed, Fitch
will place all NFL-related debt and facility debt on watch for
possible downgrade, the report said. A work stoppage in excess
of a year may lead to “further rating action,” Fitch said.  NFL owners voted in 2008 to end the league’s labor contract
with the  NFL Players Association  this week, saying it didn’t
account for costs such as those of building stadiums. Along with
what share of revenue players should get, talks have included
topics such as expanding the regular season to 18 games from 16,
a rookie salary cap and health care. The current agreement
expires today at 11:59 p.m. in  New York .  The league’s most-recent work stoppage was 24 years ago and
its longest was a 1982 strike that lasted 57 days. Unlike the  National Hockey League  in 2004 and 2005, the NFL has never lost
an entire season, and unlike  Major League Baseball  in 1994, it’s
never canceled its championship.  -- With assistance from Aaron Kuriloff in New York. Editor:
Walid El-Gabry  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan A. McGrail in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  