-- 
Oil-Rich Qatar, Abu Dhabi Offer `Value' Amid Mideast Unrest as Yields Rise

-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 
2011-03-03T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/qatar-abu-dhabi-offer-value-amid-protests-as-yields-climb.html
Middle East turmoil is driving yields
on bonds in oil-rich and protest-free Qatar and  Abu Dhabi  to the
highest levels in more than eight months, luring investors such
as  Union Investment Privatfonds  and  Silk Invest Ltd .  Qatar, the world’s biggest producer of liquefied natural
gas, and Abu Dhabi, home to one of the largest sovereign wealth
funds, are rated on par with Italy and seven levels above  Brazil 
at Moody’s Investors Service. Abu Dhabi holds around 7 percent
of global oil reserves and, like the Persian Gulf country of
Qatar, is benefiting from crude prices that rose to the highest
level since 2008 after forces loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and rebels clashed in  Africa ’s third-biggest oil
producer.  “These are my darlings, the islands of stability like Qatar
and Abu Dhabi, and partly Dubai,” said Sergey Dergachev, who
helps oversee the equivalent of $9.6 billion of emerging-market
debt at Union Investment in  Frankfurt . The sovereigns are
trading at a premium to Brazil and that “doesn’t make sense
since Abu Dhabi and Qatar have massive wealth and social
problems are low.” He bought more Qatari bonds last week, he
said.  The yield on Qatar’s 5.25 percent dollar bonds maturing in
January 2020 climbed 60 basis points, or 0.6 percentage point,
since protests erupted in  Egypt  on Jan. 25 to 4.91 percent
yesterday. Abu Dhabi’s 6.75 percent 10-year dollar bond yielded
4.82 percent yesterday, the highest since June. That compares to
a yield of 4.27 percent for Brazil’s 5.875 percent dollar notes
due January 2019.  Saudi Stocks  Brazil is rated Baa3, the lowest investment grade, at
Moody’s. The yield gap between Qatar’s bond and Brazil’s rose to
75 basis points on March 1, the widest on record.  Protests that ousted presidents in  Tunisia  and Egypt spread
across the region to Libya and Bahrain, the Island nation next
to Qatar. Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index tumbled to the
lowest level since April 2009, on concern disturbances may
extend to the kingdom. Instability in the Middle East, home to
57 percent of the world’s oil reserves, pushed global borrowing
costs higher.  The extra yield over U.S. Treasuries on emerging market
bonds widened 8 basis points this year to 256, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. The spread has climbed from
a three-year low of 221.5 points on Jan. 5.  The average yield on the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai UAE Conventional
US Dollar Bond Index, made up of 40 corporate and government
notes from the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar, rose 44 basis
points last month to 5.83 percent.  Lack of Understanding  Bahrain’s bonds also tumbled. The yield on the government’s
5.5 percent dollar-bond due March 2020 climbed 10 basis points
to 6.6 percent this week, according to Bloomberg data. Credit-
default swaps on  Saudi Arabia , the Middle East’s biggest oil
exporter, rose to more than a 19-month high of 143 basis points
this week.  “The situation is very fragile and international investors
don’t understand that Qatar and Abu Dhabi are not Egypt, Libya,
Tunisia,” said Ray Majdalani, a Beirut-based fixed income
trader at  First National Bank . “For them it’s the region. So
they’re dumping bonds and shorting the names in the region.”  Postings on websites have called for a nationwide “Day of
Rage” in Saudi Arabia on March 11 and March 20,  Human Rights
Watch  said Feb. 28. Prince Talal Bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud, a
member of Saudi Arabia’s royal family, said on Feb. 17 that the
kingdom may see protests unless  King Abdullah  introduces
reforms, according to BBC Arabic TV.  In  Libya , Qaddafi’s warplanes bombed rebels and opposition
leaders appealed for foreign nations to launch airstrikes
against regime mercenaries.  ‘Grim’ Prospects  “If a civil war erupts or foreign forces get involved to
remove Qaddafi, then the prospects for the entire region would
look grim,” Ahmad Alanani, head of fixed-income sales for the
Middle East and North Africa at Exotix Ltd., said March 1. “I
would argue that Qatar and Abu Dhabi offer decent value, but I
remain cautious because the risk of contagion remains.”  Qatar and Abu Dhabi are rated Aa2 at Moody’s, the third-
highest investment ranking. Qatar’s economy will expand 20
percent this year, the world’s fastest-growing, the  International Monetary Fund  said in December. The U.A.E.’s
economy, which includes the sheikhdoms of Abu Dhabi and Dubai,
will grow 3.2 percent this year from 2.4 percent in 2010,
according to the fund.    Bahrain  Dialogue  Bahrain’s Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa on Feb.
18 called for a national dialogue in the Persian Gulf island
nation to help end demonstrations mainly by Shiite Muslims, who
make up the majority of the Sunni-ruled country. Fitch Ratings
yesterday cut Bahrain’s long-term foreign currency issuer rating
one level to A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade. Standard &
Poor’s cut Bahrain’s credit ratings on Feb. 21 and Moody’s on
Feb. 23 placed the country on review for possible downgrade.  “We remain fans of the better fundamental credits,” said
John Bates head of fixed income at Silk Invest Ltd. in  London  on
March 1. “Some of the Abu Dhabi credits appear to have been hit
hard so opportunities may emerge there. We still feel it’s too
early to make a rational call on Saudi Arabia and Bahrain which
continue to occupy the newswires.”  Governments from  Jordan  to Yemen have offered concessions
to quell public discontent. Saudi Arabia’s king last week
announced plans to spend about 110 billion riyals ($29 billion)
on programs aimed at boosting housing, education and social
welfare.  “Any good news can make the market fly,” First National
Bank’s Majdalani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  