-- 
Hydropower ‘Stealing’ Share From Natural Gas: Energy Markets

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-03-03T17:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/rain-means-hydropower-is-stealing-share-from-natural-gas-energy-markets.html
U.S.  natural gas  prices are poised
to extend their longest-ever decline as heavier-than-normal
rainfall boosts hydropower generation from plants in the Pacific
Northwest, cutting demand for gas-fired electricity.  Water volumes from April through September at the Grand
Coulee Dam in  Washington  state, home to the nation’s  biggest
power plant , will be the highest in nine years, according to
National Weather service forecasts. Precipitation levels will be
 above average  in early March in Washington and Oregon, which
hold 38 percent of the nation’s hydropower capacity.  Natural gas is falling for an unprecedented fourth
consecutive year as rising  production from shale formations 
swells supplies. Now hydroelectricity may displace as much as
1.5 billion cubic feet a day of consumption from January to
July, according to Credit Suisse Securities USA, more than
enough to run all of the gas-fired electricity plants in  Oregon 
and Washington. Prices may slip another 12 percent in the second
quarter, according to Barclays Capital.  “Power generation is what the bulls tend to point to as an
area of growth for gas demand, but now hydropower is stealing
some of the share from gas,” said  Cameron Horwitz , an analyst
in Houston at Canaccord Genuity. “You are taking away one of
the stronger bullish arguments for gas prices.”  Natural gas for April delivery fell 3.9 cents, or 1
percent, to $3.779 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 12:02 p.m. New York time, bringing
the market’s decline this year to 14 percent. A fourth drop this
year would extend the longest stretch of annual declines since
the futures began trading on the Nymex in 1990.  Price Decline  Prices may average $3.75 per million Btu in the second
quarter, from $4.25 in the first three months of the year,
according to Biliana Pehlivanova, an analyst with Barclays in  New York .  Gas generated about 24 percent of electricity in the U.S.
last year, up from 19 percent in 2005, as the cleaner-burning
fuel replaced coal, according to  the Energy Department .  The Bonneville Power Administration, a  Portland , Oregon-
based government agency that sells power for federally owned
hydroelectric plants in the Northwest, is preparing to market
hydropower at “very low rates, or for free” to encourage coal
and gas-powered plants to reduce output, according to Doug
Johnson, a Bonneville spokesman.  The agency aims to displace as much as 1,000 megawatts of
thermal generation this spring, enough for the city of  Seattle ,
to benefit the environment, Johnson said in a telephone
interview.  More Rain  The Pacific Northwest will experience higher precipitation
levels because of the  La Nina  weather phenomenon, according to  Matt Rogers , a forecaster with Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland . La Nina, characterized by falling
temperatures in the tropical  Pacific Ocean , can affect global
weather patterns.  The water level upstream of the Grand Coulee Dam will
average 65.8 million acre-feet in the second and third quarters,
the highest level since 2002, according to  the Northwest River
Forecast Center , a unit of the  National Weather Service .  Electricity from the 7,079-megawatt power plant on the
Columbia River is delivered to 11 western states, stretching as
far south as  New Mexico , according to Lynne Browgher, a
spokeswoman for the Grand Coulee dam.  “We will see significant pickups in water levels up there
in the next two to three months and you are going to have a good
supply of hydro generation into the spring and summer,” Rogers
said.  Pacific Northwest  Hydropower generation in the Pacific Northwest will rise to
105 billion kilowatt-hours this year, from 96.7 billion last
year, according to Elias Johnson, an analyst at the Energy
Department in Washington.  “A strong water year will translate into a significant
year-over-year increase in hydropower at the expense of gas
demand,” said Teri Viswanath, a Houston-based director of
commodities research at Credit Suisse. “It will inevitably lead
to a greater-than-anticipated gas surplus.”  Rising output pushed gas inventories to a record 3.84
trillion cubic feet in the week ended Nov. 5. Gas stockpiles may
reach 4 trillion cubic feet in late October or early November
after utilities and storage companies stocked up the fuel to
prepare for peak demand during the cold-weather months,
according to  Barclays Capital .  Gas production may average a record  62.32 billion cubic
feet a day  this year, according to the Energy Department.  The government “expects near-record-high inventories to
continue through most of 2011,” the Energy Department said in
its monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook  on Feb. 8.  Hydroelectric generation will rise to 702 million kilowatt-
hours per day this year from 696 million last year, the Energy
Department said in the monthly report. Hydroelectric plants
supply about 6.4 percent of U.S. electricity demand.  “Hydropower compounds gas’s bearish outlook,” said
Horwitz, who estimated that 1 billion cubic feet a day of gas
demand may be displaced by hydropower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  