-- 
Rajaratnam Urged SEC Not to File Gupta Insider-Trading Case Before Trial

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-04T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/rajaratnam-urged-sec-not-to-file-gupta-insider-trading-case-before-trial.html
Regulators’ accusations that former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  leaked stock tips
to Raj Rajaratnam threatens the Galleon Group LLC co-founder’s
right to a fair trial on insider-trading charges, a lawyer said.  Gupta, accused in a March 1 administrative action by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, has evidence there were
no illegal trades, said  John Dowd , Rajaratnam’s lawyer, in a
filing yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan . Dowd attached a
Feb. 28 letter he wrote to the SEC urging it not to take action
against Gupta until after Rajaratnam’s trial, which is scheduled
to begin next week.  Gupta has given the SEC “powerful evidence that Mr. Gupta
and Mr. Rajaratnam did not engage in  insider trading  in the
stocks of Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble,” Dowd wrote to
the SEC, referring to a submission that Gupta gave the agency
last week. “Much of the specific information contained in that
submission was new” to Rajaratnam, said Dowd, who said he was
preparing to call Gupta as a trial witness.  In its March 1 action against Gupta, the SEC accused him of
tipping Rajaratnam about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5 billion
investment in Goldman Sachs, the firm’s quarterly earnings and
earnings at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)     Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for Gupta, called the SEC’s
allegations “baseless” on March 1. He declined to comment
yesterday.  Questionnaire  In his filing yesterday, Dowd asked U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  in Manhattan to require potential jurors to
answer a questionnaire or permit attorneys to question them
about potential biases and publicity in the case. Citing news
stories about the SEC’s Gupta proceeding, Dowd said the
“unfortunate flood of publicity” may sway jurors.  Prosecutors should have persuaded the SEC to delay its
proceeding against Gupta, said Dowd. The SEC’s action threatens
to “create havoc with the seating of an impartial jury,” he
said.  “It is simply inexplicable that they did not act to stop
this obvious pollution of this jury pool,” Dowd said. “One is
left to conclude this was a deliberate attempt to pollute this
jury pool and deny Mr. Rajaratnam his right to an impartial
jury.”  Dowd also said in yesterday’s filing that he and Gupta’s
lawyers had urged the SEC to wait until after Rajaratnam’s trial
to file the Gupta case. Dowd said he was told that prosecutors
in New York also asked the SEC to wait, “but we have not seen
any official correspondence to that effect.”    Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment.  Galleon Research  Rajaratnam is accused of earning $45 million in illicit
profits by using information leaked by corporate insiders, hedge
fund traders and others. He denies wrongdoing and said his
trades were based on Galleon research.  Holwell has required prospective jurors to answer only a
brief questionnaire to determine whether they would suffer any
financial or personal hardship from serving on the panel. The
parties have said the trial may take eight weeks.  Yesterday, Dowd submitted a proposed 13-page questionnaire
to Holwell that includes questions about what potential jurors
have read about the case, their views on  hedge funds  and whether
they believe Wall Street executives are honest.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 