-- 
Treasuries Fall as Inflation-Linked Securities Signal Faster Price Gains

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-03-03T22:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/treasuries-hold-yesterday-s-decline-on-speculation-service-industries-grew.html
Treasuries fell, with inflation-
linked securities indicating the fastest pace of price increases
in two and one-half years, after U.S. initial claims for  unemployment insurance  unexpectedly declined last week.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, reached 251 basis points, the most since
July 2008. Ten-year note yields touched the highest in more than
a week before the Labor Department issues February jobs data
tomorrow. The yields dropped earlier as concern political unrest
in the Middle East and North Africa may spread encouraged demand
for the safest fixed-income assets.  “The data was the catalyst for the selloff, with jobless
claims well below expectations, suggesting that the labor market
is on better footing,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees
$1.6 billion as chief investment officer at United Nations
Federal Credit Union in  New York .  The 10-year note yield increased nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 3.56 percent at 5:02 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data, after touching the highest
since Feb. 21. The price of the 3.625 percent security maturing
in February 2021 dropped 23/32, or $7.19 per $1,000 face amount,
to 100 17/32.  Thirty-year bond yields rose five basis points to 4.62
percent, the most since Feb. 22.  Debt Sales  The Treasury announced plans to sell $32 billion of 3-year
notes, $21 billion of 10-year securities and $13 billion of 30-
year bonds next week, unchanged from the last refunding cycle of
these securities.  The Fed bought $7.2 billion of Treasuries due from May 2018
to February 2021 today as part of its effort to spur growth.  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 0.3 percent
this year, compared with a gain of 5.9 percent last year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “If rates creep up over 4 percent, I would be
incrementally buying interest rates,” Laurence D. Fink, chief
executive officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset
manager, said in an interview from New York with Bloomberg
Television’s Erik Schatzker. “Inflation may be in the short run
a problem, but in the long run not.”  ECB Action  German two-year government notes plunged, pushing the yield
up to the highest in more than 20 months, as European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said interest rates may be
increased at the next meeting.  Ten-year yields also surged as Trichet told reporters in  Frankfurt  that inflation risks have moved to the “upside.” The
ECB left its benchmark interest rate at a record low of 1
percent.  There is a 40 percent chance the Fed will raise U.S.
interest rates from near zero in December, compared with 43
percent a month ago, according to CME Group Inc. exchange
futures. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and central bank policy
markers focus on  core inflation , rather than an official target.  “The ECB news may be resetting expectation with likely
timing of global central banks becoming more restrictive,”
United Nations Federal Credit Union’s Sullivan said. “It may
mean little for the Fed, but you may see people bring forward
their expectations for Fed tightening if data continues to come
in better.”  Jobs Numbers  U.S. initial jobless claims declined last week to the
lowest level since May 2008, pointing to a strengthening labor
market.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  decreased 20,000 to
368,000 in the week ended Feb. 26, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast claims would climb to 395,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
total number of people receiving unemployment insurance fell to
the lowest level since October 2008.  “The continuing claims data packs a wallop of a message
combined with  consumer confidence  returning and the ISM jobs
data at a 38-year high,”  said  Anthony Crescenzi , a bond
strategist at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., which operates the world’s biggest bond fund.
“The writing is on the wall that there has been acceleration in
payroll growth.”  Economic Focus  Treasuries fell yesterday after ADP Employer Services said
companies in the U.S. added 217,000 workers in February, more
than economists forecast.  U.S. employers added 196,000 jobs last month, compared with
36,000 in January, according to the median forecast of 83
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s payrolls
report from the Labor Department.  The  Arab League  said it’s weighing an offer to mediate in  Libya ’s civil conflict from  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez  as his ally
Muammar Qaddafi struggles to break out of his Tripoli base and
regain rebel-held parts of the country. President  Barack Obama 
said he’s authorized the U.S. military to study a “full range
of options” for a response to the violence in Libya.  “We were overbought as we’ve moved a long way lower in
yields on the unrest in Middle East and Northern Africa,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities USA Inc. “Now we’ve had two days of little news
coming from the Middle East and a few sets of very positive data
so the potential strength of the recovery is coming back into
focus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  