-- 
Renault Plans Online Sales to Fight Peugeot Low-Cost Offers

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-03-03T12:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/renault-plans-to-start-internet-sales-to-fight-peugeot-s-low-cost-offers.html
  Renault SA (RNO)  will begin selling low-
cost cars online to defend its leadership of  Europe ’s surging
budget-vehicle market against rival offerings including a new
brand being developed by PSA Peugeot Citroen.  Dacia, Renault’s no-frills badge, will experiment with an  Internet sales  program in Europe to prepare a wider rollout in
the region next year, Gerard Detourbet, head of the company’s
low-cost Entry program, said in a telephone interview.  “Internet sales will quickly become a reality,” Detourbet
said yesterday. “Many of our customers know what they want
before they step into our showrooms, so an online sales channel
makes sense.”  Peugeot, the larger of the two French carmakers, is
considering an online-only European sales model for vehicles it
plans to build with  China  Changan Automobile Group Co., sales
chief Jean-Marc Gales said at the Geneva Motor Show this week.
Combined with stripped-down models introduced by Asian rivals,
the Peugeot move challenges the Dacia Sandero and other low-cost
cars that account for an increasing share of Renault’s
deliveries.  “We always assumed Dacia would be left in peace for four
or five years at most before the competition got tougher,”
Detourbet said. “We knew we wouldn’t have the market to
ourselves forever.”  Romanian Factory  The Dacia brand, purchased with its Romanian factory in
1999 to power a planned emerging-market expansion, proved an
unexpected success in western Europe, where it has helped
compensate for flagging sales of pricier Renault models.  Renault’s global deliveries of no-frills models jumped 28
percent in 2010, more than triple the growth recorded by pricier
models, to claim more than a quarter of the carmaker’s overall
volume, compared with a 15 percent share in 2007.  “Renault has always sold Dacia reluctantly in Europe
because they knew it would damage the main brand, and to some
extent it has,” said Philippe Houchois, a London-based analyst
at UBS AG.  “Its success has revealed demand for cheap cars sold as
commodities in countries like  France  where there’s only a minor
stigma attached to driving a Dacia,” Houchois said. “It makes
sense for Peugeot to take advantage of that.”  Peugeot’s Gales said the Paris-based carmaker can sell low-
cost cars more profitably than Renault, Hyundai Motor Co.,
Volkswagen AG’s Skoda unit or any of the other stripped-down
offerings in Europe.  Distribution System  “They’re all selling cars at lower prices through the same
high-cost distribution system that hasn’t changed in 90 years,”
he said in an interview in Geneva. “What we’re talking about is
a radically new approach to car distribution.”  Unlike Renault, which will continue selling low-cost models
in showrooms while experimenting with Internet retail, Peugeot’s
new brand would be sold exclusively online. The carmaker may
negotiate partnerships to offer test-drives through rental
firms, a service that could eventually also be used by Peugeot
and Citroen dealers to reduce costly showroom stock that ends up
being sold as used, Gales said.  The cars would be made outside western Europe and possibly
in China, he added. The company is awaiting Beijing’s approval
for a second joint venture negotiated last year with Changan.  Keeping the no-frills range away from Peugeot and Citroen
showrooms should limit the damage to the two brands, said  Max Warburton , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein in  London .
“Renault’s experience shows that there are risks, which can be
reduced by separate distribution and a separate brand.”  Dacia Sandero  Dacia models are sold with a Renault badge in some markets,
and visitors to some European showrooms see the Renault Clio
displayed alongside the similarly sized Dacia Sandero, which is
priced about 5,500 euros cheaper in France.  While Renault sees “absolutely no sign” that Dacia is
damaging its main brand, it is separating their dealerships
wherever sales are strong enough, Detourbet said.  “As soon as there’s enough volume to separate the brands
it’s worth doing, because it avoids confusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 