-- 
Trichet Says ‘Strong Vigilance’ Warranted on Inflation Risks

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-03-03T14:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/trichet-says-strong-vigilance-warranted-on-inflation-risks.html
European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet comments on monetary policy and the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  He made the remarks in  Frankfurt  today after the ECB kept
its benchmark interest rate at a record low of 1 percent.  On outlook for  interest rates :  “The interest rate decision today was unanimous.”  “I would also say we are mentioning that we are in a
posture of strong vigilance. My understanding of the position of
the governing council” from the past is that when we use such a
word, an “increase of interest rate in the next meeting is
possible.” It is “not certain.”  Asked if the ECB is planning a series of rate increases:  “My own understanding of the attitude of the governing
council is that we have expressed our judgement in a way that is
as clear as possible. I wouldn’t embark on anything more. It is
certainly not the start of a series of interest-rate
increases.”  “We’re never pre-committed.”  “We have a very clear doctrine. We do what we have to do
to ensure  price stability .”  “We cannot change the prices of oil. What we can do is to
avoid that they could create inflation in the medium term.”  “We have to take into account with extreme attention” the
price of oil.  On a possible rate increase of more than 25 basis points next
month:  “It’s not the appropriate interpretation in my opinion.”  On inflation, growth:  The ECB is “prepared to act in firm and timely manner.”  The latest information “indicate rising inflation largely
reflecting higher commodity prices.”  “Strong vigilance is warranted with a view to contain
upside risks to price stability.”  “Risks to the outlook for price developments are on the
upside. Recent economic data confirm the positive underlying
momentum of economic activity in the euro area, however,
uncertainty remains elevated.”  “There is a strong need to avoid second-round effects. At
the moment I’m speaking we see inflation expectations still
solidly anchored.  “We are separating the standard and non-standard
measures.”  “The plan is the plan and this is in the plan -- now you
know.”  “The non-standard measures have to be commensurate with
what we’re observing in the market. The standard measures are
there to deliver price stability in the medium term.”  On growth projections:  Risks to economic outlook are “broadly balanced.”  “The current very accommodative stance lends considerable
support” to the economy.  ECB staff projections see 2011 GDP growth in a range of 1.3
percent to 2.1 percent, 2012 GDP growth in the range of 0.8
percent to 2.8 percent.  On policy measures:  “The Governing Council today also decided to continue
conducting its main refinancing operations (MROs) and the
special-term refinancing operations with a maturity of one
maintenance period as fixed rate tender procedures with full
allotment for as long as necessary, and at least until the end
of the sixth maintenance period of 2011 on 12 July 2011.  “Furthermore, the Governing Council decided to conduct the
three-month longer-term refinancing operations (LTROs) to be
allotted on 27 April, 25 May and 29 June 2011 as fixed rate
tender procedures with full allotment. The rates in these three-
month operations will be fixed at the average rate of the MROs
over the life of the respective LTRO.”  “The separation principle” between standard and non-
standard measures “has been reiterated several times.”  On inflation projections:  They have “shifted upwards.” ECB staff projections see
2011 inflation in range of 2 percent to 2.6 percent, 2012
inflation at 1 percent to 2.4 percent.  “It is paramount that the rise in inflation doesn’t lead
to second-round effects.”  “Inflation expectations in the medium term must remain
fully anchored.”  On the timing for measures on addicted banks:  “If and when we have a plan we’ll announce it.”  “There is a plan and for us this plan has been approved by
the IMF, the commission, in liaison with us.”  On rates on aid loans to Ireland:  “This is a question of discussion with the executive
branches which are delivering the loans.”  “I won’t say anything at this stage. It’s up to the
governments to see what they like to do.”  On Hungarian government and central bank:  “We were very unsatisfied with the position that was taken
by the Hungarian government and we will see exactly what is the
appropriate step to take.”  “It is the responsibility of the” European Commission.  “We have to study and see exactly what is the legal next
step that is optimal.”  “I don’t exclude anything, including that the commission
could move and sue. It’s not our decision. It’s a decision for
the commission.”  On strengthening  Europe ’s fiscal rules:  “We have a very, very strong message for the governments.
We made public our own judgments. I would say that the
commission didn’t go far enough. The governments have even
weakened the position of the commission. We count on the
parliament to help Europe to draw all the lessons in terms of
governance.”  On Fed, other central banks:  “We have our own responsibility. The Fed has its
responsibilities. We always in the past took our own decisions,
taking into account our own responsibility.”  “What we have done always is to judge our own situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Paris at  jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Paris at  cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  