-- 
Trichet Says Interest-Rate Increase by the ECB Next Month Is a Possibility

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-03-03T17:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/trichet-says-european-central-bank-needs-strong-vigilance-on-inflation.html
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the ECB may raise  interest rates  next
month for the first time in almost three years to fight mounting
inflation pressures.  An “increase of interest rates in the next meeting is
possible,” Trichet told reporters in  Frankfurt  today after the
central bank set its benchmark rate at a record low of 1 percent
for a 23rd month. “Strong vigilance is warranted,” he said,
adding that any move would not necessarily be the start of a
“series.”  The comments surprised economists and investors, most of
whom hadn’t expected the ECB to raise rates before August. The
euro jumped more than 0.9 percent to $1.3976, the highest since
November. German  government bonds , a benchmark for Europe,
dropped, sending the yield on the two-year bund 18 basis points
higher to 1.713 percent.  Trichet is signaling tighter policy at a time when Ireland
and  Greece  are struggling to cope with the terms of last year’s
European Union bailouts and governments are hammering out a plan
to draw a line under the crisis. The danger is that raising
rates to tackle inflation will exacerbate the financial tensions
that still run through euro region bond markets.  ‘The ECB Will Hike’  “The ECB will hike rates by 25 basis points in April and I
wouldn’t be surprised to see another increase in September or
October,” said Natascha Gewaltig, chief European economist at
Action Economics in London, who forecast before today’s meeting
that the ECB would tighten policy in the first half. “Inflation
expectations are picking up, that’s a clear signal for rate
setters.”  The ECB is concerned about so-called second-round effects,
when companies raise prices and workers demand more pay to
compensate for soaring energy and food costs, entrenching faster
inflation. Crude oil surged above $100 a barrel last week amid
political tensions in the Middle East and North Africa. Euro-
area inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent last month.  “There is a strong need to avoid second-round effects,”
Trichet said, calling for moderation from wage and price
setters. The ECB is “prepared to act in a firm and timely
manner.”  He signaled any rate move would likely be a quarter-point
step, saying a bigger increase would not be appropriate in his
view. A rate increase in April would put the ECB ahead of its
U.S. and U.K. counterparts.    Federal Reserve   Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on March 1
that the surge in oil and other commodity prices probably won’t
cause a permanent increase in broader inflation and repeated
that U.S. borrowing costs are likely to stay near zero.  The  Bank of England  may be moving closer to raising its key
rate from 0.5 percent, with three of its nine policy makers
voting for an increase last month.    China  on Feb. 8 raised rates for the third time since mid-
October to curb inflation and prevent its economy from
overheating.  The ECB today raised its inflation and growth forecasts.  Inflation will average 2.3 percent this year, up from a
December forecast of 1.8 percent and in breach of the ECB’s 2
percent limit, before slowing to 1.7 percent in 2012, the
projections show. The 17-nation euro-area economy will expand
1.7 percent this year and 1.8 percent next, up from previous
forecasts of 1.4 percent and 1.7 percent, according to the ECB.  Debt Crisis  At the same time,  Europe ’s debt crisis is far from over,
with politicians yet to agree on new steps to bolster the
region’s rescue fund.  While governments are cutting spending to rein in deficits,
risk premiums for Spain, Portugal and  Italy  have increased
since a Feb. 4 EU summit that failed to endorse an economic
competiveness plan proposed by Germany and  France  as a condition
for aid.  “The ECB is preparing to raise rates too early,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at  Barclays Capital  in
London. “It should give the euro-area economy more chance to
get on a sustainable footing, particularly since it is still too
early to tell how the intense fiscal consolidation in many
countries will affect demand this year and next.”  Trichet said the ECB will keep its emergency liquidity
measures in place at least through the end of the second quarter
to help soothe tensions in financial markets. The ECB is lending
banks as much money as they want at its benchmark rate for
periods of up to three months.  Liquidity Measures  “Trichet was much more cautious on the liquidity front,”
said  Marco Valli , an economist at UniCredit Group in Milan.
“This confirms that standard and non-standard measures in the
ECB’s strategy are very much separated. We think that rate hikes
throughout 2011 will take place with full allotment still in
place, at least for weekly operations.”  The ECB last raised rates in July 2008, just before the
global financial crisis intensified. It was then forced into an
unprecedented series of rate cuts to prop up the economy. That’s
unlikely to happen this time, said Jens Sondergaard, an
economist at Nomura International in  London , who now expects
three quarter-point rate increases from the ECB this year.  “The sovereign debt crisis would have to intensify
significantly for the ECB to delay the start of the rate hiking
cycle,” he said. “The message from today’s meeting is clear:
with inflation risks crystallizing, the ECB stands ready to act
in April.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Paris at  cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Paris at  jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  