-- 
Trichet Faces Oil Shock That May Damp Growth, Fuel Inflation

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-03T11:13:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/trichet-faces-oil-shock-as-inflation-above-2-makes-ecb-officials-fret.html
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  may tell investors today how he plans to
cope with an oil-price shock that’s driving inflation beyond the
bank’s limit while also threatening to damp economic growth.  The ECB is the first of the world’s five biggest central
banks to announce a policy decision since crude oil surged over
$100 a barrel last week. While officials meeting in Frankfurt
will leave the benchmark interest rate at a record low of 1
percent, Trichet may toughen his inflation-fighting language,
leaving open the option of raising borrowing costs later this
year, economists said.  “Trichet will have to assure the public that the ECB is
alert and won’t tolerate inflation,” said  Klaus Baader , co-
chief euro-area economist at  Societe Generale  in London. “At
the same time, the economic recovery is still rather fragile and
spiking  oil prices  will weigh on consumption and company
profits.”  Investors last week increased bets on the ECB raising rates
as soon as August after policy makers including board member  Juergen Stark  said they will act if needed to prevent soaring
commodity prices from driving up price expectations. Trichet
must balance those inflation concerns against the risk of
exacerbating Europe’s sovereign debt crisis by removing stimulus
too soon. In addition to keeping rates low, the ECB is lending
banks as much cash as they want and buying  government bonds .  The ECB announces its rate decision at 1:45 p.m. and
Trichet holds a press conference 45 minutes later. The euro was
little changed today at $1.3869 as of 12:08 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Non-Standard Measures  Trichet may say whether the ECB intends to resume its exit
from non-standard policy measures. It has so far pledged to keep
offering banks unlimited amounts of cash in its weekly and
three-month refinancing operations through the first quarter.  He will also unveil the central bank’s latest growth and
inflation forecasts.  The ECB will probably raise its 2011 inflation estimate to
more than 2 percent from 1.8 percent and may conclude that risks
to the outlook have moved to the “upside,” Governing Council
member Yves Mersch said in an interview published on Feb. 22.
Inflation, which the bank aims to keep just below 2 percent,
accelerated to 2.4 percent last month.  “We’ll see significant changes in inflation forecasts,
especially for this year,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “But the projections will
already be outdated because the latest oil-price spike came too
late to be included.”  $100 a Barrel  Political tensions in  Libya , the latest country to
experience a wave of anti-government protests in North Africa
and the Middle East, pushed crude prices above $100 a barrel on
Feb 23. Libya, which ships most of its crude and fuels to
Europe, has cut oil production by more than half, the  International Energy Agency  said on Feb 25. Oil traded as high
as $101.47 a barrel yesterday.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on March 1
that the surge in oil and other commodity prices probably won’t
cause a permanent increase in broader inflation and repeated
that U.S. borrowing costs are likely to stay low.  By contrast,  China  on Feb. 8 raised rates for the third
time since mid-October, and three of the  Bank of England ’s nine
policy makers last month voted for an increase.  ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in an
interview published on Feb. 18 that commodity-price increases
will have an “unavoidable impact” on euro-region inflation and
the central bank may need to take “pre-emptive actions.”  Second-Round Effects  The ECB is concerned about so-called second-round effects,
when companies raise prices and workers demand more pay to
compensate for soaring energy and food costs, entrenching faster
inflation.  Henkel AG, a German maker of industrial and consumer
chemical products, said on Feb. 24 it will raise prices in all
businesses and all regions this year in response to rising raw
material costs.  The ECB is “prepared to act decisively and immediately if
needed” to prevent an “un-anchoring” of inflation
expectations, Stark said on Feb. 21.  Investors expect the ECB to raise its key rate to 1.5
percent by the end of the year, with the first quarter-point
increase fully priced in for September, Eonia forward contracts
show.  The euro-area economy is showing signs of gaining strength.
Manufacturing growth accelerated to the fastest pace in more
than 10 years in February as companies ramped up production to
meet export demand. In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
business confidence unexpectedly rose to a record high and
unemployment dropped to 7.3 percent, the lowest in two decades.  ‘Real Challenge’  Volkswagen AG, Europe’s biggest automaker, on Feb. 25 said
profit surged sevenfold last year and forecast higher earnings
in 2011 on Chinese sales.  Still, demand within the 17-nation euro area may be curbed
as governments from  Spain  to Ireland cut spending to reduce
deficits and shore up their financial systems.  The oil shock may further “handicap” the region’s
recovery, ECB council member  Guy Quaden  said on Feb. 23.  Surging oil prices will be a “real challenge for the car
industry,”  Norbert Reithofer , chief executive officer at
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, said this week.  “The ECB would be sensible to leave itself some room to
maneuver,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP
Paribas SA in  London . “If the oil price went up another $20 a
barrel because of spreading unrest in the Middle East, then all
bets are off. But if that scenario is avoided, the ECB is
getting closer to thinking that its current policy stance is
inappropriate.”  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  will not attend today’s
meeting and Vice President Franz-Christoph Zeitler will take his
place instead, according to a spokesman for the German central
bank. The decision is the first by the governing council since
Weber announced on Feb. 11 that he won’t seek to replace Trichet
and will step down from the Bundesbank at the end of April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  