-- 
Romania Economic Decline Slowed in Fourth Quarter on Exports

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-03-03T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/romania-economic-decline-slowed-in-fourth-quarter-on-exports.html
  Romania ’s economic decline slowed in
the fourth quarter of last year as growing exports and higher
industrial and agriculture output offset a slump in consumption.  Gross domestic product dropped a final 0.6 percent from a
year earlier, compared with a 2.5 percent fall in the third
quarter, the  National Statistics Institute  in Bucharest said
today in an e-mailed statement. The contraction, which matched
the preliminary figures published on Feb. 15, is smaller than a
forecast for a decrease of 1 percent in a Bloomberg survey of
seven economists.  Romania, the European Union’s second-poorest country after  Bulgaria , is struggling to recover from its first recession on
record as the government pushes through austerity measures to
qualify for payments from a bailout. The country is seeking a
new two-year precautionary agreement worth as much as 5 billion
euros ($7 billion) from the  International Monetary Fund  and the
EU to safeguard against potential effects from  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Romania’s recession erased the country’s 2008 economic
expansion, when a credit-fueled consumption boom made it the
EU’s fastest-growing nation. Demand dropped an annual 1.2
percent and construction output plunged 7 percent last year, the
statistics office said. Agriculture output rose 7.4 percent and
industrial production grew 5.8 percent.  The government expects growth of as much as 2 percent this
year and 4.5 percent in 2012, Prime Minister Emil Boc said on
Feb. 7. The administration is facing growing public opposition
to austerity measures as it has pledged to narrow the country’s
budget deficit to 3 percent of GDP in 2012 from 6.5 percent last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  