-- 
Rome Revamps ‘Hollywood on the Tiber’ to Recover Lost Stars

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 
2011-03-03T12:51:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/rome-s-hollywood-on-the-tiber-revival-plan-is-rejected-by-italian-unions.html
A half century ago, when Audrey Hepburn raced through “Roman Holiday” on a Vespa scooter, the
Italian capital’s Cinecitta Studios were known as “Hollywood on
the Tiber.”  These days, much of the magic and business is gone as
filmmakers head for lower-cost locales such as Budapest and
Bucharest. To get back on track,  Cinecitta  aims to spend 675
million euros ($934 million) on a new hotel and amusement park
to make the studios more competitive. Unions oppose the plans.  “I’d love to just make movies, but that’s not happening;
there’s less work everywhere,” said Lamberto Mancini,
Cinecitta’s general manager. “We need to broaden our scope.”  Producers and directors say filming in eastern  Europe  costs
15 percent to 25 percent less than at Cinecitta. Last year,
Italian filmmakers spent 71 percent of their total budgets
abroad, according to the Italian actors’ union, costing Italy
some 38 million euros in lost salaries, fees and  tax revenue .  “The professional level at Cinecitta is very high, but
sadly so are the costs,” said director Isotta Toso, who shot
small parts of her debut film “Clash of Civilizations for an
Elevator in Piazza Vittorio” at Cinecitta.  In the 1950s and 60s,  Italy  was the place with competitive
prices as American directors flocked to Cinecitta. Hollywood
stars inspired director Federico Fellini’s 1960 film “La Dolce
Vita,” which depicted Rome’s new café society and was shot in
Cinecitta’s Studio 5, one of the largest sound stages in Europe.  Heritage  The studios are “where American and Italian cinema met,
creating a kind of magic,” said Riccardo Tozzi, producer of the
1999 film “Tea With Mussolini” and the 2002 film “Ripley’s
Game” with  John Malkovich . “It’s our heritage and should be
preserved.”  Over the past half century, production at the studios has
fallen by about two-thirds to around 90 movies and TV shows in
the past two years, Mancini said. Italy’s version of “Big
Brother” reality show is currently made there and Cinecitta was
home to the BBC and HBO series   Rome ” from 2004 to 2007.  “We used to work on one movie after another and couldn’t
wait to end a production to get at least a few weeks of rest,
now the pauses last months, for some even years,” said set
designer Vincenzo De Camillis, who worked with Oscar-winning
director Giuseppe Tornatore.  Today, Cinecitta employs some 250 people, and about 5,000
more find occasional work on productions there, half the level
of employment in the 1960s, the unions say.  Lost Magic  To recapture some of the magic, Mancini is spending 175
million euros on offices, equipment, post-production facilities,
a hotel, restaurant and spa. In 2014, a 500 million-euro theme
park called Cinecitta World is set to open on land the studio
owns south of the capital. The project includes roller-coasters
and rides based on Fellini films and classics like Ben-Hur.  Unions for actors and crew don’t like the idea. They say it
won’t boost employment in the industry and would rather see
investments in technology and better filmmaking facilities.  “I don’t see how a hotel and an amusement park will bring
more jobs,” said Umberto Carretti, head of Italy’s film crew
union. “It sounds like a lot of real estate speculation.”  Unions point to the 1982 sale of studio land that was
supposed to be home to an auditorium and multimedia center and
ended up as a shopping mall called Cinecitta 2.  Development  “They’d be better off developing cinema-related
activities,” said Mario Breglia, chairman of real-estate
research firm Scenari Immobiliari. “The land is not hugely
valuable for housing, I’d avoid playing the amateur developer.”  Cinecitta has seen hard times before. Founded by Benito Mussolini in 1937, the area was bombed during World War II and
then used to house refugees after the war. Following economic
hardship and fires that destroyed sets in the 1980s, the state-
owned enterprise nearly collapsed. In 1997 a group of Italian
companies bought it for $35 million and the focus gradually
shifted to TV shows and commercials alongside films.  One of the last large productions made there was  Martin Scorsese ’s “Gangs of  New York ” in 2002. Today, the brownstones
and storefronts of the 19th-century Manhattan set, which rise
out of the windswept lot like a ghost town, are reused for
smaller productions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 