-- 
Royal Bank, Toronto-Dominion Profits Top Estimates

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-03-03T21:23:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/royal-bank-toronto-dominion-profits-top-estimates-on-higher-lending-fees.html
  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Toronto-
Dominion Bank,  Canada ’s two biggest banks, posted first-quarter
profits that topped analysts’ estimates as a rebounding economy
boosted fees from  consumer lending .  Royal Bank, the country’s largest lender, posted record
profit of C$1.84 billion ($1.89 billion), or C$1.24 a share for
the period ended Jan. 31. Toronto-Dominion’s profit rose 19
percent to C$1.54 billion, or C$1.69 a share, and the bank
boosted its quarterly dividend for the first time in almost
three years.  The six Canadian banks that have reported first-quarter
results beat estimates as loan losses fell and consumer lending
climbed after Canada’s economy grew more than economists
forecast. Capital markets helped lift earnings at Royal Bank and
others lenders as fees rose from mergers, stock and bond sales.  “All economic indicators are starting to improve,”
Toronto-Dominion Chief Financial Officer Colleen Johnston said
today in a telephone interview. “We’re starting to see decent
growth in Canada, and we’re seeing better strength in the  United
States  as well.”  Royal Bank said it earned C$1.26 a share excluding items,
beating the C$1.01 a share average estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Toronto-Dominion said adjusted
profit was C$1.74 a share, beating the C$1.55 a share average
estimate of 15 analysts.  Record High  Royal Bank rose C$2.98, or 5.2 percent, to C$59.92 at the 4
p.m. close of trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest
gain since Aug. 27, 2009. Toronto-Dominion jumped C$3.10 to
C$83.60, a record high.  Canada’s economy accelerated 3.3 percent from October to
December on the biggest jump in exports since 2004 and faster  consumer spending . Canada has recovered all the jobs lost from
the recession, driving demand for consumer loans and mortgages
at the country’s biggest banks, while reducing loan losses.  “I think this bodes well for the rest of this year,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall MacDougall &
MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about $4 billion,
including bank shares. “The percentage increases may not be as
strong going forward but there should be improvement.”  Royal Bank said Canadian consumer-banking earnings rose 14
percent to a record C$882 million on higher loans and deposits
and lower loan-loss provisions. The Toronto-based bank set aside
C$334 million for bad loans, 32 percent less than a year
earlier.  RBC Bank  International banking, which includes the Raleigh, North
Carolina-based RBC Bank, Caribbean banking and RBC Dexia
Investor Services partnership, had earnings of C$24 million, its
first profit in 11 quarters. Royal Bank has spent almost two
years reorganizing RBC Bank as Canadian rivals  Bank of Montreal (BMO) 
and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  expand by buying troubled U.S.
lenders.  The U.S. retail bank “was still slightly unprofitable in
the quarter,” Royal Bank Chief Executive Officer Gordon Nixon
told reporters in Toronto after the annual shareholders meeting.
“The unit was profitable because of the performance of [RBC]
Dexia and the Caribbean bank.”  Earnings from the RBC Capital Markets  investment-banking 
unit rose 7.4 percent to C$613 million, as underwriting and
advisory fees surged 59 percent. Trading revenue was C$1
billion, compared with a C$1.04 billion a year earlier.  Lots of Activity  “There’s been lots of activity, both in terms of raising
capital, lots of new issues, lots of security trading,” Tony Demarin, chief investment officer of BCV Asset Management, said
in an interview before earnings. “The markets have been active,
money’s flowing into financial assets.”  Wealth management, which includes mutual funds sales, rose
1 percent to C$221 million from a year earlier, while insurance
rose 23 percent to C$145 million.  Toronto-Dominion said domestic consumer banking profit
surged 26 percent to a record C$905 million on higher personal
and commercial deposits and real estate loans. U.S. consumer
banking, where the lender operates under the name TD Bank,
climbed 77 percent to C$320 million.  Canadian consumer lending profit is at a “sustainable”
level, Johnston said.  “It’s quite reasonable to think, as you go through the
balance of the year, that the C$900 million is absolutely
sustainable and more,” she said.  Investment Banking  Investment-banking profit fell 36 percent to C$237 million
because of lower fixed income and credit trading. Asset
management, which includes the bank’s stake in  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. (AMTD) , rose 26 percent to C$181 million.  Toronto-Dominion increased its dividend 8.2 percent to 66
cents a share, becoming the second of Canada’s six main lenders
to increase its payout following the financial crisis.  The bank was expected to boost its payout to 64 cents a
share, according to the Bloomberg Dividend Forecast function.  Royal Bank kept its dividend unchanged at 50 cents, the
14th consecutive quarter without an increase.  If the bank “can produce in the next two quarters the
results of the first quarter, we’d certainly have to look at it
pretty seriously,” Royal Bank Chairman David O’Brien told
reporters, when asked about a dividend increase.  Royal Bank is forecast to boost its payout by 2 cents in
May, according to Bloomberg.    Canadian Western Bank (CWB) , the country’s eighth-biggest lender,
yesterday said net income rose 10 percent to C$44 million, or 54
cents, marking its 91st consecutive profitable quarter.  Bank of Nova Scotia, the third-biggest bank, reports March
8, followed by  Laurentian Bank  of Canada on March 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net 
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at +1-
   spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  