-- 
Rusal Said to Snub Norilsk's $12.8 Billion Buyout Offer for Interros Talks

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-03T21:40:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/rusal-said-to-snub-norilsk-s-12-8-billion-buyout-offer-for-interros-talks.html
United Co. Rusal, locked in a battle
for control of OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, rejected a $12.8 billion
bid from the mining company to buy back 20 percent of its shares
and proposed to start talks with fellow investor Interros
Holding Co., said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Rusal, which rebuffed the bid at a board meeting yesterday,
approved a special resolution that commits management to begin
talks with Interros after Norilsk holds a  shareholders’ meeting 
on March 11, said the people, who declined to be identified as
the information is confidential. Rusal owns a 25 percent stake
in Norilsk, the world’s largest nickel producer.  Vera Kurochkina, a spokeswoman for Rusal in Moscow,
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  The resolution on talks marks progress in the dispute,
which dates back to 2008 and centers on control of Norilsk’s
board and use of the company’s $2.3 billion cash pile.
Billionaire Oleg Deripaska, who owns 47 percent of Rusal, has
rejected three offers since October to sell out of the nickel
company, even as Rusal investors Mikhail Prokhorov and Viktor Vekselberg push for a sale.  Norilsk, which said Feb. 22 it wouldn’t raise its price
further, set a deadline of 6 p.m. today in Moscow for Rusal to
respond.  Dead End  Andrei Klishas, the president of Moscow-based Norilsk, said
Feb. 22 that the dispute between Rusal and Interros, which owns
a stake of at least 25 percent, had reached a “dead-end.”  Deripaska rejected a $9 billion buy-out offer from
Interros’s billionaire Chairman  Vladimir Potanin  in October and
a $12 billion bid from Norilsk in December for Rusal’s entire 25
percent holding. Norilsk’s latest bid, made Feb. 11, represented
a 43 percent premium to the company’s share price at the time.  Prokhorov, a former head of Norilsk and business partner of
Potanin, called the bid a “beneficial proposal” for Rusal, in
which he holds 17 percent. Vekselberg, who is also Rusal’s
chairman, said Feb. 22 that Norilsk’s valuation for the offer
“seems fair” and should be “discussed seriously.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in  London  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 