-- 
Russian Mobile-Phone Rivals Team Up to Share 4G Expense

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-03T16:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/russian-mobile-phone-rivals-buy-yota-stakes-to-share-4g-expense.html
  Russia ’s three largest mobile-phone
companies, OAO MegaFon, OAO Mobile TeleSystems and OAO
VimpelCom, agreed to work together to develop a nationwide
fourth-generation broadband network.  The three companies, plus long-distance operator OAO
Rostelecom will share the wireless 4G network being built by
Moscow-based Yota, Communications Minister Igor Shchegolev said
today.  Yota, the telecommunications brand of Moscow-based Scartel
LLC, currently provides 4G service in  five Russian cities . The
technology offers faster speeds for Internet use on computers
and mobile phones than older so-called 3G networks. The company
aims to have the service available initially to more than 70
million Russians in 180 cities by 2014.  “Building new networks is becoming more expensive, and
customers are used to the price of these technologies
decreasing,” Shchegolev told reporters in Moscow. “Now the
network will be deployed faster, each company will save on
investment and users will get the service much cheaper.”  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  oversaw the signing
of the agreement by the heads of the wireless companies today at
Yota’s Moscow office.  $2 Billion Plan  “We believe the only way 4G can be offered at the right
price is for operators to do it together,” Yota Chief Executive
Officer Dennis Sverdlov said in a telephone interview. The group
plans to invest $2 billion, backed by banks, in the project, he
added.  The four companies have the right to buy 20 percent each of
Yota in 2014, Shchegolev said. Russian Technologies Corp., a
state holding company, owns 25 percent of Scartel, which also
operates in Belarus, Nicaragua and  Peru . Scartel’s majority
owner, with about 75 percent of shares, is Telconet Capital LP,
a private investment fund.  Negotiations in the next three months will determine how
much each company would pay for stakes in Scartel, MTS Chief
Executive Officer Mikhail Shamolin said.  Yota ’s system currently works in five cities with speeds of
up to 10 megabits per second. The company is switching its
technology from WiMAX to the LTE standard, which is more widely
available on smartphones. Its current suppliers are Huawei
Technologies Co. and Samsung Electronics Co. and more may be
added, Sverdlov said.  Russian Technologies and equipment maker OAO Sitronics may
build LTE equipment for the network, said  Vladimir Yevtushenkov ,
chairman of AFK Sistema. Sistema controls Sitronics as well as
MTS, Russia’s largest mobile-phone company.  4G Requirements  4G is usually offered alongside existing lower-speed
networks at a higher price. It requires consumers to buy new
handsets and modems capable of exchanging data at the higher
speeds.  The networks also typically require additional broadcast
spectrum as older 3G and 2G networks continue operating when the
4G networks come on line. Yota has spectrum in all the regions
where it will operate, and is the only operator to have a
nationwide portfolio of licenses for 4G, Sverdlov said.  “We need to try this as there won’t be enough frequencies
for all,” said Sistema’s Yevtushenkov.  Common Practice  Companies from Sprint Nextel Corp. in the U.S. to YTL
Communication Sdn. in  Malaysia  are investing in nationwide 4G
systems, hoping that customer revenue for the high-speed
services will repay their spending.  Sweden ’s Tele2 AB and
Norway’s Telenor ASA are building a shared 4G network in Sweden
to save money, a practice that is becoming increasingly common
among phone companies.  “One airport has a number of airlines and the model is the
same here,” Sverdlov said. “We decided we’ll open our network
to others because we believe competition isn’t in the
infrastructure, competition is in how you serve your customers,
what products you give them, what customer experience you
create.”  The 4G network is a private initiative and could be used by
other operators as well, he said.  Countries including Finland and  Australia  have state-backed
plans for nationwide high-speed broadband service that doesn’t
necessarily use mobile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  