-- 
Russian Fund Manager Taps Ford Models in Penthouse Art Gallery

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/russian-fund-manager-expands-ford-modeling-name-with-penthouse-art-gallery.html
A young woman in a long black dress
napped on a floor area covered with coal, oblivious to the noise
of a penthouse art gallery’s opening-night crowd earlier this
week.  The sleepyhead was part of an exhibition, “Involuntary,”
at the new fordPROJECT, an art gallery that occupies a
two-story penthouse on West 57th Street. It was one of
the satellite programs of  Armory Arts Week ,  New York ’s biggest
annual art expo.  The fordPROJECT gallery was also part of an effort by
junior Russian oligarch Guerman Aliev to exploit the famous
brand of Ford Models. Tuesday’s opening drew actors Chloe Sevigny and Rachel Weisz as well as players from publishing, art
and the media.  Aliev is head of  Altpoint Capital Partners  LLC, a  New York- 
based private-equity firm that owns 93 percent of Ford Models.  “Ford as a brand is much stronger than the revenue it
generates,” said Aliev recently while drinking green tea in his
50th-floor Altpoint office overlooking Central Park. “Our foray
into the art world is a way to expand the brand.”  Born in Moscow, he learned Japanese as an exchange student,
and ended up spending seven years at Merrill Lynch &Co. in  London , as a director of its capital-markets business. In 2003,
he joined  Vladimir Potanin ’s  Interros Holding Company  in  Russia .
Interros now is the biggest investor in the funds managed by
Altpoint.  Buzzy Crowd  Aliev said he has allocated between $1 million and $1.5
million a year for his gallery, including the cost of staffers,
art fairs and celebrations like the party after the
“Involuntary” opening which drew a buzzy crowd to the Surrey
Hotel.  Aliev hired Rachel Vancelette, former director of  Yvon
Lambert  and  Gladstone  galleries, and Tim Goossens, former
assistant curator at  PS1 , to oversee sales and programming. In
most shows, the prices will range from $10,000 to $100,000.  “I am going to work through various modus operandi,”
Aliev said. “Now I am experimenting with having rotating
curators for exhibitions without representing any of the
artists. But I am not saying that this model will never
change.”  Twitching  Organized by influential art curator Neville Wakefield,
“Involuntary” was inspired by involuntary physical
responses as well as violent and paranormal elements. It
includes  Laurel Nakadate ’s video “Exorcism in January”
showing her twitching and contorting.  A week before the show, Aliev blocked a piece that involved
the sleeping girl and  prescription drugs  “because of the
liability issues,” he said. After the drugs were scrapped, the
work was allowed in.  “This is the first time I’ve seen all of it,” Aliev said
at the opening, surveying the crowded space. “Unlike most
contemporary-art shows I see in New York, this one elicits a
range of emotions, from admiration to contemplation, joy and
shock.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 