-- 
Santander Says Clean Energy Mergers May Exceed $55 Billion on New Markets

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-03-03T10:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/santander-says-clean-energy-mergers-may-exceed-55-billion-on-new-markets.html
The pace of clean energy industry
mergers may accelerate this year as smaller operators seek
buyers that can fund work in developing markets such as  Brazil ,
said  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , last year’s top takeover adviser.  “This is a sector that is heading for consolidation,”
Javier Sobrini, global head of energy takeovers at Santander in
Madrid, said in an interview. “The market is growing at a
brutal pace. New markets are opening up in countries where there
wasn’t any investment before.”  Santander led an annual Bloomberg New Energy Finance survey
of advisers to acquirers in 2010. About $55 billion in
transactions were arranged, matching the performance in 2009.  The bank’s Madrid-based rival,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , was the leading adviser to takeover targets. Both
worked on  Enel Green Power SpA (EGPW) ’s $1.1 billion takeover of
generation plants owned by  Endesa SA. (ELE)   Spanish banks are leveraging their relationships with the
biggest clean power producers such as Madrid-based  Iberdrola SA (IBE) 
and  Acciona SA (ANA)  to secure advisory and financing mandates as
power companies push into eastern Europe and Latin America.  Brazil saw last year’s biggest takeover with Mumbai-based  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) ’s $1.2 billion purchase of bioethanol-
maker Equipav SA.  Demand for Capital  The demand for capital may also spur initial public
offerings. Public share sales rose 18 percent to $17.4 billion
last year with $10.5 billion of IPOs almost tripling 2009’s
business, said New Energy Finance, a London-based industry
researcher. Total investment in clean energy and carbon markets
jumped 30 percent to $243 billion.  “Companies are looking for investors, and if they don’t
find them they may look to an IPO,” Sobrini said.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  topped the list for public share
sales with $1.5 billion raised from 11 deals. It advised Enel
Green Power on its $3.5 billion IPO and Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co. on its $1.1 billion offering. Credit
Suisse Group AG was ranked second with $1.4 billion raised from
13 deals including China Datang Corp Renewable Power Co.’s IPO.  Spanish banks have an advantage because three of the
world’s five largest clean energy producers are based in  Spain .
Iberdrola SA, the largest, operates wind farms in the U.S.,
Brazil and the U.K. and plans to increase its renewable
generating capacity 18 percent to 14.7 gigawatts by 2012.  Small Investors  Spanish solar plants owned by individual investors and
closely-held power developers may attract buyers after the
government set new prices for clean power, according to Mario Pardo, head of corporate finance for  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa  at BBVA.  About 40,000 solar parks were installed in Spain in 2007
and 2008 after the government offered subsidized prices at 10
times the market rate. Many of the smaller investors are under
pressure because of the recession.  “You clearly see owners that are not long-term holders,
and some of them are facing difficulties funding the projects in
a challenging market environment,” said Pardo, who joined BBVA
from Goldman Sachs in 2008 to develop the advisory business as a
complement to the bank’s project finance operations. “There are
a lot of assets that will be sold over time to global energy
companies as well as energy financial investors.”  The government’s December decision to cut subsidies for
photovoltaic, solar thermal and wind plants allows investors to
put a price on those assets. That may also trigger takeovers of
privately-held plant developers which need new investment to
finance their expansion, Pardo said.  “They will have to take a view as to whether they can go
public this year or whether they need to look for a buyer,”
Pardo said. “The pressure in some of those companies will be
mounting.”  T-Solar Global SA and Renovalia Energy SA pulled IPOs last
year when the regulations were in flux.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  