-- 
Sasini of Kenya Falls Third Day as Drought May Cut Production

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-03T12:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/sasini-of-kenya-falls-third-day-as-drought-may-cut-production.html
  Sasini Ltd. (STCL) , a Kenyan tea and coffee
grower, fell for a third day on concern drought may cut output.  The stock declined 25 cents, or 2.4 percent, to close at
10.3 shillings at 3 p.m. in Nairobi.  Kenya experienced drier-than-usual weather in October
through December because of the La Nina phenomenon, which occurs
when the surface of the Pacific Ocean cools and reduces moisture
in the atmosphere. The drought has disrupted food supplies in
the northern, eastern and coastal regions,  Japanese Ambassador
to Kenya  Toshihisa Takata told reporters in Nairobi yesterday.  Kenya will receive a 629.5 million-shilling ($7.6 million)
grant from Japan to import about 35,000 metric tons of corn, the
east African nation’s staple food, Agriculture Minister Sally Kosgei said yesterday.  Sasini “will be affected by drought for the next few
months,” Mercy Njoroge, an analyst at Tsavo Securities Ltd.,
said in a phone interview from Nairobi.  African tea prices retreated for the first week in four at
a weekly sale in  Mombasa ,  Kenya , declining to an average of
$2.79 a kilogram from $2.85 a week earlier, Tea Brokers East
Africa Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement March 1. Kenya is
world’s biggest exporter of black tea.  Kenya’s benchmark coffee grade, AA, fell 12 percent at an
auction yesterday after the quality of the beans declined, the
Nairobi Coffee Exchange said in an e-mailed statement March 1.  “Most of Sasini’s produce is sold though the Mombasa
auction; they are being affected by the low prices,” Wycliffe Masinde, a research analyst at Nairobi-based Kestrel Capital
East Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  