-- 
Saudi Arabia Must Keep Pumping Oil for Stability: Peter Coy

-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 
2011-03-03T13:59:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/saudis-must-keep-pumping-crude-to-buy-stability-commentary-by-peter-coy.html
It’s been more than a week since
youthful Saudi Arabian demonstrators bucked the regional trend
and cheered their ruler, celebrating his return to the kingdom
from medical treatment abroad.  Saudi Arabia  remains relatively
calm in a Middle East burning with revolutionary fervor.  All is not well in the desert kingdom, however, despite the
respect many Saudis feel toward the frail 86-year-old they call
the Custodian of the Two Mosques, King Abdullah bin Abdul-Aziz
Al Saud.  Saudi Arabia is a strange amalgam of a fundamentalist brand
of Islam that looks to the seventh century for inspiration and
an efficient, enlightened energy corporation,  Saudi Aramco , that
belongs to the 21st. This harnessing of old and new may be
nearing the end of its useful life. Saudi Aramco has been the
cash register that pays for social stability, but it will have a
harder time financing the kingdom in coming years as the cost of
finding and producing oil goes up and a needy population grows.
In any case, Aramco oil may be as much a curse as a blessing --
it breeds complacency, feeds corruption, and finances the
puritanical strain of Islam, Wahhabism, which speaks against
that corruption.  The Saudi kingdom, as big as the U.S. east of the  Mississippi River , is ringed by revolts in Bahrain, Yemen, and
Oman. It is undemocratic, inegalitarian, and economically
sluggish. It has high youth unemployment (30 percent in 2009)
and a disgruntled Shiite population in its oil-rich Eastern
Province. Investors are getting nervous. On Mar. 2, the
benchmark Tadawul All Share Index went down for the 13th day,
falling nearly 4 percent, to its lowest close since April 2009.  Gradualist Reformer  King Abdullah, a gradualist reformer who has pushed back
against the Wahhabi enforcers, may not be to blame for this
state of affairs, but it’s his to deal with as long as he sits
on the throne. He has enlisted Saudi Aramco to help. The king is
trying to diversify the economy with projects such as  King
Abdullah  University of Science and Technology, at which women
can study with men and don’t have to wear veils. Saudi Aramco
built the campus for him. Entrepreneurship isn’t exactly
blooming on the peninsula, so the king is also placating the
populace the old-fashioned way, with money. On his Feb. 23
return to the kingdom, he ladled out some $35 billion in Saudi-
style stimulus, including pay raises for government workers and
freedom for some imprisoned debtors. Indirectly the funding will
come from the government’s single biggest revenue source:
royalties and dividends from Saudi Aramco.  World Leader  So far, King Abdullah’s reliance on Aramco has been a wise
choice. “Aramco is hands down one of the most advanced  oil
companies  in the world,” says Jamie Webster, a researcher for
PFC Energy in  Washington . The company is also the most
progressive, technologically excellent organization in the
kingdom. It is a world leader in extraction of oil from onshore
fields, with the patents to prove it. Its residential compounds
for expatriates are among the few places in Saudi Arabia where
women can drive with impunity.  Owned by a venture of four American oil companies until its
nationalization in 1973-80, Saudi Aramco is now 88 percent Saudi
by head count. Although the King can command it to raise or
lower production for geopolitical reasons, Saudi Aramco has been
spared from royal micro­management. “The objectives of the
state are better served if the national  oil company  is
commercially structured and run,” Ali Ibrahim Al-Naimi, then
Saudi Aramco’s chief executive officer and now oil minister,
noted at a 2004 OPEC conference.  More Expensive  The demands on Saudi Aramco keep growing. Maintaining
production, let alone increasing it, is getting more expensive
as its big fields age. It must sell energy at below-market rates
to encourage industrial development. Saudi Arabia may have more
oil than its Gulf neighbors do, but with a population of 26
million it also has a great many mouths to feed. Gross domestic
product per capita is just a third of America’s. The kingdom on
Dec. 20 published a budget for the current fiscal year (1432-33
on the Muslim calendar) projecting a deficit amounting to
7 percent of spending.  This is hardly an imminent crisis. The regional upheaval is
boosting the kingdom’s revenue by raising  oil prices . In a pinch
the kingdom can draw on its gold and foreign currency reserves -
- $450 billion worth, fourth in the world behind  China , Japan,
and  Russia , according to the  CIA World Factbook . In the long
run, though, there’s a risk that Saudi Aramco’s payout of
royalties and dividends to the kingdom could fall short of
what’s required to buy the loyalty of the king’s subjects. In a
less likely but not unthinkable scenario -- call it the
Venezuela option -- some future King, out of desperation, orders
Saudi Aramco to curtail its investment in the fields to free up
more money for the royal budget. The goose that lays the golden
eggs dies of starvation.  Big Challenge  “I don’t think Saudi Aramco’s big challenge is finding
oil,” says Valerie Marcel, author of Oil Titans: National Oil
Companies in the Middle East. “Its main challenges are things
that are out of its control: If domestic needs for jobs and
money grow too fast, the government may start intervening more
in its business -- that is something it would like to prevent at
any cost.”  Whether Saudi Aramco can keep the oil flowing matters not
only to King Abdullah but to the world, because the company is
the only one with substantial spare production capacity that can
be put to use in an emergency. Aramco claims it can produce
12.5 million barrels of oil a day, versus current output of
about 9 million. That’s probably correct, says Andrew Laven, BP
Plc’s vice-president for Middle East trading.  Calm Markets  In a display of Saudi power on Feb. 28, oil futures slipped
after Saudi Aramco CEO Khalid Al-Falih said the company was
ready to compensate for any shortfall in crude supply caused by
turmoil in  Libya . Saudi Arabia’s ability to calm global markets
in periods of high stress gives the kingdom important political
influence. If Saudi Aramco’s spare capacity shrinks, oil prices
will become even more volatile.  Volatility threatens more than just the oil market. Saudis,
while mostly quiescent today, are aware of the democratic tide
rising around them. “There are no more borders for ideas,” Mai Yamani, an anthropologist who is a daughter of former Saudi Oil
Minister Ahmed Zaki Yamani, told Bloomberg TV on Feb. 28. More
than 100 Saudi activists, writers, and academics warned King
Abdullah in a recent letter of corruption, nepotism, and “the
widening gap between state and society,” telling him the
conditions “require a serious review.” On Facebook, activists
are calling for a March 11 “day of rage.”  How does this end? Probably not in full democracy. The
kingdom is staging elections for the first time this year, but
they are only for members of city councils, and only men can
vote. The likely successors to King Abdullah are considered less
reform-minded than he is. Most likely the Saud family, having
united Saudi Arabia by the sword in 1932, will try to keep it
lubricated with oil wealth. That will keep the pressure on Saudi
Aramco to continue delivering.  What we have learned in the Middle East and North Africa
this year is that the old rulers -- even the most stable of them
-- are playing for time. Saudi Aramco may outlast the family
that took it over.    Peter Coy ’s column will appear in Bloomberg Businessweek’s
March 7 issue. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Coy at   pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Eric Pooley in New York at 
 epooley2@bloomberg.net  