-- 
Scene Last Night: African Queen, Eve Queler’s Farewell, Mogul Agnes Varis

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-03T17:44:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/scene-last-night-african-queen-eve-queler-s-farewell-mogul-agnes-varis.html
Two sopranos -- an elegant brunette
in red and a seductive blonde with a dress for every occasion
(prison, beach, suicide) -- battled over a tenor last night at  Lincoln Center , where Eve Queler presented Giacomo Meyerbeer’s
“L’Africaine.”  The once-chic composer, who died in 1864, would have
enjoyed the fashion parade as a cast of 11 joined a large
orchestra and chorus on the stage of  Avery Fisher Hall .  This was Queler’s farewell from the  Opera Orchestra of New
York , which she founded 40 years ago to showcase forgotten works
like this old thing about Vasco de Gama. “L’Africaine” has one
really great tune, “O Paradis,” an ode to  India .  A wacky sense of geography (the African slave is really an
Indian queen), and unexpected meetings between the two ardent
sopranos add to the delight of the piece.  Marcello Giordani delivered the showstopper with
spellbinding power and seemed ready to settle down on the Hindu
beach with Chiara Taigi, the blonde queen. But then the other
soprano, Ellie Dehn, reappeared and off he went.  The opera closes with Taigi expiring under a toxic tree.
The fashion-conscious soprano seems a real find, one of many
young stars cultivated by Queler during her tenure at the Opera
Orchestra.  By then many hours had passed and we all shared the dying
queen’s visions of a chariot with white swans taking us home
with our memories.  Everyone sang splendidly. Taigi and Dehn were elegant,
expressive. Fikile Mvinjelwa made major baritone sounds as the
homicidal Nelusko. And Queler, as so often before, controlled
her huge forces with a clear beat and a big heart.  In the Green Room after the performance, she spent a good
deal of time hugging Agnes Varis, the pharmaceutical tycoon who
recently awarded the orchestra a $250,000 grant and further
underwrote 500 $20 tickets.  Agnes, 81, and Eve, 80, proved to be the true heroines of
the night.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 