-- 
Scottish Widows Restored to Top Becomes Buckley's Bet for Funds

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 
2011-03-03T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/scottish-widows-restored-to-top-becomes-buckley-s-bet-for-funds.html
From his office in the shadows of
Edinburgh’s medieval castle, Dean Buckley is trying to restore
the luster to the 199-year-old Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership.  The company’s largest equity fund ranked 277th of 296
competing funds tracked by  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  analysts in the 12
months ended Feb. 25. Buckley, the firm’s chief executive
officer, has hired more than 20 money managers since the start
of 2010, including three this week.  “I’ve made the changes we need to make,” Buckley, who
presides over  146.2 billion pounds  ($238 billion), said in an
interview at his headquarters in the Scottish capital. “The
bet’s in place and we now need to deliver. I’m measuring it
month by month through 2011.”  Buckley, 50, has been no stranger to upheaval since he took
the top job at Scottish Widows Investment in January 2008. While
his peers accumulated money at a steady pace last year, the
fund-management unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  was a revolving
door for portfolio managers and struggled to add clients.  Scottish Widows Investment’s assets rose 3.2 percent in
2010, while they climbed 29 percent at cross-town rival  Baillie
Gifford & Co.  Buckley named new heads for U.K. and global stocks
last year, and a leader for the company’s fixed-income group
after managers, including bond investor Rod Davidson, Kim Catechis, who ran emerging markets, and Ian Vose, head of
developed markets, left. In all, the firm lost at least a dozen
money managers in the past 18 months.  Executive Departures  The biggest challenge “is convincing the market they can
retain people,” said Haig Bathgate, chief investment officer of
Edinburgh-based Turcan Connell, which oversees about 1 billion
pounds for clients. “There’s been an exodus of people and very
high-profile people as well.”  The departures came amid questions about whether Lloyds
would keep Scottish Widows at the heart of its fund business
following the bank’s takeover of mortgage lender HBOS Plc, which
was a rescue brokered by the U.K. government in September 2008.  A month later, Buckley took a phone call from his new boss,
former HBOS director Jo Dawson, whilst on vacation in  San Diego 
with his wife and two children.  “That was the first point where I thought ‘Goodness me,
this is massive change,” Buckley recalls.  In the end, London-based Lloyds added about 50 billion
pounds of assets to Scottish Widows Investment and sold what
remained of HBOS’s Insight Investment Management unit. Lloyds
decided to phase out HBOS’s Clerical Medical brand of funds and  life insurance  in favor of Scottish Widows.  ‘Tidying Up’  “Once we’d done it, my goodness, wasn’t there a lot of
tidying up to do,” Buckley said on Feb. 17. “That tidying up
probably took us all through the whole of 2010.”  Assets  increased more slowly than at competitors after an
institutional customer withdrew money following a strategy
review,  Scottish Widows  Investment said. The client wasn’t
identified.  This year, the focus is on boosting the performance of the
company’s stock funds to win more external clients, Buckley
said. Scottish Widows Investment gets 20 percent of its assets
from outside the firm with the rest coming from Lloyds.  “I want to grow our external business rapidly,” Buckley
said. “If I deliver against my plans, I’d expect the external
business to grow much more quickly than our internal business.”  At Standard Life Investments, 45 percent of its money is
from external clients and Baillie Gifford’s 72 billion pounds
are managed solely for outside customers, including Vanguard
Group Inc., the world’s biggest mutual fund company.  Relative Returns  The 1.6 billion-pound Scottish Widows U.K. Growth Fund, the
firm’s largest stock fund, rose 11.8 percent in the 12 months to
Feb. 25, trailing the average 18.1 percent advance of its peer
group, according to data compiled by Chicago-based Morningstar.  The company’s biggest mutual fund, the 2.5 billion-pound
Scottish Widows Corporate Bond Fund, rose 5.6 percent in the
same period, ranking 59th of 87 similar funds and compared with
an average increase of 6.3 percent, Morningstar reported.  “We were too defensive in a rising market,” said Buckley.
“We’ve been guilty of not paying enough attention to top-down
and the macro environment around our equity portfolios.”  Turcan Connell, which selects funds for clients, sold its
last Scottish Widows Investment product, the High Income Bond
Fund, in June 2005, Bathgate said.  “They didn’t have a fund that was well enough ranked for
us to consider,” Bathgate said in an interview. “There’s been
a great deal of instability. That’s calmed down now and there’s
no corporate reason not to buy Scottish Widows funds.”  Moving Money  Bathgate invested last year with Dundee-based Alliance
Trust’s fixed-income team, led by Davidson, 46, who left
Scottish Widows in August 2009.  Bathgate said he would consider investing in funds run by
Peter Cockburn, Scottish Widows Investment’s head of U.K.
stocks, since his appointment last May. Cockburn, 40, replaced
Robert Waugh, 42, who stepped down as head of equities eight
months earlier. Cockburn is in charge of 42 billion pounds.  “It’s going to take a while to turn our equity performance
around into propositions that are attractive,” Buckley said.
“This is a project that will take the whole of 2011 to
establish any sort of traction.”  Scottish Widows traces its origins to 1812, when a group of
Edinburgh businessmen set up the fund to provide for widows of
British soldiers killed in the Napoleonic wars.  Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, bought the
business in 2000. From 2000 to 2004, the firm replaced its chief
investment officer, the CEO twice and two chief operating
officers left. Buckley previously was chief of the U.K. and
Middle East investment unit of London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   New Managers  Buckley appointed this week three new managers for the
international equities department, which has been run by Mike McNaught-Davis, 46, since May 2010. That month, the company’s
emerging markets team, led by Catechis, 49, decamped to Martin
Currie Ltd. The firm plans to hire another two fund managers for
U.K. stocks by the end of March.  For now, with another month just passed, Buckley is
continuing to monitor performance.  The U.K. Growth Fund is down 0.62 percent so far in 2011,
compared with an average increase of 0.17 percent, Morningstar
figures to Feb. 25 show. The Corporate Bond Fund, overseen by
Neil Murray, is up 1.12 percent, twice the average.  “I don’t want to sit over their shoulder,” Buckley said.
“But I’m keeping a close eye on how things are developing and
so far it’s gone pretty well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  