-- 
Service Industries in U.S. Probably Maintained Accelerated Pace of Growth

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-03T05:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/service-industries-in-u-s-probably-maintained-accelerated-pace-of-growth.html
  Service industries  in February
probably maintained a pickup in growth, adding to evidence the
U.S. expansion has broadened beyond manufacturing, economists
said before a report today.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey for the  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing gauge is
59.3 after a 59.4 reading in January that was the highest since
2005. Another report may show fewer than 400,000 workers filed
claims for jobless benefits for the third time in four weeks.  A cut in payroll taxes came just in time to help Americans
cope with the jump in gasoline prices, indicating companies like  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  will keep benefitting from increased
spending. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week
signaled the central bank will forge ahead with plans aimed at
holding down  interest rates  after reiterating he’s still not
content with the strength of the recovery.  “The pickup in  consumer spending  is starting to lift
services activity,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at
Bank of Montreal in Toronto. “The tax credit is providing
crucial support to the consumer in the face of rising gasoline
and food costs and still-sluggish job growth.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. New
York time. The 73 estimates in the Bloomberg News survey ranged
from 56 to 62. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  A Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. may show 395,000
workers filed applications for unemployment insurance payments
last week compared with 391,000 the prior period, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Claims reached a two-
year low of 384,000 in the week ended Feb. 5.  Payroll Forecast  Payrolls probably rose by 195,000 workers in February after
a 36,000 gain the previous month, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed before a Labor Department report
tomorrow. The acceleration in hiring reflects a pickup in growth
and a rebound from the weather-depressed January level,
economists said.  The ISM services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care, finance and
transportation. Today’s report follows the group’s March 1
figures that showed manufacturing grew in February at the
fastest pace since May 2004 as orders, exports and employment
climbed.  Following President  Barack Obama ’s agreement with Congress
in December to extend Bush-era tax cuts, Americans have more
money to spend on things besides factory-made goods. Earlier
this week a Commerce Department report showed incomes climbed 1
percent in January, the most since May 2009, after the
president’s compromise reduced the social security payroll tax
by 2 percentage points this year.  Railroads Benefiting  Robert Knight, chief financial officer at Union Pacific
railroad, said last month that carloadings were up 6 percent in
the first quarter even as snowstorms depressed activity.  “We are well positioned to have another great record
year,” Knight said at a transportation services conference in
Miami, on Feb. 16. “A growing U.S. economy and stronger
consumer demand is expected to play a role.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Transportation Index,
which includes companies like Union Pacific and FedEx Corp., has
increased 25 percent in the last 12 months on the improving
economic backdrop.  Also today, another report from the Labor Department at
8:30 a.m. may show that the productivity of American workers
rose at a revised 2.4 percent annual pace in the final three
months of 2010 from an initially reported 2.6 percent, according
to the median forecast.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  