-- 
Seven Women Killed in Abidjan During Ivory Coast Anti-Violence Protests

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-03T16:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/seven-women-killed-in-abidjan-during-ivory-coast-anti-violence-protests.html
Seven women were killed in  Ivory
Coast ’s commercial capital, Abidjan, when security forces opened
fire on a rally to protest violence in their neighborhood, a
local opposition spokesman said.  The women gathered at a traffic circle in Abobo at 10 a.m.
to call for an end to the violence that has rocked the city,
said Ahmed Coulibaly, by phone today. His opposition group RHDP
supports  Alassane Ouattara .  “Two armored vehicles from the army and several pick-up
trucks arrived and after a little while they opened fire without
any warning,” Coulibaly, who said he witnessed the incident,
said by phone. “Six women were killed on the spot and one died
on the way to hospital.  Fighting in Abobo broke out after an armed group that calls
itself the Liberation Movement for the Population of Abobo-
Anyama claimed an attack on army officers on Feb. 22. Residents
say the armed group appears to have taken control of a large
part of Abobo. Anyama neighbors Abobo.  More than 200,000 residents of Abobo have fled the
fighting, according to the  United Nations . At least 26 people
were killed in the area and a total of 365 people have died
across the West African nation following a disputed Nov. 28
election, the UN’s mission in the country said in a statement
today.  Fraud Allegations  Ouattara is the internationally recognized winner of the
vote. Incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo , who retains the
loyalty of the security forces, refuses to cede power to him,
alleging voter fraud in parts of the country’s north.  Residents of Abobo, who voted about 59 percent in favor of
Ouattara, say they have had to burn corpses of people killed in
fighting after they are left lying on the streets, with
emergency aid unavailable.  “We had to burn some of the corpses because it’s a health
risk to have them in the neighborhood,” said resident Idrissa
Kone, by phone today. “We are cut off from electricity and
drinking water and there is no medical help in this area.”    Ivory Coast  is “on the verge of a new civil war,” according
to the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group . The country
was left split between a government-controlled south and a
rebel-held north following an earlier civil conflict in 2002-3.  ‘Massive Violence’  “The most likely scenario is an armed conflict involving
massive violence against civilians that could provoke unilateral
military intervention by neighbors,” said Gilles Yabi, the
group’s West Africa Project Director, in an e-mailed statement
today.  Yabi said the regional bloc Economic Community of West
African States must retake a leading role in negotiations to
settle the impasse. In December, Ecowas said “legitimate force”
may be used to oust Gbagbo if he failed to step down.  A month later, the African Union’s Peace and Security
Commissioner Ramtane Lamamra said using force would be
considered only as a “last resort.” The continental body set up
a panel of five African presidents tasked with mediating in the
conflict. Their mandate was extended through this month, the
union said Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  