-- 
Singapore Exchange's ASX Takeover Offer Gets a Boost From Chi-X Approval

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-04T04:19:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/singapore-exchange-s-asx-takeover-offer-gets-a-boost-from-chi-x-approval.html
Regulatory approval of Chi-X Global
Inc. as a competitor to Australia’s main bourse operator may
make it easier for  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  to tackle political
opposition to its bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX)   “Keeping the status quo is not an option” for Australia,
Singapore Exchange Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said in
Sydney after the nation’s markets regulator gave the go-ahead
yesterday to foreign owned Chi-X to start a rival exchange. The
Singapore bourse’s A$7.6 billion ($7.7 billion) bid for ASX has
been opposed by some lawmakers who say it is against the
national interest.  Yesterday’s approval of Chi-X to become the first foreign-
owned stock exchange operator in Australia’s 150-year trading
history may ease lawmakers’ concerns about one foreign-owned
company monopolizing trading in Australia. Introducing
competition in the local exchange market is a key pillar of
plans by the Labor Government led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to help turn the country into a global financial hub.  “By allowing competition we are promoting Australia as a
financial services hub and helping ensure our financial markets
are efficient and innovative,” Financial Services Minister  Bill Shorten , who approved the regulator’s report, said in an e-mail
yesterday. Other license applicants would be considered “on
their merits,” he said.  ASX shares closed up 0.6 percent at A$35.88 in Sydney
yesterday, having risen as much as 2 percent earlier in the
session. Today they climbed 2.2 percent to A$36.66.  Singapore
Exchange  stock dropped 0.5 percent today.  The  Australian Securities & Investments Commission 
announced a timetable for the licensing of competitors to ASX,
along with plans for new “market integrity” rules. It says
Chi-X can start offering a rival exchange service after
completing computer system checks in September.  ‘Growing Trend’  “These regulatory developments in Australia further
highlight how the exchange sector itself is changing, just as
other proposed mergers show that consolidation is a growing
trend,” Bocker told Bloomberg News yesterday. “Keeping the
status quo is not an option. The real question is how we stay on
the right side of these trends.”  Singapore Exchange, which runs the city’s securities and
derivatives market, offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash and
share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion, a 42 percent premium to
ASX’s share price at the time.  The deal still requires the support of Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan , the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, ASIC and
parliamentarians, several of whom have opposed the sale.  ‘Hot Potato’  “I’m sure SGX will say that there’s another foreign player
coming in, and therefore that it shouldn’t be a concern to some
pundits who are concerned about the ASX merging with the
Singapore Exchange,” said Sydney-based Paul Xiradis, who
manages about $12 billion as chief executive officer of Ausbil
Dexia Ltd. “Still, the reality is that in Australia the merger
is still politically a very hot potato.”  The industry will need to “prepare for a multi-market
environment,” the regulator said in yesterday’s announcement.
According to ASIC’s timetable, the licensing of Chi-X could
occur as early as April, around which time the regulator also
expects to finalize market integrity rules designed for the new
competitive landscape.  Chi-X is required to meet conditions on computer systems,
resourcing and staffing. One requirement is for ASX and Chi-X to
have procedures in place to simultaneously halt trading.  Chi-X  Australia  Pty’s Chief Operating Officer  Peter Fowler 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that ASIC’s regulatory
timetable “provides a sensible set of transitional
arrangements” to help the industry move toward a competitive
environment in “an orderly way.”  Chi-X ‘Confident’  Chi-X Global, the parent company for regional units
including Chi-X Australia and Chi-X Japan Ltd., is owned by
Instinet LLC, a subsidiary of Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc.  “We’re confident we can meet the dates set out in the
timetable and we will certainly be trying to improve upon
them,” Fowler told Bloomberg. “We won’t have everyone
connected and cover every stock on day one. Rather, it will be a
phased operation over a matter of months.” Chi-X is unfazed by
the prospect of competing with a merged ASX-SGX, he said.  ASX spokesman Matthew Gibbs said in a telephone interview
from Sydney yesterday that the licensing plan for Chi-X and
other potential competitors “reinforces the rationale for the
merger proposal.”  Singapore Exchange’s bid received a boost last month when  Europe ’s Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  agreed to merge,
and after London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it would buy
Canada’s TMX Group Inc., increasing pressure on rival exchanges
to expand.  Foreign Investment  Singapore Exchange’s bid needs the approval of parliament,
where Gillard’s  Labor Party  is in a minority and rules with the
support of the Greens Party and three independents.  One independent lawmaker,  Bob Katter , has introduced a
private member’s bill to parliament calling on lawmakers to
“oppose any sale of the Australian Securities Exchange that
would provide majority foreign ownership.” Greens leader  Bob Brown  is also opposed.  Singapore Exchange offered on Feb. 15 to give more board
seats to Australians in a concession aimed at overcoming
opposition to the deal.  Bocker, who is seeking to attract business away from rival
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., told Reuters news agency
this week that he didn’t plan any further concessions to win
approval for the deal.  Singapore Exchange is paying an “unusually high” price
for the takeover,  Atsushi Saito , president of the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, a shareholder of the Singapore bourse, told reporters
in Tokyo on Feb. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 