-- 
Singapore Exchange's Bocker Says Merger With ASX `Best Option'

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-03T06:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/singapore-exchange-s-bocker-says-asx-merger-is-best-option-for-australia.html
A merger between the operator of  Australia ’s main stock exchange and an overseas bourse is the
best option if the nation wants to stay relevant in global share
trading, according to the head of  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)   “Keeping the status quo is not an option” for Australia,  Singapore Exchange  Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said
in Sydney after the nation’s markets regulator gave the go-ahead
today to foreign owned Chi-X Global Inc. to start a rival
exchange. The Singapore bourse’s A$7.6 billion ($7.7 billion)
bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  has been opposed by some lawmakers who say it
is against the national interest.  Today’s approval of Chi-X may make it easier for Bocker to
get approval for his bid because it reduces concern about a
foreign-owned company monopolizing Australia’s exchange market.
Introducing competition in the local exchange market is a key
pillar of plans by the Labor Government led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to help turn the country into a global financial
hub.  Growing industry consolidation worldwide and Australia’s
move today to allow competition in its exchange market from this
year mean Singapore Exchange’s plan to merge with ASX is the
“best solution” for shareholders and market participants in a
changing environment, Bocker told Bloomberg today.  “These regulatory developments in Australia further
highlight how the exchange sector itself is changing, just as
other proposed mergers show that consolidation is a growing
trend,” Bocker said. “Keeping the status quo is not an option.
The real question is how we stay on the right side of these
trends.”  Chi-X Approval  The  Australian Securities & Investments Commission  today
announced a timetable for the licensing of competitors to ASX,
paving the way for Chi-X Global’s local unit to become the first
foreign-owned stock exchange operator in Australia’s 150-year
trading history.  Singapore Exchange’s offer for ASX, unveiled on Oct. 25,
still requires the support of Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan ,
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, ASIC and parliamentarians who
must pass legislation altering restrictions on ASX’s ownership.  The bid received a boost last month when  Europe ’s Deutsche
Boerse AG and NYSE Euronext agreed to merge, and after London
Stock Exchange Group Plc said it would buy Canada’s TMX Group
Inc., increasing pressure on rival exchanges to expand.  These foreign merger announcements “underscore the dynamic
forces driving developments in global exchanges,” ASX’s Chief
Executive Officer Robert Elstone said in a Feb. 17 statement
accompanying the company’s first-half earnings result, which met
analyst estimates. He has also said global exchange mergers are
an “inevitable” feature of globalization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 