-- 
Slovakia to Sell Thermal Plants, Lift Foreign Investment

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-03-03T20:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/slovakia-to-sell-thermal-plants-lift-foreign-investment-1-.html
Slovakia expects to double foreign
direct investment this year and start the sale of stakes in
thermal plants as it seeks to rein in the budget deficit,
Economy Minister Juraj Miskov said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in  New York .  The country is expecting to at least double foreign direct
investment from last year’s 123 million euros ($171.7 million),
Robert Simoncic, chief executive officer at Slovak Investment
and Trade Developing Agency, said in an interview in New York.  The government expects to approve a final decision on the
sale of stakes in six thermal plants in the second quarter,
Miskov said. It may take between six and nine months to complete
the offering to strategic investors, he said.  Slovakia, a country of 5 million people in central  Europe ,
is relying on foreign demand to boost economic growth after the
eastern euro-zone member slipped into recession in 2009. The  budget deficit  more than halved to 344 million euros in January
through February, from 780 million euros in the same period last
year, as the government cut spending and raised indirect taxes.  The government plans no further increases in taxes, Miskov
said. Slovakia wants to cut the budget deficit below the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by
2013, from an estimated 7.8 percent of GDP last year.  ‘Cut Spending’  “There is always room to cut spending,” Miskov said. The  finance ministry  will introduce new fiscal measures, mostly
aimed at spending cuts, in about a month, he said.  “That would be difficult to make it even lower, but there
is always a possibility” that the budget deficit will be lower
than the initial target in 2011, Miskov said, suggesting the
country might meet its target of a budget deficit at 3 percent
of GDP sooner than in 2013, “depending on how successful we are
in implementing budget consolidation measures,” he said.  The government is determined to increase  energy security  by
diversifying oil and gas supplies, and increasing storage
capacity for energy resources within the country, Miskov said.
Miskov said he expects  Russia ’s Druzhba oil pipeline will be
linked to OMV AG pipelines in Europe within two years, enabling
Slovakia to get oil from the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  