-- 
SNB Has Full-Year Loss of 19.2 Billion Francs on Currencies

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-03-03T07:46:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/snb-has-full-year-loss-of-19-2-billion-francs-on-currencies-2-.html
The Swiss Central Bank said it had a
loss of 19.2 billion Swiss francs in 2010 ($21 billion) as the
euro’s depreciation eroded the value of its currency reserves,
forcing the bank to review its distribution policy.  The Zurich-based SNB had a profit of 9.96 billion francs
the previous year, according to an e-mailed  statement  today.
Exchange-rate losses amounted to 32.7 billion francs, following
“the sharp appreciation” of the franc against the euro, the
dollar and the pound, it said.  The SNB, led by Philipp Hildebrand, purchased foreign
currencies at an unprecedented pace in the first half of 2010 to
fight franc gains, which threatened to hurt the recovery and
spark deflation. While policy makers ended their intervention
policy in June,  Europe ’s debt crisis has eroded the value of the
euro and pushed the franc to a record high.  “It’s the SNB’s mandate to ensure  price stability  and not
to make shareholders happy,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist
at UniCredit Group in Munich. “They have fulfilled that mandate
in the past. And in difficult times like now, that can also mean
making a substantial loss in one year.”  The stabilization fund, which was set up to support  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
the country’s largest bank, had a profit of 2.6 billion francs
with equity amounting to 2 billion francs, the SNB said. The
central bank will distribute 2.5 billion francs to the state and
cantons while a negative distribution reserve now “necessitates
a review of the distribution agreement”, according to the
statement.  The SNB is a joint-stock company in which public
shareholders including Swiss cantons and cantonal banks have a
controlling stake. Private individuals hold the remainder.  The SNB parent company, which is used to calculate profit
distributions and announced preliminary figures in January, had
a net loss of 20.8 billion francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  