-- 
South Africa's Inflation Risks `At Odds' With Swaps, Societe Generale Says

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-03T11:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/south-africa-s-inflation-risks-at-odds-with-swaps-societe-generale-says.html
  South Africa  is likely to increase
funding costs faster than investors in interest-rate derivatives
expect as rising oil prices threaten to drive up inflation in
Africa’s biggest economy, according to Societe Generale SA.  Two-year interest-rate swaps, used by investors to hedge
against or speculate on future changes to borrowing costs, will
probably rise to 7.1 percent from 6.54 percent, Guillaume Salomon, London-based emerging-market strategist at the French
bank, wrote in a research report to clients dated today.  Oil rising amid tensions in the Middle East “is likely to
cause a headache for the South African Reserve Bank,” Salomon
wrote. “This all suggests that rate increases in South Africa
could unfold sooner than many are anticipating.”  World food prices climbed to a record in February on
surging dairy, grain and meat costs, the  United Nations  said
today. Prices climbed globally as a drought in  Russia  prompted
the country to ban grain exports last year and adverse weather
threatened crops in nations from wheat exporter Canada to
soybean producer  Brazil .  Peru,  China , Colombia, Indonesia and Russia raised  interest
rates  in February, and Brazil’s central bank increased its
benchmark rate yesterday.  The “deteriorating inflation outlook is at odds with the
pricing of the curve,” Salomon said. “The transport component
weights 18.8 percent of the total consumer-price-index basket,
with petrol contributing to 29 percent of this basket.”  South Africa’s consumer inflation rate rose to a six-month
high of 3.7 percent in January from 3.5 percent the month
before, the government statistics office said in a Feb. 16
report. That’s within the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target range.  Policy makers on Jan. 20 left their benchmark interest rate
at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent.  Two-year interest-rate swaps climbed 2.5 basis points to
6.56 percent at 12:46 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  