-- 
South Korean Stocks, Won Rally as Industrial Output Picks Up; Bonds Fall

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-03-03T06:46:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/south-korean-stocks-won-rally-as-industrial-output-picks-up-bonds-fall.html
South  Korea ’s stocks surged the most
in 17 months, the won rallied and  government bonds  fell after
industrial output expanded at the fastest pace in five months.  The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  climbed 2.2 percent, the most since Sept.
10, 2009, to 1,970.66 at the 3 p.m. close in Seoul. The won
advanced 0.7 percent, the biggest gain since Feb. 2, to 1,119.98
per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on the
government’s 4 percent bond due September 2016 rose one basis
point to 4.46 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Investors took on more risk after the government reported  South Korea ’s industrial output increased 13.7 percent in
January from a year earlier, the fastest pace since August.
Foreign investors turned net buyers of Korean shares for the
first time in seven days, spurred by gains in U.S. equities and
a Federal Reserve report that said the world’s largest economy
“continued to expand at a modest to moderate pace” this year.  “The positive economic data is boosting sentiment, though
we need to see the sustainability of such an expansion,” said
Kim Young Joon, head of equities at NH-CA Asset Management Co.
in  Seoul , which manages the equivalent of $8.9 billion in assets.
“The market performed really badly last month and a rebound at
this point seems quite natural as well.”  The Kospi fell 6.3 percent in February, the biggest monthly
decline in two years, on speculation accelerating inflation will
boost borrowing costs and turmoil in the Middle East will hurt
companies with sales in the region. The gauge’s companies are
valued at an average 10 times this year’s profit, the lowest in  Asia  after  Pakistan ’s index.  Economic Indicators  January’s 13.7 percent increase in industrial output was
more than the median 12.4 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. A leading index of economic indicators,
which forecasts business activity, rose 3 percent in January
from a year earlier, compared with a revised 2.8 percent gain in
December, today’s report showed.  Shares of Doosan Infracore Co., South Korea’s largest
construction-equipment maker, jumped 6.3 percent, while  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) , the nation’s largest automaker, added 2.8 percent.  Hanwha Chemical Corp. surged 8.1 percent, the most since
Oct. 22, after Shinhan Investment Corp. said the company’s
operating profit may rise 25 percent this year.  Foreign investors bought almost 166 billion won ($148
million) more South Korean equities than they sold so far today,
ending six days of net selling, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won weakened 0.7 percent last month as overseas
fund managers sold $3.1 billion net worth of equities.  “The very strong data out of Korea is clearly helping the
won,” said  Thomas Harr , Singapore-based head of Asian foreign-
exchange strategy at Standard Chartered Plc. “U.S. stocks were
also higher yesterday and most emerging market-stocks are up.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.2 percent yesterday
after a report from ADP Employer Services showed U.S. companies
added more workers in February than forecast. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index climbed 0.9 percent today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Lui in  Singapore  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 