-- 
South Africa's Pork Price May Drop 15% on Export Ban Due to Foot-and-Mouth

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-03-03T13:36:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/south-africa-s-pork-price-may-drop-15-on-export-ban-due-to-foot-and-mouth.html
Pork prices in  South Africa  may
slump 15 percent after the country banned exports of the meat
and live animals due to a foot-and-mouth disease outbreak, the
nation’s biggest producers association said.  Pork producers may struggle to cope with the price cuts,
Jacobus Hoffman, general manager of  Premier Pork Producers ,
which represents 60 percent of South Africa’s pig breeders, said
in a March 1 interview from  Pretoria . Pork producers in the
country plan a marketing campaign to increase local consumption,
he said.  The Pretoria-based  Department of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries  announced on Feb. 28 that it has halted exports of
cattle, sheep and other cloven-hoofed animals and their products
for at least three months after about 300 animals tested
positive for the virus in the south eastern KwaZulu-Natal
province. Wool producers have already canceled an auction on
concern they won’t be able to export their produce.  There are about 4,000 commercial pig farmers in South
Africa, employing 10,000 people, according to the department.  “This is a big worry for us,” Hennie Cronje, the Chairman
of the Western Cape Pork Producers’ Association, said in an
interview from  Cape Town  yesterday.  South Africa imports more pork than it exports. On average
about 189 million kilograms of pork are produced a year worth
1.28 billion rand ($187 million) while 208 million kilograms are
consumed, according to the department.  Lowest Consumption  While only 3 percent of local production is exported the
additional meat will drive down prices as local producers
already compete with imports from Canada and  Germany , Hoffman
said.  About 1.5 million live pigs were exported in 2010 worth
42.5 million rand, Adrian Lackay, the spokesperson for the  South
African Revenue Service  said in an e-mail.    South Africans  are expected to consume 3.6 kilograms of
pork each this year, the lowest of more than 20 countries
surveyed by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . In  Hong Kong ,
per capita consumption is expected to be 70.3 kilograms, the
most of any country surveyed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in Cape Town at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  