-- 
Afridi Helps Pakistan Avoid Upset to Canada, Top Cricket World Cup Group

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-04T01:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/south-africa-beats-netherlands-by-231-runs-at-cricket-world-cup-in-india.html
  Shahid Afridi  took five wickets to
help Pakistan avoid an upset loss to  Canada  and move top of its
group at the Cricket  World Cup . South Africa routed the
Netherlands by 231 runs.  Afridi claimed 5-23 to end Canada’s run chase and lift his
team to a 46-run win in Colombo yesterday. Pakistan was bowled
out for 184 in 43 overs before hitting back with the ball to
dismiss the Canadians for 138 in 42.5 overs.  “It’s a very good wake-up call for us for the next game,”
Afridi said at the post-match presentation ceremony. “We are
not going to repeat this batting performance again.”  Pakistan’s third straight victory took the 1992 champion
atop Group A with the maximum six points from three games. The
top four from two groups of seven teams advance to the
quarterfinals of the 14-nation event.  Afridi’s haul gave him a tournament-leading 14 wickets and
helped Pakistan avert defeat one day after  England ’s shock
three-wicket loss to Ireland. Canada and Ireland rarely play
against the sport’s elite Test-playing teams.  Umar Akmal top scored for Pakistan with 48 runs and Misbah-
ul-Haq made 37. The Canadians reached 104-3 with 99 balls of
their allotted 50 overs still remaining before losing their last
seven wickets for 34 runs.  “Fighting is one thing but getting across that line is
obviously taking it to another level,” said Canada captain
Ashish Bagai. “We had a chance to show everybody what we’ve put
in over the last few years but we fell short.”  Twin Centurions  Hashim Amla and AB de Villiers struck centuries to lead
South Africa’s rout of the Netherlands in Group B.  Opener Amla hit 113 off 130 balls and de Villiers got 134
from 98 balls as  South Africa  totaled 351-5 in Mohali,  India .
Spinner Imran Tahir then took 3-19 as the Netherlands crumbled
to 120 all out in its reply.  South Africa, which beat the West Indies by seven wickets
in its opener, moves atop the group with four points from two
games. The Netherlands remains in last place following its third
straight loss.  In today’s matches,  New Zealand  and Zimbabwe play a Group A
game in Ahmedabad, India, while Bangladesh takes on Group B
rival West Indies in Dhaka.  The tournament, co-hosted by India,  Sri Lanka  and
Bangladesh, ends April 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  