-- 
Spanish Bond Demand Increases at Five-Year Sale as Borrowing Costs Decline

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-03-03T10:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/spain-bond-demand-rises-at-sale-of-five-year-debt-as-borrowing-costs-fall.html
  Spain  sold 3.8 billion euros ($5.3
billion) of Treasury bills at an auction today, just below a
maximum target, as demand increased.  The Treasury sold 2.65 billion euros of five-year bonds at
an average yield of 4.389 percent, compared with 4.542 percent
last time they were sold on Jan. 13. It also sold 1.15 billion
euros of bonds due in July 2014 at an average yield of 3.592
percent, the Bank of Spain in Madrid said. It aimed to sell a
maximum of 4 billion euros in total.  Demand for the five-year debt rose to 2.17 times the amount
sold from 2.1 times in January and demand for the shorter-dated
paper was 3.04 times.  Spain, fighting the third-largest  budget deficit  and the
highest  unemployment rate  in the euro region, plans to sell 192
billion euros of debt in gross terms this year and has its first
bond redemptions in April. The country is stepping up efforts to
distance itself from other so-called peripheral nations
including  Portugal , which  Standard & Poor’s  said this week may
need to seek European aid.  “The auction was pretty strong, and we saw decent bid-to-
covers,” said  Harvinder Sian , fixed-income strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in  London . “For the next couple of days
it’s more about the global risk environment and leading into the
EU discussions rather than anything else.”  Spanish Spread  The gap between Spanish and German borrowing costs narrowed
to 212 basis points today from 213 basis points yesterday. That
compares with a euro-era high of 298 basis points reached on
Nov. 30 and an average of 15 basis points in the euro’s first
decade. The spread between Spanish and Portuguese yields was 210
basis points.  European Union leaders have given themselves until a March
24-25 summit to craft what German Chancellor Angela Merkel has
called a “comprehensive” package to address the sovereign-debt
crisis. Merkel said yesterday the EU can’t commit to lower  interest rates  on bailout loans for victims of the debt crisis,
snubbing pleas from Greece and Ireland as they struggle with the
cost of aid.  Speaking at a joint press briefing in Berlin with
Portuguese Prime Minister Jose Socrates, Merkel said that
Ireland and Greece signed up to conditions when tapping aid, in
the Irish case about three months ago.  S&P left Portugal’s credit rating on creditwatch negative
on March 1, saying the nation “could find itself forced” to
seek external support. Axa Investment Managers said yesterday
the nation will accept a bailout “within the next few weeks,”
even as it is “reasonably confident Spain will be able to pull
through.” Spain’s lenders had $86 billion in foreign claims
relating to the neighboring country in September last year,
according to the Bank for International Settlements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 