-- 
Standard Bank Profit Falls 3% on Revenue Squeeze, Job Cuts, Beats Forecast

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-03-03T09:17:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/standard-bank-says-its-annual-headline-earnings-dropped-4-to-1-6-billion.html
  Standard Bank  Group Ltd., Africa’s
largest bank, said full-year profit fell 3 percent as revenue
slumped and it incurred costs from firing staff.  Net income dropped to 10.8 billion rand ($1.57 billion)
from 11.1 billion rand a year earlier, the Johannesburg-based
lender said in a statement today. Diluted earnings per share
fell 5 percent to 6.96 rand, beating the 6.94 rand median
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Some refinement and tightening of strategic focus is
required,” Standard Bank said in the statement. While the
lender will continue to build its franchise in Africa, the
“rapid pace of investment in those countries has not been
vindicated” by returns, it said.  Standard Bank, which is 20 percent owned by Industrial and
Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd., expanded into Africa, Brazil,
Russia and China before and during the global financial crisis.
The lender said on Oct. 29 that it planned to cut staff in
Johannesburg and  London  after costs and bad debts rose and
customers borrowed less.  “The ICBC deal is definitely taking a lot longer than
expected” to show returns, said Neville Chester, who helps
manage about $29 billion at Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. in
Cape Town.  Standard Bank said Africa remained at the core of its
business. Profit before one-time items from the region,
excluding  South Africa , fell 38 percent.  Standard Bank declined 0.4 percent to 98.80 rand as of
11:01 a.m. in Johannesburg trading. The stock has dropped 8.1
percent this year, making it the worst performer on the six-
member FTSE/JSE  Africa  Banks Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  