-- 
German Stocks Increase, Rebounding From Two-Day Loss; Lufthansa Advances

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-03-03T17:12:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/stocks-advance-rebounding-from-two-day-loss-lufthansa-rises-in-frankfurt.html
German stocks rose as a report
showed U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly decreased, bolstering
confidence that the economic recovery is intact.    Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline,
rose 2.8 percent as the price of oil retreated after reports
that Venezuela offered to mediate a resolution to the crisis in  Libya .  Allianz SE (ALV)  advanced as full-year profit at its German
unit climbed.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  fell 5.1 percent.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 0.6 percent to 7,225.96 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, ending a two-day drop. The
gauge has still declined 2.7 percent since peaking at a 2 1/2-
year high on Feb. 18 as opponents of Libya’s ruler Muammar Qaddafi took over large parts of the country, sending the price
of oil soaring. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  rose 0.6 percent today.  “Company earnings show the economic situation is still
good,” said  Robert Halver , head of research at Baader Bank AG
in Frankfurt. “Oil is dropping amid talks of a resolution plan
for Libya’s crisis. There is still a lot of liquidity in the
market. Those elements combined are sufficient to move the
market to the upside today.”  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt set the benchmark rate
at 1 percent for a 23rd month, as predicted by all 53 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank was the first of
the world’s five biggest central banks to announce a policy
decision since crude oil surged over $100 a barrel last week.  ECB Rates  Stocks trimmed some gains as ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , speaking at a press conference, said the central bank
may raise rates next month to fight accelerating inflation
pressures.  In the U.S., a report today showed initial jobless claims
unexpectedly declined last week to the lowest level since May
2008, pointing to a strengthening labor market. Separate data
showed the nation’s service industries expanded more than
forecast in February.  Lufthansa increased 2.8 percent to 14.80 euros, the first
advance in three days. Oil in  New York  fell for the first time
in three days after the  Arab League  said it’s holding
discussions with  Venezuela  about mediating the conflict in
Libya, Africa’s largest oil producer.  Allianz, Germany’s biggest insurer, gained 1.8 percent to
104.20 euros. Net income at Allianz Deutschland AG rose to 1.33
billion euros ($1.84 billion) from 1.01 billion euros a year
earlier, the Munich-based insurer said today.  Fraport Gains  Fraport AG advanced 2.9 percent to 51.99 euros as
Commerzbank AG upgraded the operator of Frankfurt airport to
“add” from “hold.”  Prosieben, Germany’s biggest private broadcaster, slid 5.1
percent to 22.55 euros. The company said fourth-quarter
recurring earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization climbed to 358.6 million euros, missing the 360.8
million-euro average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Analysts’ expectations for high single-digit growth would
be difficult,” Chief Executive Officer Thomas Ebeling said at a
press conference in Unterfoehring, Germany, today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  