-- 
U.K. Winter Power Rises to 16-Month High, Boosting Coal Profits

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-03T12:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/u-k-winter-power-rises-to-16-month-high-boosting-coal-profits.html
U.K. power for next winter rose for
a sixth day to its highest level in 16 months, boosting profits
at the nation’s coal-fed power stations.  Baseload power for delivery in the six months from October
climbed 20 pence, or 0.4 percent, to 55.20 pounds ($90) a
megawatt-hour as of 11:15 a.m. in London. Profits at U.K. coal
plants, taken from a clean-dark spread calculations, advanced 16
pence to 12.94 pounds a megawatt-hour.  Britain gets about 80 percent of its electricity from a
mixture of coal and natural-gas fueled power stations. Some
utilities can switch between the two, depending on fuel prices.
The country was getting a higher proportion of power from coal
plants than gas-fed stations as of 11 a.m., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.    Drax Group Plc (DRX) , owners of western  Europe ’s biggest power
station in Selby, Yorkshire, gained 2 percent this week to 401.5
pence. The power station can run around the clock or lower
output depending on profitability.  U.K. natural-gas prices have jumped in the last two weeks
as  Brent crude  gained amid unrest in the Middle East and North
Africa. Higher oil costs push up some mainland European gas
contracts and affect prices in the U.K. because of pipeline
connections to Europe.  Gas for winter gained 11 percent in the last two weeks and
traded as high as 66.7 pence a therm this morning, its highest
since June 2009. Brent for April rose as much as 55 cents to
$116.90 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Baseload power is delivered around the clock. Bloomberg
uses data compiled from brokers including ICAP Plc, GFI Group
Inc. and Spectron Group Ltd. Bloomberg clean dark calculations
are a measure of coal-fed power station profitability and
include the cost of carbon. They don’t include a cost for
transporting the coal to the power station.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  