-- 
U.K. Presses China to Enforce Patents Including Dyson's Fans

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-03T01:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/u-k-presses-china-to-enforce-patents-including-dyson-s-fans.html
John Alty, chief executive of the
U.K. Intellectual Property Office, said he pressed Chinese
officials to improve enforcement of patents, including those
held by Dyson Group Plc for bladeless fans.  Dyson has been fighting manufacturers in  China  that copy
its design for cooling fans that function without rotating
blades, Alty said in an interview yesterday, during his first
trip to China since assuming the post in February 2010. Alty
discussed the matter in meetings with China’s State Intellectual
Property Office, he said, without providing further details.  Baidu Inc. and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s Taobao, two of
China’s most popular websites, were named “notorious markets”
in a report this week by the U.S. Trade Representative for
sustaining piracy and counterfeiting by selling goods that
violate copyrights or patents. Research by the European Union
has led to similar conclusions about violations in China, Alty
said, adding China has done “a lot” to improve the situation.  “We do have companies who are doing business in China who
have problems,” Alty said. Dyson, based in Sheffield,  England ,
“certainly have been active in trying to prevent infringement
of their technology, and we’ve raised that. This is part of a
long campaign in these cases.”  Officials in the media department of China’s Intellectual
Property Office didn’t immediately return calls today.  China’s Campaign  Dyson’s Air Multiplier bladeless fans draw in air and
amplify it 15 to 18 times without the use of blades or a grille,
according to the company’s  website . The design makes the fans
safe and easier to clean than conventional cooling fans,
according to the company.  Alty’s agency is responsible for granting intellectual
property rights in the U.K. including patents, trademarks and
copyrights. The three-day visit to China is the last stop on an
Asian trip that also included Japan and  South Korea , he said.  China has carried out a campaign to enforce intellectual
property rights in the past six months and “a lot has been
done,” Alty said. The central government aims to make sure all
state software is legitimate and not pirated copies by the end
of May, he said. Most of the central government has completed
this process, which is continuing on regional and municipal
levels, he said.  “The business community in the U.K. is aware of this
campaign and supportive of it and want to see it produce good
results,” Alty said. “China is obviously important. The way
they operate is important globally.”  The U.K. will continue to use every opportunity to
encourage China to take further action, he said.  “There is certainly a seriousness of intent from what I’ve
seen, but it’s a complicated picture,” Alty said. “This is not
going to be solved overnight.”  --Edmond Lococo. Editors: Terje Langeland, Chua Kong Ho  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  