-- 
U.S. Services Expand, Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Fall

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-03T21:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/u-s-service-industries-expand-as-initial-jobless-claims-unexpectedly-drop.html
  Service industries  expanded in
February at the fastest pace since 2005 and fewer Americans
unexpectedly filed claims for jobless benefits, adding to
evidence the U.S. recovery is gaining strength.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses increased to 59.7 last month from 59.4
in January. A reading above 50 signals growth. The number of
initial applications for  unemployment insurance  payments fell by
20,000 to 368,000 last week, the lowest since May 2008 and fewer
than the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey,
figures from the Labor Department showed.  Stocks rose as the figures supported the  Federal Reserve ’s
assessment that the labor market is on the mend following the
loss of 8.75 million positions during the recession. Brighter
prospects about personal finances are bolstering  consumer
confidence , another report showed, increasing the odds that
Americans will keep spending at stores like J.C. Penney Co. and
Macy’s Inc.  “You’re getting a picture of an economy that is quite
strong already and perhaps gathering momentum,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Sentiment has been picking up over the last two
or three months and that stands to reason -- the stock market
has done better, the economy has certainly done better, and,
most importantly, the labor market is improving.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.7 percent to
1,330.97 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York  for its biggest gain in
three months. The index is up 21 percent in the past six months.  Consumer Comfort  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC News
U.S. Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 39.3 in the period
to Feb. 27, little changed from the minus 39.2 reading the prior
week that was the highest in almost three years.  The comfort index of personal finances rose to 2.4 last
week, the highest since May 2009, from minus 2.3. Fifty-one
percent of those polled held positive views on their financial
situation, up from 49 percent the previous week and the first
time since January 2010 that the reading topped 50 percent.  J.C. Penney, Macy’s and  Ross Stores Inc. (ROST)  were among
retailers today reporting February same-store sales that topped
analysts’ estimates. Purchases at stores open at least a year
climbed 6.4 percent at J.C. Penney, 5.8 percent at Macy’s and 3
percent at Ross, company data showed.  “We are encouraged by our solid start to the year,”
Michael Balmuth, chief executive officer of Pleasanton,
California-based discounter Ross Stores, said in a statement.
Even so, “the much more important March/April holiday selling
period is still ahead.”  Tax Cuts  Americans have more money to spend following President  Barack Obama ’s agreement with Congress in December to extend
Bush-era tax cuts. A Commerce Department report this week showed
incomes climbed 1 percent in January, the most since May 2009,
after the president’s compromise reduced the social security
payroll tax by 2 percentage points this year.  A Labor Department report tomorrow may show that payrolls
rose by almost 200,000 workers in February, the biggest advance
since May, after a 36,000 gain the previous month, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We do see some grounds for optimism about the job market
over the next few quarters, including notable declines in the  unemployment rate  in December and January, a drop in new claims
for unemployment insurance, and an improvement in firms’ hiring
plans,” Bernanke told Congress this week.  Bernanke’s Views  So far, the labor market “has improved only slowly” and
it may take “several years” for the unemployment rate to reach
a “more normal level, Bernanke said.  Initial jobless claims have declined in four of the last
five weeks. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected an
increase in claims last week to 395,000. Projections in the
survey ranged from 375,000 to 405,000.  “Labor market conditions continued to strengthen
modestly” early this year, the Fed said yesterday in its Beige
Book report, an anecdotal account of the economy released two
weeks before meetings of the  Federal Open Market Committee . Its
last survey, released Jan. 12, said the job market was “firming
somewhat.”  At the same time, rising food and fuel costs may strain
household budgets. The cost of gasoline advanced 8.8 percent
last month, with regular fuel averaging $3.17 a gallon in
February, according to AAA, the nation’s largest motorist
organization. It reached $3.43 a gallon on March 2, the highest
price since October 2008.  Services Gauge  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s services survey covers
industries that range from utilities and retailing to health
care, finance and transportation.  The services index averaged 56.1 in the five years to
December 2007, when the last recession began. It’s averaged 52.1
since the current recovery started in June 2009 through
December. The employment gauge increased to 55.6, the highest
since April 2006, from 54.5 a month earlier.  Today’s report on services follows the group’s March 1
figures that showed manufacturing grew in February at the
fastest pace since May 2004 as orders, exports and employment
climbed.  Another report from the Labor Department today showed
worker productivity increased in the fourth quarter at a faster
pace as companies sought to pare costs to preserve profits.  The measure of employee output per hour rose at an
unrevised 2.6 percent annual rate after a third-quarter gain of
2.3 percent. Labor expenses fell for a second straight year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  