-- 
U.S. Comfort Index Held Near Three-Year High on Income Optimism

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-03T15:39:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/u-s-comfort-index-held-near-three-year-high-on-income-optimism.html

Press Release  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index Was Minus 39.3 in the
Period to February 27  NEW YORK -- U.S. consumer confidence last week held close to the
highest level in almost three years as more Americans said their
finances were in good shape.  The  Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index , formerly the ABC News U.S.
Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 39.3 in the period to
Feb. 27, compared with minus 39.2 the prior week, a report today
showed. Respondents’ view of their financial situation climbed
to an almost two-year high.  A two-percentage-point cut in payroll taxes this year, part of
the compromise reached by President  Barack Obama  and
Congressional Republicans, is trickling into consumers’ bank
accounts. The extra cash and an improving job market are helping
cushion the pinch from the biggest one-week jump in gasoline
prices since the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005.  “Many people are just starting to notice the increase in their
paychecks due to the  tax cut ,” said Joseph Brusuelas, a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “It’s coming at the right
time.” Nonetheless, he said, confidence will be tested in coming
weeks should fuel costs climb further.  Stocks rose as an unexpected drop in jobless claims bolstered
confidence the labor market is improving. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index gained 1.1 percent to 1,323.17 at 9:35 a.m. in  New
York .  Treasury securities  dropped, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-Year Treasury note up to 3.52 percent from 3.47
percent late yesterday.  Payrolls rose by 195,000 workers in February, the biggest
advance since May, after a 36,000 gain the previous month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed before a
Labor Department report tomorrow. The acceleration in hiring
reflects a pickup in growth and a rebound from the weather-
depressed January level, economists said.  The comfort reading for week ended Feb. 20 was the highest since
April 2008.  The comfort index of personal finances rose to 2.4 last week,
the highest since May 2009, from minus 2.3. Fifty-one percent of
those polled held positive views on their financial situation,
up from 49 percent the previous week and the first time since
January 2010 that the reading topped 50 percent.  A gauge of Americans’ views of the economy fell to minus 70.6
last week from minus 69.4. The share of households with a
positive view of the economy held at 15 percent for a second
week, matching the highest since September 2008.  An index of the buying climate fell to minus 50.9 from minus
47.1. Those people saying it was a good time to buy needed items
dropped to 25 percent from 27 percent the previous week.  J.C. Penney Co., Kohl’s Corp. and Ross Stores Inc. were among
retailers today reporting February same-store sales that topped
analysts’ estimates. Purchases at stores open at least a year
climbed 6.4 percent at J.C. Penney, 5 percent at Kohl’s and 3
percent at Ross, company data showed.  “We are encouraged by our solid start to the year,” Michael
Balmuth, chief executive officer of Pleasanton, California-based
discounter Ross Stores, said in a statement. Even so, “the much
more important March/April holiday selling period is still
ahead.”  The average price of regular gasoline at the pump jumped 20
cents to $3.37 a gallon in the week ended Feb. 27, according to
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization. It was the
biggest increase since the period ended Sept. 5, 2005, after
Katrina slammed into  New Orleans .  “The key question is what lies ahead for prices at the pump,”
Gary Langer, president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New
York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a
statement. “A long run-up will do far more damage than a short
spurt.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  echoed that view in
testimony before Congress this week.  “Sustained rises in the prices of oil or other commodities would
represent a threat both to economic growth and to overall  price
stability , particularly if they were to cause inflation
expectations to become less well anchored,” Bernanke told
legislators in his semiannual comments on monetary policy.  Gasoline prices and the comfort index have shown a strong
inverse correlation since 2004, according to calculations by
Bloomberg’s Brusuelas. Additionally, changes in the four-week
average of claims for jobless benefits have been in sync with
the comfort gauge about 72 percent of the time.  Another report today showed claims unexpectedly declined last
week to the lowest level since May 2008. Applications decreased
by 20,000 to 368,000 in the week ended Feb. 26, according to the
Labor Department. Economists forecast claims would climb to
395,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Renters, who have less at stake as home prices fall, were among
the categories in the comfort survey that showed the most
improvement last week, according to today’s report. Their
outlook gauge rose to minus 40.7 last week, the highest since
March 2008.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses to
telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over.  Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their views on the
economy, personal finances and buying climate; the percentage of
negative responses is subtracted from the share of positive
views and divided by three.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  The responses are broken down by participants’ sex, age, income
level, race, region of residence, political affiliation, marital
and employment status.  Readings of minus 40 for the index, which is based on a four-
week average, have historically been the threshold indicating
Americans think a recovery from recession has begun, said
Langer.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science Research
Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  Contact:  Meghan Womack, +1 212-617-8514,  mwomack4@bloomberg.net 
