-- 
U.S. Judge in Florida Puts on Hold Order Overturning Obama Health Care Law

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-03T21:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/u-s-judge-in-florida-stays-decision-to-invalidate-obama-health-care-law.html
A U.S. judge put on hold his Jan. 31
decision throwing out President  Barack Obama ’s health care
legislation, conditioning his freeze on the government seeking
an expedited appeal of his ruling within seven days.  U.S. District Judge C. Roger Vinson in Pensacola, Florida,
issued the 20-page order today. The U.S. asked the judge to
clarify his initial opinion in the 26-state lawsuit after
officials from some of those states disagreed on whether it
meant they could -- or must -- stop implementing the law.  “The sooner this issue is finally decided by the  Supreme
Court , the better off the entire nation will be,” Vinson said.
“And yet, it has been more than one month from the entry of my
order and judgment and still the defendants have not filed their
notice of appeal.”  Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
into law on March 23. The legislation was intended to create
almost universal health care coverage in part by requiring
people to buy coverage starting in 2014 or face a tax penalty.    Bill McCollum , then Florida’s attorney general, and  Virginia  Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli filed separate
suits challenging the law on the same day Obama signed it.  Judge’s Conditions  Vinson conditioned his order today upon the U.S. filing an
appeal within seven days in either a federal appeals court or
the U.S. Supreme Court and requesting an expedited review of the
case.    Tracy Schmaler , a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
said in an e-mailed statement that the government will seek
expedited review by the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta.  “We strongly disagree with the district court’s underlying
ruling in this case and continue to believe -- as three federal
courts have found -- that this law is constitutional,” she
said.  In the  Florida  case, Vinson found that by forcing people to
obtain health insurance Congress had exceeded its powers under
the U.S. Constitution to regulate interstate commerce.  “Because that ‘essential’ provision was unseverable from
the rest of the act, the entire legislation was void,” the
judge said today, adding he believed his ruling would enjoin
implementation of the legislation in the 26 plaintiff states.  ‘Ignore the Ruling’  “To the extent that the defendants were unable (or
believed that they were unable) to comply, it was expected that
they would immediately seek a stay of the ruling,” Vinson said.
“It was not expected that they would effectively ignore the
order.”  Vinson he would address the issue of a stay now rather than
wait for the U.S. to ask for one pending appeal because time is
of the essence.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Richmond, Virginia, will hear
argument in May on two earlier rulings addressing the
constitutionality of the health care law.  In Cuccinelli’s case, U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson in
Richmond on Dec. 13 also ruled that the mandatory insurance
provision was unconstitutional. He declined to invalidate the
remainder of the legislation.  In November, U.S. District Judge Norman Moon in Lynchburg,
Virginia, upheld the law, rejecting a challenge by the
evangelical Liberty University in Lynchburg.  Vinson was nominated to the federal bench by U.S. President  Ronald Reagan , a Republican. Hudson, too, was selected by a
Republican, President  George W. Bush .  Moon and two other U.S. judges, each picked by Democratic
President Bill Clinton, have said the health reform bill is
lawful.  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida   Pensacola ).  -- With assistance from Tom Schoenberg in  Washington . Editors:
Michael Hytha, Fred Strasser  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  