-- 
U.S. Productivity Rises 2.6% in Fourth Quarter, Costs Fall

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-03T13:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/u-s-productivity-rises-2-6-in-fourth-quarter-costs-fall-1-.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
increased in the fourth quarter at a faster pace as companies
sought to pare costs to preserve profits.  The measure of employee output per hour rose at an
unrevised 2.6 percent annual rate after a third-quarter gain of
2.3 percent, figures from the Labor Department showed today in
Washington. Labor expenses fell for a second straight year.  Increased demand may prompt companies such as  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
to ramp up hiring as they bump up against efficiency limits with
their current  labor force . Declines in labor expenses help keep
inflation contained amid rising commodity prices, giving the
Federal Reserve scope to complete its unconventional easing
program through June.  ``Businesses have consistently surprised on the upside by
squeezing out productivity gains,''  Sal Guatieri , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said before the
report. ``We're hoping some of the pickup in demand will
translate into stronger job growth, perhaps at the cost of
slippage in productivity.''  Estimates of the 60 economists surveyed for revised
productivity figures ranged from increases of 1.8 percent to 2.8
percent.  Another Labor Department report today showed the number of
Americans filing first-time claims for  unemployment insurance 
unexpectedly declined last week to the lowest level since 2008.
Applications for jobless benefits decreased by 20,000 to 368,000
in the week ended Feb. 26.  Futures on the Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 1.1 percent
to 1,320.00 at 8:35 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note, which moves inversely to price, rose to 3.53
percent from 3.47 percent late yesterday.  Labor Costs Drop  Labor costs, adjusted for efficiency gains, fell at an
unrevised 0.6 percent pace following a 0.1 percent gain in the
prior quarter, the Labor Department's productivity report
showed. Labor expenses were projected to drop 0.5 percent,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  For all of 2010, productivity climbed 3.9 percent, the most
since 2002. Labor costs fell 1.5 percent after a 1.6 percent
decrease in 2009. It was the first back-to-back drop since 1962-
63, the Labor Department said.  Among manufacturers, productivity rose at a 5.9 percent
annual pace in the fourth quarter, compared with a 5.8 percent
initially reported and following a 1.3 percent in the previous
three months.  The Labor Department may report tomorrow that the U.S.
added 190,000 jobs in February, according to economists'
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate probably rose
to 9.1 percent from 9 percent in January.  Faster Job Growth  The pace of job growth will have to pick up further to
reduce the  unemployment rate . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
last month projected the jobless rate will average 9.1 percent
this year, compared with 9.6 percent in 2010 and 9.3 percent in
2009.  The economy strengthened at the end of 2010 as  consumer
spending  climbed by the most in four years. Revised Commerce
Department figures last week showed growth in the fourth quarter
at a 2.8 percent annual rate.  Intel is among companies planning to increase payrolls this
year. The world's largest chipmaker, announced plans to build a
$5 billion plant in  Arizona  and hire 4,000 employees in the U.S.
this year. Intel is stepping up production to satisfy renewed
demand for chips following the recession.  The workers will focus on product development, research and
design, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said during a Feb.
18 visit by U.S. President  Barack Obama  to an Intel plant near  Portland ,  Oregon . The new factory, which will produce
microprocessors, will be built at an existing company site in
Chandler, Arizona.    Raw Materials   Productivity gains are also helping companies absorb higher
commodities costs. Whirlpool Corp. last month reported fourth-
quarter earnings that fell short of forecasts because of higher
materials prices. The Benton Harbor, Michigan-based company said
its profit was $2.11 a share during the period, less than the
$2.30 a share analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had projected.  ``For 2011, we expect positive but uneven demand levels
around the world,'' Jeff Fettig, chief executive officer of
Whirlpool, said in a Feb. 2 statement. ``Raw material inflation
is driving costs higher.''  Fettig said that Whirlpool will mitigate the increased
costs with productivity gains and higher prices of its own.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  