-- 
TUI Sells Hapag-Lloyd Stake to Albert Ballin, Approves IPO

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-03-03T16:11:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/tui-sells-hapag-lloyd-stake-to-albert-ballin-approves-ipo.html
  TUI AG (TUI1) , the German tour operator
that owns almost half of Hapag-Lloyd, sold part of its stake to
the container line’s other shareholder and said it may sell more
through an initial public offering.  TUI, which owns 49.8 percent of Hapag-Lloyd, will sell an
11.33 percent stake to Albert Ballin GmbH for 315 million euros
($439 million), the Hanover, Germany-based company said in a
statement today. The price may increase by as much as 35 million
euros if an IPO takes place, providing “certain conditions are
met,” according to the statement.  TUI’s supervisory board authorized the executive board to
sell more of Hapag-Lloyd through an IPO, the statement said,
without providing further details. An IPO of the container line
is scheduled to happen by April 15 and will raise 1 billion
euros to 1.5 billion euros, according to two people familiar
with the matter. That may give a valuation of 2.8 billion euros
to 3.5 billion euros, depending on demand, the people said.  The stake sale “is good news, as it values TUI’s Hapag-
Lloyd stake at almost 1.8 billion euros,” or about 2 billion
euros including the potential premium from an IPO, said Stefan Kick, an analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie. who has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock. That value is “much more than was
expected by most people.”  Hapag-Lloyd returned to profit last year as a rebound in
global trade enabled it to raise container-carrying rates. The
shipping line has returned to a “position of strength,”
Chairman Michael Behrendt said in December.  An IPO would also be subject to the approval of Albert
Ballin shareholders. Albert Ballin, a Hamburg-based investment
group that includes German billionaire Klaus Michael Kuehne,
M.M. Warburg & Co., HSH Nordbank AG and Hamburg’s state
government, bought a majority stake in Hapag-Lloyd in 2009. TUI,
which controls U.K. tour operator  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) , has said it
wants to invest proceeds from the IPO into its tourism business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Hamburg at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 