-- 
Tunisia’s Mebazaa Calls for Election of Council to Write New Constitution

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-03T21:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/tunisia-s-mebazaa-calls-for-election-of-council-to-write-new-constitution.html
Tunisia’s interim president, Fouad Mebazaa, called for election of a council that he said will
write a new constitution for the North African country, which
set off a wave of anti-government uprisings in the Middle East.  Mebazaa, in a televised speech, said the election for the
National Council will take place on July 24. The current
constitution is “distorted” and doesn’t serve the country,
where a popular revolt forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
from power on Jan. 14.  “We announce the beginning of a new era based on the
people exercising their full power in the framework of a new
political system that is irreversibly and completely cut off”
from Ben Ali’s regime, he said.  Protesters have kept up pressure since the fall of Ben Ali,
demanding a timetable for constitutional reform and elections,
as well as a government free of former regime members. Violence
on Feb. 26 led to the deaths of at least three people in the
capital, Tunis.  All Cabinet members who served under Ben Ali have quit
their posts, including Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi, who
created an interim administration on Jan. 18. Mebazaa named
former Foreign Minister Beji Caid Essebsi as the new premier on
Feb. 27.  The Tunisian protests touched off anti-government
demonstrations in  Egypt ,  Libya , Yemen, Bahrain, Oman, Jordan,
Algeria, Morocco,  Iran  and  Iraq . In addition to the toppling of
Tunisia’s leader, the popular uprisings led to the ouster of
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. In Libya, leader Muammar Qaddafi’s forces have struggled to break out of his Tripoli base
and regain rebel-held parts of the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 