-- 
Hunt Is Accused by Labour Opposition of `Shabby Deal' Over BSkyB Takeover

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-03-03T17:46:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/hunt-is-accused-by-labour-opposition-of-shabby-deal-over-bskyb-takeover.html
U.K. opposition Labour Party
lawmakers accused Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  of “a shabby
deal” for giving preliminary approval for the takeover by
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  of British Sky Broadcasting Plc.  Hunt said today he sought and acted on independent advice
in taking his decision to allow News Corp. to buy the 61 percent
of Britain’s biggest pay TV company it doesn’t own. He denied
that approval had been given in return for support by News Corp.
newspapers for Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party 
in last year’s general election.  “This is a new low in British politics, where the
Conservative Party was supported by Rupert Murdoch before the
election and then they delivered this after the election,”
Labour lawmaker John McDonnell told the House of Commons in  London . “Nobody believes the undertakings that have been given
by Murdoch will be adhered to in the long term.”  Hunt approved the takeover after News Corp. offered to
spin off Sky News, BSkyB’s 24-hour news channel, to address
media concentration concerns. News Corp., which owns four of the
largest newspapers in the U.K. including the Times and Sun,
would hold 39.1 percent of Sky and be barred from raising its
stake without government approval for 10 years. Hunt’s decision
averts a long, antitrust review of the takeover plans.  Chris Bryant, a Labour lawmaker who is suing London’s
Metropolitan Police over its investigation of phone hacking by
Murdoch’s News of the World newspaper, said Hunt told him a year
ago that he had “made his mind up” about the deal.  Correspondence Published  Hunt, who pointed out that News Corp. newspapers supported
Labour in elections in 1997, 2001 and 2005, said he had
published all documents and correspondence relating to the deal
to demonstrate the impartiality of the process and to fend off
any legal challenge.  Labour’s culture spokesman, Ivan Lewis, said the government
had been “contemptuous of its responsibility to be impartial”
and reminded lawmakers that Cameron had dinner with BSkyB
Chairman  James Murdoch ,  Rupert Murdoch ’s son, in December, while
the government was going through the decision-making process.  “The prime minister has had no role in that process and
was not aware of the culture secretary’s decision before it was
made and announced,” Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  