-- 
Turkish Inflation Slowed to Four-Decade Low Last Month, Matching Forecasts

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 
2011-03-03T09:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/turkish-inflation-rate-declines-to-four-decade-low-of-4-2-in-february.html
  Turkey ’s inflation rate fell to the
lowest in four decades in February, a decline the central bank
says will be reversed as surging global oil prices feed into the
economy in the months ahead.  Inflation slowed to 4.2 percent from January’s 4.9 percent,
the State Statistics Institute in Ankara said today in a
statement on its website. That matched the median estimate of
4.2 percent in a Bloomberg survey of five economists. In the
month, prices rose 0.7 percent. The rate was the lowest since
July 1970.  Central bank Governor Durmus Yilmaz unexpectedly cut the
benchmark interest rate in December and January. He said Feb. 25
that he expects inflation to begin accelerating starting in
March. Rising global oil and commodity prices will push prices
higher and the bank’s forecast of year-end inflation of 5.9
percent is likely to be increased in April, he said.  “Inflation is not going to stay this low for very long;
even the central bank says it’s temporary,” Aysegul Aykol Kocabas, an economist at Tekstil Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said
before the rate was announced. “Inflation was always a worry
and petrol prices have only added to that.”  The lira was 0.2 percent stronger after the figures were
announced, trading at 1.6160 per dollar in Istanbul at 10:06
a.m. Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds were 3 basis points
lower at 8.88 percent.    Oil Prices   The prospect of civil war in  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-biggest
oil producer, has pushed crude oil prices to a 2 1/2-year high.
The Turkish bank’s forecasts are based on oil at $95 a barrel.  Brent crude  for April settlement is trading at about $113.  Transport costs rose 1.8 percent in February from the month
before, the statistics institute said. Food prices gained 2.5
percent and clothing fell 5.2 percent.  The government raised taxes at the start of 2010, leading
to an increase in retail prices. The comparison with that period
helped contribute to the slowdown in annual inflation.  Core inflation, which excluded energy and grocery prices,
accelerated to 3.8 percent from 3.2 percent a month earlier,
below the bank’s medium-term goal of 5 percent. The bank had
predicted a “limited” increase in  core inflation  at the start
of this year.  ‘Level of Hawkishness’  The central bank will likely attribute the increases to
“exogenous factors such as food and oil and reiterate that
there is not much the policy can do to avoid these,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for the Middle East, Turkey and North
Africa at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in an e-mail. The
bank’s next policy statement may “raise the level of
hawkishness a notch higher to give the perception that they are
not going to be falling behind the curve.”  The central bank cut the benchmark one-week repo lending
rate by half a percentage point in December and a quarter of a
percentage point in January, to a record low of 6.25 percent, in
an effort to weaken the lira and support exports. It says higher  reserve requirements  for banks will start to reduce  consumer
lending  in the coming weeks.  The central bank next meets to decide interest rates on
March 23.  The cost of goods leaving Turkish factories and mines rose
10.9 percent in the 12 months through February, compared with
10.8 percent the month before, the statistics agency said.
Producer prices gained 1.7 percent in the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 