-- 
Turkish Lawyer Group Slams ‘Illegal’ Raids Targeting Writers

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-03-03T13:14:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/turkish-lawyer-group-slams-illegal-raids-targeting-writers.html
Turkish prosecutors are ordering
illegal raids on writers’ homes and offices as part of an
expanding investigation into alleged coup plots against Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , a top lawyer said.  “The search orders are illegal,” said Metin Feyzioglu,
head of the Ankara bar association, at a press conference in 
the Turkish capital today. “These searches are carving out a
unique place in Turkish history.”  Prosecutors have been improperly ordering searches based on
abstract claims of membership in a group rather than on concrete
evidence of criminal activity, which is required to justify
them, Feyzioglu said.  Police raided and  searched  addresses connected to at least
eight journalists and writers early today, including author
Yalcin Kucuk and Oda TV general coordinator Dogan Yurdakul, both
of whom were taken away and detained, according to CNN-Turk
television.  Other journalists whose houses were raided and searched
included Sait Cakir, Ahmet Sik, Mumtaz Idil, Nedim Sener and
Iklim Bayraktar,  Haberturk  newspaper reported.  Sener wrote a book critical of the investigation into the
murder of Hrant Dink, chief editor of an Armenian newspaper in
Istanbul. Sik has said he is working on a book investigating
connections between the police force and the Fethullah Gulen
Islamist movement.  The searches are part of a broadening investigation into
the so-called Ergenekon conspiracy against Erdogan’s government.
About 10 percent of Turkey’s generals and admirals have been
charged with being part of the plot to overthrow Erdogan’s
government for allegedly undermining Turkey’s secular order,
according to Vatan newspaper.  ‘Judicial Decision’  The raids were ordered by prosecutor Zekeriya Oz, who is in
charge of the Ergenekon case, the state-run Anatolia news
agency reported. Interior Minister Besir Atalay said the
detentions of the journalists were ordered by independent courts
as part of their investigation.  “This is a judicial decision,” Atalay told reporters in
Ankara. “The court requests these actions from the police. In
these situations the police carry out a legal function.”  Feyzioglu called on prosecutors to stop the raids.  “Enough already,” he said. “Give us some sign that
there’s rule of law and democracy here.”  He also urged citizens to speak out. “Don’t say, ‘This
isn’t my problem.’ When it is your problem, who’s going to stand
up? What’s happening here is lawlessness.”    Turkey  is ranked 138th out of 178 countries in the
Reporters Without Borders press freedom index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at  bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  