-- 
Voters Like Obama More Than His Policies, According to Quinnipiac Poll

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-03-03T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/voters-like-obama-more-than-his-policies-according-to-quinnipiac-poll.html
Three out of four voters like
President  Barack Obama  even as many disapprove of his policies,
including his handling of the  budget deficit  and the economy,
according to a  Quinnipiac University poll .  Voters’ attitude toward Obama’s overall job performance is
evenly split, with 46 percent approving and the same number
disapproving. His approval rating in a January Quinnipiac survey
was 48 percent.  “This combination of personal appeal and skepticism about
his policies explains why his overall approval numbers seem to
be stuck in the middle,” said  Peter Brown , assistant director
of the Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute. “The question over the next two years will be
whether personality or policies will prevail.”  Voters are about evenly split on whether the president
deserves a second term, with 45 percent saying he does abbd 47
percent saying he doesn’t.  The poll found voters split at 45 percent on whether they
trust Obama or congressional Republicans to handle the economy.
The U.S. unemployment rate was 9 percent in January.  Almost six in 10 voters disapprove of the way Obama is
handling the deficit, and 51 percent say he will cut spending
too little while 44 percent say he will raise taxes too much.
By comparison, 32 percent say Republicans in Congress will cut
spending too much and 33 percent say the party’s lawmakers will
raise taxes too much.  Congress is debating a plan by  House Republicans  to cut $61
billion in funding for the 2011 fiscal year, which ends Sept.
30. Democrats say the reduction is too large and will hurt the
economic recovery and middle-class Americans.  Planned Parenthood  The Republican budget plan would ban government funding for
Planned Parenthood and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.  In the Quinnipiac poll, voters oppose cuts to public radio,
49 percent to 40 percent, and oppose ending funds to Planned
Parenthood, 53 percent to 43 percent.  Nine of 10 voters say middle-class Americans will have to
make sacrifices to bring down the deficit. Still, seven out of
10 voters are against making cuts in the growth of Social
Security and Medicare to reduce the deficit, which is projected
to reach $1.6 trillion this year.  By a margin of two to one, voters say raising income taxes
on those earning more than $250,000 a year should be part of any
budget agreement. Taxing the higher earners is favored by
Democrats and Obama and opposed by Republicans.  The telephone poll, conducted Feb. 21-28, surveyed 1,887
registered voters nationwide. It has a margin of error of plus
or minus 2.3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Catherine Dodge  in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 