-- 
Warner Chilcott Said to Seek $3.25 Billion of Loans to Cut Cost

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-03-03T14:54:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/warner-chilcott-said-to-seek-3-25-billion-of-loans-to-cut-cost.html
  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX) , the Irish maker
of birth-control pills, is seeking $3.25 billion of loans to
refinance existing bank debt and cut borrowing costs, according
to a person briefed on the transaction.  The company plans to raise a $750 million term loan A and a
$250 million revolving  credit line , both due in five years, as
well as a $2.25 billion term loan B maturing in seven years,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private.  Warner Chilcott said yesterday it’s in discussions with
lenders to extend maturities, reduce interest rates and “modify
certain provisions” of its credit agreement. Emily Hill, a
spokeswoman for the company, didn’t immediately return a
telephone message left at her office seeking comment.  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group
AG, Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG are arranging the loans and will
host a lender call today at 11 a.m. in New York, the person
said. Investors will have until March 9 to submit commitments.  The Dublin-based company will propose an interest rate 3
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate on
the  term loan  A and revolving credit line, the person familiar
with the talks said. Term loan B lenders will be offered a
margin of 3.25 percentage points more than Libor. Both term
loans will have a 1 percent floor on the lending benchmark.  Warner Chilcott plans to issue its term loan B at par, the
person said. Lenders will also be offered a six-month soft-call
protection of 101 cents, meaning the company would have to pay 1
cent more than face value to refinance its B loan during that
time. The revolver and term loan A will have fees.  Existing Loan Costs  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A term loan A is
sold primarily to banks, while so-called B loans are mainly
bought by non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, mutual funds and  hedge funds .  The company owed $3.42 billion on its existing senior
secured credit facility and had $4.68 billion of total debt as
of Dec. 31, according to an annual report filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Warner Chilcott pays a spread ranging from 3.75 percentage
points to 4.25 percentage points more than Libor on its bank
loans, and some of them have a 2.25 percent floor on the lending
benchmark, the filing shows. The debt is rated Ba3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BB by  Standard & Poor’s , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s total debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization is less than 3 times, the
person familiar with the talks said. Leverage through the
secured debt is two times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in  New York  at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 