-- 
Wen Jiabao Sees Billionaires When Communists Convene as Wealth Gap Widens

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-04T10:35:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/wen-sees-billionaires-in-china-congress-as-wealth-gap-widens.html
As Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  this
week opens the annual gathering of the National People’s
Congress with a pledge to shrink  China ’s wealth gap, his
challenge will be reflected in the makeup of the assembly
itself.  The richest 70 of the 2,987 members have a combined wealth
of 493.1 billion yuan ($75.1 billion), and include China’s
richest man, Hangzhou Wahaha Group Chairman Zong Qinghou,
according to the research group Hurun Report. By comparison, the
wealthiest 70 people in the 535-member U.S. House and Senate,
who represent a country with about 10 times China’s per-capita
income, had a maximum combined wealth of $4.8 billion, data from
the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics show.  The presence of billionaires in the Congress, which is the
highest state legislative body and meets to approve government
economic and fiscal plans, is one consequence of the Communist
Party’s opening to capitalists to join it a decade ago. The step
now risks hampering efforts to tackle inequality, such as higher
taxes on upper-income earners, financial disclosures and real-
estate levies, said Huang Jing of Singapore National University.  “The biggest problem to passage of the property tax is the
People’s Congress,” said Huang, a professor at the Lee Kuan Yew
Center for Public Policy. “How can you expect those rich people
to represent the interests of people who need help?”  Outstripping U.S.  Data compiled by Hurun, a Shanghai-based group that tracks
China’s wealthy, indicate there are at least 38 NPC delegates
with more in assets than the wealthiest U.S. Congress member,
Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California . Issa had maximum
wealth of $451.1 million in 2009, according to congressional
disclosures compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics.
Issa’s office didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  The ranks of wealthy in China are swelling as the nation
experiences the fastest expansion of any major economy, with
gross domestic product increasing on average about 10 percent
annually in the past two decades. The benchmark  Shanghai 
Composite Index of stocks climbed 124 percent in local-currency
terms in the five years through February, compared with a 3.6
percent advance for the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Zong, 65, a Communist Party member whose wealth Hurun puts
at $12 billion, told reporters in Beijing March 1 he believes
higher taxes and extensive welfare-benefit programs, such as
those in  Europe , sap energy from entrepreneurs. Nations with
those policies will “have problems when all their money is
spent,” he said.  ‘No Jobs’  “Rich people are investing their money, creating more
jobs,” Zong said. “If rich people all get killed, nobody is
going to invest or build factories, there will be no jobs.”  Wen, 68, said Feb. 27 that the government would push to
narrow a growing wealth gap which Credit Suisse Group AG said in
an August report was at levels not seen outside of  Africa . Wen
pledged to tackle surging property prices that have put home
ownership out of the reach of many, control inflation and crack
down on official corruption.  “We should not only make the cake of social wealth as big
as possible, but also distribute the cake in a fair way and let
everyone enjoy the fruits of reform and opening up,” Wen said
Feb. 27, according to state-owned Xinhua News Agency. Wen’s
opening address to the Congress tomorrow, scheduled for 9 a.m.
in Beijing, is set to detail the government’s latest Five Year
Plan for China, focused on bolstering domestic demand and
household spending.  Rural Incomes  China’s leaders have embraced higher wages as part of their
campaign, with all 31 of China’s provinces and regions likely to
increase their minimum wages in 2011 for the second consecutive
year, according to Credit Suisse. Rural incomes rose 10.9
percent in 2010 to an average 5,919 yuan, government data show.  Even so, accelerating inflation and rising property prices
have undermined households’ spending power. Consumer prices have
exceeded the government’s 4 percent target for 2011 in each of
the past four months. Slums have emerged in the suburbs of
cities from Beijing to Guangzhou as migrant workers and cash-
strapped urban youth seek an affordable place to live.  China’s Gini coefficient, an income-distribution gauge used
by economists, has climbed to near 0.5 from less than 0.3 a
quarter century ago, according to Li Shi, professor of
economics, School of Economics and Business at Beijing Normal
University. The measure ranges from 0 to 1, and the 0.4 mark is
used as a predictor by analysts for social unrest.  Risk of Unrest  Chinese activists inspired by the pro-democracy movements
in Tunisia and  Egypt  have called for nationwide protests, which
led to an increased police presence in Beijing, Shanghai,
Guangzhou and other cities last month. The activists say the
Communist Party should give up power if it doesn’t address the
wealth gap, promote an independent judiciary, curb inflation and
property prices, and crack down on corruption.  Zong, who founded the third-largest soft-drinks maker in
China in 1987 with a 140,000 yuan loan, typifies the
billionaires on the NPC, who like him are self-made. Others
include Lu Guanqiu, 66, the Chairman of Wanxiang Group, China’s
No. 1 auto parts maker, who also employs more than 5,000 people
in 14 U.S. states. He met President Barack Obama at the White
House in January. Hurun puts his wealth at $4.4 billion.  “Our biggest competitor is ourselves,” Lu said in a Jan.
21 interview in  Chicago .  Tax Opponents  Zong and Lu said last year they were against the property
tax, as did Wang Jianlin, a real-estate developer and China’s
seventh-richest person. Wang is on the legislature’s advisory
body and was a member of the 2007 Communist Party Congress that
selected  Hu Jintao  as their leader.  In January, China instituted a trial property tax in
Shanghai and Chongqing that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
led by  Yi Wang  said was of “limited scope and moderate” and
would have “limited” affect on the real-estate market.  While U.S. lawmakers may be on average poorer than Chinese
counterparts, they tap wealthy fundraisers and companies for
donations to finance election campaigns. Interests of the rich
aren’t unrepresented: In December, President  Barack Obama  agreed
to extend tax cuts for the highest-income Americans enacted by
predecessor  George W. Bush , after Republican Senators opposed
Obama’s earlier plan to let them expire.  Unlike the U.S., China doesn’t require members of its
legislature or government officials to make public disclosures
of their assets. A rule to have government officials and
Communist Party members reveal their wealth is still being
debated in the Congress.  Financial Disclosure  Zhao Qizheng, who heads the foreign affairs office of the  Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference , an advisory
group to the NPC, which convened yesterday in Beijing and also
includes many of China’s richest people, told reporters March 2
that implementing a rule on asset disclosure is complicated.  “We must do this thing step by step,” Zhao said in
Beijing. “There are close to 10 million public servants in
China.”    Rupert Hoogewerf , the director of research for the Hurun
Report, said there are likely more dollar-billionaires in the
NPC that his staff missed. For every one among the 189 the
 company  identified in all of China, mainly through company
filings, he estimates there’s another whose wealth remains
hidden from the public. For every yuan billionaire, he estimates
they’ve missed two.  “There will be individuals on the NPC that just haven’t
come to the surface,” Hoogewerf said. “There’s a lot of hidden
wealth in China.”  Li Zhaoxing, a former foreign minister who is now the NPC’s
spokesman, said he had no idea that so many delegates were
richer than the wealthiest U.S. lawmaker.  “We hope that there will be more rich people in China, but
these people must get rich by legal means,” Li, 70, told
reporters today in Beijing’s Great Hall of the People. “I have
found around me many good citizens who have gotten rich through
their own hard labor and intelligence.”  --Michael Forsythe. With assistance from Eva Woo,  Michael Wei ,  Henry Sanderson  and Dexter Roberts in Beijing. Editors: Chris
Anstey, Chris Collins  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  