-- 
Wendy’s Gains After Saying Arby’s Sale May Boost Profit

-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-03-03T21:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/wendy-s-gains-after-saying-arby-s-sale-may-boost-profit-2-.html
Wendy’s/Arby’s Group Inc., the
third-biggest U.S. hamburger chain, rose the most in 20 months
after saying that a possible sale of the Arby’s brand would
increase earnings and free  cash flow .  Wendy’s/Arby’s advanced 36 cents, or 7.6 percent, to $5.10
at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest gain since June 2009. The shares have gained 10 percent
this year.  The chain said in January that it was considering shedding
Arby’s and had hired  UBS Investment Bank  to help in the process.
A sale of Arby’s would cut debt to $860 million and reduce
general and administrative expenses, executives at the Atlanta-
based company said today on a conference call.  Arby’s may fetch $600 million, or 6 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Larry Miller, an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in Atlanta, said in January.  Wendy’s/Arby’s loss narrowed to $10.8 million, or 3 cents a
share, in the fourth quarter ended Jan. 2, from a loss of $13.6
million, or 3 cents, a year earlier, according to a statement
today, reiterating preliminary results reported in January.
Revenue declined 6.7 percent to $840.7 million.  Long-term debt rose to $1.57 billion as of Jan. 2 from
$1.52 billion a year earlier, the company said.  The decision to explore a sale of Arby’s marked a reversal
for billionaire  Nelson Peltz , who is chairman and pushed to
unite the restaurant brands in 2008. Peltz’s Trian Fund
Management LP was the company’s largest shareholder as of Feb.
2, according to Bloomberg data.  Wendy’s/Arby’s trails McDonald’s Corp. and Yum! Brands Inc.
in sales in the fast-food industry.  Separately today, discount retailer Family Dollar Stores
Inc. rejected a hostile takeover offer from Trian, saying it
“substantially” undervalues its business, and adopted a
defense to discourage unsolicited offers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  