-- 
World Bank Endorses New Africa Plan to Sustain Continent's Economic Growth

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-03T10:51:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/world-bank-endorses-new-africa-plan-to-sustain-continent-s-economic-growth.html
The  World Bank  unveiled a policy for
Africa that focuses on fighting corruption and boosting
democracy after months of popular protests in North Africa led
to the collapse of governments in Egypt and Tunisia.  The World Bank’s board this week endorsed the  plan ,
Obiageli Ezekwesili, the bank’s vice president for Africa, said
today in a video conference from Paris.  “Underlying Africa’s many development problems is the
challenge of governance and political leadership,” the World
Bank said in a  report . “The events of the past few weeks in the
Middle East have reinforced the notion that governance lies at
the heart of the development challenge.”  Longtime rulers in Tunisia and Egypt have been ousted by
protest movements in the past two months. Thousands of Libyans
have fled to neighboring countries after leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
began firing and bombing protesters. Anti-government
demonstrations have also erupted in Yemen, Bahrain, Oman,
Jordan, Algeria, Morocco,  Iran  and  Iraq .  “Most African countries are making an uneven political and
institutional transition towards more open democratic political
systems,” the World Bank said. While the number of
dictatorships has declined since 1988, that hasn’t resulted in
an increase in democracy, it said.  ‘Social Accountability’  The bank aims to give citizens more information about  government spending  to increase “social accountability,” it
said. It will also create a civil-society fund to finance
organizations that scrutinize government spending.  “Governance and public sector capacity, instead of being
another pillar, should be the foundation of our strategy for  Africa ,” bank said.  The World Bank’s Africa policy is focused on investing in
infrastructure, such as power plants and railways, to help
improve competitiveness, rather than emphasizing efforts to
achieve economic stability. The plan also aims to increase
investments in health care and agriculture, to reduce the impact
of economic shocks on the poor, it said.  The Africa strategy is aimed at sustaining economic growth
on the continent, which grew an average of 5 percent a year for
a decade before the global financial crisis in 2008.  Africa may be at the “brink of an economic takeoff, much
like China was 30 years ago, and  India  20 years ago,” the World
Bank said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 