-- 
World Leaders Urge Qaddafi to Open Libya to Delivery of Aid

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-03T20:53:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/world-leaders-urge-qaddafi-to-open-libya-to-delivery-of-aid.html
Heads of the  United Nations ,
European Union, League of Arab States and Organization of the
Islamic Conference today urged Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  to
allow immediate access to aid workers to head off a humanitarian
crisis.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon led a one-hour video and
teleconference to assess conditions inside the country and the
needs of more than 180,000 Libyans and migrant workers who have
fled to neighboring Egypt, Tunisia and Niger. Heads of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in  Europe , the  Council
of Europe  and UN agencies including the World Food Program, UN
Children’s Fund and  World Health Organization  also participated.  “All the participating organizations joined in urgently
appealing to the Libyan authorities to allow immediate and
unimpeded access into  Libya  to determine humanitarian needs and
provide assistance inside the country should it be required,
including in the west,” the UN said in a statement.  “There is a strong need for urgent relief -- food, water,
sanitation and shelter to the thousands on both sides of the
Tunisian and Egyptian borders due to significant population
movements, mainly of migrant workers,” the statement said. “It
is also necessary to prepare for a further possible escalation
of humanitarian needs should conditions deteriorate inside
Libya.”  Emergency Response  The group agreed on the need for greater coordination of
humanitarian efforts. Ban said he would name a special envoy for
that task and withdrew $5 million from the UN’s Central
Emergency Response Fund to accelerate delivery of aid.  Unicef said it has sent 160 metric tons of food, hygiene
kits and other supplies to the region to assist 10,000 people
who have crossed into  Tunisia  and 25,000 at the Egyptian border.
The supplies are due to arrive within the next two days.  The World Health Organization has sent an assessment team
to the Libya-Tunisia border and is preparing to position medical
supplies there for use as needed inside Libya.  The World Food Program said its preliminary assessment of
the situation at the border with Tunisia found “impressive
food, water and shelter support provided by the local population
and civic groups.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Varner in Washington at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  