-- 
Yuan May Strengthen Faster on Liberalization Steps, SocGen Says

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-03-03T02:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-03/yuan-may-strengthen-faster-on-liberalization-steps-socgen-says.html
Allowing more Chinese importers and
exporters to settle trades in the yuan this year is likely to
result in the currency appreciating faster, said Wee-Khoon Chong,
a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .  “With more people doing business in the currency, it’s
going to be positive for the yuan,” he said in a telephone
interview today. “There is room for greater appreciation,
especially compared with what the market has priced in.”  A trial allowing the use of yuan settlement for cross-
border transactions will be expanded to the entire country, from
the current 20 provinces, the People’s Bank of China said
yesterday. The central bank will also “actively respond” to
foreign countries seeking to use the yuan as a  reserve currency ,
and will help overseas firms raise yuan-denominated capital for
investments outside China, it said.  Premier Wen Jiabao is encouraging greater use of China’s
currency for international trade and investment to reduce
reliance on dollars as the  Federal Reserve  prints money to
support the  U.S. economy . Cross-border yuan trade settlement was
506.3 billion yuan ($77 billion) last year, the PBOC said
yesterday.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards strengthened 0.09
percent to 6.4075 per dollar as of 9:54 a.m. in Shanghai,
reflecting bets the currency will strengthen 2.5 percent from
the spot rate of 6.5687 in a year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.    Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  said March 1 the volume of cross-border
yuan settlement handled by its branches will “greatly”
increase this year as expectations the currency will strengthen
make it more attractive to hold. The yuan will gain 4.3 percent
to 6.30 per dollar by the end of this year, according to the
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Editors: Andrew Janes,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Fion Li in Hong
Kong at +852-2977-6532 or  fli59@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  