-- ‘Martyr Politics’ Option Closes for Anwar as Malaysia Election Fight Looms
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-01-10T08:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/-martyr-politics-option-closes-for-anwar-as-malaysia-election-fight-looms.html
Anwar Ibrahim ’s acquittal on sodomy
charges pushes the Malaysian opposition leader to shed his image
as political victim as he tries to widen support for his
coalition and blunt the impact of government election
sweeteners.  “For Anwar the test now is to move out of what I call
martyr politics to offer a more positive alternative to
voters,” said Bridget Welsh, an associate professor in
political science at  Singapore Management University . “The
number one issue is the economy. The public is looking for
leaders who are able to manage Malaysia through economic
turmoil.”  Anwar pledged yesterday to “clamor for reform” as he
leads a disparate opposition alliance seeking to unseat Prime
Minister Najib Razak’s ruling coalition after 55 years in power
in elections that must be held by June 2013. Najib said in a
 statement  the decision proves the judiciary’s independence and
clears the government “once and for all of the many baseless
accusations of political interference” against Anwar.  Both leaders are aiming to convince  Malaysia ’s 28 million
people they are the right choice to restructure a $238 billion
economy beset with race-based preferences that the  World Bank 
warned is holding back growth. Najib may call an election as
early as March to capitalize on budget handouts passed at the
end of last year, said fund manager Nik Hazim Nik Mohamed.  “This feel-good factor will actually be a good platform
for the ruling party to call for elections,” Nik Hazim, who
helps manage 2.6 billion ringgit ($824 million) of funds at
Kenanga Investors Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur, said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t think they will want to wait longer than
that because that effect will diminish.”  Cash Payments  Gross domestic product may expand 5 percent to 6 percent
this year after projected growth of as much as 5.5 percent in
2011, Najib said in an annual budget speech on Oct. 7, during
which he unveiled wage increases for civil servants and one-time
cash payments to low-income families. The moves sparked
speculation of an early election, which increased last month
when Najib announced that preparations had begun for a vote.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  fell 0.1 percent as of
3:14 p.m. local time after advancing 0.5 percent yesterday. The
ringgit, which has outperformed major Southeast Asian currencies
in the past month, rose 0.4 percent.  ‘Clear Fight’  The election “will be a very clear fight now,” Scott Lim,
who manages 350 million ringgit as chief executive officer at
Kuala Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset Management Bhd., said in a
telephone interview. “After the election is over, nobody can
accuse the other party of being unfair or having a political
advantage.”  The acquittal may be seen as increasing political risk,
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Tan Ting Min wrote in a report
today. The stock market could be “range bound” before general
elections likely to be held in the first half of this year as
investor avoid significant exposure until knowing the outcome.  Najib securing a two-thirds majority in the election would
be positive for markets, according to the report.  For Anwar, the acquittal is his second in the past decade
on charges of sodomy, which is illegal in Muslim-majority
Malaysia and carries a sentence of up to 20 years. The former
deputy to Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad spent six years in
jail for sodomy and a separate corruption charge before
Malaysia’s highest court overturned the sex conviction in 2004.  U.S. Welcome  “The Malaysian media was fully utilized to demonize me
virtually every night on prime time news, either as a sexual
pervert, sodomite, Jewish agent, CIA agent, or a lot of racist
slurs, that I am pro-Christian,” Anwar told Bloomberg
Television yesterday. “To use the sodomy and sexual perversion
in order to appeal to the conscience and sentiments of the rural
masses, particularly the conservative Muslims, is clearly
pathetic.”  The U.S. welcomed the acquittal. “The ruling reflects
favorably on the independence of Malaysia’s judiciary and
presents an opportunity for all Malaysians to focus on the
future,” State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said in a
statement.  Anwar, 64, leads the three-party  People’s Alliance , which
aims to unwind economic preferences for ethnic Malays and
promote greater political freedom. The coalition was formed
before the 2008 election, when it captured 37 percent of seats
in the 222-member Parliament, the narrowest victory for Najib’s
ruling 13-party National Front coalition in five decades.  Uniting Force  Anwar has acted as a uniting force, holding together
coalition members with divergent ideological views. The People’s
Alliance coalition includes Anwar’s People’s Justice Party, the
Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party and the Democratic Action Party.
Some Pan-Malaysian members espouse the implementation of Islamic
law, while the Democratic Action Party’s secretary-general is
Penang Chief Minister Lim Guan Eng, Malaysia’s only ethnic-
Chinese state leader.  Theft, illicit sex, alcohol consumption and renouncing
Islam are crimes under hudud, or Islamic law, and punishment can
involve whipping, stoning to death or amputation of limbs. The
Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party’s support for implementing hudud has
faced objections from the Democratic Action Party. Malaysian
Information, Communications and Culture Minister Rais Yatim said
yesterday the verdict was proof of an independent judiciary and
that the government planned to “extend this transparency to all
areas of Malaysian life.”  Preferential Treatment  Najib, 58, took over as prime minister in April 2009, after
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi resigned mid-term to take responsibility
for losing control of five of 13 states in the elections. Since
then, Najib has sought to blunt the opposition’s momentum by
introducing rules to roll back some preferential treatment for
ethnic Malays and promising to repeal an internal security law
that allows for detention without trial.  Abdul Razak, Najib’s father, initiated the ethnic
preferences in 1971 as the country’s second prime minister as he
sought to raise the share of national wealth to at least 30
percent for the Bumiputeras, or “sons of the soil,” about 60
percent of the population. The plan gave Malays and some
indigenous groups cheaper housing as well as priority for
college places, government contracts and shares of publicly
traded companies.  ‘Reform Card’  “The opposition will play up the reform card, which
appeals to younger voters,” said Joseph Chinyong Liow,
associate dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International
Studies in  Singapore . “Najib is trying to pull the rug from
under their feet by saying, ‘Look, I have been initiating all
these reforms.’”  Najib’s ruling coalition has won five by-elections in the
past 15 months after implementing stimulus measures that enabled
the  economy  to grow 7.2 percent in 2010, the strongest expansion
in a decade. The opposition has kept up pressure for reform,
with police in July firing tear gas and arresting more than
1,600 people protesting in Kuala Lumpur for cleaner and fairer
elections.  “Both sides have held their ground quite well, so the
campaign will be important,” Ooi Kee Beng, deputy director of
the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in Singapore, said by
phone. “Anwar’s a fantastic speaker, which the opposition will
need in the election whenever it’s called.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  