-- Abu Dhabi May Reach for Checkbook Again After Aldar’s $9.8 Billion Bailout
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-01-10T11:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/abu-dhabi-may-reach-for-checkbook-again-after-aldar-s-9-8-billion-bailout.html
Abu Dhabi , the oil-rich sheikhdom
that spent 36 billion dirhams ($9.8 billion) bailing out its
biggest developer in 2011, will probably reach for its checkbook
again as property companies in the  United Arab Emirates  face a
stalled market and deadlines to repay debt.  “It’s fair to think of Abu Dhabi as a backstop in a worst-
case scenario, because a big default would be too tough of an
option now and would damage confidence,” said  Saud Masud , an
analyst at Dubai-based Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd. “A real-
estate recovery could take a long time, even if the bottom was
hit in the next 12 months.”  Abu Dhabi, holder of 7 percent of the world’s proven oil
reserves, contributed to a $20 billion financial rescue of
neighboring Dubai in 2009 and bailed out developer Aldar PJSC
twice last year. While the sheikhdom’s cash will help property
companies stay solvent, many will struggle to revive profit as
Dubai’s real-estate slump stretches into its fourth year and Abu
Dhabi puts large parts of its redevelopment plan on hold.  The companies most likely to need state help will be
developers that relied on selling properties before they were
built to fund construction, which is most of them, according to
Arqaam Capital analyst Mohammad Kamal. Businesses with the best
prospects are those with contracts in  Saudi Arabia , Qatar and
 Kuwait , he said.  Real-estate values have fallen more than 60 percent in
Dubai and 45 percent in Abu Dhabi from 2008 peaks after the
global credit crisis caused banks to curtail lending and
speculators left the market. Developers completing contracts are
supplying thousands of homes and offices at a time when demand
is dropping.  No Improvement Seen  “The trump card over the next 12 months will be the
incoming supply in both Dubai and Abu Dhabi,” Kamal said in an
interview. “If that gets delivered, we see no improvement for
the price or rental scenarios in either market without a
resumption of macroeconomic growth, job creation and mortgage
lending.”  Both Dubai and Abu Dhabi have been striving to become less
dependent on oil revenue by developing homes, hotels, offices
and tourist attractions through a combination of state-owned and
publicly traded companies that raised funds from investors,
international debt markets and buyers prepaying for homes. Abu
Dhabi and the U.A.E. federal government increased their
financing role after the credit crisis caused lending in the
region to dry up.  Abu Dhabi has a track record of keeping companies afloat
and a big default would be “difficult to show the world,” said
Hans Zayed, head of research at Rasmala. “Anything that hinges
on real estate faces difficulty at the moment.”  Past Support  Moody’s Investors Service highlighted Abu Dhabi’s record of
support in Dubai and said the emirate is likely to continue
backing its neighbor by rolling over the Dubai Financial Support
Fund due to mature in 2014, according to a Dec. 5 note. Moody’s
expressed concern about the timeliness of further aid after a
Nakheel Islamic bond was repaid at the last minute following the
2009 bailout.  U.A.E. developers face debt-repayment deadlines this year.
Aldar has 2.2 billion dirhams due and Nakheel PJSC, builder of
Dubai’s palm-shaped islands, needs to repay 5.8 billion dirhams.
 Union Properties PJSC (UPP)  has 429 million dirhams maturing this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Abu Dhabi’s $4.6
billion bailout of Aldar on Dec. 29, the second of the year,
helped ease concerns about the company’s borrowings, Moody’s
said in a note that day.  Debt Deadlines  Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC has $500
million of debt maturing in 2012, Moody’s said. The company’s
Dubai Properties Group unit suspended construction on a Tiger Woods-designed golf resort last year, citing a unfavorable
luxury property market.  For Aldar, a return to profit wasn’t enough to avert a
bailout as a debt deadline loomed. The company in November
reported third-quarter profit of 144 million dirhams compared
with a year-earlier loss of 731 million dirhams.  “In Aldar’s case, there was a clear need for debt relief
and a liquidity injection,” Kamal said. “In other cases, the
government backing has been less direct but equally
supportive.”  One example is a decision by Abu Dhabi’s Urban Planning
Council to award contracts for 7,500 homes, he said.  Sorouh Real
Estate (SOROUH) , the emirate’s second-largest developer, along with
smaller private builders such as  Tamouh Investments , Royal
Development Co. and  Al Qudra Real Estate  received contracts
totaling 13.5 billion dirhams.  Stocks Slide  Aldar was the third-worst performing stock in the 65-member
Bloomberg EMEA Real Estate Index over the last 12 months with a
65 percent drop. Sorouh was seventh from the bottom after
falling 54 percent.  Aldar, 18.9 percent owned by Abu Dhabi before the bailouts,
is a special case because the company carried out much of the
government’s infrastructure work and built tourist attractions,
Rasmala’s Zayed said. “If there are other bailouts, I don’t see
anything on the scale of Aldar,” he said.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , Dubai’s biggest developer, reported
a 34 percent decline in third-quarter net income as apartment
sales dropped by 86 percent. Nakheel reported first-half profit
of 526 million dirhams in December without giving comparative
figures. The company, which received $8.6 billion after Abu
Dhabi bailed out Dubai, wrote down the value of properties by
78.6 billion dirhams since 2008.  Abu Dhabi isn’t only helping developers. Investment arm
Mubadala Development Co. agreed in March to provide 3.1 billion
dirhams to National Central Cooling Co., an air conditioning
company known as Tabreed, as part of a recapitalization.  Master Plan  Abu Dhabi, the richest and largest of the seven emirates
that make up the U.A.E., plans to invest $500 billion in
industry, tourism and culture to increase non-oil revenue to 64
percent of the economy from an average of 41 percent from 2005
to 2007. In 2005, the sheikhdom opened its  property market  to
foreign buyers and began building homes, offices, malls, hotels
and tourist attractions on Saadiyat Island, Yas Island, Al Reem
Island, Al Raha Beach and the city center.  Since the global credit crunch, U.A.E. developers suspended
or canceled around $500 billion worth of projects, twice as much
as in the other five Gulf Cooperation Council countries,
Arqaam’s Kamal estimates. In Abu Dhabi, developments valued at
about $30 billion have been put on hold, including branches of
the Louvre and Guggenheim museums, the MGM Grand Abu Dhabi hotel
and the zero-carbon headquarters of renewable energy company
Masdar.  ‘Back to Health’  “The emphasis right now seems to be on addressing financial
problems at entities and nursing them back to health,” said
 Giyas Gokkent , group chief economist at  National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC .  Kamal said residential values are likely to drop another 10
percent to 15 percent as 20,000 homes are completed in Abu Dhabi
and another 25,000 in Dubai. He said a similar number of
properties is scheduled for completion in both markets in 2013.  Although Abu Dhabi’s government hasn’t announced any
changes to its development blueprint, called Vision 2030, since
it was first published in 2008, a substantial proportion of the
projects expected under the plan are now on hold while a review
of their economic viability is underway, Kamal said.  “The 2030 plan will go ahead by and large, but within that
there will be a refocus,” Gokkent said. “The fundamental
question is the profitability of various entities and whether it
makes sense to go into a particular activity.”  Reviving the Plan  The plan foresees the population growing to as much as 5
million by 2030 from an estimated 1.6 million in 2008. The
government may revive some of the suspended projects if it
considers them essential in the long term. Profitability may not
be the only factor in deciding whether to restart work.  “Some projects will probably never make any money but are
deemed important for Abu Dhabi to attract investment or to
diversify the economy,” Zayed said. “In Dubai, building the
 palm  was never going to be economically viable, but it did put
Dubai on the map and helped it attract investments.”  Abu Dhabi’s Urban Planning Council didn’t respond to
questions on whether the 2030 plan is on track when contacted by
Bloomberg. Calls and e-mails to Abu Dhabi’s Department of
Finance weren’t returned.  “Projects that are real estate related or those deemed not
an immediate priority may be phased in over time, given that
this is a long-term plan,” Gokkent said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 