-- Ackman Rebuffed as Canadian Pacific Says CEO Green Will Stay
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-01-09T15:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/ackman-plans-canadian-pacific-proxy-contest.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) 
directors rejected a call by  William Ackman ’s  Pershing Square 
Capital Management LP, the carrier’s biggest shareholder, to
oust Chief Executive Officer Fred Green.  The board “carefully considered” and unanimously turned
down Ackman’s proposal to hire retired  Canadian National Railway
Co. (CNR)  CEO Hunter Harrison, 67, to lead a turnaround in operating
performance, Chairman John Cleghorn said in a letter to
shareholders today.  “Pershing Square’s repeatedly stated agenda of management
change would be detrimental to the company and its
shareholders,” Cleghorn said. Ackman, who holds a  14 percent
stake  in the railroad, invests in companies he deems undervalued
and pushes changes he says will improve shareholder returns.  Cleghorn’s letter sharpened the carrier’s position in its
tug of war with Ackman. Last week, the chairman wrote Ackman to
dispute news media accounts that the board was interested in
Harrison and described the railroad’s management as “strong”
without mentioning Green, 55, by name.  Ackman, 45, responded by saying that after he recommended
the CEO switch on Nov. 2,  Canadian Pacific ’s board sought a
meeting with Harrison.  Cleghorn wrote today that Pershing lacked a “credible,
detailed plan” for improving Canadian Pacific’s operating
ratio, a measure of operating expenses over sales, to 65 by 2015
from 78 in 2010.  Structural Differences  Harrison doesn’t have a detailed plan either and would only
begin to develop one “over a number of months,” while the
Calgary-based company’s current proposal for improving its
operating ratio is already well under way, he wrote.  No railroad has ever posted the pace of improvement Ackman
suggested from a starting ratio of 78, and the New York-based
hedge fund failed “to take into account the structural
differences that exist between CP and its peers,” Cleghorn
said.  Pershing Square didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment today.  Canadian Pacific climbed 0.5 percent to $67.55 at 10:44
a.m. in New York  trading . Before today, the shares had risen 8.6
percent through Jan. 6 from Oct. 27, the day before Ackman
disclosed his initial stake.  Edmond Harris, who was appointed as a Canadian Pacific
director last month, has told the board that the railroad has to
“contend with greater geographic challenges,” than Montreal-
based  Canadian National , its  larger competitor , Cleghorn said in
the letter.  Harris, who has worked with operations for both companies,
said Canadian National was “built by Canadian taxpayers” and has
greater flexibility because it owns significantly more track.
Canadian National was owned by the country’s government until
1995.  Board Seat  Cleghorn reiterated in today’s letter Canadian Pacific’s
offer of a board seat for Ackman. Ackman said last week that he
declined the seat because the terms required him to vote
Pershing’s shares in favor of each of the board’s nominees and
support directors’ recommendations on other matters.  Ackman requested two Canadian Pacific board seats, one for
Harrison and the other for a candidate he didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  