-- Action on U.S. Housing Still Vital for Economic Expansion: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-09T00:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/action-on-stalled-housing-market-vital-for-u-s-economic-expansion-view.html
In an unusual step, the  Federal
Reserve  sent a  white paper  to congressional committees last
week, urging them to look again at what ails the U.S.
housing market and at possible remedies. More can be done,
the Fed says, to help it revive.  Good advice. Housing is where the recession started,
and it remains one of the main things holding back the
recovery. Friday’s unemployment numbers -- nonfarm payrolls
grew by 200,000 in December, and the jobless rate ticked
down to 8.5 percent from 8.7 percent -- join other
tentative signs of an improving economy, but the housing
mess is mostly getting worse. There’s still a grave risk it
might stop, not just delay, the expansion.  The Fed’s paper underlines the scale of the problem.
The decline in U.S.  house prices  has wiped out a staggering
$7 trillion in  home equity . The ratio of housing wealth to
disposable income has crashed from 140 percent at its peak
to 55 percent, the lowest since the figures began to be
collected in the 1950s. The number of “underwater”
mortgages has grown to 12 million: More than one in five
homeowners owes more than the property is worth. It’s
surprising the economy is making any headway at all into a
gale of this force.  Delinquency Pipeline  House prices dropped again in October, according to
the S&P/Case-Shiller  index (SPCS20Y%) . The pipeline of delinquencies
and future foreclosures is full, which continues to blight
the prospects for recovery. Efforts to date, such as the
Home Affordable Modification Program, have helped, but less
than hoped.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  have been told to worry
more about avoiding short-term losses than stabilizing the
wider housing market (which might actually reduce their
long-term losses). Banks and other mortgage lenders have
severely tightened their standards, making it hard for
distressed borrowers to refinance at historically low
 interest rates .  The Fed says there are no easy answers, but makes
several suggestions that Congress should take up. The first
is to encourage conversions from owner-occupation to
rental. The rental market has strengthened lately: Rents
are up and vacancies down. A faster rate of conversions
would keep rents in check and relieve the pressure of
unsold homes on house prices. Fannie, Freddie and the
Federal Housing Administration account for about half of
the inventory of foreclosed properties. Many of these,
according to Fed research, are viable as rentals. A
government-sponsored foreclosure-to-rental program aimed at
clearing away regulatory hurdles would make a big
difference.  A second idea is to encourage refinancings. The
administration tweaked an existing scheme -- the Home
Affordable Refinance Program -- in October, easing some of
the earlier restrictions on eligibility. More might be
done, says the Fed, and we agree.  One example involves the fees that lenders pay to
Fannie and Freddie for supposedly taking on new risks when
loans to distressed borrowers are refinanced. These charges
could be cut further or eliminated, even though Congress
just voted to push them back up to help pay for the
payroll-tax extension. The fees make no sense: The credit
risk is already on their books, and refinancings most
likely reduce it.  Mortgage Refinancings  Borrowers with high loan-to-value ratios and mortgages
not guaranteed by Fannie and Freddie get no help from HARP
or any other scheme. Fannie and Freddie should be
encouraged to back refinancing of these loans. Unlike the
fee-elimination proposal, this would increase credit risk
on the agencies’ books, but limiting the help to borrowers
who meet underwriting standards and are current on
repayments would mitigate the problem.  Potentially, this is a big deal. The Fed calculates
that as many as 2 million borrowers would meet HARP
standards for assistance except for the fact that their
loans aren’t guaranteed by Fannie or Freddie.  A third approach is to revisit loan modification,
including measures to cut principal. Here, the Fed is more
cautious, emphasizing the possible cost to taxpayers and
the difficulty of accurately targeting the help to
deserving homeowners. Those are valid concerns, but we
think a lot more principal reduction makes sense,
nonetheless. HAMP already allows it, but under tight
restrictions and with a too-narrow objective: improving
affordability rather than reducing negative equity.  Negative equity is a problem in its own right. Among
other things, it increases the risk of strategic default,
where borrowers walk away from loans even though they can
afford to keep paying. More principal reduction, combined
with equity participation by the lender, should be part of
the mix.  The Fed has other suggestions, some of them all too
familiar -- smoother foreclosure or quasi-foreclosure
procedures; better incentives for loan servicers to help in
resolving delinquent loans; a national online registry of
liens (the current system, says the Fed, is “antiquated,
largely manual, and not reliably available in cross-
jurisdictional form”) and so on. Four years into the worst
housing slump in 70 years, it is shameful that steps such
as these are still being talked about but not urgently
implemented.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 