-- Air Ticket Prices May Increase by 3% on EU Carbon Plan, OAG Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-09T14:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/air-ticket-prices-may-increase-by-3-on-eu-carbon-plan-oag-says.html
The inclusion of airlines in the
European Union’s carbon plan will cost the industry 3.5 billion
euros ($4.5 billion) and may increase ticket prices by an
average of 3 percent, aviation information provider OAG said.  The EU, which wants to lead the global fight against
 climate change , decided that flights to and from European
airports should become as of 2012 a part of the bloc’s emissions
trading system, or ETS, after airline carbon-dioxide discharges
in the region doubled over two decades and international
organizations failed to enact pollution curbs.  “This will create new costs for the entire sector of about
3.5 billion euros per year assuming a price level of 30 euro per
allowance,” according to Luton, U.K.-based OAG, which gathers
statistics on the global aviation industry. “It is forecasted
that air fares will increase approximately about 3 percent due
to carriers’ additional carbon tax that may lead to demand
suppression on certain markets.”  The first expansion of the EU emissions cap-and-trade
program abroad has drawn fire from countries including the U.S.,
Russia and  Japan , which said the measure was inconsistent with
international law.  China ’s carriers said last week they won’t
comply with the rules and  India  signaled it may attempt to
scupper the European plan.  Started in 2005, the EU ETS imposes pollution quotas on
more than 11,000 utilities and manufacturers. Emitters that
produce less carbon dioxide than their quota can sell surplus
allowances, and those exceeding their limits must buy additional
permits or pay a fine of 100 euros per ton of CO2.  Preferred Choice  The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory
arm, has repeatedly said that while its preferred choice is a
worldwide solution to cut  greenhouse gases  from aviation, it
won’t give up the expansion of the system to cover airlines. The
EU law offers a possibility of exempting incoming flights from a
particular country if that nation implements equivalent measures
to cut pollution from its air transport sector.  To avoid the EST compliance costs, international airlines
may also opt to use non-EU points as intermediate stops, OAG
said in a report published today on its website.  “Whilst this is not an option for EU-based passengers,
European airports may become less competitive for passengers
coming from outside the EU to transit through to an end
destination outside  Europe ,” OAG said. “This would benefit
those airports in non-ETS affected countries just outside the EU
as well as those airports such as Dubai,  Abu Dhabi  and Doha that
have configured their businesses around the transfer of
passengers across the globe.”  Cost-Free Allowances  International carriers will be given emission permits
making up 85 percent of the industry cap in 2012 and will have
to buy the remaining 15 percent at auction. EU permits for
delivery in December rose 3.6 percent to 6.84 euros as of 1:41
p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London , still 53
percent down from a year ago.  The European plan favors most-efficient carriers, which are
due to receive proportionally more cost-free allowances based on
benchmarks published by the commission last year. The extent to
which individual airlines will be able to pass ETS-related costs
into consumers will depend on the efficiency of its route
network, market pricing and price elasticity of the route,
according to OAG.  “Those airlines with a higher proportion of premium
revenues may find it easier to pass on carbon costs to
passengers, as these costs will be a proportionately lower
percentage of the ticket price than for lower priced economy
passengers,” OAG said. “Low-cost and short-haul airlines that
have lower premium revenues, and particularly those with older
aircraft fleets, will be more affected by ETS scheme across
their business.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ewa Krukowska} in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  