-- Taiwan Bonds Advance on Europe Debt Concern; Local Dollar Gains
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-01-09T08:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/taiwan-bonds-advance-on-europe-debt-concern-local-dollar-steady.html
Taiwan’s government bonds gained on
concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening after Spanish
borrowing costs rose the most in almost 17 years last week. The
local dollar strengthened.  The  Taiex index (TWSE)  of shares fell before German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy meet today to
craft a master plan for rescuing the euro over the next three
months. Taiwan will vote for a new president on Jan. 14, with
Tsai Ing-wen, chairwoman of the opposition  Democratic
Progressive Party , contesting against President Ma Ying-jeou.  “Yields are down a bit today because of European debt
concerns, but you can see Taiwan’s markets aren’t reacting as
much as other markets like South Korea,” said Albert Lee , a
Taipei-based fixed-income trader at Cathay United Bank Co.
“Traders are going to stay put before the election, which could
turn out to be a close race.”  The yield on the 1 percent notes due January 2017, the
most-traded  government securities , fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 0.98 percent, prices from Gretai
Securities Market show.  The island’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to NT$30.205 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It climbed
0.2 percent last week, a third weekly advance.  Exports gained 0.6 percent from a year earlier in December,
less than the 3.7 percent growth economists predicted in a
Bloomberg survey, the government reported toward the end of
 currency trading  today.  The  overnight money-market rate (NTON) , which measures interbank
funding availability, was 0.4 percent, little changed from last
week, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  