-- Ma Touts Better China Ties as Candidates Make Final Push in Taiwan Polls
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2012-01-09T01:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/taiwan-s-ma-touts-better-china-ties-ahead-of-vote.html
Taiwan  President Ma Ying-jeou told
his supporters relations with China were at their best in six
decades as candidates began the final week of campaigning ahead
of an election that will be a referendum on  cross-straits ties (CHEXTW) .  “Since I took office, cross-strait relations are no longer
confrontational and have reached their best in 60 years,” Ma
said at a rally in Taipei yesterday. “Having improved relations
with China isn’t a miracle drug, but we can see it is not
something that only holds risks, but has benefits as well.”  Over 250,000 people joined a six-kilometer (3.7-mile) march
and rally in Taipei, said Ma wei-kuo, a spokeswoman for Ma’s
campaign. Opposition Democratic Progressive Party Chairwoman
Tsai Ing-wen’s rally in the capital attracted 150,000
supporters, DPP spokeswoman Hsu Chia-ching said.  Ma, the Kuomintang party leader who is seeking a second
four-year term, has pledged to press ahead with his policy of
improved  China  relations that he says helped power 6.6 percent
growth in the first quarter of 2011. A victory for Tsai, who
says Ma’s policies have made Taiwan too dependent on China,
could shake cross-straits ties.  DPP Rejuvenated  The DPP has focused on a widening wealth gap and criticized
Ma’s push for closer economic relations with China. Ma, who
returned the Kuomintang party to power in 2008 after the DPP had
held the presidency for eight years, says Taiwan will reap
economic benefits from the 16 agreements signed with China since
he took office. Tsai has pledged to create more jobs and curb
high property prices.  “After the president took office, the relationship with
China has become less confrontational and Ma is about stability
and peaceful development and that is good for economic
development,” said Eason Lee, 31, a sales executive, marching
with a flag that read “Vote for Ma for a golden future.”  Tsai, 55, Taiwan’s first woman presidential candidate, has
sought to focus her campaign on domestic issues. She has
eschewed talk of independence, unlike her DPP predecessor,
former president Chen Shui-bian. The issue of closer ties with
China dominated a Jan. 6 debate among candidates, the last held
before the election on the island of 23 million people.  Too Conciliatory  The opposition said Ma, 61, has been too conciliatory to
China, which split with Taiwan in 1949. Beijing claims the self-
ruled island as part of its territory, and has threatened to
invade if Taiwan declares formal independence.  “Taiwan needs a change,” said Lin Wan-yi, 52, who was at
Tsai’s rally waving a pink flag. “We want to be able to stand
up and say we are sovereign nation in the eyes of the world, and
Ma can’t deliver that. If Ma is re-elected, my dream will never
come true.”  China and Taiwan resumed direct flights, shipping and
postal services across the  Taiwan Strait  in December 2008,
ending a ban that had been in place since Chiang Kai-shek’s
Kuomintang, or Nationalists, fled to the island after being
defeated by  Mao Zedong ’s Communists in 1949. Taiwan signed its
first trade agreement with China in June 2010.  “Most people don’t feel the immediate benefits of the
improved China-Taiwan relations that Ma has achieved,” said
Chang Wu-ueh, a professor of political science at Taipei’s
Tamkang University. “They care about jobs and domestic
issues.”  Taiex Fell  The  Taiex stock index (TWSE)  tumbled 21 percent last year, its
worst performance since 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ma was widening his narrow lead over Tsai in public opinion
polls taken prior to a blackout period for voter surveys that
began Jan. 4. Taiwanese law bars publication or release of polls
10 days prior to presidential elections.  The island ended a mainland-investment ban in 1991. Since
then, officials have approved 39,509 projects, data compiled by
the investment commission show. The opposition says closer
cross-strait ties have resulted in a flow of jobs to the
mainland. Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology Group, the maker of Apple
Inc. iPhones and iPads, employs more than 1 million people in
China alone. Taiwan had 2.97 million manufacturing jobs as of
November.  China, Taiwan’s largest trading partner and the No. 1
investment destination, reported its economy grew 9.1 percent in
the third quarter. The pace of China’s expansion is five times
that of the U.S.  Tsai said she would set up a  task force  on dialogue with
China if elected, and vowed to seek consensus within Taiwan on
their relations.  “What it comes down to is we think Ma isn’t firm enough
and he is led by the nose by China,” C.P. Chen, 76, a retiree,
said at Tsai’s rally. “Tsai cares about what the people think
and we want someone who will listen to us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  