-- Al-Qaeda Members Gripe Over Cash Crunch as U.S. Targets Funding
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-01-09T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/al-qaeda-members-gripe-over-cash-crunch-as-u-s-goes-after-terror-funding.html
Few people noticed Saudi Arabia’s
three-day conference in September on disrupting terrorism
financing. For a team at the U.S. Treasury Department, though,
it was a long-sought victory in the fight against al-Qaeda.  While drone attacks and covert operations such as the raid
that killed  Osama bin Laden  get headlines, terrorism relies just
as much on cash as on car bombs. With that in mind, a cadre of
intelligence analysts at the Treasury wage a quiet war to choke
off terrorists’ money supplies.  “The financial dimension is critical,” said Daveed
Gartenstein-Ross, a terrorism researcher at the Foundation for
Defense of Democracies in Washington, in a telephone interview.  The Saudi session brought together regional officials
involved in countering money laundering and terrorism. Conducted
with the help of officials from the Treasury and other U.S.
agencies, the conference provided training in financial
investigative techniques.  Like the Saudi meeting, many of the efforts to obstruct
terrorist financing draw little public notice, particularly
because it is difficult to show that they may have helped
prevent attacks. Still, less money has been flowing from wealthy
 Persian Gulf  sympathizers to the terrorist group’s remaining
leaders in Pakistan since the Saudis got serious about terrorism
financing in recent years, said a senior U.S. intelligence
official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because
intelligence issues are classified.  Money Gripes  Al-Qaeda’s depleted core in Pakistan has been forced to
economize, said a second U.S. intelligence official, who also
spoke on the condition of anonymity for the same reasons. The
anti-financing efforts have forced terrorist groups to reduce
spending on training, recruiting and payments to terrorists’
surviving family members, he said. The U.S. has detected many
more complaints from al-Qaeda members about money shortages, he
said.  By 2009 and 2010, “we were able to say that al-Qaeda was
in its weakest financial condition since 2001,” said  David Cohen , the Treasury’s undersecretary for terrorism and financial
intelligence.  To be sure, the effort to stem the financial flows is just
part of a broader struggle. And access to money isn’t always
important because terror plots can cost as little as a few
thousand dollars to initiate, as demonstrated by a parcel-bomb
plot in October 2010, which involved printer-toner cartridges
packed with explosives in an failed attempt to bring down a
Yemen-to-Chicago cargo flight.  The May 1 raid by U.S. Navy SEALs on bin Laden’s compound
in Abbottabad,  Pakistan , highlighted two prongs of the U.S.
fight against terrorists: military force and financial
intelligence. The action yielded financial records and other
intelligence, Cohen said.  Al-Qaeda Funders  “If I were a donor to al-Qaeda, I’d be worried about the
fact that there were a lot of documents that were picked up in
Abbottabad,” he said in an interview.  Cohen, 48, who oversees the Treasury’s Office of Terrorism
and Financial Intelligence, is the point man in the battle to
prevent terrorist groups from raising, laundering, moving,
spending or investing money. The office has evolved since its
2004 creation to become a crucial element of U.S. anti-terrorism
efforts.  Since September, Cohen’s office has imposed sanctions or
taken related punitive measures against  Iran  and  Syria , two
states designated by the U.S. as supporters of international
terrorism, as well as against members of al-Qaeda and
affiliates.  ‘Gum Up the Works’  The office, known as TFI, seeks to “gum up the works” of
terror groups and “isolate bad actors from the international
financial system,” Cohen said.  The Treasury is the only finance or economy ministry that
conducts its own intelligence analysis, he said. Its analysts,
working with intelligence officials from the CIA, the National
Security Agency, the State and Defense Departments and other
agencies, are fighting a running battle, one in which  Saudi
Arabia ’s changed attitude toward fighting terror financing is
important.  The Saudis were half-hearted partners in the aftermath of
the 9/11 attacks on  New York  and Washington, said the first U.S.
intelligence official, who said they weren’t convinced that
Saudi Arabia was an important source of al-Qaeda’s funds. That
attitude changed after Saudi Arabia was the target of a bombing
in 2003 that killed 35 people.  Saudi Shift  As the Saudis began to crack down on terrorism at home,
they paid more attention to Islamic terror groups’ funding
channels, the official said. In 2010, the highest religious
authority in Saudi Arabia issued a fatwa, an Islamic order with
the force of law, against financing terrorism. Last May, the
kingdom for the first time publicly tried detainees suspected of
raising funds for terrorists.  Those actions were “the product of many factors, and a lot
of work on the issue over the course of several years,” said
 Stuart Levey , 48, Cohen’s predecessor and the first head of the
Treasury’s terrorism office. “Countries ultimately do things
because they think it’s in their own interest to do them.”  Kuwait  and Qatar have been slower to cooperate. Both remain
“permissive environments for extremist fundraising” and Kuwait
is the only country in the Gulf region not to have criminalized
terrorist financing, Cohen said at a conference in  Washington  to
mark the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks.  Illicit Actors  In addition, terrorists have turned to cheap, informal
money-transfer methods that can be hard to penetrate -- such as
couriers and Hawala networks, which provide informal channels
for moving funds -- as the U.S. and its allies have become
better at intercepting international phone calls, e-mails, and
electronic fund transfers.  “Illicit actors are now savvy to the fact that the formal
financial system is quite well-monitored, so they look for other
ways, and it’s hard to keep up with that,” Levey said in an
interview. “It’s a bit of a cat-and-mouse game.”  As the number of al-Qaeda’s financiers has diminished and
money transfers have become more difficult, the group’s
affiliates in sub-Saharan  Africa ,  Yemen  and  Iraq  have been
forced to become self-sufficient, said the second intelligence
official, and there’s less profit-sharing going on among them
and the core group in Pakistan.  In sub-Saharan Africa, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb now
relies heavily on ransom from kidnappings. Al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula, based in Yemen, supports itself by extorting
money in neighborhoods where it’s taken control, the official
said. Somalia’s al-Shabaab controls a third of the country’s
ports, in addition to making money from piracy and local
rackets, he said.  ‘Missionary from Hell’  “What concerns me the most, particularly among al-Qaeda
affiliates, is resorting to crime to raise funds, and in
particular kidnapping for ransom,” said Daniel Glaser, the
Treasury’s assistant secretary for terrorist financing.  If a man is known by the company he keeps, Glaser is known
informally at Treasury as the department’s “chief thug” for
his zealous approach to talks with North Korean, Iranian and
Syrian officials. He prefers “missionary from hell,” a
nickname that South Korean media gave him in 2009 during talks
on Iran and  North Korea .  Glaser, 43, has been with the office since its inception,
and he recalls when it had a half-dozen people, compared with 42
today.  “It wasn’t even clear who we reported to,” Glaser said.
“We were basically given a year to prove that the office should
exist at all.”  Watershed Moment  The office had its watershed moment in 2005, when it
targeted a little-known company in Macau called Banco Delta Asia
SARL. The bank was a front company for the North Korean regime,
bolstering Pyongyang’s finances by laundering money and passing
counterfeit U.S. currency, Glaser said. The U.S. designated it a
primary  money-laundering  concern, and Macau, the former
Portuguese colony, froze about $25 million in funds tied to
North Korea.  Glaser and Levey traveled to countries including Vietnam
and Mongolia to explain the situation.  “We never said, ‘Don’t do business with North Korea,’”
Glaser said. “We said, ‘If you want to do legal business with
North Korea, go ahead and do it. And by the way, the line
between licit and illicit business with North Korea is so thin
as to be nearly invisible.’”  By early 2006, North Korea was “almost entirely cut off
from the international financial system,” he said.  ‘Unsung Development’  Glaser spent a decade leading the U.S. delegation to the
Financial Action  Task Force , an inter-governmental group that
pushes nations to fight terrorism and money laundering. The task
force, which Cohen calls an “unsung development” in the anti-
terror fight, has grown from 16 members in 1991 to about three
dozen today, including a half-dozen Persian Gulf states, Russia
and  Mexico .  While U.S. financial sanctions, which are now imposed by
TFI, have a mixed record, U.S. officials say the measures
directed at al-Qaeda and  Libya  have been more successful than
those aimed at dousing the nuclear ambitions of North Korea and
Iran. Cohen said financial sanctions contributed to the demise
of Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi regime, which was ousted after months
of fighting by rebels who were backed by a NATO air campaign.  “It was part of the overall pressure,” he said.  The TFI office also targets some of terrorism’s allies,
including money launderers, drug kingpins and people or
countries involved in the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction.  ‘Exploit Holes’  “Enforcement coupled with enhanced regulation has
strengthened the ability of financial institutions themselves to
be the first line of defense against illicit activity,” said
Amit Sharma, former senior adviser in the TFI office who is now
chief of staff at Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.’s U.S.
investment banking unit.  “These efforts continue to make it harder for terrorists
and other illicit actors to financially support their efforts,
but they remain innovative and exploit holes where they exist in
the financial system,” he said in an e-mail.  Internet fundraising remains a “huge issue” even with
progress, said Matthew Levitt, a former senior Treasury
Department terrorism and financial intelligence official. Online
casinos and other Web-based tools can be exploited to evade
international policing efforts, said Levitt, now director of the
Stein Program on Counterterrorism and Intelligence at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy.  So far, though, there’s little evidence that terrorists are
using the Internet to raise, launder or move money, said the
second U.S. intelligence official.  Air-Cargo Bombs  Attacking financing is just one aspect of actions necessary
to thwart terrorists, said Paul Pillar, a longtime senior
intelligence official who now teaches at Georgetown University
in Washington.  Yemen-based al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula said it spent
only $4,200 for the failed parcel bomb-plot in October 2010. The
bomb was found during a cargo check during a stopover in  London 
after authorities were tipped off by Saudi intelligence.  “Most terrorist operations that are big enough to get our
attention are pretty cheap,” Pillar said. “And most terrorist
organizations don’t need extensive infrastructures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  