-- Half of Cargo Ship Sinking Off N.Z. Coast
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-01-10T04:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/half-of-cargo-ship-sinking-off-n-z-coast.html
Half of the container ship Rena
stranded on a  New Zealand  reef for more than three months is
sinking after breaking up in rough seas and littering beaches
with cargo and debris.  Most of the stern section of the 236-meter (774 foot)
vessel has slipped off the Astrolabe reef and is submerged,
according to a statement on the Maritime New Zealand  website .
The rest of the hull, which split off two days ago, remains on
the reef.  The vessel ran aground on Oct. 5 near Tauranga, 100 miles
(160 kilometers) southeast of Auckland, losing cargo into the
sea and spilling as much as 350 metric tons of oil in the
nation’s worst environmental disaster. More containers, oil and
debris have been lost today and are headed for shore,  Maritime
New Zealand  said.  The Liberian-flagged ship, owned by Athens-based  Costamare
Shipping Co. (CMRE) , was carrying 1,368 containers and about 1,700
metric tons of  fuel oil  when it struck the reef, according to
the agency. A tanker moored alongside the Rena took off 1,000
tons of oil since the grounding after leaking fuel blackened
beaches in the area and killed seabirds. About 389 containers
were also removed.  The Rena was hit by seven-meter waves over the weekend and
a three-nautical-mile exclusion zone around the vessel was
enforced. Another 150 containers were lost after the two
sections moved about 30 meters apart on Jan. 8, according to
Maritime New Zealand.  Oil Spill Response  The quantity of oil lost today is not known and is a
fraction of the amount released in October, it said. The oil is
expected to reach nearby Motiti Island later today and the
mainland shore tomorrow, the agency said. Clean-up and wildlife
response teams are being reactivated.  Salvors estimate about 400 containers are in the stern
section,  Maritime New Zealand  said. The ship was carrying 619
twenty-foot containers and 749 forty-foot containers, or the
equivalent of 2,117 twenty-foot units when it grounded, the
agency said.  Tugs have been sent to monitor and collect any drifting
containers, the agency said. Another tug attached to the stern
tried to reposition it on the reef to aid container recovery,
but this proved impossible, it said.  Since the ship split, 12 containers have come ashore, while
workers tagged 21 others with buoys and planned to collect them
when the weather improves, Maritime New Zealand said yesterday.
Defense force personnel used mine-clearing equipment to check
for debris in harbor channels.  Port of Tauranga Ltd., New Zealand’s largest export port,
today said normal shipping movements are continuing, according
to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net  