-- Alzheimer’s Gene Carriers May Cut Their Risk With Exercise, Study Shows
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-01-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/alzheimer-s-gene-carriers-may-cut-their-risk-with-exercise-study-shows.html
People who are genetically
susceptible to developing Alzheimer’s disease may be able to
reduce their risk with exercise, a study found.  Carriers of the Alzheimer’s  gene  APOE-4 who regularly
exercised over a decade were five to 10 times less likely to
have brain plaques linked to the disease than those with the
gene who weren’t physically active, said John C. Morris, senior
author of the study published today in Archives of Neurology.  About 5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer’s and, by 2050,
that number is expected to grow to as many as 16 million,
according to the  Alzheimer’s Association . Between 15 and 20
percent of the general population carry the APOE-4 gene, Morris
said. While the study shows that those who exercised had fewer
 amyloid  plaques in the brain, the signature markers of the
disease, more follow up is needed to see if exercise actually
delayed or blocked symptoms, he said.  “It’s not proof that exercise is protective, but it’s a
very strong association and it gives biologic credence that
staying physically active may help us protect against
Alzheimer’s disease,” said  Morris , director of the Knight
Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center and a professor of neurology
at  Washington University  in  St. Louis ,  Missouri , in a Jan. 6
telephone interview.  Alzheimer’s destroys brain cells, making it difficult for
patients to think, remember and function. Markers of brain cell
death include  amyloid plaques and tangles , Morris said. That
process can begin in the brain 10 to 20 years before symptoms
occur. The patients need to be followed for years to determine
if they actually become symptomatic, he said.  Study Participants  The study involved 201 people ages 45 to 88 years without
symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease who filled out questionnaires on
their  physical activity  during the past ten years. The patients
were also tested to see if they carried the APOE-4 gene. The
researchers then used spinal fluid tests or brain images to see
if the patients had amyloid deposits in their brain.  About one-third of the study participants carried the APOE-
4 gene, Morris said. Those who engaged in brisk walking or
jogging at least 30 minutes a day, five days a week benefited
from the physical activity, he said.  Those without the gene and exercise didn’t have the same
results.  Researchers are unsure how exercise reduces amyloid in the
brain. Physical activity helps diminish other risk factors in
mid life that are associated with an increased risk of
Alzheimer’s disease later, including  heart disease , diabetes,
obesity and high  blood pressure , Morris said. Exercise may help
promote brain health.  Alzheimer’s Global Growth  “Just how exercise does it, we don’t know,” Morris said.
“Whatever we can do to prolong the eventual appearance of
Alzheimer’s disease symptoms or eventually prevent the onset of
Alzheimer’s disease symptoms will be very important for people
who know they are at risk for developing Alzheimer’s disease.”  The number of people worldwide with the condition is
expected to swell to  115 million by 2050  and there are no
effective treatments. Existing medications have only been found
to ease symptoms temporarily.  Studies on Alzheimer’s disease and exercise have shown
mixed results.  An August 2009 study in the Journal of the  American Medical
Association  showed that those who adhered most closely to a
Mediterranean diet rich in fish, fruits and vegetables and were
the most physically active had about a 60 percent lower risk of
developing Alzheimer’s disease compared with those who didn’t
follow the diet and exercise.  In June 2010, a panel advising the  National Institutes of
Health  said that an analysis of research showed that exercise or
following the Mediterranean diet may not slow  memory loss  or
lower a person’s chance of developing the disease.  Alzheimer’s Association  Heather Snyder , senior associate director of medical and
scientific relations at the Alzheimer’s Association in  Chicago ,
said in a telephone interview today that today’s study starts to
bring together a lot of different areas of Alzheimer’s research,
but more trials are needed to show whether exercise can delay or
prevent the onset of the disease.  “They’re really looking at a snapshot in time,” she said.
“The ultimate study would be to have a very large population
that was followed over a long period of time, similar to what
we’ve seen in heart health.”  Even though more research is needed, the  Alzheimer’s
Association  suggests people stay physically and mentally active,
socially engaged and eat a well-balanced diet, including green
leafy vegetables, to maintain  brain health , Snyder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  