-- Manchester United Manager Alex Ferguson Criticizes Media ‘Sensationalism’
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-09T16:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/manchester-united-manager-alex-ferguson-criticizes-media-sensationalism-.html
Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  said soccer players are now subject to media
“sensationalism” to a degree that was reserved for Hollywood
actors when he first joined the club more than 25 years ago.  “They face situations wherever they go that they are in
the spotlight, that’s the unfortunate thing for the modern
footballer,” Ferguson told reporters in Zurich, where he’s a
nominee for FIFA’s coach of the year award. “If you go back 25
years ago it was all the young actors from film who were getting
attention.”  Ferguson yesterday expressed concern that United’s  Wayne Rooney  has become a target for the U.K.’s media in the same way
that former  England  midfielder  Paul Gascoigne  was during his
playing career. Gascoigne has battled alcohol and mental illness
for much of the past decade.  Three days ago, United and Rooney issued denials over a
story in the Independent newspaper that the player would be sold
because of a dispute with Ferguson. Rooney threatened to leave
in October 2010 before signing a new contract after putting out
a statement questioning United’s ability to attract top players.  The growth of satellite television and dedicated websites
has made it harder for newspapers to find exclusive content and
led to the “sensationalism that you see in journalism today,”
Ferguson said.  His team beat Premier League leader Manchester City 3-2 in
the F.A. Cup yesterday, with Rooney scoring twice. City captain
 Vincent Kompany  was red-carded in the 12th minute of the match,
and manager  Roberto Mancini  claimed Rooney pressured the referee
to send off the player. City leads United in England’s Premier
League.  ‘Unfortunate Part’  Ferguson said he understood Mancini’s reaction although he
said Rooney’s gesture was an instinctive one that’s an
“unfortunate part of our game.”  “It’s what happens with players today: they all appeal for
opposition players to be sent off,” Ferguson said. “I have no
complaints about Wayne.”  Rooney joined United in 2004 for 25.6 million pounds ($39.5
million), a then world record fee for a teenager. Since then the
club has won four league titles and a  Champions League .  Newspaper reports said he was left out of the team for a
game against Blackburn last month for disciplinary reasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Zurich via London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  