-- Apple CEO Cook’s 2011 Comp Worth $378M
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-01-10T18:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/apple-ceo-cook-s-11-compensation-to-reach-378-million-with-stock-options.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  will receive compensation for 2011 worth $378 million,
one of the biggest pay packages on record, boosted by restricted
stock awards that he’ll receive over the coming decade.  The total includes $376.2 million in shares, half of which
will vest in five years and the remaining amount in 10 years,
Cupertino, California-based Apple said yesterday in a proxy
filing to  shareholders . Cook’s base salary was $900,000 in 2011.
The company, which plans to hold its annual shareholder meeting
on Feb. 23, had previously disclosed that Cook received 1
million restricted shares in August.  Cook’s potential payday ranks among the largest for a
company executive and will be worth even more if Apple’s stock
rises, said  Paul Hodgson , managing director at  GovernanceMetrics
International , a corporate-governance consulting firm. Apple
said its  board  gave the stock options to help ensure Cook stays
at the company.  Steve Jobs , who passed the reins to Cook before
his death in October, had given input about the pay package.  “If Apple continues its growth even at more modest levels
than it has done in the past, then the award is going to far
exceed anything we’ve ever seen,” Hodgson said.  Oracle Corp. CEO  Larry Ellison  received 2011 compensation
valued at $77.6 million. At Microsoft Corp., Steve Ballmer’s pay
package was worth $1.38 million.  Growing Value  Cook’s options are already worth more than what Apple
valued them at in August, the month he switched from chief
operating officer to CEO. At yesterday’s  closing price  of
$421.73, Cook’s  stock options  are worth $421.7 million. The
stock is little changed today at $423.38.  The compensation is warranted because investors expect Cook
to continue releasing the kinds of products that made Apple the
world’s most valuable technology company, said Kevin Dede, an
analyst at  Brigantine Advisors  in  New York .  “It did seem a little high, but I guess we live in a world
where basketball players are getting multimillion-dollar
salaries,” Dede said. “Apple is a great company, and he’s done
a lot to make it a great company.”  Cook led Apple during Jobs’s three medical leaves, before
taking the CEO position permanently, and has steered Apple
through crisis. When the tsunami hit  Japan  last year, the
company quickly found alternative sources to more than 100
components with few disruptions.  Cook isn’t the only executive who has received millions of
dollars worth of stock option grants.  Doling Out Shares  In November, software executive Scott Forstall, hardware
manager Bob Mansfield, Chief Financial Officer Peter Oppenheimer, marketing chief  Phil Schiller , General Counsel
Bruce Sewell and operation manager Jeff Williams each received
150,000 restricted shares, which vest between 2013 and 2016,
according to  regulatory filings .  Eddy Cue, who handles Internet software, received 100,000
shares after having received another 100,000 when he was
promoted to senior vice president last year.  Jobs had compensation of $1 every year when he was CEO,
though the board awarded him stock grants. The Apple co-founder
owned 5.5 million shares at the time of his death.  Apple temporarily became the biggest company in the world
by market value last year, before slipping back behind  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  