-- Marchionne Weighs New Fiat-Chrysler Partner
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-01-10T09:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/marchionne-considering-fiat-chrysler-partner-to-lower-costs.html
Fiat SpA (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC may
seek to combine with another automaker to increase efficiencies
and cut development costs as the European debt crisis eats into
the Italian carmaker’s sales.  “There may be a third partner,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief
executive officer of both companies, said at the North American
International Auto Show in Detroit yesterday. “You need to
build a new level of efficiency.” Marchionne said the partner
can be “of any color you want if it gives me the level of
industrial convergence I’m looking for.”  To create the necessary car-making efficiencies, automotive
groups need to build from 8 million to 10 million vehicles a
year, Marchionne said. Currently only  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
Volkswagen AG and Toyota Motor Co. are producing at or near that
level. Fiat and Chrysler together sold about 4.2 million
vehicles in 2010, the CEO said last month.  Marchionne’s renewed interest in teaming up with another
company comes as he considers lowering his 2014 sales target to
5.7 million cars from a previous forecast of 5.9 million. Fiat
may globally lose 500,000 vehicle sales annually as a result of
the European debt crisis, he said yesterday. Fiat-Chrysler
deliveries will total about 4.9 million autos in 2014, based on
the average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “This is a volume business,” Marchionne said in an
interview with Bloomberg Radio. “We need to see whether other
opportunities are available.”  Shares Advance  Fiat  rose  as much as 11 cents, or 2.8 percent, to 3.84
euros and was up 2.2 percent to 3.81 euros as of 10:01 a.m. in
Milan trading, valuing the Turin-based manufacturer at 4.79
billion euros ($6.11 billion).  Marchionne had said previously that automotive groups
needed to sell about 6 million vehicles annually to be viable in
the long term.  “When you look at where the volume is growing globally,
you should look at the  emerging markets ,” said  Jeff Schuster ,
senior vice president for forecasting at LMC Automotive in Troy,
 Michigan . “Some of the potential partners could be coming from
 China , eastern  Europe ,  India  and some of other emerging
markets.”  Europe needs consolidation among carmakers to compete with
 Volkswagen (VOW3) , which has more than 20 percent market share in the
region, Marchionne said, adding that he’s not in talks with
anyone. In Europe, Fiat could possibly link up with Volvo Car
Corp., owned by Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., or GM’s Opel
division, Schuster said.  Chrysler Merger  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-largest carmaker after
VW, is ready to discuss a possible alliance with Fiat,  Corriere
Della Sera  reported today, citing “authoritative” sources.
Peugeot spokeswoman Cecile Damide declined to comment.  Fiat plans to merge with  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler by the end of 2014 after reaching an agreement with the
United Auto Workers union’s retiree health-care trust regarding
its 41.5 percent holding in the U.S. automaker, Marchionne told
reporters after showing the Dodge Dart compact car that last
week boosted Fiat’s ownership stake by 5 percent to 58.5
percent.  Marchionne is counting on the Dart to build on momentum
from new or refreshed models such as the Chrysler 200 sedan and
Jeep Grand Cherokee sport-utility vehicle, which helped the
company top U.S. market share gains made last year by GM and
Ford Motor Co. Deliveries climbed 26 percent, still missing the
CEO’s goal for a 45 percent jump.  Company Headquarters  Marchionne said the decision where the merged company will
be based “will be taken at the right time, which is not now.”
He has said instability in  Italy  may affect the decision on
where the combined company will have its headquarters. An
unelected government that took power in November is imposing
austerity in the country to prevent the euro area’s third-
biggest economy from succumbing to the region’s debt crisis  “These are tough times for Italy,” Marchionne said. “The
austerity is having an impact on everything. In 2008 and 2009
here in  Detroit  you felt the same worries there are now in
Italy. They managed to solve it here, and now there’s
enthusiasm. Italy needs a new industrial policy.”  Chrysler said last week it will add a third shift and 1,100
jobs at a Detroit plant that makes the Grand Cherokee and Dodge
Durango SUVs. In a statement, Marchionne said Chrysler’s future
is “interwoven” with Detroit.  Profit Targets  Fiat may revise its operating profit targets for 2012 as a
result of the sovereign-debt crisis though any new target should
overlap with part of the existing range of 1.6 billion euros ($2
billion) to 2 billion euros, excluding Chrysler, Marchionne said
last month.  Chrysler expects to report a profit of about $600 million
for 2011, a forecast it boosted from a range of $200 million to
$500 million in October. The outlook excludes costs associated
with paying back U.S. and Canadian government loans as part of
the company’s 2009 bankruptcy. Marchionne has forecast Chrysler
will post $3 billion in operating profit in 2012.  Fiat’s boosted stake in Chrysler was triggered by the
commitment to build a 40-mpg rated Dart at an assembly plant in
Belvidere,  Illinois . The model is Chrysler’s first vehicle on a
Fiat architecture, the “compact wide” platform that underpins
Alfa Romeo’s Giulietta.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Detroit via 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  