-- Target Sells $2.5 Billion of Debt to Pay JPMorgan Receivables
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-01-09T21:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/target-plans-bonds-to-pay-back-jpmorgan-credit-card-receivables.html
Target Corp. (TGT)  raised $2.5 billion in
bonds, its biggest debt offering since January 2008, as the
second-largest U.S. discount retailer seeks to pay back
obligations tied to its credit-card business.  The company sold $1.5 billion of one-year floating-rate
debt and $1 billion of 2.9 percent, 10-year fixed-rate bonds to
buy a note issued by a Target Card Owner Trust to JPMorgan Chase
& Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Minneapolis-
based Target is able to prepay principal on the note until Jan.
31, it said in its most recent quarterly filing.  Target, which sold almost half of its credit-card loans to
JPMorgan for $3.6 billion in 2008, said in November it plans to
make an announcement regarding the sale of receivables before
Chief Financial Officer Doug Scovanner retires at the end of
March. The company said last year that the performance of the
portfolio and capital market conditions made an attractive
opportunity to sell the receivables.  “The most likely form of such an announcement will be that
we’ve reached an agreement with a buyer on both the terms of
such a sale and on the nature of an ongoing arrangement with
them as well,” Chief Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  said on
a conference call to discuss earnings in November.  The sale was Target’s biggest since the company conducted a
$4 billion offering in January 2008, Bloomberg data show.  Target’s Bond Spread  The 10-year notes pay 102 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. That compares with an
80 basis-point spread Target paid on $1 billion of similar-
maturity debt in July 2010, the data show. The floating-rate
notes pay 3 basis points above the three-month London interbank
offered rate, a lending  benchmark (US0003M)  set at 0.58 percent today.  Bill Ackman , founder of New York-based Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, lost a boardroom battle more than two
years ago in which he pushed Target to divest the card unit and
separate its land holdings into a real estate investment trust.
Excising credit cards would have stemmed the risk of rising non-
payments by consumers during the worst economic crisis since the
Great Depression, the hedge fund manager said. Target now favors
a sale to fund store expansion in  Canada .  Target last tapped the  debt market  in July, issuing $1
billion of three-year notes, Bloomberg data show.  France Telecom SA (FTE) , the country’s largest phone company,
sold $900 million of 30-year bonds at a 240 basis point spread
today, Bloomberg data show. Auto and home insurer  Allstate
Corp. (ALL) , based in Northbrook,  Illinois , sold $500 million of 5.2
percent, 30-year bonds to pay back notes that mature next month
and to buy back stock, the data show.  Energy Transfer Partners LP and Toyota Motor Credit Corp.
are both marketing $2 billion bond offerings today, according to
people with knowledge of the offerings, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  