-- Asian Currencies Weaken as Europe Crisis Saps Demand for Riskier Assets
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-01-09T08:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/asian-currencies-weaken-as-europe-crisis-saps-demand-for-riskier-assets.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
 Indonesia ’s rupiah and Malaysia’s ringgit, as concern Europe’s
debt crisis will worsen prompted investors to favor assets
perceived safer than those in  emerging markets .  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell for a fourth
day before German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy meet in Berlin today to craft a plan for
rescuing the euro over the next three months. Economists predict
trade data this week will show  Philippine (PHEXYOY)  exports shrank for a
seventh month and Malaysian  shipments (MAETEYOY)  rose in November at the
slowest pace in three months, according to separate Bloomberg
News surveys.  “Traders and investors are looking at Europe which still
hasn’t gotten its act together,” said Lito Mercado, head of
trading at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in  Manila . “It will
be a problem for growth, not just in Europe but globally. It
will affect our own economies and currencies.”  The rupiah slumped 1.2 percent to 9,208 per dollar as of
3:34 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit and Thailand’s baht fell 0.3
percent to 3.1535 and 31.79, respectively. The Asia Dollar
Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the yen, declined 0.1 percent.  Indonesian Rates  The Indonesian currency fell to a six-week low before the
central bank, which cut borrowing costs twice last quarter to
spur economic growth, reviews them again this week. Bank
Indonesia will keep the  reference rate (IDBIRATE)  unchanged at 6 percent on
Jan. 12, according to 13 out of 18 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Five predict a reduction to 5.75 percent.  The monetary authority sees room to reduce borrowing costs
if needed, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said last week.  “ Europe ’s debt crisis is causing  risk aversion ,” said
Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “We are
not expecting any rate cut by Bank Indonesia this quarter. The
last cut was premature.”  The ringgit dropped the most in more than a week before a
Jan. 11 report that may show exports rose 13.5 percent from a
year earlier in November after a 15.8 percent gain the previous
month, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Industrial production grew 3.5 percent after
a 2.8 percent gain in October, a separate poll showed before
data due tomorrow.  Ringgit Weakens  “I expect the ringgit to weaken to 3.40 to the greenback
by the end of the first quarter,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan,
a currency strategist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “Demand for the dollar will be strong.”  The peso fell as much as 0.5 percent before ending little
changed as a government report tomorrow may show overseas
shipments dropped 10 percent in November from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Elsewhere,  South Korea ’s won  and  China ’s yuan slid 0.1
percent to 1,163.65 and 6.3155, respectively, against the
dollar. Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to NT$30.205.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 