-- Euro Strengthens as Merkel, Sarkozy Meet
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-09T21:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/asian-stocks-fall-as-euro-oil-drop-before-merkel-sarkozy-crisis-meeting.html
U.S. stocks advanced, adding to last
week’s gain, as  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  rose before starting the earnings
season and banks climbed. The euro rebounded from the lowest
level versus the dollar since September 2010 as leaders
discussed plans to shore up the currency.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2 percent to
close at 1,280.7 at 4 p.m. in  New York , while the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rose 32.77 points, or 0.3 percent, to
12,392.69. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.5 percent. The
euro appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.2770. Ten-year Treasury
yields were little changed at 1.96 percent. Cocoa, soybeans and
wheat climbed more than 2.7 percent while declines in oil,
natural gas, gold and copper left the S&P GSCI index of 24 raw
materials little changed.  Alcoa released fourth-quarter results that matched
analysts’ estimates after U.S. markets closed, the first Dow
company to report for the period.  Greece ’s struggle to contain
its debt is a “special case” and no country must leave the
euro, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  told reporters after
meeting with French President Nicolas Sarkozyin Berlin to
consider measures designed to rescue the euro over the next
three months.  “In the U.S., the earnings expectations have been lowered
to a point that you’ll probably have an OK reaction,”  Michael Holland , chairman and founder of New York-based Holland & Co.,
said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees more than $4
billion. “Europe is trying to figure out a way of getting some
growth, but at the same time they have austerity.”  Earnings Season  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported its
first  quarterly loss (AA)  in more than two years after prices tumbled
for the lightweight metal. The fourth-quarter loss of 3 cents a
share, excluding restructuring costs, matched the average
projection from 18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 6
percent to $5.99 billion from $5.65 billion. Alcoa shares
rallied 3 percent to lead gains in the Dow in regular trading
and were little changed in extended trading after the close.  Companies in the  S&P 500  may report earnings grew 6 percent
in the quarter from a year earlier, the smallest quarterly gain
since September 2009, according to projections compiled by
Bloomberg as of Jan. 6. The S&P 500 climbed 1.6 percent last
week after ending 2011 almost unchanged.  “We’ll see some earnings growth this year but not a lot,”
Kevin Caron, a market strategist in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a telephone interview. His firm
has more than $107 billion in client assets. “Europe is going
to remain front and center.”  General Electric Co. (GE) , Chevron Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co.
paced gains that sent industrial, energy and financial shares to
the biggest gains among 10 industries in the S&P 500. Netflix
Inc., the film-streaming and mail-order DVD service, surged 14
percent after introducing its online service in the U.K. and
Ireland.  The euro strengthened 0.3 percent to 98.15 yen, rebounding
from the lowest level since December 2000. The Dollar Index,
which tracks the U.S. currency against those of six trading
partners, slipped 0.4 percent, falling for the first time in
four days.  The Swiss franc strengthened against 13 of its 16 major
counterparts, gaining 0.6 percent versus the dollar, after Swiss
National Bank Chairman Philipp Hildebrand resigned amid scrutiny
over his wife’s currency trading.  European Bonds  The Spanish 10-year yield declined 15 basis points to 5.56
percent, narrowing the difference with bunds by 14 basis points,
while the Portuguese-German 10-year spread fell 18 basis points.
Italian 10-year yields climbed three basis points to 7.16
percent.  The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond climbed one basis
point to 3.02 percent, reversing earlier declines. The
government will sell $32 billion of three-year notes tomorrow,
$21 billion of 10-year debt the following day, and $13 billion
of 30-year bonds on Jan. 12.  Euro-area leaders may complete their new budget rulebook by
Jan. 30, one month ahead of schedule, and are considering
accelerating capital contributions to the bailout fund being set
up this year to stem the debt crisis. Merkel and Sarkozy
outlined the increased pace of their response as the financial
crisis that began in Greece in 2009 entered its third year amid
concern that the future of the single currency itself was in
doubt.  Sarkozy won the backing of German Chancellor Angela Merkel
for a tax on financial transactions, a levy that Britain
maintains won’t work unless it’s applied worldwide.  European Markets  Almost two stocks fell for each that rose in the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP) .
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  lost 4.1 percent, the most on a closing
basis since January 2009, after the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker
said it will hold further talks with U.S. regulators on
requirements for a filing for the experimental drug Relovair for
use against asthma.  UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s largest lender, tumbled 13 percent
as rights to buy its shares slumped in their first day of
trading in Milan. After European markets closed, Commerzbank AG
said its funding needs for the current year have fallen to as
much as 6 billion euros ($7.66 billion), according a
presentation  Germany ’s second- largest lender published on its
website today. The bank, which raised more than 2 billion euros
in 2011 for 2012, said in November that it anticipated a funding
need of 6 billion euros to 8 billion euros for 2012.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.6 percent as the
Shanghai Composite Index surged 2.9 percent. Chinese stocks
gained the most in almost three months after the central bank
reported lending and money supply growth that exceeded
economists’ estimates in December.  Hungarian shares rose for the first time in five days,
sending the BUX Index up 3.5 percent, after Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  told state news service MTI yesterday his
government was open to “any kind” of  credit line  with the
 International Monetary Fund .  Brazil (IBOV) ’s Bovespa index increased 0.8 percent to lead gains
among Latin American markets. The BSE India Sensitive Index
slipped 0.2 percent after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said the
economy will have grown about 7 percent in the year to March 31,
less than a December forecast of 7.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  