-- Australia’s Stalling Retail Sales Spur Bets for Interest-Rate Cut: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-09T03:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/australian-retail-sales-unexpectedly-stall-ending-four-month-long-advance.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
stalled in November, ending four months of gains and pushing the
nation’s currency to a one-week low as traders increased bets
that the central bank will cut  interest rates .  Sales were little changed from a month earlier, when they
rose 0.2 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today.
The result compares with the median  forecast (AURSTSA)  in a Bloomberg News
survey of 20 economists for a 0.4 percent gain.  Weaker consumer spending may broaden the scope for  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  to lower the nation’s
benchmark rate again after quarter percentage-point cuts on Nov.
1 and Dec. 6. Stevens has joined counterparts from  Brazil  to
 Belgium  in loosening monetary policy as Europe teeters near a
recession, weighing on sentiment and clouding the outlook for
global growth.  “It was a disappointing result,” said  Michael Turner , an
economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney. “We don’t
expect a bounce in December either given the early part of the
month was soft from what we understand.”  The Australian dollar touched $1.0146, the least since Dec.
30, before trading 0.6 percent lower at $1.0166 as of 2:17 p.m.
in Sydney. The local currency bought $1.0179 before the data.
The so-called Aussie has fallen in four straight trading days,
its longest slide since mid-November.  Spending on other retailing, a category that includes
recreational goods and books, rose 0.3 percent, and consumers
spent 0.1 percent more at cafes and restaurants, today’s report
showed. They spent 0.4 percent less on clothing and footwear,
and 0.1 percent less at department stores, it showed.  Food Shops  Sales at food and household goods retailers were unchanged
from October.  Asian stocks fell today for a third day, while the euro and
oil retreated before German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy meet to develop rescue plans for the
euro over the next three months.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index excluding  Japan  lost 0.9
percent as of 10:39 a.m. in  Hong Kong . The euro fell to an 11-
year low against the yen and weakened to the least in nearly 16
months versus the dollar. Gold slid 0.6 percent, while oil
decreased 0.5 percent.  China ’s lending and money supply growth in December
exceeded economists’ estimates, signaling monetary conditions
may be easing as the nation’s central bank said it must be
prepared for possible shocks from the U.S. and Europe.  China Lending  New loans totaled 640.5 billion yuan ($101 billion) for the
month, exceeding the estimates of all 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. M2, a measure of China’s money supply, rose 13.6
percent, compared with the 12.9 percent median of 18 estimates.  Elsewhere in the region, Taiwan’s export growth accelerated
to 3.7 percent in December from 1.3 percent a month earlier,
according to the median of nine estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey before a report later today.  Earlier, a government report showed  New Zealand ’s trade
deficit widened in November as crude oil and fertilizer
purchases bolstered imports, even as exports gained for a third
straight month. Imports exceeded exports by NZ$308 million ($240
million), from a revised NZ$228 million deficit in October,
Statistics New Zealand said in Wellington.  In  Europe  today, reports may show  Germany ’s exports rose
0.5 percent in November from the previous month, while
industrial production in the region’s largest economy likely
fell 0.5 percent in the same period, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  French Trade  France ’s trade deficit may have narrowed in November to 6
billion euros ($7.6 billion) from about 6.3 billion in October,
another survey of economists showed.  Switzerland ’s jobless rate was 3.2 percent in December
compared with 3.1 percent in November, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg said before a State Secretariat for Economic Affairs
report. The country’s retail sales probably rose 0.2 percent in
November from a year earlier, according to a separate survey.  In the U.S., consumer borrowing probably rose by $7 billion
in November, compared with a $7.64 billion gain the previous
month, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
before the  Federal Reserve  releases the figures today.  Australia lowered the nation’s benchmark rate to 4.5
percent from 4.75 percent on Nov. 1, the first reduction since
April 2009, and eased further to 4.25 percent the following
month. Futures traders are betting Stevens will cut again next
month as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis intensifies.  ‘Intense Competition’  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , Australia’s biggest
electronics retailer, said in October that sales fell in the
three months through Sept. 30. It cited the strength of the
local currency and “intense competition” for the weakness.  Australia’s jobless rate rose in November to 5.3 percent
from 5.2 percent, as employers cut 6,300 jobs, according to a
government report released Dec. 8.  Australia’s higher borrowing costs relative to other
developed-world economies and the mining-investment boom helped
drive the Australian dollar to $1.1081 on July 27, the highest
since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  Europe’s fiscal troubles have weighed on the so-called
Aussie in recent months. The world’s fifth most-traded currency
fell 8.3 percent from that peak on concern Greece would default
and trigger a repeat of the 2008 credit freeze that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  