-- Auto Watchdogs Happy With GM’s Volt-Fix Plan, U.S. Agency Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-09T13:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/auto-watchdogs-happy-with-gm-s-volt-fix-plan-u-s-agency-says.html
U.S. auto-safety regulators are
pleased with  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s plan to fix its Volt electric
cars following fires in crash testing, National Highway Traffic
Safety Administrator  David Strickland  said.  GM, based in  Detroit , told owners last week to bring their
Volts back to dealerships to have steel added to shield the
cars’ lithium-ion batteries. Strickland’s agency opened an
investigation into the Volt’s battery in November.  “They really did put customers first,” Strickland said
yesterday in an interview at Cobo Hall in Detroit, where the
North American International Auto Show started today. “This
really is a safety issue.”  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, speaking with
reporters today at the auto show, said GM “worked very
cooperatively” with regulators. “It’s in everybody’s best
interest to make sure the Volt is safe to drive,” said LaHood,
who praised the U.S. government’s $7,500 tax credit for buyers
of the Volt and other electric vehicles.  NHTSA plans to conclude its investigation soon, Strickland
said without further specifying.  Sales Impact  The investigation has lowered demand for the car, according
to Bandon, Oregon-based CNW Marketing Research Inc. U.S. dealers
sold 7,671 Volts last year, missing GM’s 2011 target of 10,000.  GM plans to expand production of the Volt to 60,000 this
year, with 45,000 of the cars earmarked for the U.S. Not
including sales to corporate fleet customers, GM sold 992 Volts
in December and ended the month with 4,200 in inventory.  The automaker said last week it would reinforce the
structure on the sides of the car to spread energy away from the
battery during a side-impact crash, the type of impact that
preceded the fires in testing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  