-- Statues of Mayawati, Party’s Elephant Symbol to Be Covered for India Polls
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-01-09T09:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/mayawati-statues-will-be-covered-as-she-seeks-re-election-in-indian-state.html
The chief minister of  India ’s most
populous state has been ordered to cover statues of herself and
her party’s elephant symbol as they may influence voters ahead
of provincial elections that begin next month.  Mayawati, who uses one name and draws support for her
Bahujan Samaj Party mainly from those on the lower rungs of the
country’s traditional caste system, has until Jan. 11 to wrap
the statues, the Election Commission said in a  statement .
Taxpayers -- whose money was used to produce the sculptures --
will have to foot the bill for the mass veiling, it said.  “It is an insult to the intelligence of the Indian voter
that they are going to be influenced by a few statues,” said
 A.K. Verma , a political analyst at Christ Church College in
Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh.  In October, Mayawati attended the official opening of a
park on the outskirts of  New Delhi  that honors icons of the
lower castes, known as Dalits. The park cost $139 million to
build, the Times of India reported, and contains 24 pink
sandstone elephants and 12 giant statues of B.R. Ambedkar, who
led the drafting of India’s constitution and is a Dalit hero,
and Mayawati, the newspaper said.  Mayawati’s bid for re-election faces a challenge from the
Congress party whose campaign is being led by  Rahul Gandhi , who
may be India’s next prime minister if Congress were to win
national polls due by 2014. During her five-year term, Mayawati
has been criticized by rivals for raising costly statues in a
state that is home to the highest number of people living in
poverty in India.  Literacy Lag  Uttar Pradesh , which government figures show has a per
capita income of $436, half the national average, is home to
about 60 million people living on less than $2 a day, the  World
Bank  estimates. The state also lags behind in social indicators
such as literacy and infant mortality, the bank says.  With a population of 200 million people, almost equal to
 Brazil ’s, Uttar Pradesh is India’s most important electoral
prize electing about a seventh of the 545 lawmakers in India’s
lower house of parliament. Voting for its regional assembly will
start later than the earlier planned date of Feb. 4 to avoid a
clash with the birth anniversary of  Prophet Muhammad , the
election commission said today. A new date will be announced
soon. Ballots will be counted in early March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  