-- Banks Blame Countrywide for U.K. Mortgage Losses in 97 Suits
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-01-09T16:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/banks-blame-countrywide-for-u-k-mortgage-losses-in-97-lawsuits.html
Suninder Sandha bought his luxury
apartment in  Coleorton Hall , a 19th century country mansion near
Leicester in central England, using a 1.2 million-pound loan
($1.86 million) from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in 2005.  When the  property market  collapsed two years later, Sandha
couldn’t make his mortgage payments and Barclays seized the
apartment, selling it for 500,000 pounds. The lender has now
sued  Countrywide Plc (CWD) , whose surveying unit valued it at the peak
of the boom, for its losses, according to court papers.  The suit is one of 38 filed last year in London’s High
Court against Countrywide, the nation’s largest residential
property broker, by lenders including Barclays,  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and GMAC-RFC. That’s more claims than any of the four
largest U.K. banks faced in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. As many as 97 lawsuits have been filed since 2007
against Countrywide, bought that year by private-equity firm
Apollo Management LP.  “These banks have incurred huge losses and they are
looking for someone to blame,” said Alexandra Anderson, a
partner at law firm Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP representing
surveyors including Countrywide. “Often the blame is
themselves, and the lending practices they had.”  Countrywide, now also owned by  Oaktree Capital Management
LLC (OAKTRZ)  and Alchemy Partners LLP, said in an e-mailed statement it
had seen a considerable increase in professional negligence
claims, particularly from now-defunct lenders.  ‘Fulfilled Our Responsibilities’  “We will continue to defend our position when we believe
we have fulfilled our responsibilities,” Countrywide said. “If
an error is made, then we do seek to settle with claimants.”  The London company isn’t affiliated with Countrywide
Financial Corp., the Calabasas, California-based subprime lender
acquired by Bank of America Corp. in 2008. The  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank paid a fair-lending practices record $335
million last month to settle a U.S. Justice Department probe
into Countrywide Financial’s practices.  A U.K. judge ruled in Countrywide Plc’s favor last month in
one of the first such cases to reach court, saying GMAC-RFC, the
British mortgage-lending unit of  Ally Financial Inc (ALLY) ., didn’t do
enough research in making a loan on a property the surveyor
valued.  Lenders suing Countrywide say they issued home loans based
on unrealistic valuations by its surveying unit and lost money
when the properties turned out to be worth less than estimated.  Buyout Holdings  Apollo went public in March and reported a third-quarter
loss of $1.14 billion in November after writing down the value
of its buyout holdings as equity markets tumbled. The New York-
based firm bought Countrywide when U.K. house prices were rising
at the fastest pace in almost four years, figures compiled by
researcher Hometrack Ltd. then showed.  Apollo also bought Realogy Corp., the largest U.S.
residential real estate broker, for $8.5 billion in 2007 during
the worst downturn in home sales there since the Great
Depression. By the end of the next year Realogy, owner of the
Century 21 and Coldwell Banker brands, was on the verge of
defaulting on the what Apollo had borrowed to buy it.  U.K. home prices have fallen 9.5 percent since the market
slumped in 2007, real-estate broker Savills Plc estimated in
November. The biggest loser has been England’s northwest with a
14 percent drop.  London  prices have shed 2.9 percent.  Barclays spokeswoman Emma Austin declined to comment on its
lawsuit. U.K. telephone directories online didn’t list an
address for Sandha since he left Coleorton Hall and the lawsuit
didn’t provide details of where he is now. Apollo spokesman
 Charles Zehren  declined to comment.  Surge Last Year  Many more claims haven’t yet reached court, said Anderson.
The 2011 surge was caused in part by the statute of limitations
requiring grievances be filed within six years, she said.  The property boom continued into 2007 so the number of
lawsuits may rise further, lawyers for both sides said.  “I anticipate the volume of valuer claims will surge
significantly again over the next couple of years particularly
as limitation is becoming more of an issue for claimants,” said
Andy Lyon, an attorney for lenders including U.K. banks.  Countrywide, which has rental, estate agency and financial
services units as well as the surveying arm, announced an
exceptional charge of 11.9 million pounds in 2010 due to “an
abnormal increase in the number of professional indemnity
claims,” according to its  annual report .  Out of Business  Surveying firms insure against legal claims, though they
must pay a deductible and face rising insurance premiums because
of the number of lawsuits filed, Anderson said. Several small
surveying firms went out of business because of the costs
associated with litigation, she said.  In the GMAC-RFC case, a judge in Leeds  ruled  Countrywide
was not liable for the 61,500-pound difference between its
valuation and the eventual sale price of a seized property in
York, in northern  England .  A unit of GMAC-RFC sued Countrywide saying it had been
negligent in its initial valuation of the apartment, which was
seized by the lender in 2008 after the borrower defaulted.  Judge Andrew Keyser faulted GMAC for making the loan on the
York property and sided with Countrywide.  “If GMAC had made proper enquiries as to the borrower’s
financial position, it would have found that he was unable to
verify his declared income or to give satisfactory explanation
for his inconsistent statements of earnings,” Keyser said in
December in his written judgment.  GMAC’s Paratus AMC unit said in an e-mailed statement the
case had turned on expert evidence on the value of the
apartment. It said it didn’t accept the judge’s finding that the
lender was partly to blame for its losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  