-- Bloomberg to Host Sovereign Debt Conference in New York
-- B y
-- 2012-01-09T19:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/bloomberg-to-host-sovereign-debt-conference-in-new-york.html

Press Release  Features ECB Executive Board Member José Manuel González-Páramo;
Franklin Templeton Portfolio Manager Michael Hasenstab; and
Former U.S. Comptroller General David M. Walker  New York -- As governments of the world’s leading economies have
more than $7.6 trillion of debt maturing this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, the Bloomberg LINK Sovereign Debt
Conference will gather policy leaders, top economists, fund
managers, and influential institutional investors to discuss the
outlook for global markets in 2012. This comes after a year in
which  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s rating to AA+ from AAA
and put 15 European nations on notice for possible downgrades,
heating up the competition to find buyers.  Speakers at the Conference, which will take place at the New
Museum on Tuesday, January 24, 2012, will focus on where the U.S.
stands in terms of its debt, the potential impact of the
European financial crisis on global markets, and investing
opportunities in emerging economies. The Conference will also
feature a one-on-one interview with José Manuel González-Páramo,
a member of the  European Central Bank ’s Executive Board.  “With concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will worsen in
2012, the Conference will provide a forum for experts to debate
the year ahead,” said  Robert Bierman , head of Bloomberg LINK.
“Officials and investors, who are close to the issues at hand,
will provide insight on not only the future for global markets,
but where investors can find new opportunities.”  Participants will also compare budget cutting, bailouts and
bankruptcy in a debate as to how the U.S. should manage its
federal debt and weigh the possibility of the crisis in Europe
spreading to other economies.  Key speakers include:  -Julian Callow, Managing Director, Head of International
Economics, and Co-Head of European Economics,  Barclays Capital   -John B. Chambers, Chairman, Sovereign Rating Committee,
Standard & Poor’s  -Lucinda Creighton, T.D., Minister of State for European Affairs,
 Republic of Ireland   -Steve Hanke, Economics Professor,  Johns Hopkins University   -Michael Hasenstab, Portfolio Manager, Franklin Templeton Fixed
Income Group  -Michael Horgan, Deputy Minister of Finance, Canada  -José Manuel González-Páramo, Member of the Executive Board,
European Central Bank (ECB)  -Jim Millstein, Former Chief Restructuring Officer, U.S.
Department of the Treasury  -Peter R. Orszag, Vice Chairman, Global Banking, Citigroup, Inc.  -Barry Topf, Special Advisor to the Governor,  Bank of Israel   -David M. Walker, Founder, President and CEO, Comeback America
Initiative; Former Comptroller General of the United States  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/sovereign .  Follow us on  Facebook ,  LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The
hashtag for this event is #BBdebt.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, +1 212-617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net 
