-- BMW Keeps Sales Lead as Top Three Luxury-Car Makers Post Record Deliveries
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-01-09T15:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/bmw-keeps-sales-lead-as-top-three-luxury-car-makers-post-record-deliveries.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  (BMW) retained
its rank as the world’s biggest maker of  luxury vehicles  last
year as the German manufacturer and its two closest competitors
all broke sales records, propelled by demand in China.  BMW-brand deliveries jumped 13 percent in 2011 to 1.38
million cars and sport-utility vehicles, the Munich-based
manufacturer said today in a statement.  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ’s Audi
placed second with a 19 percent gain to 1.3 million deliveries
to overtake  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, which posted an 8
percent increase to 1.26 million cars and SUVs.  Chinese sales growth exceeded 30 percent at all three
carmakers, with a 37 percent jump in Audi deliveries turning the
country into the biggest market for the Ingolstadt, Germany-
based company. The manufacturers are introducing models such as
Audi’s updated A4 sedan and  Mercedes-Benz (DAI) ’s revamped SL roadster
at the  North American International Auto Show  in  Detroit , which
is holding its press day today, as BMW seeks to maintain an
industry lead that the others have vowed to overtake.  “Given the product momentum and given the regional sales
momentum, I see no reason why Audi shouldn’t grow stronger than
Mercedes this year, and BMW will also grow stronger,” said
 Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse who
has a “neutral”  recommendation (DAI)  on Daimler an “outperform” on
BMW and Volkswagen. “China is slowing down, but it is still a
market that for the premium makers will grow by about 20 percent
this year.”  BMW’s European Gains  Group sales at  BMW (BMW) , including its Mini small-car brand and
Rolls-Royce super-luxury marque, rose 14 percent to 1.67 million
vehicles in 2011. Deliveries in  Europe  increased 8.5 percent,
while sales in the U.S, BMW’s biggest national market, jumped 15
percent.  Including a 4.6 percent increase for the Smart two-seat
brand, Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz Cars division posted a 7.7
percent gain to 1.36 million deliveries. The Mercedes-Benz
marque’s growth was held back by a 1 percent decline in western
Europe. Deliveries in the U.S. increased 13 percent.  Growth at Audi contributed to a 14 percent sales jump at
 Volkswagen (VOW3) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, which delivered a record
8.16 million cars, SUVs and vans last year. VW’s namesake brand
sold 13 percent more vehicles at 5.09 million deliveries, and
sales at the van unit jumped 21 percent. The Skoda brand’s
deliveries rose 15 percent and the Seat brand’s increased 3.1
percent.  Audi’s Forecast  Audi expects its sales gains this year to exceed the global
automotive market’s predicted growth of 4 percent, division
Chief Executive Officer Rupert Stadler told reporters in Detroit
today.  China ’s industrywide car sales will probably rise 8
percent, he said.  The VW unit is likely to maintain its second-place luxury-
car industry rank until 2014 or 2015, as Mercedes-Benz needs to
build up sales of the lower-priced A-Class and B-Class lines,
Ellinghorst said.  Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche set a goal
last year of returning to the No. 1 spot in luxury-car sales by
2020. BMW overtook Mercedes-Benz as the industry leader in 2005.  Zetsche is “very optimistic” that Mercedes will regain
the top ranking and isn’t ruling out beating the deadline, the
CEO said today in a Bloomberg Television interview from the
Detroit show. The new A-Class, being presented at Detroit, is
intended to signal that Mercedes is a “more dynamic” brand,
Zetsche said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  