-- Boehringer’s Pradaxa Increases Risk of Heart Attack, Study Shows
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-01-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/boehringer-s-pradaxa-increases-risk-of-heart-attack-study-shows.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH (BING) ’s anti-
coagulant Pradaxa increases a patient’s risk of heart attack or
severe chest pain, according to a review of studies conducted on
the drug.  An analysis of seven clinical trials found that it was
“significantly associated with a higher risk” of heart attacks
and acute coronary syndrome, or ACS, a designation that includes
heart attacks and chest pain, researchers wrote in a report
published today in the  Archives of Internal Medicine .  The potential risk of heart attacks could lead doctors to
favor Pradaxa’s rivals such as  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s
blood-thinner Xarelto in a market Leerink Swann & Co. analysts
estimate to be valued at $9 billion a year.  While Pradaxa appears to prevent patients with erratic
heartbeat from having strokes, “clinicians should consider the
potential of these serious harmful cardiovascular effects” when
prescribing the medicine, said Ken Uchino and Adrian V.
Hernandez, both physicians at the Cleveland Clinic in  Ohio , in
the report.  Of 20,000 patients taking Pradaxa, 237 had a heart attack
or chest pain, compared with 83 patients out of 10,514 on the
standard drug warfarin or a placebo, Uchino and Hernandez wrote.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said last month it
would evaluate the Pradaxa studies following reports of serious
bleeding events in patients.  Boehringer, based in Ingelheim,  Germany , beat New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J and Bayer to the atrial
fibrillation market. The drugs are vying to become the dominant
replacement for warfarin, the half-century old standard of care
for preventing blood clots in heart attack victims and other
patients. Pfizer and New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  are
seeking approval for their rival pill, known as Eliquis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  