-- BofA Said to Dismiss Asia Mergers Team Co-Head Michael Cho
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-10T05:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/bofa-said-to-dismiss-asia-mergers-team-co-head-michael-cho.html
Bank of America Corp.  dismissed
Michael Cho as co-head of  Asia  mergers and acquisitions to cut
costs after  investment-banking  revenue dropped, said a person
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The departure of Cho, a 15-year Merrill Lynch & Co. veteran
who had been promoted to Asia mergers head in May 2009, was
among the most prominent in a recent round of reductions, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the departure
wasn’t publicly announced. The firm is cutting about 15 managing
directors from its Asia investment bank, the person said.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, is seeking
to cut about $5 billion in annual costs in his Project New BAC
initiative, amid stagnant revenue and a 58 percent plunge in the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender’s stock last year. Weak
demand for new debt and equity helped cut third-quarter
investment banking fees by 31 percent.  “When the activity dries up, the revenue dries up and you
have to sack people, otherwise you go broke,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1 billion at Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. in Sydney. “There’s a lot of money on the
sidelines, on corporate balance sheets, but there is no appetite
to do deals and where there is appetite the regulators have
stomped all over them.”  Bank of America ranked fourth among arrangers of mergers
involving Asian companies in 2011, advising on $83 billion of
deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , which worked on transactions valued at $153 billion,
topped the table, followed by Morgan Stanley and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  In 2010, Bank of America was sixth in the region.  Managing Directors  The cuts equal about 20 percent of investment-banking
managing directors in Asia and aren’t part of the 30,000
reductions under Project New BAC, the person said. Top managers
are scrutinizing investment banking and  wealth management  after
targeting savings from retail and support operations.  The lender’s other co-head of Asia deal-making, Zhang Xiuping, remains at Bank of America, the person said.  Bank of America informed employees of the changes yesterday
in a memo. Dow Jones reported Cho’s departure earlier yesterday
and Reuters reported the wider cuts among managing directors.
Kerrie McHugh, a Bank of America spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  