-- Bond Traders Diverge From Bearish Economists on Treasuries as Growth Gains
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-01-09T19:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/bond-traders-diverge-from-bearish-economists-on-treasuries-as-growth-gains.html
Economists, emboldened by gains in
everything from U.S. manufacturing to consumer confidence and
jobs, are advising clients to get out of Treasuries. Traders
aren’t so eager to give them up.  Benchmark 10-year yields will climb to 2.6 percent by Dec.
31 from 1.88 percent last year as growth accelerates, according
to the median estimate of 63 economists and strategists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Traders aren’t as optimistic, expecting an
increase to 2.25 percent, based on forwards that use current
trading levels to predict future rates.  The divergence shows traders see Europe’s debt crisis
continuing to stoke demand for safety and containing yields even
as the economy improves. Predictions last year by both groups
for a selloff proved wrong as Treasuries due in 10 years or more
returned 29 percent, the most since 1995, even as President
 Barack Obama  increased publicly traded  debt (DEBPMARK)  outstanding to a
record $9.88 trillion and  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of
its AAA rating on Aug. 5.  “Analysts are making their forecasts based on a  U.S.
economy  that is going into a recovery,” Hideo Shimomura, chief
fund investor in  Tokyo  at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a
unit of  Japan ’s biggest bank, said in a telephone interview Dec.
29. “For traders, they have to put their money somewhere during
the European debt crisis. Treasuries are the safe haven.”  Losses Forecast  An increase in 10-year yields to 2.6 percent would result
in a 3.1 percent loss for an investor who bought on Jan. 6,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A yield of 2.25 would
bring a 0.4 percent loss. Both would be near historic lows and
less than the average yield of 4.93 percent over the past 20
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonds fell last week as the Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index showed manufacturing expanded in
December at the fastest pace in six months. Ten-year yields rose
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 1.96 percent,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. The price of the 2 percent
security maturing in November 2021 fell 23/32, or $7.19 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 11/32.  Valuation measures show no consensus on the direction of
government debt. The so-called  term premium (.RISKPRE)  model created by
economists at the  Federal Reserve  was negative 0.63 percent
today, compared with the average of positive 0.60 percent the
past decade. A negative reading indicates investors are willing
to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Relative Value  “Once you take the flight-to-quality element out, the
growth outlook argues for Treasuries to be closer to 2.5
percent, and maybe as high as 3 percent,” Dominic Konstam, the
global head of interest-rate research in  New York  at Deutsche
Bank AG, said in a telephone interview on Jan. 3.  The company, one of the 21 primary dealers of U.S.
government securities that trade with the Fed, sees yields
rising to 3 percent at year-end.  At the same time, 10-year yields exceed the federal funds
 rate (FDTR)  by about 1.74 percentage points, compared with an average
of 1.63 percentage points over the past 20 years, indicating the
securities are fairly valued.  “The big question,” Konstam said, “is if, and how much,
a European slowdown will affect the U.S.”  Beating Commodities, Stocks  Europe’s turmoil, which led to bailouts of  Greece , Ireland
and Portugal, as well as the downgrade of the U.S. by S&P, has
made Treasuries must-have investments no matter what the price.  U.S. government securities returned on average 9.79 percent
in 2011, including reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. The  Dollar Index (DXY)  tracking the U.S. currency
against six peers rose 1.6 percent, while S&P’s GSCI Total
Return Index of commodities fell 1.18 percent and the MSCI All
Country World Index of shares lost 6.9 percent after dividends.  The 2011 rally surprised the market, with the median
forecast of 3.75 percent among economists and strategists coming
in 1.87 percentage points higher than where the yield ended --
the biggest miss since 2008, when the U.S. was in its steepest
recession since the Great Depression. Traders, at 3.71 percent,
were off by 1.83 percentage points.  Christopher Low, the chief economist at FTN Financial in
New York and the only one among 70 analysts who predicted the
yield would fall to 2 percent by the end of last year, sees the
rate at 2.10 percent at the close of 2012.  ‘Lots of Uncertainty’  “There still hasn’t been a permanent solution for
 Europe ,” Low said in a telephone interview on Jan 4. “There is
still lots of uncertainty about the direction of fiscal policy,
inflation isn’t a problem and we have a Federal Reserve that
remains pretty active, which argues for lower rates.”  The rally also surprised  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond  fund (PTTRX)  at Pacific Investment Management Co. He was a
bond bear in the early months of 2011 before turning into a
bull. He now recommends buying longer-term  U.S. debt .  “The bulk of sovereign-bond holdings should be in the
U.S.,” Gross wrote Jan. 4 on the  Newport Beach ,  California ,
company’s  website . Investors should favor Treasuries, he said,
“as long as European credit implosion is possible.”  Gross’s $244 billion Total Return Fund gained 4.2 percent
in 2011, underperforming 69 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. gross domestic product will grow 2.1 percent in 2012,
compared with 1.8 percent in 2011 and 1.25 percent for all Group
of 10 nations, Bloomberg surveys of economists show. The euro-
region economy will contract 0.2 percent.  Jobs, Confidence  Three days after ISM’s Jan. 3 report on manufacturing, the
Labor Department said the U.S. added 200,000 jobs in December as
the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.5 percent, the lowest level
since February 2009. Confidence among consumers rose to an
eight-month high, the Conference Board said Dec. 27. A European
measure of confidence in the economic outlook fell to the lowest
in two years, the European Commission said Jan. 6.  “Traders look at Europe and see that the situation isn’t
going to resolve itself quickly or neatly,” said Scott Graham,
head of government bond trading in Chicago at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s
BMO Capital Markets Corp., another primary dealer. “It’s hard
for rates to sustain any kind of selloff. We still could see the
end of the euro.”  Yields on 10-year bonds of Italy are higher than 7 percent,
a level that preceded bailouts of Greece, Ireland and Portugal
by the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . The
euro fell last week to its weakest level against the dollar in
15 months, and traded at its lowest versus the yen since 2001.  S&P Warning  S&P placed the ratings of 15 euro nations, including AAA
Germany and  France , on review for possible downgrades on Dec. 5.
Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 12 it will review all 17
euro-zone countries after a summit Dec. 9 failed to produce
“decisive policy measures” to end the debt turmoil.  Treasuries are also getting support from the Fed, which
warned in December that “strains in global financial markets”
are a risk to the U.S. economy.  Policy makers have pledged to keep the  target (FDTR)  rate for
overnight loans between banks near zero at least through the
mid-2013. The Fed is also replacing $400 billion of shorter-
maturity Treasuries in its  holdings (FARBAST)  with longer-term debt to
contain borrowing costs, dubbed Operation Twist after a similar
program in the 1960s.  Bonds rallied on the final trading day of last week after
Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley  said
Jan. 6 that more monetary accommodation is appropriate.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , another primary dealer, forecasts
that 10-year yields will stay below 2.2 percent through the
third quarter, before rising to 2.5 percent at year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  “We expect Fed officials to ease anew in the first half of
2012 via purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities, either
on their own or combined with Treasuries,” Jan Hatzius, the
firm’s New York-based chief economist wrote in a Dec. 30 report.
“Fed officials would be loath to end their securities
purchases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  