-- Brazil Said to See Currency Strengthening Beyond 1.80 per Dollar in 2012
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-01-09T20:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/brazil-said-to-see-currency-strengthening-beyond-1-80-per-dollar-in-2012.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
administration estimates the real will strengthen beyond 1.80
per  U.S. dollar  this year, a government official with knowledge
of internal discussions on the issue said.  The government expects the euro region to start recovering
from its current crisis in the second half of 2012, which will
help weaken the dollar against other currencies, said the
official, who asked not to be identified because the government
doesn’t officially forecast currency moves.  The real weakened 15 percent in the past six months, the
third-worst performer among the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, as the euro debt crisis prompted investors
to eschew riskier assets. The decline in the real led the
central bank in September to reverse its strategy aimed at
stemming gains in the real that were hurting manufacturers.  “ Brazil  has a better economic situation than other
countries, receiving direct investment that can make a
difference,” José Carlos Amado, a currency trader at DTVM Ltda,
said in a phone interview.  Amado expects the dollar to fluctuate between 1.75 and 1.85
reais this year. The U.S. currency could drop below 1.80 if the
European crisis eases and the dollar inflow becomes positive, he
said.  Flows, Forecasts  The real extended earlier gains rising 1.3 percent to
1.8332 per U.S. dollar today. The currency has gained 1.6
percent since the beginning of the year, the second-best
performer after the Mexican peso among the 16 most traded
currencies.  Investors pulled $3.6 billion out of Brazil in December,
up from $3.5 billion in November, according to the central bank.  Analysts expect the real to strengthen to 1.77 per U.S.
dollar by the end of the year, compared with 1.75 a week
earlier, according to the median forecast in a central bank
survey published today.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said Dec. 19 the government
would take steps to prevent an “excessive” appreciation of the
real to avoid harm to local industries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 