-- Bristol’s Buy of Inhibitex for Hepatitis Drug Won’t Be Last
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-01-09T21:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/bristol-s-inhibitex-purchase-for-hepatitis-drug-won-t-be-last.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , the
drugmaker that will lose patent protection for three of its top
four drugs within three years, will follow its $2.5 billion
 Inhibitex Inc. (INHX)  purchase with more deals as the company’s
“string of pearls” acquisition strategy begins to pay off.  Bristol-Myers is satisfied the plan is working and is in
“a very good financial position” to pursue it further, said
Chief Financial Officer Charles Bancroft by telephone yesterday.
The company had $8.2 billion in cash and equivalents in the
third quarter of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bristol-Myers’s Yervoy, an immune system drug that fights
cancer, last year became the first product bought in as part of
the company’s diversification plan to get U.S. approval. The
Inhibitex agreement announced Jan. 7, the largest of 18 deals
since 2007, gives the New York-based drugmaker two drugs that
could enter a developing $20 billion hepatitis C market.  “The world is moving toward an all-oral regimen for
hepatitis C, and Bristol-Myers, which is strong in antivirals,
seems like it wants to be a part of that,”  Les Funtleyder , a
health-care strategist and portfolio manager with  Miller Tabak  &
Co. in New York, wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  Hepatitis drugs now in use are given through injection, and
can have side effects that are difficult to endure. The
generation now in testing would be easier-to-use pills that may
be more effective than their predecessors.  Consolidation Speculation  Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Achillion Pharmaceuticals
Inc., other developers of hepatitis C drugs, rose in early
trading on speculation they may follow Inhibitex and  Pharmasset
Inc. (VRUS) , which reached an agreement announced Nov. 21 to be
acquired by  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  for $10.8 billion, as
acquisition targets.  Idenix, based in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , rose 37 percent to
$9.66 at 4 p.m. New York time, its biggest one-day gain since
July 2004. Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Achillion gained 23
percent to $9.72, the most  since (ACHN)  December 2009. Bristol-Myers
fell less than 1 percent to $33.91.  The agreement by New York-based Bristol-Myers to purchase
Inhibitex for cash offers $26 per share, a price that more than
doubles the Alpharetta, Georgia-based biotech company’s $9.87
closing price on Jan. 6. The transaction is expected to dilute
earnings for Bristol-Myers through 2016, with an impact of about
4 cents per share in 2012 and 5 cents per share in 2013,
according to the statement.  Inhibitex shares more than doubled to $23.89 in  New York 
trading.  Loses Protection  Bristol-Myers’s $6.7 billion-a-year blood-thinner Plavix
loses patent protection this year. The Sustiva HIV drug, with
$1.4 billion in sales, and the antipsychotic Abilify, with $2.6
billion in revenue, faces generic competition in 2013 and 2015,
respectively. The “string of pearls” strategy, designed to
give the company a more diverse stable of products, was begun by
now-chairman James Cornelius in 2007, when he was Bristol-
Myers’s chief executive officer.  Bristol-Myers has the best pipeline among drugmakers, when
measured against how much they spend on research and development,
said John Boris, a Citigroup analyst based in New York, in a Jan.
6 note to clients. Prior to the announcement of the Inhibitex
acquisition, Boris projected the Bristol-Myers pipeline would
produce $4.62 billion in additional revenue by 2015.  Far Exceed  “We expect the company to far exceed its 2010 revenues by
2020 on the strength of its pipeline and recently launched
opportunities,” he wrote in the note.  Inhibitex’s INX-189 is in the second stage of testing
normally needed for U.S. regulatory approval. Pharmasset’s PSI-
7977 is in the third and final phase, and could draw $3 billion
to $5 billion in revenue for  Foster City , California-based
Gilead,  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  San
Francisco , estimated in November.  The Inhibitex drug “is the best chance anyone has of
competing with Gilead/Pharmasset,” Brian Skorney, an analyst
with Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York, wrote in an e-mail
yesterday. “That explains the premium.”  The premium paid by Bristol, of about 126 percent of
Inhibitex’s price over the previous 20 trading days, ranks as
the second-largest on record for a biotechnology or
pharmaceutical company worth more than $500 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg since 1999. The record is Genzyme
Corp.’s 2006 deal for AnorMed Inc. with a 162 percent premium.  “The deal seems a bit expensive for an early-stage
compound, but there is scarcity value,” said Miller Tabak’s
Funtleyder, whose fund holds Bristol shares.  Medarex Acquisition  Bristol-Myers’s biggest previous deal since 2007 was the
acquisition of Medarex Inc. for $2.5 billion in 2009. That
purchase gained the company its Yervoy cancer drug.  Bristol-Myers is already developing its own medicines for
hepatitis C, including a collaboration with  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  on a combination therapy with one
of its own experimental products.  “The addition of Inhibitex’s nucleotide polymerase
inhibitor to our own promising portfolio, which includes other
direct-acting antivirals, brings additional options to develop
all-oral regimens with better cure rates, shorter duration of
therapy and lower toxicity than the current standard of care,”
said Elliott Sigal, Bristol-Myers’s head of research and
development.  Growth Area  Hepatitis C is one of three major growth areas for Bristol-
Myers, along with stroke and immuno-oncology, he said by
telephone.  “The commercial opportunity is huge,” Sigal said. “Our
goals are to be very competitive.”  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  last year won
approval for the first new therapies for hepatitis C in almost a
decade.  The market for medicines that work against the virus is
about $3 billion worldwide, according to  Andrew Berens , a senior
health-care analyst with Bloomberg Industries, in Skillman,  New
Jersey . It may be worth $20 billion by 2020, said Michael Kishbauch, chief executive officer of  Achillion (ACHN)  Pharmaceuticals
Inc., in a November interview.  Citigroup Inc. acted as financial adviser and  Kirkland &
Ellis LLP (1132L)  as legal adviser to Bristol-Myers, the companies said
in the statement. Credit Suisse Securities provided financial
advice to Inhibitex, while  Dechert LLP (1154L)  gave legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 