-- Britons’ Employment Concerns Worsen
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/britons-job-concerns-worsen-as-economic-recovery-loses-strength.html
Britons’ concern about losing their
jobs soared last month as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatened to
push the economy back into a recession, Lloyds Bank Corporate
Markets said.  An index of  job security  fell to minus 33 from minus 21 in
November, the unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in an e-
mailed report in  London  today. That’s the lowest since the index
began in 2004. A measure of  inflation (UKRPCJYR)  expectations fell to the
lowest in two years, reflecting the economic slowdown.  The Bank of England will maintain its bond-purchase target
at 275 billion pounds ($423 billion) this week and its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low, surveys of economists show. While
factory and services gauges improved in December, Europe’s
turmoil is damping export demand, and unemployment is rising.  “The U.K. economy faces another difficult year,”  Michael Saunders , chief European economist at Citigroup Inc. in London,
said last week. “We do not expect that lower inflation will
give much boost to consumers; with employment falling, real
household disposable incomes will probably fall again in 2012.”  Saunders, who cut his forecasts for U.K. economic growth in
2012 and 2013, sees unemployment rising to about 3 million
people by the end of this year. Data in December showed the
jobless total was 2.64 million in the quarter through October.  Lloyds’ index of consumers’ inflation expectations dropped
5 points from November to 65, the lowest reading since December
2009. Still, the survey showed Britons think inflation, which
was at 4.8 percent in November, will probably accelerate to 6.7
percent in the next 12 months. The survey of 2,052 consumers was
carried out between Dec. 9 and Dec. 18.  All but one of 41 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey (UKAPTARG) 
said the  Bank of England  will leave its bond-purchase target
unchanged this month. While some policy makers have said more
stimulus may be needed, they have indicated they will wait until
the current round of asset purchases ends in February.  In a separate report, Visa Europe said Britons cut spending
on Visa payment cards by 1.1 percent in December from November,
when it dropped 0.3 percent. Spending was down 0.8 percent from
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  