-- Brocade Shares Rise on Report Network-Switch Maker Received Takeover Bids
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-01-09T21:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/brocade-rises-on-report-network-switch-maker-has-received-multiple-offers.html
Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD) ,
which makes switches for data-storage networks, rose after
Reuters reported that the company has received bids from a
handful of potential buyers.  Shares of  San Jose , California-based Brocade  jumped (BRCD)  6.5
percent to $5.77 at the close in  New York . Pavel Radda, a
spokesman for Brocade, declined to comment.  Brocade has been trying to find a buyer with the help of
 Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners for the past two years, a
person with knowledge of the matter said in July. At the time,
computer maker Dell Inc. passed over Brocade to buy Force10
Networks Inc., the person said. Now, International Business
Machines Corp. and Oracle Corp. are among likely suitors for
Brocade, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group.  IBM and Oracle might be interested in Brocade’s corporate-
network switches business, gained in the 2008 acquisition of
Foundry Networks Inc., Marshall said. That would help them fend
off networking leader Cisco Systems Inc., which is moving into
the computer business, and Hewlett-Packard Co., which added to
its own networking business by buying 3Com Corp. in 2010.  James Sciales, a spokesman for IBM, declined to comment, as
did  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman at Oracle. A Qatalyst
Partners representative also declined to comment.  Reseller Agreements  As attractive as its assets may be, Brocade’s client
partnerships would make an acquisition tricky, Marshall said.
One hurdle is that 60 percent of the company’s data-storage
products, responsible for more than half of Brocade’s revenue,
are sold through agreements with IBM, Oracle and Hewlett-
Packard, he said. If any of those companies bought Brocade, the
deals with the other two would probably end.  “That creates a lot of complexity,” Marshall said.
“That’s why we haven’t seen much interest in the deal.”
Other potential acquirers might include Hitachi Data Systems
Corp. or Huawei Technologies Co., he said.  In November, Brocade reported fiscal fourth-quarter profit
that topped analysts’ estimates, citing record revenue for its
ethernet business and fast adoption of its 16 gigabit-per-second
fiber-channel products, or components of storage-area networks.
The results eased concerns that Dell’s purchase of Force10 might
hurt Brocade, sending the shares up 13 percent the next day.  The company’s shares, which reached a high of $133.72 in
October 2000 following an initial public offering in May 1999,
fell less than 2 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  