-- Cabot Cited for Faults in Fracked Well After Gas Fouls Water
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-01-09T17:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/cabot-cited-by-pennsylvania-for-pollution-from-natural-gas-well.html
Cabot Oil & Gas Co. (COG) , the best-
performer last year in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, was
cited by Pennsylvania officials in September for “improper”
well construction after natural gas polluted drinking water.  Inspectors found defects in the liner intended to prevent
oil or gas from leaking into groundwater at a Susquehanna County
well, according to a  Sept. 19 notice  of violation from the
 Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection . The
violation was reported earlier today by the Scranton Times-
Tribune.  Methane levels in a private water well 1,400 feet (427
meters) away from Cabot’s operations rose from 0.29 milligrams a
liter to 57.6 milligrams a liter between November 2010 and
August 2011, according to the notice.  Cabot, based in Houston, was cited for three violations and
given 30 days to respond with its plan to correct flaws at the
well.  The company immediately vented the household wells to
eliminate risk of fire or explosion and “tightened down” its
wells, George Stark, a Cabot spokesman, said in an interview
today. Methane levels in the household wells fell over a period
of two weeks, Stark said.  “All is safe at the residences there,” he said. The
company isn’t providing drinking water to the well owner and is
still “exchanging data” with the department about the
incident, he said.  Cabot agreed in December 2010 to put $4.1 million into
escrow for families in Dimock,  Pennsylvania , who said their
drinking water was polluted by the company’s oil wells, settling
a claim by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Protection, according to a company filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  