-- Canadian Dollar Snaps a Three-Day Losing Streak as Volatility Declines
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-09T22:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/canadian-dollar-drops-against-major-counterparts-as-crude-oil-price-falls.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened for the
first time in four days amid the lowest volatility since August
after leaders of Germany and  France  said revised budget rules
for nations that share currency may be done a month early.  Canada’s currency fell earlier to the lowest level in more
than two weeks on speculation growth in the nation’s economy is
cooling as the euro-area debt crisis lingers. Canadian  consumer
confidence  rose in the fourth quarter from a two-year low on
optimism about real estate prices and the global economy,
according to a Nanos Research poll.  “On the crosses, the Canadian dollar is still in pretty
decent shape,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, in a telephone
interview, referring trades against currencies other than the
 U.S. dollar . “In terms of the risk issue, that’s still what
seems to be one of the biggest correlating factors for the
Canadian dollar. We’re still as subject to headline risk and
tape bombs as we were before Christmas.”  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, advanced 0.5 percent to
C$1.0235 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. Toronto time. It weakened as
much as 0.3 percent earlier. One Canadian dollar buys 97.70 U.S.
cents.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback fell to as low as 9.7 percent from
10.06 percent Jan. 6. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
swings in the underlying currency.  Declining crude prices capped gains in the currency, with
futures down 0.6 percent to $101.34 a barrel in  New York .  Yields on 10-year Government of Canada  bonds (GCAN10Y)  rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, 1.96 percent. The price of the
3.25 percent security due in June 2021 fell 19 cents to
C$111.09.  Ten-year Canadian  government bonds  yielded the same as U.S.
Treasuries of equivalent maturity, from six basis points more at
the end of 2011.  Investors should establish short U.S. dollar positions
versus the Canadian dollar, which should be trading “very close
to parity” based on a fair-value model that looks at five-year
swap spreads, crude oil and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
according to Robert Sinche, global head of foreign-exchange
strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Short Bet  Sinche said he recommends shorting the greenback at
C$1.0260 because the currency may weaken to the 200-day moving
average at 99.14 Canadian cents, he said. A short position is a
bet that a currency will depreciate. Investors should exit the
trade if the U.S. dollar closes for two days above C$1.0424.  The Canadian currency fell from almost a one-year high
against the euro, which gained versus the majority of its most-
traded peers after euro-area leaders said they may complete a
revised budget rulebook by Jan. 30. The loonie lost 0.7 percent
against the greenback last week.  “It just looked a bit tired to me,”  Steve Butler ,
managing director at Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit,
wrote in an e-mail message, referring to the rally in the
greenback last week. “Lots of stops were cleared out Friday,”
he wrote, referring to automatic orders to sell that were
triggered by the currency’s decline.  Consumer Reading  The Nanos Economic Mood Index rose to 107.4 in the fourth
quarter from 105.1 the prior three months, according to a report
by  Nik Nanos , president of the Ottawa-based polling company.
About 19 percent of those surveyed said the economy will be
stronger during the next six months, up from 16 percent, while
the share who said it will be weaker fell to 31 percent from 39
percent.  Canadian executives are predicting slower sales growth for
the first time in almost three years because of concern about
fading global demand, the  Bank of Canada  said in a quarterly
survey. The so-called balance of opinion for sales over the next
year was negative 4 percentage points in the fourth quarter,
down from plus 6 in the last survey and the first reading below
zero since the beginning of 2009, the Business Outlook Survey
said.  The share of firms predicting slower sales growth rose to
41 percent from 33 percent and those predicting faster sales
growth fell to 37 percent from 39 percent in the last survey.  The loonie has risen 1.2 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The U.S. currency has
advanced 1.9 percent and the euro has fallen 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova, Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  