-- Canadian Confidence in Economy Rises From Two-Year Low, Nanos Poll Shows
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-01-09T16:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/canadian-confidence-in-economy-rises-from-two-year-low-nanos-poll-shows.html
Canadian  consumer confidence  rose in
the fourth quarter from a two-year low on optimism about real
estate prices and the global economy according to a  Nanos
Research  poll.  The Nanos Economic Mood Index rose to 107.4 in the fourth
quarter from 105.1 the prior three months, according to a report
by  Nik Nanos , president of the Ottawa-based polling company.
About 19 percent of those surveyed said the economy will be
stronger in the next six months, up from 16 percent, while the
share who said it will be weaker declined to 31 percent from 39
percent.  “The pessimism Canadians have in terms of the future of
the economy has lessened,” Nanos said, citing progress with
“turmoil in Europe and the political gridlock in the U.S.”  The Bank of  Canada  is relying on consumption to account for
almost two-thirds of economic growth this year, which Governor
 Mark Carney   forecast  in October will be 1.9 percent. The central
bank also said housing will make no contribution to growth this
year and warned last month that record consumer debt and
Europe’s debt crisis are risks to Canada’s financial system.  The central bank today published a survey showing that
executives are  predicting (BCBSFUTR)  slower sales growth for the first time
in almost three years because of concern about fading global
demand. The so-called balance of opinion for sales over the next
year was negative 4 percentage points in the fourth quarter,
down from plus 6 in the last survey.  External Factors  “The weak U.S. economic outlook, concerns about adverse
effects from the situation in  Europe  and an expected slowing in
household spending were among the factors dampening sales
prospects,” the Ottawa-based  Bank of Canada  said today in its
quarterly Business Outlook Survey.  The Canadian dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to C$1.0273
per  U.S. dollar  at 11:49 a.m. Toronto time. One Canadian dollar
buys 97.34 U.S. cents.  The Nanos poll showed more consumers said their economic
situation had worsened over the past year than in the third
quarter, while optimism about the future increased.  The Nanos Pocketbook Index, based on questions related to
personal finances and  job security , fell to 102.8 from 105.9.
The Expectations Index rose to 113.0 from 104.1, the first gain
in three quarters. The Economic Mood index is a composite of the
Pocketbook and Expectations indexes.  Debt to Decline  Some 34 percent said their personal debt will decline in
the next six months, versus 30 percent in the last report.
Another 36 percent of Canadians predict their local real estate
prices will rise in the next six months, up from 32 percent in
prior report.  The average sales price for a Canadian home increased 7.5
percent in the first 11 months of 2011, according to data from
the  Canadian Real Estate Association .  Statistics Canada  said today that the value of residential
building permits  rose (CAHOMOM)  6.9 percent to C$3.85 billion in November,
the first gain in four months.  Today’s reports also suggest that job security hasn’t been
impacted by recent sluggishness in the labor market. The economy
has  generated (CANLNETJ)  only 7,400 jobs over the last six months, leading
to an increase in the jobless rate to 7.5 percent in December,
according to Statistics Canada data released data Jan. 6.  According to the Nanos poll, the number of Canadians who
believe their job is secure was little changed at 52 percent,
while the Bank of Canada survey said the balance of opinion on
hiring over the next year rose to 45 percent from 38 percent.  The Nanos poll of 1,201 Canadians was taken between Dec. 15
and Dec. 18 and has a margin of error of 2.8 percentage points.
The central bank’s business survey polled about 100 executives
from Nov. 14 to Dec. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 