-- Catholic Santorum’s Rise Is Evangelical Progress: Noah Feldman
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-01-09T00:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/catholic-santorum-s-rise-is-evangelical-progress-noah-feldman.html
God so loves  Barack Obama  that He
sent His servant,  Rick Santorum , to ensure his re-election as
U.S. president.  Or so it seemed in the immediate aftermath of the  Iowa 
caucuses. Soon the inevitable slings and arrows will trouble
Santorum’s outrageous fortune. But for the moment, the former
Pennsylvania senator has emerged as the candidate of the
evangelicals just in time for a frontloaded primaries schedule
heading fast into South Carolina, where the values voters
stopped  John McCain  in 2000. And for the moment, Santorum is the
person standing between Mitt Romney and the Republican
nomination.  Why are religious conservatives sour on Romney? It is of
course plausible that they distrust the former Massachusetts
governor’s core conservatism. Perhaps they object to his elite
credentials as the son of a corporate executive-turned governor
who is himself a corporate executive-turned governor. Or maybe
they think that a multimillionaire investor who finished near
the top of his class at  Harvard Business School  is unqualified
to lead the country in the current economic crisis.  But it is hard to escape the conclusion that many pro-
Santorum caucus-goers in Iowa were hung up on Romney’s
Mormonism. In 2008, Romney got 25 percent of the vote in Iowa,
almost exactly the same as he did this time around.  Mike Huckabee  -- or, rather, the Rev. Mike Huckabee -- got just over
34 percent four years ago. If you add up Santorum’s 24.5 percent
with the votes won Tuesday by evangelicals  Michele Bachmann  (5
percent) and  Rick Perry  (10 percent), you could probably account
for all of Huckabee’s 2008 supporters and then some.  Outlawed Religion  It is, sadly, not surprising that there is still prejudice
against members of the Church of  Jesus Christ  of Latter-Day
Saints. The oppression of Mormons has a special place in U.S.
political history. No other religion has ever found itself
essentially outlawed, as Mormonism was in the 19th century when
Congress made it a crime to belong to any organization that
advocated plural marriage.      And from a theological standpoint,
many evangelical Christians refuse to recognize Mormonism even
as a branch of Christianity.  But what is remarkable -- partly because almost no one has
remarked upon it -- is the evangelicals’ embrace of someone who
isn’t himself a Protestant evangelical at all. Santorum, in case
you hadn’t noticed, is Catholic.  Watching Santorum’s Iowa advertisements, this crucial fact
would have been easy to miss. The sweater-vests, being
ecumenical garb, were not the issue. Santorum’s publicity -- and
his language -- exudes coded evangelical messages. One spot, for
example, proudly pointed out that all of Santorum’s children
were home-schooled.  Leave aside the astounding reality that in 2012, a
presidential candidate would apparently consider it a selling
point that he opted his children out of the most basic unifying
civic experience we have. The sole reason for Santorum to invoke
home-schooling was its close association with evangelicals who
reject what they consider the secular humanism of public
schools. The Catholic Church, notably, does not encourage
homeschooling; it has schools of its own.  Once the caucus votes were cast, Santorum again spoke in
strikingly evangelical terms. In  explaining  how he had found the
strength to conduct his 99-county campaign, he said that “when I
was getting up in the morning to take on that challenge, I’ve
required a strength from another particular friendship, one that
is sacred.” There is nothing un-Catholic in this, of course. But
the friendship of a personal savior who walks beside you as you
perform your daily tasks is a staple of American evangelicalism
of the Tim Tebow variety -- not the austere, rational religion
of  Pope Benedict XVI .  Closing a Gap  Santorum’s appeal to evangelicals marks one of the great
developments in modern American religion and politics: the
closure of the once-yawning theological and cultural gap between
Catholics and Protestants. Protestants long distrusted and
denounced Catholicism almost as much as they did Mormonism. The
King James Version of the Bible originally carried an
introductory dedication describing the pope as “that man of
sin.”  Evangelicals preserved this contempt for the Whore of
Babylon long after mainstream Protestants gave it up and voted
for  John F. Kennedy . Well past 2000, Bob Jones University, the
evangelical institution in Greenville,  South Carolina , kept a
1980 article on its website condemning Jerry Falwell and the
Moral Majority for forming an alliance with “the Church of
Antichrist.”  How, then, did Catholics and evangelicals find common
ground? Roe v. Wade was the unlikely engine of the shift.
Gradually, the two groups began to cooperate on a broader
conservative political agenda.  Ronald Reagan  won the votes of
both.  There are still doctrinal differences: the “culture of
life” advocated by Pope  John Paul II  condemns the death penalty
alongside abortion, a position few American evangelicals
embrace. But these distinctions can be elided, particularly by a
Catholic politician with a willingness to pick and choose.
Cafeteria Catholicism isn’t limited to liberal Catholics. And no
one is proposing that priests deny Santorum the sacraments for
supporting capital punishment.  For Romney, Santorum’s success in Iowa has two messages.
One is that he can consider Santorum as a possible running mate.
Some think that Romney would need an evangelical Protestant at
his side, not because evangelicals would defect to Obama, but
because they might stay home rather than vote for a Mormon. Iowa
shows that a Catholic might serve just as well. (This also has
implications for Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida .)  The second, more profound message is about the encouraging
flexibility of American Protestantism.  Eventually, Mormonism
will be accepted just as Catholicism is, the old theological
hurdles left behind as embarrassing relics of a bygone,
intolerant age.  Mitt Romney  could be forgiven for hoping it
happens between now and November.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 