-- Chavez Appoints Ally U.S. Accuses of Aiding Terrorists as Defense Minister
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-01-09T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/chavez-appoints-ally-u-s-accuses-of-aiding-terrorists-as-defense-minister.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
named a longtime ally accused by the U.S. of aiding a terrorist
group to take over as defense minister.  Chavez named Gen. Henry Rangel Silva to the post as the
self-declared 21st century socialist leader reshape his
government to allow top officials to run in December regional
elections.  The appointment of Rangel is likely to further complicate
relations with the U.S. In 2008, the Treasury Department
sanctioned Silva, then the head of military intelligence, and
two other officials for allegedly helping the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of  Colombia , or FARC, smuggle cocaine.  “I’ve called him here because he’s a humble man, a fighter
for the people,” Chavez said Jan. 6 while appointing Silva.  The U.S. has accused Chavez of funneling cash to the FARC
and harboring hundreds of Marxist rebels inside  Venezuela .
Chavez, a former paratrooper who will seek a third consecutive
six-year term in October elections, has rejected claims that
he’s failed to combat drug trafficking and terrorism as an
effort by the “Empire” to topple him.  The Obama administration froze the assets of four more
Chavez allies in September, alleging they provided training and
weapons to the FARC. The U.S. has also toughened its stance on
Chavez’s alleged support for Iran, sanctioning state-oil company
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA (PDVSA)  in May for allegedly providing support
to the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program.  PDVSA, as the company is known, was alleged to have
delivered at least two cargos of a gasoline additive to  Iran 
between December, 2010, and March worth about $50 million,
according to the U.S. State Department.  Opposition Critic  Chavez promoted Rangel Silva to General-in-Chief in 2010
after he promised that the military wouldn’t tolerate an
opposition government because it would try to “sell” the
country. He had served as No. 2 head of the military until his
promotion over the weekend.  Chavez has said he will reshuffle his cabinet early this
year to allow members, including close allies like Foreign
Minister Nicolas Maduro and Vice President Elias Jaua, to run in
December regional elections. Rangel Silva replaces Carlos Mata
Figueroa, who Chavez has said will run for governor of Nueva
Esparta state.  Diosdado Cabello, a close confidant of Chavez and head of
his PSUV political party, was sworn in Jan. 5 as the president
of the National Assembly.  The sanction against Rangel Silva and other officials froze
all of their U.S. assets and prohibits U.S. citizens from
conducting financial or commercial transactions with them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  