-- China Won’t See Hard Landing in 2012, Former PBOC Adviser Yu Yongding Says
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-09T21:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/china-s-economy-won-t-have-hard-landing-in-2012-former-pboc-adviser-says.html
China’s economy (CNGDPYOY)  won’t have a  hard
landing  this year, and the nation’s housing prices are unlikely
to collapse, said Yu Yongding, a former central bank adviser.  “China has yet to hit the rocks this year,” said Yu, a
member of the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , a top
government-backed policy research institute. “People are
worried about a housing market collapse. This is not
warranted.” Yue spoke at a forum in New York yesterday.  The world’s second-largest economy expanded 9.1 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in two
years, down from 9.5 percent growth in the second quarter. The
government may say on Jan. 17 that fourth-quarter growth slowed
to 8.7 percent, according to the median estimate of 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Annual growth of “8 percent or even 7 percent is OK,” Yu
said. “A pace of less than 7 percent means crisis, economic and
perhaps political crisis.”  The biggest concern this year is any “dramatic” fall in
real estate investment, which accounts for 9.9 percent of
 China ’s gross domestic product, Yu said. That proportion is
“way too high,” compared with countries like  South Korea  and
 Japan , he said.  China’s home prices fell for a fourth month in December,
dropping 0.25 percent from the previous month, after the
government reiterated plans to maintain curbs on development and
purchases, SouFun Holdings Ltd., owner of the nation’s biggest
real estate website, said on Jan. 4. Prices slid in 60 out of
100 cities tracked by the company.  “Real demand for housing is still very strong,” Yu said,
adding there is a consensus among economists that if housing
prices drop by 20 percent, potential buyers, such as white-
collar workers, will enter the market. That wouldn’t be
“disastrous” for China’s banking system because the down-
payment ratio for mortgages in China has risen to 60 percent
from 40 percent since 2009, Yu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  