-- China Stocks Rise Most in 3 Months on Loan, Money Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-10T01:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/china-s-stocks-rise-to-highest-level-in-2012-on-money-supply-lending-data.html
(Corrects job title of Ha in third paragraph in story
published yesterday.)  China’s stocks (IFB1)  rose the most in three
months after new lending and money supply exceeded estimates in
December, boosting speculation the government is relaxing
monetary policies to bolster economic growth.  China Merchants Bank Co. (600036)  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) 
led gains for lenders after money supply grew at the fastest
pace since July. China Shenhua Energy Co., the nation’s largest
coal producer, advanced the most in 10 months on expectations
new loan growth will boost demand for commodities.  Anhui Conch
Cement Co. (600585)  climbed 5.6 percent after the Xinhua News Agency said
the banking regulator will ensure demand for loans for the
construction of affordable housing.  “It shows the government’s policy of fine-tuning monetary
policies is taking effect,”  Ha Jiming , vice chairman and chief
investment strategist for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s investment
management division for China, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. “The government is able to engineer
a soft landing, maintaining economic growth at around 8 percent.
The market this year will have some opportunities.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 62.50 points, or 2.9
percent, to 2,225.89 at the close, its biggest advance since
Oct. 12. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  jumped 3.4 percent to 2,368.57. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 1.4 percent on Jan. 6
in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite rose the most in  Asia  today, lifting
the gauge’s valuations to 9.1 times estimated earnings from a
record low of 8.9 times reached on Jan. 6, according to weekly
 data (SHCOMP)  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Brink of Capitulation’  The index slid 1.6 percent in the first trading week of the
year on concern a credit crunch will hurt corporate profits,
extending a 22 percent plunge in 2011.  China ’s benchmark money-
market rate had the biggest weekly decline since November last
week as the central bank refrained from selling bills to help
ease a cash shortage ahead of the week-long New Year public
holiday starting Jan. 23.  Chinese stocks are on the “brink of capitulation” after
more than 100 stocks in the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock
exchanges plunged by the maximum daily limit on Jan. 5,
according to China International Capital Corp.  This is “one of the signs of market panic,” Hao Hong,
CICC’s Beijing-based global equity strategist, said in a report
today. He said the market is “near-term oversold” and may see
a “fleeting technical rebound” after China’s December lending
and  money supply  growth figures.  New Lending  Chinese new loans totaled 640.5 billion yuan ($101 billion)
last month, the highest amount since April, the People’s Bank of
China said yesterday. That exceeded the estimates of all 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. M2, a measure of money supply,
rose 13.6 percent, the fastest pace since July, it said. That
compared with the 12.9 percent median of 18 estimates.  Construction Bank, the country’s second-largest bank,
gained 1.9 percent to 4.74 yuan.  Merchants Bank  rose 3.3 percent
to 12.38 yuan.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (6000016) , the first privately
owned bank, advanced 2.5 percent to 6.18 yuan.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for measures to boost confidence
in the nation’s stock market, the  Shanghai  Securities News
reported today, citing his comments at the National Financial
Work meeting. He urged reforming initial public offerings and
improving companies’ dividend payouts, according to the report.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission is studying
measures to curb IPO speculation, the Shanghai Securities News
reported today, citing the regulator’s assistant chairman Zhu Congjiu. The measures may include allowing institutional
investors to buy more IPO shares, it said.  Wen’s Call  Wen’s call “will help” equities recover from a two-year
slump, according to the head of UBS AG’s China operations.  The premier’s comments signal the government may take more
measures to boost stocks, including allowing social security
funds to buy equities, David Li, UBS’s chairman and country head
for China, said in an interview in Shanghai. Funds may flow out
of the  property market  and into stocks as the government isn’t
showing any inclination to ease curbs in the real-estate
industry because prices “are still high,” he said.  Central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan said yesterday the
nation must be ready to combat possible shocks from  Europe ’s
debt crisis and an uncertain U.S. economic outlook. China cut
the reserve requirement for the first time since 2008 on Nov. 30
as Europe’s debt crisis eroded demand for its exports.  Energy Stocks  A measure of 24 energy stocks on the CSI 300 jumped 6.7
percent today, the most among the 10 industry groups. Shenhua
surged 7.2 percent to 26.01 yuan, the biggest gain since March
7. China Coal Energy Co., the second-largest coal producer,
advanced 7 percent to 9.28 yuan.  Datong Coal Industry Co. (601001) , the
third largest, climbed 8.9 percent to 12.82 yuan.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission will ensure demand
for loans for building affordable housing are “reasonably
met,” Xinhua reported yesterday, citing Chairman  Shang Fulin .  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, gained 5.6
percent to 15.55 yuan. Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. climbed
5.2 percent to 9.19 yuan. Huaxin Cement Co., an affiliate of
Holcim Ltd., rose 5.5 percent to 12.93 yuan.  Cement stocks also rebounded after dropping last week on
speculation a tax may be imposed on industries that emit carbon
such as cement. China would have difficulties implementing such
a tax on cement production as there have been no discussions
between the government, China Cement Association and cement
companies, Kevin You, an analyst at Samsung Securities Asia
Ltd., said in report dated Jan. 6.  The Shanghai Composite will gain 36 percent because slowing
inflation will let policy makers cut  interest rates  and bank
reserves, according to Zhang Han, a strategist at Guotai Junan
Securities Co., the only major brokerage to foresee the slump in
the past two years. CICC forecasts a “slight” drop since the
economy isn’t slowing enough to permit “aggressive” reductions
in borrowing costs.  “Liquidity will improve as a result of the government’s
easing policies,” Zhang said in an interview on Dec. 21.
“That’ll help stocks to rebound in the first quarter.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  