-- China’s Money Rate Gains as Cash Demand Rises Ahead of Holiday
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-01-09T08:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/china-s-money-rate-gains-as-cash-demand-rises-ahead-of-holiday.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
increased as banks prepare for rising cash demand ahead of the
Chinese New Year holidays.  The People’s Bank of China will suspend debt sales ahead of
the week-long holiday starting on Jan. 23, while conducting
reverse-repurchase operations based on demand, the central bank
said on its website on Jan. 6. The monetary authority added a
net 51 billion yuan ($8.1 billion) to the  banking system (PBOCNET)  last
week, the most since November, official data show.  “Liquidity is getting tighter as the Lunar New Year
holiday approaches and the repo rate will move higher,” said
Matt Huang, a strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  Singapore .  The  seven-day repo rate (CHBM7D) , a gauge of funding availability in
the financial system, rose 21 basis points to 4.52 percent in
 Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.03 percent.  “I think it’s difficult for swaps to follow just because
people expect a cut in the reserve ratio,” Huang said.  Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said yesterday the
nation must be ready to combat possible shocks from  Europe ’s
debt crisis and an uncertain U.S. economic outlook, echoing
comments by Premier Wen Jiabao. China cut the  reserve
requirement (CHRRDEPC)  for banks last month for the first time since 2008.  December lending and  money-supply  growth exceeded
economists’ estimates, according to data released over the
weekend. New loans totaled 641 billion yuan, compared with 562
billion yuan in November, while M2, a measure of money supply,
rose 13.6 percent, compared with the median estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg for 12.9 percent.  The yield on 3.93 percent bonds due August 2021 fell one
basis point to 3.39 percent, according to the Interbank Funding
Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 