-- China Signals Intent to Curtail Shadow Banking, Barclays Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-09T05:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/china-signals-intent-to-curtail-shadow-banking-barclays-says.html
China ’s leaders signaled their intent
to discourage unregulated lending at a once-in-five years
financial work meeting, a move that will benefit banks and
 capital markets , according to Barclays Capital Inc.  “One key message was that financial services should
closely serve the real economy,” even though detailed policies
weren’t immediately announced, May Yan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Barclays, said in an e-mailed report today. “We
expect that irregular lending and shadow banking are likely to
be rectified. Funding in these markets may flow back to the
financial system and be regulated to support the real economy.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  told officials who attended the two-day
meeting in Beijing that China will “decisively” prohibit
capital from leaving the real economy for speculative activity
and also ease funding for businesses. China’s informal lending
market, which may have expanded to almost 4 trillion yuan ($633
billion), is the most immediate “time bomb” facing the economy,
Credit Suisse Group AG said in September.  Regulators have increased their scrutiny of non-bank
lending on concern that slowing economic growth and borrowing
costs that exceed bank rates will erode the ability of small
businesses to repay money owed to private lenders. A Xinhua News
Agency report in September said that more than 80 businessmen in
the city of Wenzhou had disappeared, committed suicide or
declared bankruptcy to avoid repaying debts to informal lenders
since April.  Municipal Bonds  China may focus new initiatives on supporting small
companies, lowering the entry barriers for private capital in
the financial industry, enhancing coordination among regulators
and accelerating the growth of the debt and stock markets, Yan
of Barclays wrote. Quicker development of the municipal  bond
market  will improve local authorities’ ability to repay bank
loans, while the establishment of a unified credit information
platform would help lenders’ risk management, she said.  In addition, the government’s pledge in a Jan. 7  statement 
following the meeting to “boost confidence in the stock
market” shows policymakers have reached the “bottom” of their
tolerance for stock-market declines, Lu Zhengwei, the Shanghai-
based chief economist at Industrial Bank Co., said yesterday.  Wen’s comments during the meeting on improving rules
regarding stock sales, delisting and dividends was
“encouraging,” Lu wrote in a report. “Whether a real bottom
of the market will appear immediately still depends on specific
measures that follow up and the implementation.”  Separately,  China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRZ)  Chairman
 Shang Fulin  said in an interview with the official Xinhua News
Agency after the meeting that the regulator will urge lenders to
build “firewalls” separating them from illegal fundraising,
usury and private lending, and will further regulate their
wealth-management operations. The report didn’t provide details.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  