-- Chrysler CEO Says He May Abandon ‘Restrictive’ Loans
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-01-09T22:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/chrysler-ceo-says-he-may-abandon-restrictive-loans-correct-.html
Chrysler Group LLC may withdraw its
request for loans from the U.S. Energy Department if the amount
made available is “too restrictive,” Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said.  Chrysler as recently as November held talks with the Energy
Department about the $3.5 billion in loans the company is
seeking from a government program that encourages production of
fuel-efficient vehicles. Regulators reduced the amount of
financing being considered in their latest discussions with the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company, Marchionne told reporters
today at the North American International Auto Show in  Detroit ,
without being specific.  “You ask yourself whether it’s worth it -- that’s the
question I keep on asking myself,” he said. The company will
“continue to debate the DOE to try and nail down a number,” he
said.  Marchionne a year ago called the loans important to the
“long-term stability of Chrysler.” He said today that
borrowing from the U.S. likely would impair the company’s
ability to “refinance itself” for the term of the loans.  Chrysler is generating cash at a faster pace than its
November 2009 business plan, he said. The company probably
generated more than $1 billion in  cash flow  for 2011, “nearly
double that number” in the plan, he said.  “This is the same Chrysler that would have taken a buck
off the sidewalk,” he said.  ‘In The Mix’  The change of control of Chrysler to  Fiat SpA (F)  is to blame
for the loan delay, U.S. Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan
Democrat, said in an interview today at the auto show. She said
she expects a decision soon.  “This is very much about solid economics of the loans,”
Stabenow said. “It’s taken a long time because Chrysler’s going
through a transition. It’s very much still in the mix.”  The U.S. Treasury Department and Canadian government, which
backed Chrysler’s 2009 bankruptcy, exited their holdings in July
when Fiat paid $625 million to boost its stake to 53.5 percent
on a fully diluted basis. Fiat boosted its ownership to 58.5
percent last week after a commitment to build a 40-mpg rated
Dodge Dart compact car at Chrysler’s assembly plant in
Belvidere,  Illinois .  Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , is targeting a merger with
Chrysler by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Detroit at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  