-- Cincinnati Reds Shortstop Barry Larkin Is Elected to Baseball Hall of Fame
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-01-09T21:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/cincinnati-reds-shortstop-barry-larkin-is-elected-to-baseball-hall-of-fame.html
Former Cincinnati Reds shortstop
Barry Larkin was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame
after a 19-year career that included the 1995 National League
Most Valuable Player award.  Larkin, a 12-time All-Star, was selected on 86 percent of
ballots submitted by members of the Baseball Writers Association
of America, the Cooperstown, New York-based  Hall of Fame  said
today in a statement. Nominees need at least 75 percent of the
votes for induction.  Larkin, who was on the ballot for the third year, garnered
62.1 percent of the vote in 2011, a year after receiving 51.6
percent. It’s the fourth time in seven years that only one
player was  voted  into the hall by the writers’ association.  “I am so excited,” Larkin said in a televised interview.
“I’m just incredibly proud, moved and appreciative of this
induction. It’s amazing, just amazing.”  Former New York Yankees center fielder  Bernie Williams , who
was on the ballot for the first time, received 10 percent of the
vote, while 20-year veteran Ruben Sierra drew no votes and will
be removed from the list.  Jack Morris received 67 percent, while Jeff Bagwell (56
percent), Lee Smith (51 percent), Tim Raines (49 percent), Edgar Martinez (37 percent), Alan Trammell (37 percent), Fred McGriff
(24 percent), Larry Walker (23 percent) and  Mark McGwire  (19.5
percent) also came up short.  McGwire’s Lowest Total  McGwire, who set the single-season home run record of 70
that  Barry Bonds  eventually broke, has admitted steroid use and
never has received more than 23.7 percent of votes from the
writers. His 19.5 percent total this year was his lowest in the
six years he has been eligible.  In a career spent entirely with the Reds, Larkin had 2,340
hits, 198 home runs and stole 379 bases to go with a .295
batting average. In 1990, he batted .353 to help the Reds win
the  World Series . Larkin joins former catcher Johnny Bench as
the only two players who spent their entire careers with the
Reds to be elected.  “I am so looking forward to being part of that elite team,
reaching baseball immortality,” Larkin said. “When my kids are
old and their grandkids are grown, they’re always going to be
able to say, ‘Yeah, that guy, my grandfather, my great
grandfather, great-great grandfather, he was one of the best in
the game.’ I am so phenomenally proud.”  At the July 22 induction ceremony, Larkin will enter the
hall with former Chicago Cubs third baseman  Ron Santo , who was
elected with 15 votes from the 16 members of the Golden Era
Committee late last year.  Santo’s Career  Santo, a nine-time All-Star who battled diabetes throughout
his career, died in December 2010 at the age of 70. He had 342
home runs and won five Gold Gloves for his defense while playing
for the Chicago Cubs and White Sox from 1960 through 1974.  Next year’s class of candidates will includeBonds, the
major league career home run leader and seven-time NL MVP, and
 Roger Clemens , a 300-game winner and record seven-time recipient
of his league’s Cy Young Award as the best pitcher.  Bonds was convicted of obstructing a federal investigation
into steroid use in baseball, and Clemens faces trial in U.S.
District Court in  Washington  for allegedly lying to a
congressional committee about using banned performance-enhancing
drugs.  Others on this year’s ballot were 2003 American League
batting champion Bill Mueller, 1993 AL Rookie of the Year Tim Salmon,  Rafael Palmeiro , Juan Gonzalez, Jeromy Burnitz, Vinny Castilla, Brian Jordan, Javy Lopez,  Don Mattingly , Terry Mulholland, Dale Murphy, Phil Nevin, Brad Radke, Tony Womack and
Eric Young.  To contact the reporter on this story: Michael Buteau at 
   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  