-- Clean Water Act Tool Used by EPA Questioned at High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-09T20:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/clean-water-act-tool-used-by-epa-questioned-at-high-court-1-.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices accused
the Environmental Protection Agency of overreaching in enforcing
federal statutes, as a majority of the court signaled it may
blunt a favorite agency enforcement tool.  Hearing arguments today in a case involving an  Idaho  couple
seeking to build a new home, justices from across the
ideological spectrum suggested they will let landowners go
straight to a federal judge when the federal agency orders them
to correct violations of environmental laws.  The case, which has ramifications for energy companies and
manufacturers, may weaken the EPA’s so-called administrative
compliance orders. The agency issues as many as 3,000 such
orders each year to businesses and individuals, demanding an end
to alleged environmental violations and applying so much
pressure that those accused typically give in before the agency
has to justify the action before a judge.  “Don’t you think most ordinary homeowners would say this
kind of thing can’t happen in the  United States ?” Justice
 Samuel Alito  asked at today’s hearing. He later suggested the
EPA’s actions had been “outrageous.”  Justice  Antonin Scalia  accused regulators of “high-
handedness.”  The fight involves a 0.63-acre property near Priest Lake in
northern Idaho. In 2007 Chantell and Michael Sackett had begun
preparing the land to build a three-bedroom home when EPA
officials ordered work to halt. The agency said the property was
a wetland and that the Sacketts couldn’t build without obtaining
a permit under the  Clean Water Act .  Restore Land  The EPA then ordered the Sacketts to restore the land by
removing piles of fill material and replanting the vegetation
they had cleared. The written order threatened the couple with
fines of as much as $32,500 a day.  Scalia faulted the agency for modifying the order,
eliminating the requirement to replant the vegetation, only
after the Sacketts signaled they planned to sue.  The Sacketts contend they have a constitutional right to
seek judicial review of the administrative compliance order
right away. A federal appeals court said the couple had to wait
until regulators sought to enforce the order by asking a federal
court to impose a fine.  General Electric Co. (GE)  is supporting the Sacketts as are
business groups, including the Chamber of Commerce and the
 American Petroleum Institute .  GE Sought Review  GE last year unsuccessfully sought Supreme Court review of
a similar provision in the federal Superfund law. Depending on
how broadly the high court rules in the Clean Water Act case,
its decision might affect the EPA’s power under the Superfund
law as well.  The Obama administration and the EPA argue that the couple
has ample avenues short of going to court for contesting the
order without risking fines. Among other options, the Sacketts
could apply for a permit, the government said.  Several justices today questioned the adequacy of those
options and the government’s contention that Congress didn’t
authorize judicial review of administrative compliance orders.
Justice Elena Kagan called the government’s reasoning “very
strange.”  “Why would the presumption of reviewability not apply?”
Kagan asked.  Justice  Stephen Breyer , perhaps the court’s staunchest
defender of the powers of administrative agencies, said the
government “is fighting 75 years of practice” with its
argument.  ‘What Would You Do?’  Chief Justice John Robert joined Alito in openly
empathizing with the landowners.  “What would you do, Mr. Stewart, if you received this
compliance order?” Roberts said in a question directed at
Malcolm Stewart, the government’s lawyer. “You don’t think your
property has wetlands on it and you get this compliance order
from the EPA. What would you do?”  Stewart said the Sacketts’s options were “limited” given
that they started filling the property before seeking federal
government approval.  “They can’t discharge fill, wait to see whether EPA
notices, and then insist upon immediate judicial review if EPA
notices and objects,” Stewart argued.  Costly Permit  The Sacketts say a permit application would potentially
cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. An environmental group,
the  Natural Resources Defense Council , disputes that contention,
saying the Sacketts might be able to get an after-the-fact
permit for as little as $2,000.  A  high court  ruling for the Sacketts wouldn’t necessarily
mean they could build their house. Their lawyer, Damien Schiff,
said a court reviewing the administrative compliance order would
have to be deferential to the EPA, overturning the wetlands
designation only if it wasn’t based on “substantial evidence.”  “Even if the Sacketts on remand don’t get their ideal mode
of judicial review, something is frankly better than nothing,”
Schiff argued.  The case, which the court will decide by the end of June,
is Sackett v. EPA, 10-1062.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 