-- Clinton Urged to Press Pakistan on Haqqani by Former Officials
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-01-09T17:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/clinton-urged-to-press-pakistan-on-haqqani-by-former-officials.html
A group of U.S. scholars and former
officials wrote Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urging the
Obama administration to express concern to Pakistan’s leaders
about threats against  Husain Haqqani , that nation’s former
ambassador to Washington.  “Haqqani is under intense pressure in Pakistan, including
possibly threats to his life, over the so-called ‘Memogate’
affair,” the bipartisan group of Pakistan analysts wrote in the
letter today, which was copied to Vice President  Joe Biden ,
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, National Security Adviser Tom
Donilon and CIA Director David Petraeus.  The writers urged in the letter that top U.S. officials
“weigh in with key Pakistani leaders and to make appropriate
public statements to ensure that Husain Haqqani is not
physically harmed and that due process of law is followed.”  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  asked Haqqani to resign
Nov. 22 over allegations that he was behind a secret memo
seeking U.S. help in heading off a feared military coup last
year, following the U.S. raid that killed  Osama bin Laden .
Haqqani’s ouster, before any investigation to prove wrongdoing,
was a concession by civilian leaders to quell the military’s
fury over the scandal, former officials and analysts in
Washington and Islamabad said at the time.  “Questions have been raised about the manner in which this
case is proceeding against Ambassador Haqqani and whether due
process of law is being followed,” according to today’s letter
from U.S.-based scholars, including Bruce Riedel, who led a
review of U.S. policy toward Afghanistan and Pakistan for
President  Barack Obama  in 2009.  Returned to Pakistan  Haqqani, who denies any involvement in the memo and
returned to Pakistan voluntarily to answer questions, has been
forced to surrender his passport, according to the letter. The
16 scholars, who include former U.S. ambassadors and advisers to
both Democratic and Republican policy makers, commended the
State Department for calling for fair and transparent treatment
for Haqqani on Jan. 6.  The group said in the letter that “internationally
recognized human rights defender Ms. Asma Jehangir recently quit
as Haqqani’s lawyer, citing her lack of confidence in the
judicial commission established by the Pakistani Supreme Court
to investigate the case,” and “noted her concern that
Ambassador Haqqani could be picked up by Pakistan’s intelligence
services and intimidated, and even possibly tortured, into
providing a statement that suits their interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 