-- CME to Raise Stake in Dubai Mercantile Exchange, Sharaf Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-01-09T17:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/cme-to-raise-stake-in-dubai-mercantile-exchange-sharaf-says.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange owner, is set to increase its holding in the
 Dubai Mercantile Exchange , according to Ahmad Sharaf, chairman
of that Persian Gulf oil bourse.  The DME plans to raise money by offering more shares to
existing investors this year, Sharaf said while attending a
conference in  Abu Dhabi  today. The current roster of
shareholders, which includes CME, a Dubai investment fund and
the state of Oman, will remain the same, with only the size of
their stakes changing, he said.  “The CME wants to expand its presence in the DME,” Sharaf
said. He declined to give details on the timing or the size of
the capital increase.  CME offers clearing services for trades done on the DME and
supports swaps and options contracts that are based on the Dubai
exchange’s main Oman oil futures contract.  The DME is seeking to establish the Oman crude futures
contract, which gives investors the option to take physical
deliveries, as the benchmark for shipments to  Asia  by
interesting more producers in adopting it. The present standard
for Middle East crude is the  Dubai (PGCRDUBA)  price assessment, which
includes oil from the Dubai, Oman and Upper Zakum fields,
published by Platts, the energy information division of the
McGraw-Hill Cos.  CME Declines Comment  A CME spokesman declined to comment on the plan.  “I’ve seen nothing that has changed in the situation so
far” concerning the stake in the DME, Damon Leavell, a New
York-based company spokesman, said in a telephone interview
today. “We don’t comment on rumors.”  Oman, the largest Middle Eastern oil producer that’s not a
member of OPEC, uses the monthly averages generated by the
exchange to determine the official selling price for its crude.
Dubai began using the DME as a benchmark to price its oil in
2009. Middle East producers set official prices that they charge
customers who buy oil under long-term contracts.  DME Chief Executive Officer Thomas Leaver has said he is
targeting members of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council to
switch to the Oman contract as a benchmark. Council members are
 Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait , the  United Arab Emirates , Qatar, Oman and
Bahrain.  The exchange, located in the Dubai International Financial
Centre, is 25 percent-owned by a Dubai state-owned investment
company, with the CME and the Oman Investment Fund each also
holding a quarter, according to the company’s website and
comments Leaver made in a June 2009 interview.  A group of lenders and traders including JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Vitol Group and Royal Dutch Shell
Plc bought a 20 percent stake in 2008. The remaining 5 percent
is allocated to floor trading members, according to the website
and Leaver.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 