-- Codelco Seeking Court Order Forcing Anglo American to Reveal ‘Secret’ Sale
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C r a z e
-- 2012-01-09T23:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/codelco-seeks-court-order-for-anglo-to-reveal-secret-sale-1-.html
Codelco,  Chile ’s state-owned copper
company, is seeking a court order for  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  to
disclose terms of the London-based company’s sale of a stake in
its Sur unit to  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)   The petition was filed in a Santiago appeals court today as
part of an effort to annul the sale of 24.5 percent of the unit
for $5.39 billion in a deal announced Nov. 9, the company wrote
in a statement distributed today by e-mail  Codelco, based in Santiago, said the transaction was aimed
at thwarting its right to buy 49 percent of Anglo’s Sur unit,
which owns the world’s fifth-largest copper mine. Today’s so-
called pre-judicial preparatory measure against Anglo, which
follows a similar filing in November directed at Mitsubishi,
seeks to force Anglo to the reveal the “secret” sale contract
and shareholders’ accord, Codelco said in the statement.  “The action is aimed at preparing a subsequent annulment
lawsuit of both contracts and, in this way, defend Codelco’s
right to buy 49 percent of Anglo American Sur SA,” it wrote.  Codelco notified Anglo of its intention to buy 49 percent
of the unit on Jan. 2 under an option agreement that dates back
to 1978. Under terms of the option, Codelco estimates it would
pay about $6 billion for the 49 percent.  Anglo said in a writ filed with a Santiago court last month
that Codelco breached the contract by trying to take up the
option before it became valid in January.  The unit includes the Los Bronces mine and adjacent
undeveloped deposits that  John MacKenzie , head of copper at
Anglo, described on Nov. 22 as the best in the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  