-- Wall Street Turned Crisis Into a Cartel: William Cohan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-01-09T00:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/cohan-how-wall-street-turned-a-crisis-into-a-cartel.html
(Corrects to say T-Mobile was potential partner of AT&T merger, 
in 15th paragraph of article published Jan. 9.)  Almost 65 years ago, in 1947, the U.S.
government sued 17 leading Wall Street investment banks,
charging them with effectively colluding in violation of
antitrust laws.  In its complaint -- which was front-page news at the time -
-- the  Justice Department  alleged that these firms had created
“an integrated, overall conspiracy and combination” starting
in 1915 “and in continuous operation thereafter, by which”
they developed a system “to eliminate competition and
monopolize ‘the cream of the business’ of investment banking.”  The U.S. argued that the top Wall Street investment banks -
- including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  (the lead defendant) and Goldman
Sachs -- had created a cartel by which, among other things, it
set the prices charged for underwriting securities and for
providing mergers-and-acquisitions advice, while boxing out
weaker competitors from breaking into the top tier of the
business and getting their fair share of the fees.  The government argued that the big firms placed their
partners on their clients’ boards of directors, putting them in
the best possible position to know when a piece of business was
coming down the pike and to make sure that any competitors were
given a very hard time should they dare to try to win it.  The government was spot on: The  investment-banking  business
was then a cartel where the biggest and most powerful firms
controlled the market and then set the prices for their services,
leaving customers with few viable choices for much needed
capital, advice or trading counterparties.  The same argument can be made today.  Even More Powerful  Indeed, following the destruction of Bear Stearns Cos.,
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc., Merrill Lynch and countless
smaller and foreign competitors during the financial crisis that
began in 2007, the investment-banking business is an even more
powerful and threatening cartel than it was in 1947.  Today, there are far fewer than 17 firms in control of the
investment-banking business. After  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Morgan Stanley,  JPMorganChase & Co .,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of
America Corp.  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , one is pretty much at a dead
end. The investment-banking business is now both much, much
bigger -- in terms of revenue and profits -- and much, much more
concentrated than it ever was close to being in 1947.  How could that have happened? Unfortunately, in October
1953, Harold Medina, the presiding federal judge in the case,
threw the antitrust lawsuit out of court. In an extraordinary
417-page ruling -- a must-read for anyone interested in the
history of Wall Street -- Medina decided that the government’s
case rested solely on “circumstantial evidence” and that the
banks didn’t violate antitrust laws. Yet Medina’s ruling also
laid bare the extent to which the 17  Wall Street  firms would go
to defend their turf and prevent other banks from getting access
to lucrative, fee-paying clients. It wasn’t a pretty picture.  Today, while there is no inkling of an antitrust lawsuit
against Wall Street, its cartel-like behavior is very much in
evidence. The remaining banks have increased their hold over the
marketplace and continue to collude when it comes to pricing
their services.  Although banks will argue that all fees are negotiable,
every corporate issuer knows the rules: Initial public offerings
are priced at a 7 percent fee; high-yield-debt underwriting is
priced at 3 percent; loan syndications are priced at about 1
percent. M&A deals are still priced off the “Lehman formula,”
even though there is no more Lehman Brothers.  A Fateful Offering  There was a moment, in August 2004, when things might have
changed, during the high-profile IPO of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  The old
guard on Wall Street was worried that WR Hambrecht & Co., the
architect of the so-called auction IPO, might upset the pricing
cartel after it successfully arranged -- along with Goldman
Sachs and Morgan Stanley (brought in for ballast) -- for the IPO
of Google to operate in a way that benefited both Google and its
investors. (The stock was priced at $85 per share before trading
up significantly; it ended last week at about  $650 per share ).  But after the initial hoopla, the promise of what Hambrecht
was trying to do -- give the market, rather than the
underwriters, the chance to set the price -- largely faded. None
of the recent high-profile, high-tech IPOs either completed
( Zynga Inc (ZNGA) . and  Groupon Inc (GRPN) .) or being contemplated in the
coming months (Facebook Inc.) seriously considered the Hambrecht
alternative. The cartel, now with even fewer members, continues
to rule the IPO market.
  The renewed power of the Wall Street cartel may be the worst
consequence of the 2008 decision to rescue Wall Street rather
than let it collapse under the weight of its broken business
model. Sure, the corporations are struggling a bit now --profits
are down, bankers and traders are being fired in droves and new
regulations are being crafted every day -- but when the economy
returns to full strength the iron grip of the remaining Wall
Street powerhouses will be readily apparent.  In a rare show of backbone toward Wall Street, President
 Barack Obama ’s Justice Department flexed its muscles last year
when it sued to block the merger of  AT&T Inc. (T)  and T-Mobile USA
Inc., causing it to be scuttled and hundreds of millions of
dollars in fees to be lost. The administration should build on
that success. Sixty-five years late, let’s break up the Wall
Street cartel and re-establish the integrity of the  capital
markets .  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 