-- Corzine Sued by Montana Farmers Over MF Global Futures Account Money
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-01-09T21:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/corzine-sued-by-montana-farmers-over-mf-global-futures-account-money.html
Jon Corzine , former chief executive
officer of collapsed commodity brokerage  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ) , was sued for fraud by  Montana  farmers who claim he oversaw
the misappropriation of their commodity trading account funds.  The lawsuit filed today by three farmers and a cattle-
raising operation in Montana seeks to represent a nationwide
group of commodities futures customers whose money went missing
amid the $41 billion bankruptcy of MF Global, parent of the
futures brokerage that is being liquidated. A trustee is looking
for $1.2 billion or more in money missing from commodity
customers’ accounts.  Corzine, the former governor of  New Jersey , and other
executives at MF Global made “knowingly false statements” to
induce the plaintiffs to enter into contracts with the
brokerage, according to the complaint filed in federal court in
Missoula, Montana.  The executives failed to disclose to customers that their
money was used to finance MF Global’s bad bets on European
sovereign debt, the farmers said in the complaint.  The lawsuit also names  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , MF Global’s
clearing broker and custodian, as a defendant, alleging it
failed to detect suspicious activity at the brokerage and aided
and abetted in the fraud.  Corzine has said he doesn’t know where the missing money is
and didn’t authorize any misuse of customer funds that may have
occurred. Corzine is the defendant in at least nine lawsuits
before a federal judge in  Manhattan  that seek compensation for
losses from the company’s bankruptcy, according to court papers.  Mary Sedarat, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the lawsuit. Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment about the
complaint.  The case is Klinker v. JPMorgan Chase., 12-0005, U.S.
District Court, District of Montana (Missoula).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 