-- Credit Suisse Bankers Said to Bet $450 Million on Firm’s Illiquid Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-01-10T13:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/credit-suisse-bankers-said-to-bet-own-450-million-on-firm-s-risky-assets.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , selling
riskier assets to free up capital, has found a ready buyer: its
own employees.  The same senior bankers who received part of their 2008 pay
in illiquid loans and bonds contributed $450 million of their
own money to buy more of the firm’s  risky assets , such as
mortgage-backed securities, said two people with knowledge of
the plan, who asked for anonymity because the deal is private.
The bankers, some of whom have left since 2008, had been willing
to put almost $500 million into the Expanded Partner Asset
Facility, or EPAF, which closed Dec. 31, one of the people said.  Banks are trying to divest illiquid loans and fixed-income
securities because regulators would require the firms to hold
more equity capital as a buffer against losses.  Europe ’s lenders
have pledged to cut more than 950 billion euros ($1.2 trillion)
of assets over the next two years to reduce the capital they
would have to raise.  “This is an advantage to the company, if priced correctly,
in that it will reduce their capital charges and liquefy their
balance sheet,” said Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York. “The question is what goes into
it, how is it being valued and are they using a third-party firm
to value it? Because to do anything else is a transfer of value
from the shareholders to the employees.”  Using Leverage  The new fund will be able to buy more than $450 million of
assets because it will use leverage, or borrowed money, one of
the people said. Credit Suisse may act as the lender to the
employee fund, one person said. The reduction in so-called risk-
weighted assets will cut Credit Suisse’s capital requirements,
the person said.  Credit Suisse didn’t use a third party to value the assets,
which were transferred at market prices in accordance with the
bank’s compliance controls, said a person familiar with the
matter. Victoria Harmon, a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in  New
York , declined to comment.  “If the price at which you’re transferring the assets is
based on market pricing, then you could just as easily take it
to the market and do the same thing,” said  Douglas Elliott , a
former investment banker and now an economic studies fellow at
the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “If it’s not based on
market pricing, then you have the risk you’re selling it too
low.”  The Zurich-based bank gave about 2,000 managing directors
and directors, the most senior ranks of employees, stakes in a
$5 billion pool of illiquid assets as part of their 2008
compensation, the people said. While the value of fund had
surged as much as 60 percent by mid-2010, more recent
performance data hasn’t been disclosed.  Future Value  Employees receive semi-annual coupon payments equivalent to
the London Interbank Offered Rate plus 2.50 percentage points on
their investment in the fund. The ultimate value of the original
fund will be determined by 2016 as loans and securities mature
or default, people familiar with the matter said in 2008.  The assets in the original Partner Asset Facility, known as
PAF, included loans to companies with low credit ratings and
bonds backed by commercial mortgages. Jonathan McHardy, whose
positions at Credit Suisse have included supervising commodities
trading and structured products, is responsible for managing the
original PAF and the expanded PAF within the asset-management
division.  Some of the assets that have been moved into the EPAF were
previously overseen by Albert Sohn, who ran securitized products
before moving into asset management this year to oversee a new
hedge fund, one of the people said. Sohn will advise McHardy,
the person said.  Shares Advance  The bank’s  shares  advanced 3.4 percent today to 21.70 Swiss
francs at 2:23 p.m. in Zurich. The stock tumbled 41 percent last
year after a 26 percent slide in 2010.  Credit Suisse, led since 2007 by  Brady Dougan , 52, said in
November its securities unit had its first quarterly loss since
2008. The unit’s loss was a factor when Moody’s Investors
Service warned on Nov. 14 that it might cut the group’s long-
term credit rating of Aa2, two levels below the top grade of
Aaa.  The company has announced plans to cut annual costs by 2
billion francs by the end of 2013, scale down its investment-
banking division and cut  3,500 jobs .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 