-- CVC Didn’t Know of F1 Payments to Gribkowsky, Court Told
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-09T17:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/cvc-s-mackenzie-denies-he-knew-of-f1-payments-to-gribkowsky.html
CVC Capital Partner Ltd.’s managing
partner told a Munich court he wasn’t informed about payments
made to former Bayerische Landesbank Chief Risk Officer Gerhard Gribkowsky over the 2005 sale of Formula One racing.  Donald MacKenzie, who testified at Gribkowsky’s bribery
trial in Munich today, said he and CVC only heard about the
issue when the German press reported it a year ago. MacKenzie
said Formula One Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  first
told him he didn’t know about the payments before explaining
them at a Feb. 2 meeting.  “Ecclestone told me the payment was necessary because
Gribkowsky had threatened to disclose some tax-related
information that was potentially damaging to him,” said
MacKenzie, who isn’t accused of wrongdoing.  Prosecutors charged Gribkowsky, who managed Munich-based
BayernLB’s interest in Formula One, with accepting bribes,
breach of trust and  tax evasion . They claim he received $44
million in bribes to facilitate the sale of the bank’s 47
percent stake in Formula One to CVC.  Gribkowsky demanded $50 million from Ecclestone as a reward
for consenting to the deal and threatened to disclose possible
tax violations by the Bambino family trust run by Ecclestone’s
wife at the time, prosecutors said. Gribkowsky denies the
charges.  MacKenzie testified he wasn’t informed about a separate
agreement under which Ecclestone would get $100 million. While
it may have been a breach of the Formula One sales agreement not
to disclose it, arrangements in which shareholders pay
executives an incentive are common, said MacKenzie.  ‘Present From Heaven’  “Had I known about it at the time, I would have understood
it,” he said. “We would have renegotiated the terms of the
deal, though, and that would have delayed it.”  When asked by defense lawyers for the results of the
internal investigation CVC commissioned from law firm
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP last year, MacKenzie first
asked the court to allow him to answer the question in closed
chambers because it would reveal an important business secret.  He later retracted the request and said Freshfields’
lawyers concluded that neither CVC nor any Formula One unit knew
about the payments to Gribkowsky.  Hiding Cards  Ecclestone and Gribkowsky both acted like businessmen do in
a negotiation process, hiding their cards and not letting the
other side get the impression they are eager to sell, said
MacKenzie.  Formula One’s situation was so bad that CVC was certain the
shareholders, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., were happy it was interested, MacKenzie said.  “Formula One was in a lot of trouble at the time,
including the threat that the teams would leave it,” said
MacKenzie. “We were in fact the only one of a very small group
of companies who could buy it, so our offer must have been seen
like a present from heaven.”  While MacKenzie had initially offered $1 billion as the
total value of the company, Ecclestone had sought $2 billion. In
the end, they settled at $2.1 billion minus a liability from a
$313 million loan to the company, MacKenzie said.  MacKenzie said it was of primary importance to CVC that
Ecclestone was kept on board because of his role in the
business. CVC saw it as a risk that Ecclestone could switch
sides and move to the teams with whom crucial negotiations were
pending. CVC also wanted Gribkowsky to have a role at F1 after
the sale, he said.  BayernLB acquired the Formula One stake after the 2002
bankruptcy of  Leo Kirch ’s media group. Gribkowsky clashed with
the Formula One chief and sued him in a London court over
corporate-governance rules Ecclestone changed to limit the
lender’s influence. Ecclestone wanted to push BayernLB out and
saw a chance when CVC showed interest, prosecutors said in the
indictment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Munich via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 