-- Czech Inflation Slows From 35-Month High on Lower Fuel Costs
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-01-09T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/czech-inflation-slows-from-35-month-high-on-lower-fuel-costs.html
Czech inflation slowed from the
highest rate in 35 months in December as price growth of fuel
and transportation eased.  The  inflation (CZCPYOY)  rate was 2.4 percent, compared with 2.5
percent in December and below the 2.5 percent median forecast of
five analysts in a Bloomberg survey, the Prague-based statistics
office said in a statement today. Consumer prices rose 0.4
percent from the previous month.  “A slowdown in price growth was particularly shown in
transport, in which the rise in prices of automotive fuel slowed
to 7.2 percent from 12 percent in November,” the office said in
the statement. “The reason was a significant month-on-month
increase in prices of automotive fuel of 4.6 percent in December
2010.”  The central bank weighed inflation above its 2 percent
target against a worsening economic outlook when it decided to
leave the benchmark  two-week repurchase (CZARANN)  rate at a record-low
0.75 percent for a 13th meeting in December. Inflation at the
end of 2011 may have been influenced by an increase in the lower
value-added  tax rate  as shops raised prices before the change
took effect on Jan. 1, the bank said in minutes from the Dec. 21
rate meeting.  The central bank’s baseline forecast, published Nov. 3,
assumed a decline in market interest rates by the end of last
year. The risks of the forecast are “moderately inflationary
and tilted towards slightly higher interest rates,” compared
with the baseline scenario, the bank said in the minutes from
the December meeting.  The outlook for external demand is converging towards the
alternative scenario, it said.  The alternative forecast, also published in November, sees
a “sharp slowdown” in the euro area’s economic growth next
year, a weaker koruna and stable  interest rates .  -- Editors: Alan Crosby, James M. Gomez  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  