-- Hong Kong’s Oldest Law Firm Deacons to Spurn Alliances in China Expansion
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2012-01-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/deacons-hong-kong-s-oldest-law-firm-plans-independent-expansion-in-china.html
Deacons,  Hong Kong ’s oldest  law firm ,
plans to remain independent as it prepares for the expansion of
its three offices in China when rules are changed to let
overseas firms advise on local laws.  “We want to replicate our Hong Kong capabilities on the
mainland when regulations permit,” Deacons Executive Partner
Jeremy Lam said in a Jan. 4 interview. Lam said he hopes Hong
Kong firms such as Deacons will be allowed to advise on Chinese
law within the next five years.  Deacons , founded in 1851 in what was then a British colony,
was the first non-Chinese law firm to be allowed a third
representative office on the mainland in 2005, eight years after
Hong Kong returned to Chinese rule.  China  has given law firms
from the city, which retains a separate legal system,
 preferential access  to the country.  While Deacons has been approached by U.S. law firms Lam
declined to identity, it isn’t discussing strategic alliances
with anyone and is pursuing a strategy of independence, he said.  That contrasts with other Hong Kong firms such as Johnson 
Stokes & Master which has merged with Chicago-based Mayer Brown 
LLP to form the Asian city’s largest law firm with 201 fee 
earners, according to trade publication Asia Legal Business.  In other mergers, Arculli Fong & Ng combined with Beijing-
based King & Wood’s Hong Kong office in 2009, and that
partnership will merge with the Hong Kong office of  Australia ’s
Mallesons Stephen Jaques to have more than 130 lawyers.  Hong Kong Battleground  Deacons, with 191 lawyers in Hong Kong, Guangzhou, Beijing
and  Shanghai , ended alliances with San Francisco-based Graham &
James LLP in 2000 and with the 600-lawyer Australian firm
formerly known as Sly & Weigall in 2009.  The Hong Kong firm ended its remaining alliances with firms
in Taiwan, Malaysia and  Thailand  at the end of last year, Lam
said.  Hong Kong has attracted at least 14 U.S. law firms to offer
advice on local law since 2010 when it was the world’s busiest
market for initial public offerings. These include Milbank,
Tweed, Hadley & McCoy LLP and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, making
the city a battleground for global law firms.  London-based firms have dominated legal advice to financial
institutions in the former colony, where companies raised $52
billion selling new shares on the city’s stock exchange in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  McDonald’s, Yahoo  Deacons’ billings from clients outside Hong Kong have grown
by 25 percent over the past six years as the firm focused on its
intellectual property, litigation and dispute resolution,
financial services and insurance practices, Lam said.  Its clients include McDonald’s Corp., on its 200 million
yuan ($32 million) bond sale in Hong Kong, and Yahoo Inc! on the
transfer of its China business to Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,
according to the law firm’s website.  Deacons’ clients from China include China Life Insurance Co.
on its investment in China Longyuan Power Group Corp. and
 Guangdong Guangye Asset Management Co. (CGAZ)   Hong Kong is being used by China as the avenue for its
internationalization, Lam said, and Deacons’ partners have
decided to drive the firm’s destiny from their own board room.  “If the price for independence is that we remain small by
international standards, we’re prepared to pay that price,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  