-- Dish’s Ergen Presses FCC to Approve Proposed Wireless Network
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-01-09T20:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/dish-s-ergen-presses-fcc-to-approve-proposed-wireless-network.html
Dish Network Corp. Chairman  Charlie Ergen  urged U.S. regulators to approve his company’s plan for a
nationwide high-speed network for wireless Internet devices.  Ergen met Jan. 6 with Federal Communications Commission
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  and other agency officials,
according to a filing by Dish posted today on the agency’s
website.  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider
behind DirecTV, asked the FCC in August for clearance to buy
assets of DBSD North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc.
and for license waivers.  “Nothing in the record should prevent immediate
approval,” Dish said in the filing posted today. The company
proposes building a ground-based network to handle traffic for
its new service, using airwaves formerly designated for
satellite service.  Incumbent mobile providers say Dish’s proposed network may
cause interference to other services, and have asked the FCC to
consider Ergen’s proposal as part of a broad rulemaking on new
uses of airwaves.  CTIA-the Wireless Association, with members including
largest U.S. mobile providers AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Wireless ,
asked for the rulemaking in an Oct. 17 filing. Dish is seeking
waivers “that would appear to eviscerate” some restrictions on
airwaves use, the association said.  The “application touches on important issues that should
be addressed in a proceeding of general applicability, not in
the limited context of a single party’s application,” the
Washington-based trade group said.  Dish said a broad FCC inquiry would “only stymie” its
plans by bringing “inevitable lengthy delays,” according to
the company’s filing posted today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  