-- Dodge Dart Gets New Life in Biggest Test for Fiat-Chrysler: Cars
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-01-09T14:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/dodge-dart-gets-new-life-in-biggest-test-for-fiat-chrysler-cars.html
The Dodge Dart was a hit in the
1960s, known for its tail fins and low price. Now Chrysler Group
LLC, using technology from its savior  Fiat SpA (F) , is bringing back
the car to carry the company into the future.  Yes, the Dodge Dart. The car last produced in 1976.  Chrysler will unveil a new one today, and when the compact
model goes on sale starting at $15,995 this year it will be the
biggest test of the 2 1/2-year Fiat-Chrysler relationship. The
Turin, Italy-based company boosted its Chrysler stake last week
by committing to build a 40 mpg Dart in Belvidere,  Illinois .  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, gained control of  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler by promising it would benefit from Fiat’s small-car
expertise and sharing of vehicle underpinnings, which reduces
cost and speeds introductions of new cars and trucks. Dart is
Chrysler’s first vehicle based on a Fiat architecture.  “This is really their first test of true sharing across
platforms and technology,”  Jeff Schuster , senior vice president
of global forecasting at LMC Automotive, said in a phone
interview. “That’s been pushed internally and externally as
their strategy and why this makes sense. Dart will give us some
indication of what direction Chrysler and Fiat are going.”  Chrysler’s engineers based Dart on Fiat’s “compact wide”
platform, which was developed in  Italy  and forms the basis of
the Alfa Romeo Giulietta. The architecture for Dart was
lengthened by 12 inches (30.5 centimeters) and widened by about
2 inches for buyers in  North America .  ‘Swiss Army Knife’  “This compact wide is the Swiss Army knife of Fiat and
Chrysler,” Marchionne said in April during an interview at his
office in Turin. The platform will be the basis of vehicles
selling in  China  and may eventually be used by the Jeep brand in
addition to  Alfa Romeo , Chrysler and Dodge models, he said.  Chrysler and Fiat sharing vehicle architectures decreases
the amount each needs to spend on engineering, design and
development because the costs are spread between them.  Fiat boosted its stake in Chrysler to 58.5 percent from
53.5 percent after the commitment to build Dart increased the
fleet’s average fuel ratings. Earning that 5 percent of Chrysler
ownership, as negotiated in its 2009 exit from bankruptcy, was
“a fundamental step” toward integrating the companies,
Marchionne said in a Jan. 5 statement. The U.S. government no
longer owns any of Chrysler. The additional 41.5 percent is
owned by the  United Auto Workers  union’s retiree health-care
trust.  Merger Plans  Marchionne plans to merge Fiat and Chrysler by the end of
2014 to achieve a target of more than 100 billion euros ($127
billion) in revenue. By then, Chrysler will reduce its number of
vehicle platforms to seven from 11 in 2010. Three of the seven
will be shared with Fiat, the company has said.  Chrysler is reviving the Dart nameplate after a 36-year
absence, said Kathy Graham, a company spokeswoman. Dart began
sales in 1960 and sold in compact, mid- and full-size versions.
The car had some of Chrysler’s most popular engines such as Hemi
V-8s and the Slant-6 before Dart’s run ended in 1976.  Q-Tip of the rap group A Tribe Called Quest sang about a
road trip in a ‘74 Dart in the 1990 release “I Left My Wallet
in El Sugundo.”  Dart will compete against some of the top-selling cars in
the U.S., including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Corolla,  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) ’s Civic and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Cruze. Compact-
car sales comprised about 15 percent of industry sales last year
and the segment leads the industry in retail deliveries.  Sales Estimate  Dart sales may exceed 100,000 this year, according to LMC
Automotive estimates. Toyota’s Corolla, the segment leader and
fourth-best selling car last year, totaled 240,259 deliveries in
the U.S.  “They’re going to give the segment a run,” said LMC’s
Schuster, who is based in Troy, Michigan. Dart will “put a lot
of pressure on Toyota and Honda,” he said.  The 40 mpg rating for Dart that boosted Fiat’s stake in
Chrysler may not match the sticker in dealer showrooms. It’s
based on an older system used by regulators, rather than a
predictor of actual fuel economy that drivers can expect.  The Dart, which will start from about $16,000, may get an
“in market” certification of 40 mpg, Reid Bigland, Dodge’s
brand president, said in an interview today.  Chrysler will have to overcome consumer perception that its
models are among the least fuel-efficient, said Alan Baum,
principal of Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan . The
Dodge Caliber compact, which Chrysler is discontinuing, had
worse fuel-economy ratings than Corolla, Cruze or Civic.  Buyers’ Views  “When you think of Chrysler, you think of the Jeeps and
you think of Ram,” Baum said in a phone interview. “The
Caliber didn’t do well because of the product, but it also
didn’t do well because of what people think of when they think
of Chrysler. That’s not an easy ship to turn around.”  Caliber was “not really able to go toe-to-toe” with other
compact cars, Bigland said in a briefing with reporters last
month. Its replacement will have “class-leading” wind
resistance that inspired Chrysler to bring back the Dart name,
he said.  “There’s not much more aerodynamic than a dart,” he said.  Sales of Chrysler’s 200 sedan shows the company may be
making progress in changing buyers’ minds, Baum said. Deliveries
of the new model totaled 86,987 last year, according to Autodata
Corp., more than double the year-earlier sales of the Sebring
sedan it replaced. The company’s total U.S. sales rose 26
percent last year, missing a goal for a 45 percent jump.  Dart will have an available touch screen that uses
Chrysler’s Uconnect system and at 8.4 inches is the largest
among compact cars, according to the company. The touch screen
will have available  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  navigation, controls for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  iPods and a  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  system for weather and
stock portfolio updates and sports scores.  Labor Costs  Dart will be the smallest model Chrysler builds in the U.S.
The automaker will benefit by having kept its total hourly labor
costs at an estimated $51 an hour, little changed by its new
four-year agreement with the United Auto Workers ratified in
October. The contract gives Chrysler an advantage over Dearborn,
Michigan-based  Ford (F) , which has estimated its labor costs will
rise to $59 an hour.  Chrysler has said future models also will cut costs by as
much as 65 percent through sharing key parts among cars,
utilities and trucks in their lineups. The Fiat 500 is made in
 Mexico .  Fiat and Chrysler plan to introduce eight new models based
on the compact platform in 2013 and 2014, after the Dodge Dart
and the Fiat sedan for the Chinese market in 2012.  “Chrysler has a lot to benefit in the small-car area from
Fiat technology and products in those segments,” Schuster said.
“Fiat wasn’t out just to rescue Chrysler, it was really making
a go at the global market and leveraging expertise on both
sides.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  