-- Draghi May Copy Bernanke Over Trichet on Path to Record-Low Interest Rates
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-01-09T17:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/draghi-may-copy-bernanke-over-trichet-on-path-to-record-low-interest-rates.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may act more like  Ben S. Bernanke  than  Jean-Claude Trichet  in 2012.  With the euro area’s debt crisis pulling its economy into a
second recession in three years, Draghi soon may cut the ECB’s
 benchmark interest rate (EURR002W)  below 1 percent for the first time and
help banks by further inflating its balance sheet, which already
has ballooned 17 percent since he took office Nov. 1.  Such activism would mark a reversal from a year ago -- when
the Trichet-led ECB was pivoting toward higher rates -- and is
causing economists at Bank of America Corp. and Jefferies
International Ltd. to declare that Draghi is behaving more like
Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke than his ECB predecessor. If
the slump drags down Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, and fans
deflation, it may even prompt the bank to consider Fed-style
asset buying, providing relief it now balks at for governments.  “There is a sizable difference in just two months between
Trichet and Draghi,” said  Laurence Boone , chief European
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Paris. “If you
put Bernanke at one end of a scale and Trichet at the other,
then Draghi would be moving toward Bernanke.”  The likelihood of looser monetary policy leaves UBS AG
forecasting the euro will record a third consecutive annual
decline against the dollar. While it may enjoy occasional
fillips on optimism that officials are stepping up their crisis-
fighting, it will slide to $1.25 by the end of the year,
predicts Beat Siegenthaler, a Zurich-based foreign-exchange
strategist at UBS, the world’s third-largest currency trader.  Merkel, Sarkozy Plan  The euro strengthened against the dollar for the first time
in four days before German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy meet to flesh out a plan negotiated at
a Dec. 9 summit for rescuing the euro area. It rose 0.5 percent
to $1.2781 as of 10:31 a.m. in London.  “The single biggest reason to expect the euro to
underperform in 2012 is that the  ECB  is highly likely to keep
pumping liquidity into the system,” Siegenthaler said.  Investors may glean their first insight into the ECB’s 2012
strategy on Jan. 12, when Draghi chairs a policy-setting meeting
of its 23-member Governing Council for a third time. The
Frankfurt-based central bank will leave its key refinancing rate
at 1 percent, according to the  median (EURR002W)  of 51 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Rate Forecast  By the middle of the year, the council will reduce its
benchmark to 0.5 percent, a record low, say BofA Merrill Lynch
and Jefferies, as well as Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and  Barclays Capital .  Juergen Michels, chief euro-area economist at Citigroup in
London, is among the most pessimistic about the economy. He
estimates it will contract 1.2 percent this year and 0.2 percent
in 2013 after 1.5 percent expansion last year. That will push
inflation to about 1.1 percent in the second quarter of 2013
from  2.8 percent (ECCPEST)  last month. The ECB’s goal is just below 2
percent.  Such a backdrop will force the ECB to cut rates to 0.5
percent in the second quarter and swell its balance sheet by
buying more government and so-called covered bonds, along with
easing again the collateral criteria it imposes when lending to
banks, he said.  Recession indicators for the region already are flashing
red. Data last week showed unemployment holding at a 13-year
high of  10.3 percent (UMRTEMU)  and  confidence (EUESEMU)  in the economic outlook
falling to the lowest in more than two years. Services and
manufacturing output contracted for a fourth month in December.  Slowing Loan Growth  The rate of expansion in  M3 money supply (ECMAM3YY) , which the ECB
uses as a measure of future price pressures, fell to 2 percent
in November from 2.6 percent in October, while the annual growth
rate for loans to households and companies slowed a percentage
point to 1.7 percent from the previous month.  Driving the slide is a debt crisis that began in Greece in
late 2009 and has since infected Italy and Spain, the region’s
third and fourth largest economies. The year begins with  Italy (GBTPGR10) 
still paying 5 percentage points more than  Germany (GDBR10)  to borrow for
10 years and facing the need to redeem about 53 billion euros
($67 billion) of debt in the first quarter.  The economic pain is set to intensify. A fiscal squeeze of
almost 2 percentage points of gross domestic product this year
will help push unemployment above 11 percent for the first time,
JPMorgan Chase economists predict. Lending standards also may
tighten as banks struggle to fund themselves.  ‘Acts Boldly’  “Either the ECB acts boldly enough to get the euro-zone
confidence crisis under control, allowing global growth to
regain momentum, or the crisis spirals out of control, pushing
the world into a severe recession,” said  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .  Not everyone is as fearful.  Erik Nielsen , chief global
economist at UniCredit Group in London, forecasts the euro-area
economy will expand 0.6 percent this year as its cheaper
currency spurs trade, allowing the ECB to keep its refinancing
rate at 1 percent. The central bank’s liquidity provisions at
the end of last year also have helped restrain some borrowing
costs for nations including Italy and Spain.  “We think we are close to the bottom” of the turmoil,
Nielsen said.  Greater stimulus would be a switch from a year ago, when
inflation concerns were pushing Trichet’s ECB to shift toward
rate increases. Policy makers raised their benchmark 25 basis
points in April and again in July to 1.5 percent. They also
debated ways to wean banks off aid before becoming addicted.  More Aggressive  Easier monetary policy also would imply the ECB is more
aggressive than when it last faced a recession in 2008. It
raised its main rate even after the slump had begun, and
officials later chafed at pushing it below 1 percent, because
doing so might distort markets and lessen pressure on banks to
recapitalize.  A recovering global economy then handed them a reason not
to go as low as the Fed. The rate on overnight loans among banks
in the U.S. has been  near zero (FDTR)  since late 2008, when the central
bank also began a program of asset purchases known as
quantitative easing.  Draghi -- like Bernanke, a former student at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology -- already has made his
mark at the ECB, which is mandated to focus only on inflation;
the Fed also must try to contain unemployment.  ‘Mild Recession’  The same week Draghi, 64, became president, he oversaw an
unexpected rate reduction and warned of a “mild recession,”
with a second cut the next month. His central bank also loaned
523 European banks 489 billion euros for three years, an
unprecedented amount and period, and weakened collateral rules,
allowing its balance sheet to soar to a record 2.73 trillion
euros at the end of last year.  “The ECB is being more preemptive and aggressive now,”
said Greg Fuzesi, an economist at JPMorgan Chase in London, who
predicts central bankers will cut their key rate to 0.5 percent,
keep offering banks long-term cash beyond February and provide
financial support for the  International Monetary Fund .  Draghi’s grounding as an economist -- compared with
Trichet’s background as a French bureaucrat -- is one reason for
his greater pragmatism, said  David Owen , chief European
financial economist at Jefferies in London. Draghi was the first
Italian to secure an economics doctorate from  MIT  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Ignoring  Germany   Boone at BofA Merrill Lynch says Draghi appears less
committed to the “separation principle” -- the idea that the
ECB should discriminate between measures to ease markets and
steps to guide the economy. Changes on the ECB’s six-person
Executive Board, which split under Trichet over bond-buying,
also embolden him, she said.  Two new members joined this month from the finance
ministries of France and Germany, and Draghi last week agreed to
put Belgium’s Peter Praet in charge of economics, ignoring calls
from Germany that one of its nationals keep the job.  The ECB still may be unwilling to pare its benchmark too
close to zero, to maintain a corridor between it and the smaller
 deposit rate (ECBRON) , which it pays on overnight loans parked with it,
said  James Nixon , co-chief European economist at Societe
Generale SA. A much lower benchmark would make it unattractive
for money-market funds and banks to lend, he said.  “As the whole thrust of providing liquidity is to get
money markets to work, changing incentives is not helpful,”
said Nixon, who anticipates the ECB will stop cutting the
refinancing rate at 0.75 percent.  Unlimited Firepower  If the economy keeps deteriorating even after the rate cuts
and more liquidity is needed, the ECB may end up following the
Fed and  Bank of England  by buying assets in bulk and not
offsetting the purchases, said Owen at Jefferies. Such an
initiative may come as soon as March and initially involve
promising to buy as much as 500 billion euros of bonds across
the region over three months, he said.  The ECB has so far refused to use its unlimited firepower
to defeat the fiscal crisis. Officials warn that doing so would
amount to a bailout of governments and lessen pressure on them
to restore fiscal order. While it has bought the bonds of some
stressed countries, Draghi says the program is aimed at
stabilizing markets and is temporary and limited.  The result has been ECB asset purchases totaling about 3
percent of GDP, compared with more than 15 percent by the Fed
and Bank of England, according to Berenberg’s Schmieding.  Bundesbank Opposition  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, who opposed buying
Italian and Spanish bonds, said Jan. 3 it would be “profoundly
wrong” to step up the purchases to contain the fiscal crisis.
The influence of Germany’s central bank at the ECB shouldn’t be
underestimated and means it would back quantitative easing only
if its  price-stability  mandate is jeopardized, said Stephen Jen,
managing partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP in London.  Draghi has echoed German officials in demanding governments
introduce a “fiscal compact” to control budgets in the future.
He “is closer in his thinking and ideology to the views held
within the Bundesbank than people appreciate,” Jen said.  A deep recession in which inflation fell short of the ECB’s
aim still may spur quantitative easing. Before he left the
Executive Board last month, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi told the
Financial Times he saw “no reason” why the bank couldn’t take
such a step if “economic conditions justify it.”  Ed Yardeni , president and chief investment strategist at
Yardeni Research Inc. in  New York , says the ECB already has
joined the “QE Club” indirectly with its lending to banks,
which then can use the funds to buy government debt.  Save Banks  That view is rejected by  Stephen King , chief economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in London, who says the ECB is, for the
moment, trying to save banks and keep open the channel through
which lower  interest rates  are transmitted rather than actively
aid growth and governments.  ECB data also suggest banks are recycling the cash into
overnight deposits at the central bank rather than lending it or
purchasing bonds. Financial institutions left a record 463.6
billion euros with the ECB on Jan. 6, up from 455.3 billion the
previous day.  The irony is that if it ultimately buys more government
debt to defend price stability from deflationary forces, the ECB
could quell the debt crisis anyway by reducing bond yields, King
said.  “Things have to get worse in the euro zone before they get
better,” he said. “If you have a recession and concerns of
too-low inflation, you have a conventional reason for
unconventional policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  