-- Health Management Shares Decline Most in Four Years After Counsel Resigns
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-10T18:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/health-management-shares-decline-after-crt-analyst-notes-october-lawsuit.html
Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) ,
an operator of acute-care hospitals, fell the most in four years
after the company said its general counsel resigned and an
analyst raised concerns about an October lawsuit against the
company involving Medicare billing.  HMA  dropped  22.7 percent to $5.38 at 1:01 p.m. in  New York ,
after earlier declining as much as 31 percent. Timothy Parry
will retire immediately as counsel and leave in March, the
company said in a  filing . MaryAnn Hodge, an HMA spokeswoman,
said the change is unrelated to a former employee’s lawsuit.  Sheryl Skolnick, an analyst for CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote in a note to investors yesterday
about a suit filed by a former HMA employee named Paul Meyer.
Meyer, who said he was wrongfully fired after pointing out
compliance issues, has “long experience” investigating
Medicare fraud, Skolnick wrote.  “What investors are going to do is assume the worst,”
said Whit Mayo, an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in
Nashville, who has an “outperform” rating on the stock.
“Pressures from any investigation-related matters could be
weighing on the company.”  Meyer said in his complaint that several HMA hospitals had
won higher government payments from the Medicare program for the
elderly and disabled, in part by “the submission of fraudulent
billing to Medicare through the improper admission of patients
as inpatients even though such patients clearly did not meet the
standards for inpatient admission.”  Concerns Treated ‘Appropriately’  When Meyer raised concerns of Medicare fraud, the company
“treated them seriously and appropriately,” said Susan Toepfer,
representing HMA on the case from Stearns, Weaver, Miller,
Weissler, Alhadeff & Sitterson in Miami.  Meyer, in the legal papers, said he was fired on the day he
told the company he would report violations to the U.S.
government. Toepfer said he was fired after refusing to give
back documents HMA needed to respond to a federal subpoena.  “This is not a fraud case, it is an individual wrongful
termination case,” Toepfer said in a telephone interview.  Toepfer said she didn’t have authorization to say if Parry
was working on the case before he resigned. Hodge said she
couldn’t comment further on personnel matters or pending
litigation.  Whistleblower Act  Meyer could win back pay and damages in the suit under the
 Florida  Whistleblower Act, which HMA does not think he is
entitled to, Toepfer said. A trial is scheduled for January 2013.  The Naples, Florida company also said yesterday that
fourth-quarter earnings excluding some items were 25 to 26 cents
a share. That beat analyst estimates for 19 cents. The company,
whose facilities are located in the southern U.S., also forecast
2012 earnings of 80 cents to 90 cents.  The case is Meyer v. Health Management Associates Inc., 11-
cv-62479-RNS, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Ft. Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 