-- Gasoline Advances as Refinery Shutdowns May Reduce Supply
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-01-09T21:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/heating-oil-fluctuates-on-german-output-decline-colder-weather.html
Gasoline rose for a second day in  New
York , reversing an earlier loss, on speculation that refinery
shutdowns may reduce inventories.  Futures advanced as Motiva Enterprises LLC’s  Port Arthur (MEPACRUD) ,
 Texas , refinery shut a diesel hydrotreater for repairs and will
idle a crude unit Jan. 17 and a coker March 1 for work,
according to two people with knowledge of the operations.
ConocoPhillips and BP Plc also shut units at Texas plants.  “Gasoline is rallying on scheduled and unscheduled
maintenance, which is impacting the gasoline supply,” said  Andy
Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. He said
gasoline-making catalytic crackers are shut at at least two
refineries in  Louisiana  and one in Texas.  Gasoline for February delivery increased 0.74 cent, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $2.759 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Gasoline has risen six of the last seven days, gaining
4.1 percent.  Gasoline touched an intraday high of $2.774 after the
report that Motiva was conducting maintenance. Motiva is in the
process of doubling the capacity of the 300,000-barrel-a-day
Port Arthur refinery near the Gulf Coast, which will make it the
largest in the U.S.  ConocoPhillips is conducting planned work on unspecified
units at the 260,000-barrel-a-day Sweeny refinery near the Texas
Gulf Coast. BP has shut an alkylation unit at the 475,000-
barrel-a-day Texas City, Texas, refinery.  Inventories Rising  The plants are shutting units as U.S. gasoline  inventories (DOETMGAS) 
reached a nine-month high and  demand (DOEDMGAS)  slid the most in 11 weeks
in the seven days ended Dec. 30, according to Energy Department
data. Stockpiles along the  Gulf Coast  were the highest since
Sept. 15.  February-delivery heating oil rose 0.28 cent to settle at
$3.073 a gallon on the exchange.  Heating oil fluctuated much of the day, between a high of
$3.0969 and a low of $3.0531, as a drop in German industrial
production indicated weakness in Europe’s largest economy and
below-normal temperatures were forecast for the U.S. Northeast.  German output  sank (GRIPIMOM)  0.6 percent in November. The median
estimate of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 0.5 percent drop. The  National Weather Service ’s Climate
Prediction Center  forecast  lower-than-normal temperatures from
Jan. 14-18 for the U.S. East Coast and Midwest.  “The oil market is still very concerned about the
weakening economic situation in  Europe , but there’s nothing
strongly bullish or strongly bearish out there right now,” said
Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy Management
Institute in New York.  Regular gasoline (3AGSREG)  at the pump, averaged nationwide, climbed
0.3 cent to $3.374 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  