-- El-Erian Says Fed Emphasis on Communication Not Effective
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-01-09T16:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/el-erian-says-fed-emphasis-on-communication-not-effective.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian said the  Federal Reserve ’s reliance on greater
communication to emphasize that it wants to spur growth is not
very effective.  “It’s not a very effective policy instrument,” El-Erian,
the chief executive officer of the world’s largest manager of
bond funds, said during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “The Fed doesn’t have enough
policy instruments to deal with the challenges facing the
economy.”  A third round of quantitative easing, or  purchases (TREFCUMA)  of debt
securities with the aim of spurring the economy, can’t by itself
create jobs and contain inflation, El-Erian said.  “The Fed alone cannot solve this,” he said. “So far,
it’s only the Fed that has been doing its job. The others seem
to be asleep at the wheel. For good outcomes, we need other
agencies to also be doing their jobs.”  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley 
on Jan. 6 said more monetary accommodation is appropriate even
after a report showed the economy added 200,000 jobs last month,
more than economists forecast.  Dudley called on the U.S. government to try new programs to
revive the housing market while saying the central bank may
still consider ways to cut  interest rates .  ‘Significant Headwind’  In separate remarks that day, Fed Bank of Boston President
 Eric Rosengren  said in Hartford,  Connecticut , that the central
bank could strengthen the  U.S. economy  by targeting stimulus
policies at the housing market.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said
yesterday the Fed probably won’t begin a new round of bond
purchases following the “encouraging” employment data. The Fed
purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasury and mortgage-related bonds
from 2008 through June to support the economy. It announced a
$400 billion program to replace shorter-maturity Treasuries in
its holdings with longer-maturity securities in September.  The Fed next meets Jan. 24-25 to discuss strategies to
boost the economy amid improving U.S. data and a persistent
European debt crisis.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy today held talks in Berlin to flesh out a new
rulebook for fiscal discipline negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit,
with Merkel saying that “no country must leave the euro area.”  ‘Strengthening the Core’  “ Europe  is a significant headwind that everyone has to
cope with,”  Newport Beach , California-based El-Erian said.
“What we’re seeing is an important shift in the narrative --
from just saving the periphery to also strengthening the core.”  For Europe to progress, he said, Germany and France need to
agree on how they will “refound” the euro zone. Europe also
needs to “counter the continued fragility of the banks” and
“decide how the burden will be shared in the peripheral
economies that are insolvent,” he said.  El-Erian recommends U.S. government securities for
investors seeking safe and opportunistic investments.  “In the short term, the  U.S. dollar  is the best place,”
he said. “It’s the cleanest dirty shirt. There aren’t pure
shirts anymore out there. Stay focused on some emerging
currencies that continue the upward migration in terms of wealth
and income, and stay away from high beta currencies that are
likely to be incredibly volatile.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  