-- Eli Manning’s ‘Slow Strides’ Sparks Giants’ Rushing Game in Playoff Win
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/eli-manning-s-slow-strides-sparks-giants-rushing-game-in-playoff-win.html
The  New York Giants  rushed into the
second round of the playoffs behind a season-best performance
from the  National Football League ’s worst running attack. It
began with a scramble by quarterback Eli Manning.  On a third down in the second quarter, trailing 2-0 after
giving up a safety, Manning dodged a tackler and ran for 14
yards to keep alive what became the Giants’ first scoring drive
in yesterday’s 24-2 win over the  Atlanta Falcons .  “He did look a little awkward, with the slow strides, but
he got it done,” running back  Brandon Jacobs  said of Manning,
who totaled 15 rushing yards on 35 attempts during the regular
season. “I would give him a 10.”  The Giants combined to gain 172 yards on the ground, mostly
from Jacobs and  Ahmad Bradshaw , for their first postseason win
since the  Super Bowl  four years ago.  It was a turnaround for a rushing offense that averaged a
league-low 89.2 yards a game during the regular season, New
York’s worst in  Tom Coughlin ’s eight years as coach. The Giants
were also the only team in the NFL to finish without a 125-yard
performance.  Coughlin praised Manning’s run for giving the team momentum
and Jacobs for playing a hard-hitting game. Jacobs finished with
a team-high 92 yards on 14 carries.  “Jacobs set the tone physically,” Coughlin said. “I was
surprised myself by the stats.”  Opening Score  The Falcons scored first when James Sanders caught Manning
in the end zone and forced him to throw the ball away, leading
to an intentional grounding penalty and a two-point safety.  On  New York ’s next possession, the Giants faced a third
down on their own 23-yard line, needing two yards to avoid
punting. Manning dodged a would-be tackler and gained 14 yards.  The Giants then added two runs of more than 20 yards --
after finishing the regular season with four rushes of that
distance or further -- with both leading to points.  After Jacobs broke free for a 34-yard sprint, Manning found
Hakeem Nicks for a 4-yard touchdown to complete an 85-yard, 13-
play drive.  Bradshaw, who finished with 14 carries for 63 yards, had a
30-yard run in the third quarter to set up a field goal that
gave the Giants a 10-2 lead.  Jacobs, who is listed as 6-foot-4, 264 pounds, said New
York defenders exhorted him each time he went to the sideline to
hit the Falcons harder, because Atlanta’s players were tiring as
the game went on.  “Keep running it, big back, because there’s nothing they
can do,” Jacobs said defensive players told him. “Trust us, we
play defense, they don’t want to hit you.”  Offense Shut Down  The defense didn’t allow Atlanta to score, stopping the
Falcons twice on fourth and one. The Falcons combined for 64
yards rushing, while the Giants improved to 8-1 this season when
running for more than 100 yards.  “I was surprised there, especially at the end, that they
were able to run the ball as well as they did,” Falcons coach
 Mike Smith  said.  Manning threw touchdown passes to Nicks and  Mario Manningham  to seal the win. Nicks ended the game with six
receptions for 115 yards and two touchdowns.  Jacobs said the Giants will have to continue to perform on
the ground to advance in the playoffs. The Giants visit the
Packers, who finished the regular season 15-1, on Jan. 15.  “At this time of the year, I think that’s what we’re going
to have to do to stay in games,” Jacobs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  