-- Elizabeth II Gets Big Wet Kiss in Breathless Bio: Book Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-01-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/elizabeth-ii-gets-big-wet-kiss-in-breathless-bio-book-review.html
Among the many improprieties  Sally
Bedell Smith  cites in her biography “ Elizabeth the Queen ” is
the time  Jimmy Carter  planted a kiss on the Queen Mother. She
later said she hadn’t been kissed that way since the death of
King George VI.  She can’t have been more shocked than the author, who never
tires of sniffing at the ways commoners have improperly pressed,
addressed or otherwise violated the sanctity of Queen Elizabeth II and her family.  Yet Smith’s own prose comes at you like a spray of saliva,
its reverence bordering on rapture:  “Her role as the head of armed forces is one of her most
sacrosanct duties. With her hierarchies, rituals, traditions and
clothing created with a military-style sense of occasion, she is
a soldier at heart.”  Elizabeth II ... or Joan of Arc? Compare a passage on the
same topic from “ The Real Elizabeth ,” by the British
journalist Andrew Marr:  “The Queen is Head of the Armed Forces. It is to the queen
that new soldiers, airmen and sailors pledge allegiance, and in
whose name they fight and die. She has a special relationship
with some regiments ... and a general one with all.”  After 600-plus pages of Smith, it’s a relief to read a
writer who doesn’t give you the impression that if his subject
appeared at his door he would lose control of his bladder. Marr
is less chronological and more thoughtful (not to mention
wittier) than Smith, and he gets the job done in a little more
than half the page count.  No Bad Language  He, too, is impressed with the queen. Who isn’t? “She has
uttered not a single shocking phrase in public,” he marvels.
“There are no reliable recorded incidents of the Queen losing
her temper, using bad language or refusing to carry out a duty
expected of her.”  Her 12 prime ministers have treasured their weekly audience
with her, during which she questions them intently and,
apparently, gives nothing away. Harold Wilson probably spoke for
them all when he described these visits as “the only times when
he could have a serious conversation, which would not leak, with
somebody who wasn’t after his job.”  Prince Philip  The queen is by all accounts a good judge of character, and
she was shrewdest -- unlike her children -- when it counted the
most.  Philip Eade ’s low-key, intelligent biography “ Prince
Philip ” deals with Philip’s life only up to the coronation, but
that’s enough to make it clear (though it’s hardly news) that
the driven, hyper-virile prince consort was not a man born to
play second fiddle -- which, oddly, may be why he’s been so good
at it.  Elizabeth never had eyes for anybody else. But though his
bloodlines were impeccable (they are both great-great-
grandchildren of Queen Victoria), his funds were scarce, and a
few courtiers thought he was “no gentleman” because he hadn’t
been to  Eton . According to Marr, their marriage marks the sole
instance of Elizabeth’s acting “against the grain of what was
expected.”  Both Marr and Smith are hostile to  Princess Diana ; both
cite her comment to  Tony Blair  (Marr calls it “icy
calculation”) that she had “gone for the caring angle.” Marr
calls her “isolated, lonely and dangerous.”  They both re-create the touching moment -- familiar from
the 2006 movie “The Queen” -- when Elizabeth returned to  London 
after Diana’s death and faced what seemed to be a hostile crowd.
In Marr’s version, a girl came forward with flowers and the
Queen asked, “Are these for Diana?”  “No, Ma’am, for you.”  Marr gently lampoons such marmoreal figures as  Winston
Churchill  and Dickie Mountbatten, but he can’t brush aside his
awe of the queen.  Ruler as Servant  Then again, neither can she. As Marr writes, “The
Coronation was intended to awe and even to intimidate -- and not
only those watching, but also its subject.” Only in a certain
sense does she stand at the peak of the social pyramid: The
modern monarchy is built on the paradox of “the ruler who is
servant to her subjects.”  She has an amazing capacity to seem interested. I was once
at a reception in Oxford she was attending, and I somehow
managed to jockey myself into her path, allowing me to bore
dinner parties with the story for years to come. During the five
minutes or less that we exchanged banalities, although I was
distracted by the diamonds in her hair, I was convinced, in
spite of myself, that she was fascinated.  I learned more in those five minutes about political skill
and the graceful execution of duty than any book could teach me.  “Elizabeth the Queen: The Life of a Modern Monarch” is
published by  Random House (BTG)  (663 pages, $30). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here . “The Real Elizabeth: An Intimate
Portrait of  Queen Elizabeth II ” (349 pages, $32) and “Prince
Philip: The Turbulent Early Life of the Man Who Married Queen
Elizabeth II” (347 pages; $28) are both from Henry Holt; to buy
them, click  here  and  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 