-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise on Monetary Easing Speculation; China Rallies
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-01-09T21:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/emerging-market-stocks-rise-on-monetary-easing-speculation-china-rallies.html
Emerging-market stocks rose on
speculation China is loosening monetary policy and as Hungary
said it’s open to any deal with the  International Monetary Fund .  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.4 percent to
930.87 at the close in New York, its first gain in four days.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 2.9 percent. Brazil’s
Bovespa index advanced 0.8 percent while the  ISE National 100
Index (XU100)  fell 0.7 percent in Istanbul.  Chinese stocks gained the most in three months after an
increase in new lending and  money supply  expansion boosted
speculation the government is relaxing monetary policies as
slowing exports threaten economic growth. Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX) 
rose 3.5 percent, the most among major world bourses, after the
nation’s Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  abandoned objections to a
bailout from the IMF, indicating his government is open to “any
kind” of credit line to prop up financing.  Investors “are reacting positively to the increase in
transparency that you have from the government comments and the
central bank comments,” Simon Quijano-Evans, an economist at
ING Groep NV in London, said in an interview. “The main issue
is central bank independence which the IMF and the European
Union want to see guaranteed. If we see clarity on that then
we’ll see the next stage of asset recovery in Hungary.”  The MSCI emerging-market index slipped 20 percent last
year, while the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed nations lost 7.6
percent amid concern Europe’s worsening debt crisis and slowing
global growth will hurt corporate earnings. The gauge of
developing nations is valued at 9.5 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 11.6 times.  ‘Special Case’  Chinese new loans totaled 640.5 billion yuan ($101 billion)
last month, the highest amount since April, the People’s Bank of
China said yesterday. That exceeded the estimates of all 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. M2, a measure of money supply,
rose 13.6 percent, the fastest pace since July, the bank said.
That compared with the 12.9 percent median of 18 estimates.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  called  Greece ’s struggle to
contain its debt a “special case” and said that no country
should leave the euro, speaking after a meeting with French
President Nicolas Sarkozy.  Brazilian stocks rose for a second day after economists cut
estimates for inflation for a sixth straight week.  Brazil Stocks  Gafisa SA (GFSA3) , Brazil’s third-biggest homebuilder by revenue,
led advances on the BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index, which
rebounded from a one-week low on bets smaller increases in
consumer prices will leave room for policy makers to continue
cutting interest rates. Larger rival  PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes (PDGR3)  advanced 2.1 percent after it
was raised to “overweight” from “equalweight” at Morgan
Stanley.  Brazil’s real strengthened 1.3 percent against the dollar,
the most among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The Turkish lira appreciated 0.2 percent against the euro.
Investors should buy the lira against the South African rand,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a research note, because the
Turkish central bank’s defense of its currency is stronger.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  jumped 1.3 percent
after the central bank’s governor said he anticipated easing
monetary policy this quarter should Europe’s debt crisis damp
the outlook for the economy.  The extra  yield (JPEGSOSD)  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 426, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  