-- Employment Index in U.S. Increases for Third Consecutive Month
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-09T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/employment-index-in-u-s-increases-for-third-consecutive-month.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. rose in December for a third straight month, indicating the
labor market will strengthen in the first half of 2012.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index increased
0.7 percent to 104.3, the highest level since August 2008, from
103.6 the prior month, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed today. The measure climbed 4.7 percent
from December 2010.  The report is consistent with Labor Department data last
week that showed gains in payrolls accelerated alongside a
decline in the  unemployment rate . The overall outlook signals
the world’s largest economy will weather the financial crisis in
 Europe .  “Job growth is picking up some steam,”  Gad Levanon ,
director of macroeconomic research at the Conference Board, said
today in a statement.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the
gauge can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months
before the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months
in advance, the Conference Board said.  Improvements in six of the index’s eight components
contributed to the increase in the overall gauge. These included
a decline in the number of Americans saying jobs are hard to get
and a drop in applications for  unemployment benefits , the
Conference Board said.  Payrolls grew by 200,000 workers last month after a gain of
100,000 in November, the Labor Department’s report showed on
Jan. 6. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for an increase of 155,000. The jobless rate
unexpectedly declined to 8.5 percent, the lowest level since
February 2009, from 8.7 percent the prior month.  The Conference Board’s Levanon said December’s employment
growth “likely overstates the trend” and gross domestic
product won’t expand “fast enough to sustain such rapid job
gains throughout the first half of 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  