-- Enbridge Faces Rising Costs as Northern Gateway Hearings Start
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/enbridge-faces-rising-costs-as-northern-gateway-hearings-start.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed Northern
Gateway pipeline through British Columbia’s mountains faces
rising costs as regulators and opponents weigh environmental
threats in the latest battle over Alberta’s oil sands.  Canadian regulators begin a series of hearings tomorrow in
Kitimat, British Columbia, the end point for the 1,176-kilometer
(730-mile) pipeline. Members of the Haisla First Nation and
environmental groups are expected to highlight the risks to
coastal wildlife. Enbridge and Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  say the project is in the national interest.  Delays caused by court challenges, tougher environmental
safeguards or the federal review may add as much as 30 percent
to Enbridge’s C$6.6 billion ($6.5 billion) price tag, said
Michal Moore, a senior fellow at the University of Calgary’s
Institute for Sustainable Energy, Environment and Economy.  “The costs of accounting for environmental protection
could be big,” especially near Kitimat, Moore said in an
interview.  Kitimat is at the northern end of the Douglas Channel, an
inlet on British Columbia’s north coast that is home to killer
whales, salmon streams and farms and other marine life. An oil
spill on the coast would involve complicated clean up,
reminiscent of the  Exxon (XOM)  Valdez disaster on the Alaskan coast in
1989, according to the Pembina Institute, a Canadian
environmental research organization.  “We could be looking at a whole new security agency”
required to protect the maritime environment from oil spills,
Moore said.  Keystone Legacy  The hearings for Calgary-based Enbridge’s pipeline begin
two months after rival  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  was forced to delay and
reroute its Keystone XL pipeline that was planned to carry oil
sands crude from Alberta, Canada, to the U.S. Gulf Coast.
Regulators under U.S. President  Barack Obama , pressed by
Nebraska ranchers and environmental groups such as the National
Resource Defense Council, objected to the risks a spill would
pose to local underground water resources.  Keystone’s delay requires  Canada  to seek other export
markets in  Asia  through projects such as Gateway, Harper said in
November.  In the meantime, Enbridge’s own estimates show the
pipeline’s price tag has been rising as its completion date gets
pushed back. Cost estimates for the project rose to C$6.6
billion last year from C$4 billion in 2005 as the completion
date slipped to 2016 from 2010 during the same period.  2017 Completion  Enbridge now plans to finish the project in 2017, assuming
approval from the federal review panel, which said Dec. 6 it
should decide by the end of next year.  While Enbridge claims Northern Gateway is worth hundreds of
billions of dollars to the Canadian economy, the company must
convince more than 50 native groups that the project’s benefits
outweigh the risks.  Northern Gateway’s 36-inch pipes will carry thick, tar-like
bitumen across more than 700 streams and rivers on its way from
 Alberta ’s oil sands to export terminals at Kitimat.  An oil spill might pollute inland waterways and marine
ecosystems, threatening commercial and recreational salmon
fishing industries with a combined C$800 million in annual
revenue, according to a Nov. 29 report by the  Natural Resources
Defense Council , Pembina Institute and Living Oceans Society.  Pipelines crossing mountainous terrain in British Columbia
might be damaged by landslides, leading to spilled bitumen, the
study said.  Biggest Risk  “British Columbia has very little to gain and yet bears
the brunt of the risk,” Nikki Skuce, an energy campaigner for
environmental group Forest Ethics, said in an interview.  Enbridge can operate the pipeline safely, spokesman Todd
Nogier said. The company plans to use thicker pipes near streams
and rivers, install shut-off valves on either side of major
water crossings, conduct 24-hour pressure monitoring for leaks,
and train local emergency responders to assist with spills.  With opposition from native and environmental groups
growing, the risk federal reviewers won’t approve the project
“remains very high,” First Energy Capital analyst Steven Paget
said in a Dec. 8 research note. Paget hasn’t included the
estimated earnings and capital costs of the project in his
forecasts for the company because of the regulatory risk.  Opposition has been heightened by Enbridge’s 2010 pipeline
spill of about 20,000 barrels of bitumen into  Michigan ’s
waterways. The company estimates it will spend about C$700
million to clean up that spill.  Nuclear Plants ‘Easier’  “In the current environment, it is easier to get a nuclear
power plant approved than an oil pipeline,” Paget said in the
note.  The Northern Gateway hearings will take place across
British Columbia and Alberta through March 2013, with the panel
assessing the environmental impacts of the proposal and issuing
a report including mitigation recommendations in the autumn of
2013. Opponents, government officials and Enbridge
representatives will provide evidence and statements about
benefits and risks of the pipeline and will meet at community
centers and sports complexes to be questioned by panel members.  A recent announcement by Enbridge that it won the support
of one of the First Nations aboriginal groups in the area shows
how costs and delays may add up. First Nation Gitxsan hereditary
chief Elmer Derrick said on Dec. 2 that he and the Calgary-based
company had reached an agreement worth C$7 million.  The next day, neighboring aboriginal groups, including
elected chiefs of his own nation, chastised Derrick for not
having the authority to act on their behalf.  Enbridge remains confident that negotiations with native
groups will yield support, said Vice President Janet Holder.  “We’ve been making what we believe is good progress and
have signed a number of agreements,” she said on a Dec. 2
conference call with journalists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  