-- Encouraging the Right Kind of Greed Among Banks: Dylan Ratigan
-- B y   D y l a n   R a t i g a n
-- 2012-01-09T00:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/encouraging-right-kind-of-greed-among-banks-commentary-by-dylan-ratigan.html
The financial markets need regulation
the way a nuclear-power plant needs a cooling agent for its
radioactive fuel rods. If safety rules are enforced and the heat
of the rods is properly controlled, the result can be clean,
abundant energy. But if that cooling process is neglected, there
could be a meltdown.  Similarly, capital requirements are the cooling agent of
risk-taking in the economy. And just as nuclear fuel will always
be reactive, people will always be greedy. We need to enforce
rules to balance natural greed with capital requirements so that
greed can create productive risk-taking and competition -- not
short-term extraction. Here are five possible ways to do that.  Make Swaps Public: In  Las Vegas , you need to have actual
money to gamble -- your own money -- and if you lose, you pay.
But since 2000, banks, industries and consumers have been free
to take on system-threatening levels of debt (to the point of
financial meltdown) without facing any requirement to risk a
significant amount of their own money. And while consumer risk-
taking was curbed by the 2008 financial crisis, U.S. banks
continue to use America’s deposits insured by the  Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation  to fund their mad, bonus-seeking
speculation.  Fed Borrowing  Once the banks blow through that, they borrow from the
biggest money-printing house in the world: the U.S. Federal
Reserve. No one else in the world can pay themselves billions to
take enormous risk with little or no money down.  To end this insanity, the American people must demand an
end to the anachronistic “dark market” for credit insurance, or
swaps, and insist that they be moved to an exchange where the
risks that we all now bear can be visible to all. All trades on
the exchange must be required to meet capital requirements (or
some equivalent inhibitor of risk) to stop this reckless
behavior for good.  Perhaps as important as the integrity of capital
requirements is the visibility that an exchange would create: We
could all see who was trading and insuring what. One of the
greatest obstacles in resolving the financial crisis in 2008 was
the need to pay all the $600 trillion in swaps because central
bankers couldn’t see which swaps were legitimate insurance for
energy and commodities -- insurance that was essential to the
economy -- and which were idle speculation.  Because the central bankers couldn’t see the difference,
they were forced to pay off everybody, including the reckless
speculators. The same thing happened in the European  bond market 
in 2011. Home lending also needs additional capital requirements
in the direct home-lending and consumer-credit markets for both
private and government banks, such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac . Every loan must require a down payment. All lenders must be
at risk for losses from their loans.  Cancel Speculative Debt: Some of the promises that were
made in the days of reckless gambling and irresponsible reliance
on taxpayer money can’t be kept. But as Mohammed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., told me,
“The question is, how do you share that burden? So far the
burden has been felt mainly by the real economy and households.”  Ordinary Americans have paid for bankers’ mistakes. But
while U.S. homeowners are under siege by creditor predator
banks, and millions of unemployed debt holders are forced into a
Survivor-like fight with one another over scraps, bondholders
have been paid 100 cents on the dollar with newly printed money.
Banks have been bailed out with printed money. The real
sacrifices have all been made by ordinary people in the forms of
increased public debt, reduced pension payments, and fewer
health benefits.  Capital Requirements  We must require not only that banks retain more capital,
but also that when they place bad bets, they pay the price for
their losing bets themselves. Otherwise we are stuck with the
worst of two economic systems: Like a capitalist country, we
have private banks that keep their profits. But like a communist
country, we have a system where banking losses are charged to
the government. Only when we end this corporate communism will
we realign the interests of the banks with the investors they
serve.  The way to do this is debt reduction or cancellation. If
the system is so out of control that we can use a computer to
fabricate trillions in new money by simply adding some zeros,
then surely we can find a way to delete some zeros as well. By
definition, if you can print it, you can cancel it.  A swap can either be an insurance policy that helps to
lower long-term costs for a business or a bet by an outsider on
whether a given company or country will succeed or fail. Putting
swaps on a public exchange would create the visibility for all
to see the difference between commodity insurance that is
critical to the economy and speculative bets that are not much
different from gambling.  In fact, Richard Grasso, the former chairman of the New
York Stock Exchange, suggested to me that the speculative bets
that fueled the financial crisis could be reclassified legally
as online gaming -- and then canceled. His technical
explanation: “I believe regulators should require the product to
be registered with a central clearing agent (like an exchange)
and thus able to be monitored globally to prevent contracts
being written in excess of the debt obligations they are
designed to insure (corporate or sovereign). This is easily
accomplished by [regulators] and Treasury issuing a cross-
markets rule adopted by non-U.S. counterparts. Any contracts
written outside these requirements would be deemed null and void
by regulators as simply online gaming.”  Tax Overhaul  Revise the Tax Code: It seems to me that if we agree that
there’s nothing morally wrong with getting rich or being poor,
and that we want people to use their wealth in ways that
increase productivity, then that’s what our tax code should
encourage. Maybe we should tax spending -- consumption -- rather
than income, and let the tax code discourage short-term
investors and reward long-term investors. If you find a way to
use your computer to extract money from the stock market in a
few seconds, you should be taxed very high. If you commit your
money for years, launch a business and build something new that
others can use, you should be taxed low.  A well-run country is like any well-run business: greedy,
but long-term greedy. We need a tax code that will bring out the
“long-term greedy” in every American.  Contain  Wall Street : The basic secrets of the  derivatives
market  are now known, but the crisis was not caused simply by a
failure of understanding. It was caused by a failure of our
political system. In 2009 alone, banks spent $220 million
lobbying against new regulations such as capital requirements
and lobbying in favor of spending cuts to get budget deficits
under control. But as  Simon Johnson  has written, “[The banks’]
rhetoric is  misleading at best . At worst it represents a blatant
attempt to shake down the public purse.”  When the political conversation turns to debt, it usually
hides the reasons we ran up this debt and the fundamental
culpability of the greedy bastards on Wall Street. When Wall
Street isn’t buying access to our legislators, it is buying the
very ratings companies relied on by pension managers to evaluate
how risky a given investment is.  Wall Street banks pay  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s to
rate their bonds. The better the rating, the more the banks can
sell, and the more money that ratings companies and banks make.
But considering the massive risks given to the world’s pension
and insurance managers by Wall Street and the ratings companies,
shouldn’t the risk evaluation be paid for by the group buying
the investment -- not selling it?  Call a Reset Meeting: Historically, debt-reset meetings
have come after major conflicts such as World War II, World War
I, and the American Civil War. In these meetings, governments
realigned the interests of countries and financial institutions
using tools such as infrastructure banks (which provide
temporary lending when private institutions no longer can), tax
reforms, debt cancellations, and new banking regulations. I
suspect, however, that many of us would prefer to skip the war
and just fix the problem. We cannot allow giant creditors to
turn fights over debt into currency wars and then real wars. Our
opportunity in this generation is to resolve the global debt
imbalance with a new  Marshall Plan  before a war begins.  (Dylan Ratigan, the former global managing editor for
corporate finance at Bloomberg, is the host of  MSNBC ’s “The
Dylan Ratigan Show,” and the author of “Greedy Bastards: How We
Can Stop Corporate Communists, Banksters, and Other Vampires
From Sucking America Dry,” to be published Jan. 10 by  Simon &
Schuster .)  To contact the writer of this article:
 dylan@dylanratigan.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at  mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 