-- Endo Sees Drug Shortages Because of Novartis Plant Shutdown
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-09T21:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/endo-sees-drug-shortages-because-of-novartis-plant-shutdown.html
Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. (ENDP) ,
maker of the Opana ER painkiller, said there will be shortages
of the drug while the plant that makes it is closed for
improvements.  Some other analgesics produced there may also experience
supply disruptions,  Chadds Ford , Pennsylvania-based Endo said in
a statement today.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  operates the factory, and the
halt is meant to lower the chances of product packaging mix-ups.  Opana ER is a crush-resistant version of the narcotic pain
medicine, which was approved by the  Food and Drug Administration 
in December. The new formula is expected to have $450 million in
sales, or 14 percent of Endo’s revenue, in 2012,  according to (ENDP) 
the average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The packaging issues “could result in an incorrect pill of
one medicine ending up in the bottle of another product,”
Edward Cox, director of the FDA’s Office of Antiviral Products,
said today on a conference call with reporters. “The likelihood
of finding a wrong pill in an opioid pain medicine is low and
patients should not be alarmed.”  The FDA hasn’t received any reports of adverse events
related to a mix-up, Cox said. Patients should check their pain
medicine and take it to their pharmacy if they find any tablet
of a different size, shape or color from their regular pills, he
said.  Other products affected include Opana, Percocet, Percodan,
Endocet, Endodan, morphine tablets and Zydone. In order to
alleviate shortages, Endo has begun making Percocet and Endocet
at its Huntsville, Alabama, plant.  Novartis Plant  Novartis Chief Executive Officer Joseph Jimenez said the
drugmaker is in discussions with the FDA about restarting
production at its Lincoln, Nebraska, plant. Novartis temporarily
suspended operations at the facility after consumer complaints
about broken pills and packaging mix-ups, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said Jan. 8.  While Jimenez declined to comment on when the plant may
reopen, he said analyst reports that the plant could be closed
for a year were a “big surprise” to him. He spoke at the J.P.
Morgan Healthcare Conference in  San Francisco .  Endo gained less than 1 percent to $33.86 at the close in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 