-- Entergy Gets $140,000 Fine After Nuclear Workers Browse Web
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-01-09T20:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/entergy-gets-140-000-u-s-fine-after-reactor-workers-browse-web.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR)  should be fined
$140,000 for failing to prevent employees in a reactor control
room from inappropriately accessing the Internet, the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission proposed.  Nine control-room workers at the River Bend station, about
24 miles (39 kilometers) northwest of Baton Rouge,  Louisiana ,
“deliberately violated” plant procedures by using the Internet
while on duty from January to April 2010, the NRC said today in
a statement.  The employees browsed news, sports, fishing and retirement
websites, though not pornography, NRC spokesman Victor Dricks
said in a phone interview. Entergy “could choose to pay the
fine” or has 30 days to contest the penalty, Dricks said.  The NRC joined the  Federal Aviation Administration  among
agencies cracking down on distractions in jobs related to public
safety. In April 2010, the FAA directed airlines to more closely
stress the risks of using mobile-device in cockpits after a
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  flight overshot its destination because
pilots were using their  laptop computers .  Control-room operators at nuclear plants monitor reactor
activity and ensure that units are operating safely. The agency
within the last year has observed “precursors of declines in
performance” at power stations, including errors that almost
exposed workers at two plants to significant radiation doses,
NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  told reporters Dec. 6.  Worker Access  The NRC’s proposed fine for Entergy is double its base
civil penalty of $70,000, the agency said in its statement.
Three of the workers at the single-reactor River Bend plant, in
operation since June 1986, accessed the Internet more frequently
than others, the NRC said in its statement today.  While Entergy “has since taken steps to correct the
problem and ensure it doesn’t happen again, they did not
promptly address the larger safety-culture issue,” Elmo E.
Collins, an NRC regional administrator, said in the statement.  Entergy is “still reviewing our options” in response to
the proposed penalty, Katie Damratoski, a plant spokeswoman,
said in a phone interview.  The company immediately blocked  Internet access  on the
computers browsed by the River Bend plant workers and took
disciplinary action, she said. Damratoski declined to comment
whether those workers are still employed at the power plant.  The company implemented safety-culture training for plant
employees, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  