-- Theravance Plunges After Glaxo-Partnered Drug Fails in Trial
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-09T21:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/theravance-plunges-after-glaxo-partnered-drug-fails-in-trial.html
Theravance Inc. (THRX) , a maker of
treatments for respiratory disorders and bacterial infections,
fell the most in more than three years after an experimental
medicine it shares with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  failed to beat an
existing drug in a study.  Theravance plunged 19 percent to $16.39 at the close in New
York, for its biggest decline in a day since Oct. 24, 2008. The
company, based in South San Francisco,  California , said in a
statement today that Relovair, its drug for asthma and chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, proved no better than Glaxo’s
Seretide in a clinical trial.  Relovair is “the most important asset” for Theravance,
which currently has one product on the market, said Ronny Gal, a
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in  New York . The stock’s drop
today is too much, given that the study found the drug was still
effective for certain patients at the right dose, Gal said. U.S.
regulators are still likely to clear it for some uses, he said
in a telephone interview.  “The results are not pretty, but it does look approvable
in our view,” said Gal, who rates the shares “outperform.”
“We will be telling people to buy on the weakness.”  Under its deal with Glaxo, Theravance will get 15 percent
of Relovair sales of as much as $3 billion, Gal said. The
company was expected to generate $26 million in revenue last
year, based on the average  estimate (THRX)  of eight analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Fatal Pneumonia  Glaxo declined as much as 4.5 percent, the most since Aug.
9, to 1,429 pence, and traded at 1,433 pence as of 3:53 p.m. in
 London , where the drugmaker is based. The company said it’s also
investigating reports of fatal pneumonia from Relovair from some
doses. Sales of the treatment, also known as vilanterol or
fluticasone, were expected to surpass 1 billion pounds ($1.54
billion) by 2017, according to the average of four  analyst
estimates (GSK)  compiled by Bloomberg.  Relovair was expected to be a “significant driver” of
earnings for Glaxo, making the results a disappointment, said
Luisa Hector, an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG, in a note
to clients.  Glaxo will seek approval of the medicine for use against
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in Europe and the U.S. by
midyear, the company said. For asthma, the company said it will
submit an application in  Europe  in mid-2012, and will continue
discussions with the  Food and Drug Administration  on
requirements for a U.S. filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  