-- Merkel Says Budget Rules to Stem Europe’s Debt Woes May Be Done This Month
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-01-09T15:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/merkel-says-budget-rules-to-stem-europe-s-debt-woes-may-be-done-this-month.html
Euro-area leaders may complete their
new budget rulebook by Jan. 30, one month ahead of schedule, and
are considering accelerating capital contributions to the
bailout fund being set up this year to stem the debt crisis.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  outlined the increased pace of their response as
the financial crisis that began in Greece in 2009 entered its
third year amid concern that the future of the single currency
itself was in doubt.  “There is a good chance that we can sign the debt brakes
and everything that’s connected to it already in January, but at
the latest in March, and that we’re making really good progress
in negotiations,” Merkel said at a joint press conference with
Sarkozy after they met in Berlin today. “Germany and France
made a substantial contribution to this.”  The leaders of  Europe ’s two biggest economies are fleshing
out a rulebook for budgetary discipline negotiated at a Dec. 9
summit that seeks to create a “fiscal compact” for the 17-
member euro area. At their first meeting of 2012, they repeated
their endorsement of a financial-transaction tax and urged
 Greece  to complete its debt writedown with creditors as soon as
possible.  ‘United and Committed’  Sarkozy and Merkel are “signaling that the Europeans are
united and committed to fiscal austerity and balancing the
budgets,”  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London , said in a telephone interview. “This seems to be moving
along a little better than expected. That’s a good signal, but
it’s obviously not a solution to the crisis itself.”  The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.2740 as of 4:08 p.m. in
Berlin after the meeting. European stocks fluctuated and U.S.
stocks were little changed.  Merkel said that Greece would be the focus of talks with
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
in Berlin tomorrow. “We want Greece to stay in the euro,” she
said.  “The second Greek program, including the debt
restructuring, has to be carried out quickly now because
otherwise it won’t be possible to pay out the next tranche for
Greece,” Merkel said. Greece “really has to implement the
commitments made to the troika,” of the IMF, the European
Commission and the  European Central Bank .  ESM Payments  In the broader effort to stem the crisis, Germany and
France “are ready to examine” how to speed up capital payments
into the European Stability Mechanism, the region’s permanent
rescue fund, Merkel said.  EU leaders agreed to accelerate the start of the 500
billion-euro ($638 billion) fund to mid-2012 at their December
summit, the same meeting that set a March deadline for the
blueprint for a closer fiscal union.  Sarkozy, who is seeking a second term in  France ’s
presidential election on April 22, said he wants to take the
lead in enacting a tax on financial transactions and that his
budget-cutting plans are aimed at building confidence. Merkel,
who favors a Europe-wide levy, said that she might back a euro-
area transaction tax.  “The chancellor’s and my one goal is for Europe to make
quicker decisions and implement its decisions” to combat the
“worrisome” crisis, Sarkozy said. “Our analysis is the same:
we must meet our deficit-cut targets.”  For all the push to accelerate their efforts, resolving the
crisis is a long-haul task and must be tackled step by step,
Merkel said.  “The one single summit that solves all the problems
doesn’t exist,” she said. “There also isn’t a one-dimensional
solution. It’s budget consolidation, it’s ability to innovate,
it’s competitiveness, it’s the focus on employment, it’s the
diversity of our industrial base. We have to work on all of
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Berlin at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  