-- Merkel Says Central Bank Crisis Role ‘Illusory’ Without Union
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-09T19:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/merkel-says-central-bank-crisis-role-illusory-without-union.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
signaled that investors are wrong to rely on the  European
Central Bank  to resolve the euro-area debt crisis in the absence
of political union in Europe.  “The hope that we look to a single central bank to come in
when we’re in a difficult situation, this hope I hold to be
illusory,” Merkel said in a speech today to the IHK trade
chambers in Dusseldorf,  Germany , without mentioning the ECB by
name. “The situation in Europe without political union is not
comparable to that for example in the U.S.”  Merkel’s comments put the emphasis on governments to tackle
the crisis that emerged in  Greece  and is now placing the euro’s
future in question before closer European economic and political
integration is achieved. Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said earlier today that euro-area leaders may complete
work on their fiscal compact by Jan. 30, one month ahead of
schedule.  While the situation in the euro area is “serious,” the
medium-term outlook is “good,” Merkel said. “But we haven’t
won back trust yet,” she said. “Convincing the markets is the
big challenge.”  The euro rebounded from the lowest level versus the dollar
since September 2010 after Merkel and Sarkozy announced their
plans in Berlin today. It was up 0.3 percent at $1.2758 at 2:04
p.m. in  New York .  The euro at 10 years has proven itself, and the currency
area’s leaders must now strengthen the euro through “more
Europe, not less  Europe ,” Merkel said.  ‘Visionary Step’  “The currency was introduced as a visionary step, the
foundations weren’t sufficiently prepared,” she said. Resolving
that contradiction through closer economic integration “is the
task for the next years.” To that end, it’s “good news” that
the fiscal compact will probably be negotiated by the end of
January, she said.  Merkel rejected government economic stimulus as the only
means of bolstering growth in European countries struggling
under austerity. Europe’s structural and cohesion funds had some
350 billion euros ($447 billion) at their disposal from 2007-
2013 that might be better targeted to boost growth, she said.  “It’s not as if in Europe there’s no money to improve
weaker members,” Merkel said. “We have to aim for excellence,
for best practices, and not just somehow end up with mediocrity.
Then as a continent, we’d have no chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  