-- Tetangco Says Impact of Reserve-Requirement Reforms Is Neutral
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-01-09T12:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/tetangco-says-impact-of-reserve-requirement-reforms-is-neutral.html
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor
Amando Tetangco commented in an interview on reserve-requirement
rules; the impact of  Europe ’s debt crisis; the outlook for the
peso; and property prices. He spoke in  Manila  today.  On changes in reserve-requirement rules:  “The reform of the reserve-requirement system where we
want to unify the reserve requirement -- we will no longer pay
interest on reserve requirement and no longer treat cash in
vault as part of reserves -- are measures we want to implement.
The net effect of these changes will be neutral.”  “On the other hand, you have the possibility of monetary
easing through a lower  reserve requirement (PHRMRRRQ) . It’s better if these
two things are tackled separately, so that it would be clear to
the public in terms of the communication whether we are easing
monetary policy or just maintaining stance of policy and
implementing a reform.”  On impact of Europe’s crisis on the  Philippines  and  Asia :  Asia’s “international reserve positions are very healthy
and can absorb a possible deleveraging” by European banks.
“Asian countries have enough resources to absorb the impact of
such deleveraging. Reserves will serve as a buffer.”  On the diversification of  reserves (PHIRTTL) :  “The Monetary Board approved the investment of part of our
foreign-exchange resources in yuan” late last year. “Until the
yuan becomes fully convertible, any yuan holdings of the BSP
will be considered as non-reserve assets. We continue to explore
ways to diversify our foreign-currency holdings. And the yuan is
a currency that’s backed up by the highest international reserve
in the world and an economy that’s performing well: in terms of
growth, in terms of inflation, in terms of overall development
of the financial system and  capital markets .”  On  government borrowing :  The Philippine government may be able to issue yuan-
denominated bonds “to establish a benchmark.”  “What the government can do is to convert the yuan into an
internationally-convertible currency like the dollar.”  “We have encouraged the government to increase its
domestic borrowings in order to limit the impact on the exchange
rate of strong capital inflows. It will also help the government
minimize foreign-exchange risks, while taking advantage of the
ample liquidity in the domestic financial system.”  On the central bank issuing own debt:  The Department of Finance “agreed to support the proposed
amendments to the BSP charter to authorize us to issue our own
certificate of indebtedness. A number of central banks already
do this like  Malaysia ,  Indonesia .  “This is for us to have greater flexibility. What is
allowed under the charter now is the central bank can issue non-
tradable  government securities  in case of extraordinary
movements in the price level. What we need is a day-to-day
instrument to maintain monetary stability. It will expand the
range of BSP monetary-policy instruments.”  On property prices:  “There’s been an increase in property prices but if you
look at the prices in real terms, current prices are still below
1997-98 prices. The real-estate segment growing fast now is
different. In 1997-98, these were the high end, basically
purchased as investment. Now these are buyers who would actually
use them.  “If you look at the loans of the banking system to the
property sector, loans are still within the limit. But what
we’re looking at now are loans of financial institutions or
banks to holding companies and non-bank financial institutions
that are also in the business of lending for real estate. There
may be indirect exposure of banks and that’s what we’re looking
at. We’re monitoring it.”  On the  peso (PPDONE) :  “The  U.S. economy  is improving. At least that’s one bright
side this new year. Together with the continuing European debt
crisis, this has led funds to move to the U.S. As a result,
there’s been some weakening of the currencies of  emerging
markets , including the Philippines’.”  “Over the longer term, over 2012, we still expect the
 balance of payments (PHBOP)  and current account to post surpluses.
That’s a real source of foreign exchange and that should provide
fundamental support for the Philippine peso.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  