-- EU Carbon Permits Rise Most in Two Weeks as Power, Gas Contracts Gain
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-01-09T18:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/eu-carbon-permits-rise-most-in-two-weeks-as-power-gas-contracts-gain.html
European Union carbon permits rose
the most in more than two weeks as German power and U.K. natural
gas advanced.  EU allowances for December increased 3 percent to close at
6.80 euros ($8.66) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London, the biggest one-day jump since Dec. 20.
United Nations Certified Emission Reduction credits for December
were 3.1 percent higher at 3.71 euros a ton.  European carbon has dropped 54 percent in the past year as
the region’s debt crisis weakened the region’s economy amid
rising supply. The UN-overseen executive board that regulates
the offset market handed out 21.5 million tons of  new CERs (CERSTOTL)  in
the two weeks ending Jan. 6, according to data from the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change website compiled by
Bloomberg.  Allowances may drop to a record low this week as the
European Investment Bank reports Jan. 11 on its first sales of
2013 permits, the first year of the market’s third phase, said
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Prices may fall to a record 6.30 euros a ton later in the
week, New Energy Finance forecast today in a research note on
its website. Permits decreased to a record 6.38 euros last week
in intraday trading on ICE.  Should EIB sales volumes be lower than expected in the
first weeks, carbon permits may fall even further in
anticipation of potentially more aggressive selling by the bank
in the future, said Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst at New Energy
Finance in  London .  Power Advances  German power for next year gained 0.5 percent to 52.45
euros a megawatt-hour, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. Rising power boosts the incentive to sell electricity
forward and buy fuel and carbon futures to lock in profit.  U.K. gas for the six months through Sept. 30 moved 3.6
percent higher to 54 pence a therm on ICE. That’s the equivalent
of $8.33 per million British thermal units. There are 100,000
Btu in a therm.  Carbon allowances sometimes track gas because utilities
burning the fuel need about half the permits compared with those
using dirtier coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  