-- Europe’s Powers Over National Budgets Face First Test in EU-Belgium Clash
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-01-09T12:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/eu-deficit-control-powers-face-test-in-belgium.html
Europe ’s newfound powers over
national taxing and spending face a first test when the European
Commission prods  Belgium  to make deeper savings just over a week
into the budget year.  Under authority granted last month, the commission will on
Jan. 11 decide whether an emergency Belgian spending freeze is
enough to drive the deficit below the euro-area limit in 2012.  A negative verdict would expose Belgium, saddled with
Europe’s fifth-highest debt, to potential sanctions in a
precedent-setting trial of rules designed to overcome investors’
skepticism about the euro area’s response to the two-year-old
debt crisis.  “The key challenge for Belgium is the reduction of its
sizable public debt,” Olivier Bizimana, an economist at Morgan
Stanley in  London , said in a research note. “Near-term
pressures on public debt have significantly increased, with
rising costs of borrowing, lower growth and a still-fragile
banking sector.”  With an economic philosophy split between the fiscal rigor
of its Dutch-speaking north and pro-welfare bias of the French-
speaking south, Belgium is a laboratory for the political
conflicts that bedevil Europe’s broader crisis management.
Efforts to heal that divide continue today when German
Chancellor Angela Merkel meets French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
in Berlin as part of ad hoc consultations leading up to the next
European crisis summit on Jan. 30.  Budget-Cutting Powers  As home to the European Union’s institutions, Belgium tends
to follow the EU script, as in the 1990s when the parliament
granted the prime minister extraordinary budget- cutting powers
to make sure the country would qualify for the euro in the first
wave in 1999.  More recently, the new government was still being formed
when it took less than 24 hours to reach a budget deal after
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services on Nov. 25 lowered Belgium’s
credit rating one step to AA with a negative outlook.  The next broadside came on Jan. 5, when EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  calculated that weaker-
than-projected growth would push the 2012 deficit to 3.25
percent of gross domestic product, above the government’s target
of 2.8 percent.  The EU’s prediction weighed on  Belgian bonds (GDBR10) , pushing the
extra yield over German debt up by 6 basis points to 278 basis
points, the most since the six-party coalition took office on
Dec. 6 after 18 months of wrangling. The spread narrowed to 270
basis points at 1:41 p.m. in Brussels today.  ‘Matter of Urgency’  Rehn gave Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo’s government two
options: immediately slice 1.2 billion euros to 2 billion euros
($1.5 billion to $2.6 billion) out of the budget, or set aside a
similar-sized reserve by freezing spending in the run-up to a
planned February budget review. Rehn called it “a matter of
urgency” to guarantee “a timely and lasting correction of the
excessive deficit in 2012,” according an EU letter published by
 De Tijd newspaper  on its website.  Belgium went for the second option -- a 1.3 billion-euro
freeze that will have “zero impact” on the population, Budget
Minister Olivier Chastel told Belga newswire yesterday. The cap
is on spending slated for the end of the year, he said.  The commission considers the spending freeze a “positive
piece of news,”  Amadeu Altafaj , Rehn’s spokesman, told
reporters today in Brussels. The EU will issue an official
assessment “soon,” Altafaj said while declining to give a
specific date.  ‘Very Anemic’  Belgium’s first-half economic prospects range from “ very
anemic (BEGDPQS)  growth” at best to a contraction of 0.5 percent at
worst, said  Luc Coene , head of the Belgian central bank. He
backed the EU push for budget cuts and steps to boost the
nation’s “meager” employment level.  “It is very important to make this commitment to reassure
the markets and reduce our interest burden,” Coene said in a
 joint interview  with La Libre Belgique newspaper and RTBF radio.  While the commission will issue opinions on five budgets on
Jan. 11, the spotlight will be on Belgium. Two others -- Malta
and Cyprus -- rank among the  euro area (EUGNEMUQ) ’s three smallest
economies, and the remaining two -- Poland and  Hungary  -- don’t
use the euro.  “We don’t need the European Union to motivate us to do
this,” Belgian Finance Minister Steven Vanackere told RTBF
radio today. “I am completely convinced and confident that the
European Union is in agreement with what we’ve done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  