-- EU Said to Sell 3 Billion Euros of Bonds Through EFSM Fund
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-09T13:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/eu-plans-to-sell-30-year-bonds-in-euros-through-efsm.html
The European Union is selling 3
billion euros ($3.8 billion) of 30-year bonds to help pay for
the rescues of Ireland and  Portugal , in the first deal by the
27-nation bailout fund in more than three months.  The  European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism ’s bonds will
be priced to yield 125 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate today, according to a banker involved in the transaction.
The sale is the first from the EFSM, the 60 billion-euro fund of
the EU’s executive arm, since it issued bonds due 2018 on Sept.
29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s somewhere to park your money with relatively low
risk, which really is something that many investors are on the
hunt for given the ongoing declining scope of safe havens,”
said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist at
Rabobank International in  London .  The EFSM is operated by the European Commission and backed
by the EU’s member states. Like the 440 billion-euro European
Financial Stability Facility, which is guaranteed by euro-region
nations and sold 3 billion euros of bonds last week for Ireland
and Portugal, it borrows money to siphon to cash-strapped
governments.  Amadeu Altafaj, a spokesman for the Commission in Brussels,
declined to comment.  Longest Maturity  The bond has the longest maturity of any notes offered
through the EFSM, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Previously, the longest-dated bond sold by the fund was the 4
billion-euro 3 percent note due in 2026 issued on Sept. 22,
Bloomberg data show.  The EFSM is selling the bonds as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy meet for the first
time this year to flesh out measures to resolve the euro-region
debt crisis that started in  Greece  more than two years ago.  The bonds’ maturity “shows confidence in the EU but
doesn’t necessarily mean there’s confidence in the euro,” said
 David Watts , a strategist at CreditSights Inc. in London.  The price of the EFSM’s 1.1 billion euros of 2018
securities rose to 99.44 cents on the euro, after declining to
95.11 in November, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  BNP Paribas SA,  Barclays Capital , Deutsche Bank AG and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are managing the new issue, said the
banker, who declined to be identified before an official
announcement. The EFSM has already raised 28 billion euros for
Portugal and Ireland through bond sales in the past year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  