-- Dollar, Yen Fall Amid Signs Europe Tackling Crisis; Brazil’s Real Climbs
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-10T22:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/euro-holds-gains-versus-dollar-yen-before-merkel-and-lagarde-meeting.html
The dollar and yen fell against most
major peers as a meeting between  Germany ’s chancellor and the
International Monetary Fund’s managing director added to signs
European leaders are moving to end the debt crisis.  The U.S. currency slid the most versus Brazil’s real and
New Zealand’s dollar as stocks and commodities advanced amid
bets the Peoples Bank of China may move to spur growth.  Implied
volatility (JPMVXYG7)  for currencies of advanced economies fell to a six-
month low. The euro reached the highest level since last week
versus the dollar on speculation investors pared wagers the 17-
nation currency will weaken.  “The Chinese have seen stocks get a good bounce,” said
 Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in New York. European officials this week “are
discussing existing plans, and so the market knows there is a
not significant headline risk from these meetings,” he said.  The dollar fell 0.1 percent to $1.2778 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York after weakening 0.4 percent yesterday. It
depreciated earlier today to $1.2818, the least since Jan. 5.
The yen declined 0.1 percent to 98.19 per euro. The dollar was
unchanged at 76.85 yen.  The implied  volatility  of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies fell to 10.6 percent, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. index, the lowest level on a closing basis since
July 8. Reduced volatility indicates less probability of
currency fluctuations that may erode profit on investments in
higher-yielding assets.  Speculation on  China   Stocks and commodities rallied as data showed China’s
import growth fell in December to a two-year low, bolstering
speculation policy makers will increase last month’s cut in
banks’ reserve-requirement ratio to boost the economy. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials climbed 0.9
percent, and the S&P 500 Index of equities advanced 0.9 percent.  Brazil’s real  gained 1.8 percent to 1.7996 per dollar and
touched 1.7950, its strongest level in a month. New Zealand’s
currency, nicknamed the kiwi, rose 0.9 percent to 79.44 U.S.
cents, and  Australia ’s dollar advanced 0.7 percent to $1.0314.
China is the biggest trade partner of Brazil and Australia and
the second-largest destination for  New Zealand ’s exports.  “If you have more easing, it’s more supportive of credit
generation and investment, so you’re going to help support
commodities and raw materials,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-
based currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “The euro is kind
of tagging on with the risk-on environment, and its gains have
nothing to do with the European fundamental outlook.”  Dollar Index (DXY)   The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, declined 0.1 percent to 80.873 after rising to
81.503 yesterday, the highest since September 2010.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  discussed negotiations on rescuing  Greece  and
agreed that  Europe  must promote growth and jobs, a German
government spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said after a meeting that
began at 8 p.m. in Berlin, 2 p.m.  New York  time.  “We want Greece to stay in the euro,” Merkel said
yesterday in a joint press conference with French President
Nicolas Sarkozy yesterday after they met. Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  will visit Berlin tomorrow.  The  European Central Bank  will hold its benchmark  interest
rate  at 1 percent when it meets Jan. 12, economists in a
Bloomberg News survey forecast. Policy makers lowered the rate
from 1.5 percent over their past two meetings.  Futures traders  increased their bets that the euro will
decline against the dollar -- so-called net shorts -- to a
record high earlier this month.  ‘Positioning So Extreme’  “When you have speculative positioning so extreme against
the euro, you’re going to be exposed to these sorts of
corrections higher in euro-dollar,” said Tom Levinson, a
currency strategist at ING Groep NV, by phone today from London.
“The market is never going to get tired of thinking something
exciting and positive might come out of a meeting between two
leading politicians. Our general view is that that’s up against
what’s going to be a pretty tough few months for the euro.”  ING has a $1.20 forecast for the euro by the end of the
first quarter.  The  Hungarian forint  gained as Hungary’s chief negotiator
for a bailout, Tamas Fellegi, traveled to  Washington  to prepare
official negotiations with the IMF on a rescue package.  Hungary’s currency advanced 1.6 percent to 310.46 per euro
after weakening last week to a record 324.24.  The euro has declined 1.5 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar is up 0.1 percent, and
the yen has advanced 0.2 percent.  Swiss Franc   The franc touched a three-month high amid speculation
traders will challenge the central bank’s efforts to limit the
currency’s rally following the resignation of Chairman Philipp Hildebrand.  The Swiss National Bank’s supervisory board held an
extraordinary meeting in Zurich today. A successor to Hildebrand
will be named as soon as possible, Hansueli Raggenbass, head of
the council, said in an interview.  The resignation and growth in the SNB’s reserves may
strengthen the view that it will be “harder for the SNB to
defend the peg if the situation in the euro zone deteriorates,”
 Valentin Marinov , a foreign-exchange strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in  London , wrote in a note to clients. “We doubt that the
peg will be threatened, but we suspect that euro-franc could
trade very close to the 1.20 mark.”  The franc was little changed at 1.2128 per euro after
earlier gaining to 1.2107, the strongest since Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  