-- Euro Pact Revised to Treaty With Sanctions, Draft Shows
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-09T12:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/euro-fiscal-pact-revised-to-treaty-with-sanctions-draft-shows.html
European leaders aim to punish states
that don’t adhere to a timetable to reduce debt while giving
countries less room to deviate in economic policy, a revised
draft of the region’s budget-stability treaty shows.  Countries with government debt above 60 percent of gross
domestic product will be subject to sanctions if they fail to
cut debt above that level by 5 percent per year, according to
the blueprint distributed to lawmakers in Berlin. That provision
adds to a stipulation that sanctions will be enforced if
deficits exceed 3 percent of GDP.  The draft’s authors, in updating the aims of the fiscal
pact and renaming it a treaty, seek to plug gaps in EU policy
that “if allowed to persist might threaten stability,
competitiveness and future growth and job creation,” according
to a copy obtained by Bloomberg News. They also say that there
is the need for “deeper integration in the internal market.”  The proposals may be discussed by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who are meeting in
Berlin today to agree on joint efforts to tame the debt crisis
now in its third year. A press conference was planned at 1:30
p.m. Berlin time.  Euro-region states might sign the treaty as early as Jan.
30, two months before the end-of-March deadline agreed on at an
EU summit last month, Handelsblatt newspaper reported today,
without saying where it got the information.  Adjusted Deficits  The draft said that economic growth-adjusted deficits
mustn’t exceed 1 percent of GDP in countries with a debt of less
than 60 percent of GDP.  The plan is to be adopted by single-currency members and
folded into European Union-wide rules within five years, the
draft shows. Parties to the treaty would also agree to discuss
“ex-ante” any major policy changes they plan to undertake. The
U.K. is the only one of the EU’s 27 members to have refused to
join the effort.  The latest draft may reflect German concerns that Merkel’s
original proposals don’t go far enough to tighten the euro’s
rules. Merkel’s Christian Social Union Bavarian allies, one of
three parties in the ruling coalition, called last week for no-
exception sanctions against budget infringements and the
possibility of throwing out states from the currency union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  