-- European Stocks Retreat as Merkel Meets Sarkozy; UniCredit, Glaxo Plunge
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-09T17:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/european-stock-futures-erase-declines-before-merkel-sarkozy-crisis-meeting.html
European stocks fell, trimming three
weeks of gains for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as a summit
between German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  failed to assuage concern over the debt crisis.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  tumbled as rights to buy the bank’s shares
slumped in their first day of trading in Milan. GlaxoSmithKline
Plc fell 4.1 percent after saying its experimental respiratory
drug Relovair failed to prove its superiority to an existing
medicine in a late-stage study.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  fell 2.8 percent as
supplier RF Micro Devices Inc. reported preliminary quarterly
revenue that trailed its earlier forecast.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  slipped 0.5 percent to 246.42 at the close of
trading in  London , having swung between gains and losses more
than 10 times today. The gauge gained 1.2 percent last week as
economic reports from around the world added to optimism that
the global economy can weather the fallout from the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  “We believe that a combination of weaker earnings numbers,
a further deterioration in euro-zone growth in the first
quarter, and further political tensions are likely to push
equities down before they recover more sustainably, most likely
later in the first half,” a team of strategists at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., led by  Peter Oppenheimer  in London, wrote in a
report dated Jan. 8. “There remain several issues in  Europe 
that are likely to put upward pressure on sovereign yields over
the next couple of months that are also likely to weigh on
equities.”  Merkel-Sarkozy Meeting  Merkel and Sarkozy met for the first time in 2012 in Berlin
today to flesh out a new rulebook for fiscal discipline
negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit that seeks to create a “fiscal
compact” for the 17-member euro area.  The two leaders said they may complete their new budget
rules by Jan. 30, one month ahead of schedule.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  will also visit Berlin
this week. Sarkozy and Merkel will both travel to Rome on Jan.
20 for negotiations with the Italian government before the next
European Union summit meeting in Brussels on Jan. 30.  Germany  sold six-month treasury bills at a negative yield
for the first time amid demand for the debt securities of
Europe’s biggest economy as a haven from the sovereign-debt
crisis roiling the region.  The  European Central Bank  said overnight deposits from
commercial lenders rose to a record 463.6 billion euros ($591
billion) on Jan. 6, up from the previous record of 455.3 billion
euros set a day earlier.  German Industrial Production  A report today showed that  German industrial output (GRIPIMOM) 
declined in November. Production fell 0.6 percent from October,
when it rose 0.8 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said
today. Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent drop, according to
the  median of 30 estimates (GRIPIMOM)  in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The outlook for 2012 is highly conditional,” said
Frederic Buzare, a  fund manager  at Dexia Asset Management in
Brussels. “If euro-zone members act in unison, demonstrate a
shared vision and are specific about the details, this may put a
floor underneath the sovereign crisis. It is now likely that,
although 2012 will be lost in terms of growth, at least
financial stability could be safeguarded, and that’s the bottom
line.”  European Stock Markets  National benchmark indexes declined in 14 of the 18
western-European markets. Germany’s DAX Index and the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 Index slipped 0.7 percent.  France ’s CAC 40 Index
decreased 0.3 percent.  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, plans to
release results after markets close today, the first company in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  to report earnings from the
final quarter of 2011. Investors will watch to see how the
difference in economic growth in the U.S., Europe and  Asia 
affects companies’ earnings.  UniCredit rights (UCGAA) , which each entitle holders to buy two new
shares in Italy’s largest bank for 1.943 euros, traded at 47
euro cents, 65 percent lower than their indicative price at the
end of last week. The shares slumped 13 percent to 2.29 euros
and were suspended for volatility at least twice. Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena SpA,  Italy’s third-largest bank (BMPS) , tumbled 14
percent to 19.7 euro cents, its biggest drop since 1999.  Glaxo plunged 4.1 percent to 1,435 pence, its biggest drop
since January 2009. The drugmaker found “no statistical
difference” between Relovair and its Seretide treatment, known
as Advair in the U.S., in a 12-week study, it said in a
statement today. That may limit the drug’s commercial potential,
analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG said in a note to investors.
 Glaxo (GSK)  expects Relovair to succeed Advair, its best-selling drug,
in accounting for about a fifth of global sales.  Nokia, Temenos Slide  Nokia dropped 2.8 percent to 4.04 euros. RF Micro Devices,
Nokia’s most important power-amplifier supplier, said sales for
the December quarter probably fell 19 percent to about $225
million, the fourth straight quarterly decline. That compared
with a previous company forecast of $250 million.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  sank 7 percent to 14.60 Swiss francs after
saying Mark Austen resigned from his position on the company’s
board of directors with immediate effect. The company had
previously announced it would not seek Austen’s re-election at
its next shareholder meeting, Temenos said yesterday.  BMW, Persimmon Rise  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, gained 2.3 percent to 56.84 euros. The Munich-based
company said sales, including its Mini small-car brand and
Rolls-Royce super-luxury marque, rose 14 percent to 1.67 million
in 2011.  Persimmon Plc advanced 5.3 percent to 506.5 pence, its
eighth day of gains for the longest winning streak since 2004.
The  U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder (PSN)  by market value said 2011
results will be toward the top end of analyst estimates. The
company said its underlying operating margin will approach 10
percent. Persimmon also forecast a 50 percent increase in pretax
profit.  Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO)  added 2.2 percent to 66 pence, its
highest price in more than a month, after Credit Suisse raised
the world’s biggest pest-control company to “outperform” from
“neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  