-- Euro Rises From 16-Month Low as French, German Leaders Meet; Franc Climbs
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-09T22:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/euro-strengthens-versus-dollar-before-merkel-sarkozy-discuss-rescue-plan.html
The euro gained from the lowest level
in 16 months versus the dollar as the leaders of  Germany  and
 France  discussed a rulebook for closer fiscal union among the
nations that share the currency.  The  Swiss franc  gained on bets central-bank Chairman
Philipp Hildebrand’s resignation threatens the nation’s currency
ceiling. New Zealand’s dollar and  Brazil ’s real were the top
performers against the dollar. The euro pared gains versus the
greenback after German industrial production fell, following
data last week showing the U.S. added more jobs than forecast,
and after the meeting on the Europe’s debt crisis ended.  “It’s another meeting that talks about how this problem
can be dealt with, but they were shy on any substantive steps,”
said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
National Bank of  Canada  in Toronto. “Both fundamentally and
technically, the euro is suggested to go continuously lower.”  The 17-nation currency advanced 0.4 percent to $1.2765 at 5
p.m. New York time, after earlier falling to $1.2666, its
weakest level since Sept. 10, 2010. The euro gained 0.2 percent
to 98.08 yen after dropping earlier to 97.28, the least since
December 2000. The dollar fell 0.1 percent to 76.86 yen.  The euro rose today as traders purchased the shared
currency to close short positions, rather than on optimism about
the European-crisis discussions, according to  Adam Cole , head of
global currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Europe
unit in  London . A short position is a bet a currency will fall.  ‘Very Stretched’  “It’s more to do with very stretched positioning than
anything else,” Cole said.  Futures traders (.ECLRG)  increased their bets earlier this month to
a record high that the euro will decline against the dollar. The
difference between wagers that the shared currency would fall
versus those that it would rise surged to 138,909 in the week
ended Jan. 3, according to data from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission released Jan. 6.  The euro will decline to $1.27 by the second quarter,
according to the median forecast of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. That’s down from a previous estimate of $1.28.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , at a joint press
conference with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  after they met
today in Berlin, said “really good progress” is being made in
negotiations. The session will be followed by a round of talks
among euro-area leaders before a summit in Brussels Jan. 30.  ‘Fiscal Compact’  The leaders of  Europe ’s two biggest economies are fleshing
out a blueprint for budgetary discipline negotiated at a Dec. 9
summit that seeks to create a “fiscal compact” for the euro
region to save the shared currency. Merkel said it may be ready
by Jan. 30. The two nations also “are ready to examine” how to
speed up capital payments into the European Stability Mechanism,
the region’s permanent rescue fund, Merkel said.  The dollar trimmed losses earlier after  industrial
production (GRIPIMOM)  in Germany dropped 0.6 percent in November following
an 0.8 percent increase the previous month. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey was for an 0.5 percent decrease.  Germany sold 3.9 billion euros ($5 billion) of six-month
treasury bills today at a negative yield for the first time as
investors sought the debt of Europe’s biggest economy as a
haven. The bills drew an average yield of negative 0.0122
percent, the Federal Finance Agency said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Germany issuing at negative yields today suggests that
money is not necessarily leaving Europe but being redistributed
within the region,” said Spitz of  National Bank of Canada .  Swiss Franc  The franc rose to the strongest level since September
against the euro after the nation’s central bank president quit.
Hildebrand stepped down after a currency transaction by his wife
last year dented his credibility.  The  Swiss National Bank  said in a statement its cap of 1.20
francs per euro “remains unchanged.” It imposed the ceiling on
Sept. 6 to halt the currency’s advance as Europe’s debt crisis
fueled demand for the relative safety of Swiss assets.  SNB Vice President Thomas Jordan will take over interim
leadership of the bank, Hildebrand said in a resignation speech.  The franc gained 0.2 percent to 1.21213 per euro after
touching $1.2108 earlier, the strongest since Sept. 20. It
advanced 0.6 percent to 94.96 centimes per dollar.  Brazil’s real strengthened 1.3 percent to 1.8332 per
dollar. New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.9 percent to 78.72 U.S.
cents and gained 0.7 percent to 60.49 yen.  The dollar has gained 1.4 percent over the past week
against nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro lost 1.1 percent and the
yen has advanced 1.2 percent.  Dollar Index (DXY)   IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, fell for the first time in four days. The gauge
declined 0.3 percent today to 80.995 after earlier climbing to
81.503, the highest level since Sept. 20, 2010.  Bets on dollar strength have reached “extreme” territory
for the first time since March 2010, according to Morgan
Stanley, citing an aggregate measure including client flow data
and market futures positions.  Buying of the U.S. currency last week by Morgan Stanley’s
clients reached the 85th percentile of the past two years,
Calvin Tse, a London-based currency strategist at the company,
said in an interview.  The dollar capped its fifth weekly gain on Jan. 6 as Labor
Department data showed U.S. payrolls added 200,000 jobs last
month, more than forecast, and the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly dropped to 8.5 percent.  “The correlation between good U.S. data equaling a weak
dollar is beginning to break down now that we’re seeing signs of
a more sustained recovery in the U.S.,” said  Mike Jones , a
currency strategist at Bank of  New Zealand  in Wellington.
“There’s a clear fundamental shift in favor of the  U.S.
dollar .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  