-- Ex-Refco Lawyer Collins’s Conviction Reversed on Appeal Over Jury Issue
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-01-09T18:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/ex-refco-lawyer-collins-s-conviction-reversed-by-court-due-to-jury-issue.html
The fraud conviction of Joseph Collins,  Refco Inc. (RFXCQ) ’s former outside lawyer, was reversed by an
appeals court that found the trial judge improperly instructed a
juror outside the presence of Collins’s lawyers.  Collins, found guilty in 2009 of helping Refco’s former
chief executive officer Phillip Bennett and other executives
defraud investors of $2.4 billion, is entitled to a new trial, a
three-judge panel of the New York-based federal appeals court
said in a ruling today. Collins, who is free on bail, was
sentenced to seven years in prison.  Collins, 61, was convicted of five of the 14 criminal
counts against him, including two counts of  wire fraud , two
counts of  securities fraud  and one count of conspiracy. Jurors
were unable to reach a verdict on the other nine charges. During
deliberations in the case, jurors told the judge of sharp
disagreements in the jury room, with one juror threatening to
cut off the finger of another one.  “We cannot say with fair assurance that the judgment was
not substantially swayed by the district court’s errors in this
case,” U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin wrote in an opinion today.  Refco Losses  “After this long fight, we are very gratified by the Court
of Appeals’ decision,”  William Schwartz , a lawyer for Collins,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for
the U.S. Attorney in  Manhattan , declined to comment on the
ruling.  Collins, a former corporate lawyer with the Chicago firm
 Mayer Brown LLP (1120L) , was accused of helping Refco’s management
conceal transactions that hid losses incurred by the New York-
based firm.  On the fifth day of deliberations in Collins’s trial,
jurors told U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson in a note that
they were having difficulty reaching a verdict. Later that day,
one of the jurors told a court security officer that another
juror had physically threatened him.  The next morning, Patterson received two notes from the
jury, including one from Juror 4, a man, who said that Juror 9,
a woman, had threatened to cut off his finger and had said “I
will have my husband take care of you.”  Later, jurors sent two more notes, including one claiming
that Juror 4 had tried to barter his vote. Over the objections
of Collins’s attorneys, Patterson met privately with Juror 4,
encouraging him to work with the other jurors toward a verdict.  The appeals court held that Patterson’s meeting alone with
Juror 4 deprived Collins of his right to be present at all
stages of the trial.  ‘Serious Tensions’  “This was a situation in which an able and experienced
trial judge was trying in good faith to ease serious tensions in
the jury room and deal with accusations of misconduct,” Chin
wrote in the opinion. “Nonetheless, we conclude that the
district court erred in not disclosing the contents of the note
to Collins and counsel before taking action and in engaging in
an ex parte communication with Juror 4.”  Once the biggest independent U.S. futures trader, Refco
collapsed in 2005, two months after raising $670 million in an
initial public offering. Refco filed for bankruptcy after
disclosing that it had transferred more than $1 billion in
losses to a firm owned by Bennett.  For almost a decade, Refco concealed trading losses by
secretly transferring them to the Bennett-owned holding company.
Prosecutors said Collins knew of the scheme and drafted legal
documents that allowed Bennett to deceive investors, including
Boston-based Thomas H. Lee Partners, which paid $507 million for
a 57 percent stake in Refco in 2004.  Bennett was sentenced to 16 years in prison in 2008.  The case is U.S. v. Collins, 07-cr-1170, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  