-- Texas Voting Rights Clash Puts U.S. High Court in Election Fray
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-09T22:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/texas-voting-rights-clash-puts-u-s-high-court-in-election-fray.html
U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  justices grappled
with minority voting rights in  Texas ’s congressional and state
legislative districts, trying to find a quick answer to a legal
conundrum against the backdrop of looming deadlines.  During arguments today in  Washington , the justices gave no
clear indication as to how, or when, they will rule. The case
tests the power of judges to redraw election maps and the
strength of a central provision of the 1965 Voting Rights Act.  Several justices lamented the lack of an easy solution to a
case being considered on an expedited schedule because of the
impending  Texas (BEESTX)  primary, now set for April 3 after a judge
delayed the vote for a month. The justices discussed moving the
primary date back further to give the courts handling different
aspects of the case more time.  “Why can’t this all be pushed back, and wouldn’t that
eliminate a lot of the problems we are grappling with in this
case?” Justice  Samuel Alito  asked.  The dispute stems from maps drawn last year by the
Republican-controlled Texas legislature after the decennial
census. Governor  Rick Perry , now a Republican candidate for
president, signed the maps into law. Minority groups are
challenging the maps.  The Texas case may affect Democratic prospects to retake
control of the U.S. House of Representatives. Republicans now
control the chamber 242-192, with one vacancy.  Population Growth  Texas gained four congressional seats after the 2010 census
showed the state added almost 4.3 million new residents.
Hispanics accounted for about 65 percent of that increase,
according to the census.  A panel of federal judges in San Antonio blocked the
Republican plan from taking effect for 2012 and substituted
court-drawn interim maps on a 2-1 vote. The majority said the
state maps couldn’t be used because they hadn’t received
approval clearance from a different court, as required under the
Voting Rights Act.  The so-called preclearance requirement in the 1965 civil-
rights law, also known as Section 5, is designed to ensure that
states and other jurisdictions don’t dilute the election power
of minority groups. The requirement covers all or parts of 16
states with a history of voting rights violations.  Texas Argument  Texas contends that the judges in  San Antonio  overstepped
their bounds and should have deferred to the legislature’s plans
in the absence of evidence that the state had violated the
voting law.  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  questioned whether the
legislature’s maps were entitled to any respect until they had
received preclearance. She suggested the lower court was right
to start its line-drawing with the maps that were used in 2010.  “The only thing that exists is the old maps until you get
the preclearance,” she told  Paul Clement , the lawyer
representing the state. “I don’t see how we can give deference
to an enacted new map if Section 5 says, ‘Don’t give it effect
until it has been precleared.’”  Other justices said that reasoning went too far. With the
Obama administration largely backing the minority groups in the
case, Justice  Antonin Scalia  aimed a barrage of questions at Sri
Srinivasan, the government’s lawyer.  “The government takes an absolutist approach to the
proposition that you cannot use an unprecleared plan for any
purpose,” Scalia said.  Middle Ground  Other justices suggested they were looking for a middle
ground, while wondering whether there was enough time to put a
nuanced ruling into effect. Alito and Chief Justice  John Roberts 
both suggested they weren’t satisfied with either the Texas
legislature’s plan or the one adopted by the lower court.  “How do we decide between those two?” Roberts asked.
“You have two wrong choices. How do we end up?”  The calendar issue is complicated because the preclearance
issue itself is before a three-judge panel in Washington, where
trial starts Jan. 17, with closing arguments schedule for Feb.
3. Texas sought preclearance from the Washington court, as is
permitted under the Voting Rights Act, rather than seeking
approval from the  Justice Department .  The justices spent part of the 70-minute argument
speculating as to how long that court would take to issue its
ruling. Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said she had “some doubts
about how swiftly they’re going to render their decision.”  The  Supreme Court  under Roberts questioned the
constitutionality of the preclearance requirement in a 2009
ruling that narrowed the provision’s scope. The requirement’s
constitutionality isn’t at issue in the latest case.  The cases are Perry v. Perez, 11-713; Perry v. Davis,
11-714; and Perry v. Perez, 11-715.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 