-- MF Global Former Customer Sapere Seeks Priority for Commodities Customers
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-01-09T22:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/mf-global-customer-sapere-seeks-first-priority-for-commodities-customers.html
MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ) ’s former customer
Sapere Wealth Management LLC said it and other commodities
customers should get first priority to be repaid because of the
way MF Global’s $1.2 billion seems to have gone missing.  News coverage and testimony in Congress indicate funds were
transferred from the futures commission merchant side of its
business to the broker-dealer side, which disbursed the money to
cover obligations of the parent company, pitting commodities
customers against securities customers to be repaid, lawyers for
the  investment manager  said today in papers in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  Manhattan .  A group of commodities customers and the
Hong Kong unit of the failed broker-dealer also filed court
papers about how they think distributions should be prioritized.  That gives the trustee overseeing distributions a conflict
of interest, since to repay commodity customers, he will have to
wrest $1.2 billion from the broker-dealer, and to repay
securities customers, he must keep the estate as full as
possible, lawyers for Sapere said. To resolve the conflict,
commodity customers should be put before security customers,
Sapere said.  “It should in principle be allocated first to restoring
the deficiencies in commodities customers’ segregated accounts,
then to restoring deficiencies in securities customers’
segregated accounts,” said the Matthews, North Carolina-based
fund, which is missing $90 million from its accounts, according
to court papers.  Commodities Customers  A group of commodities customers also said in court papers
filed today that commodity customers should be repaid before all
creditors, “whether such property is considered ‘other
property’ of MFGI, is found at entities other than MFGI, or
passed through entities other than MFGI.”  MF Global  Hong Kong  Ltd., liquidating in Hong Kong, said
its accounts with the U.S. unit are $9 million. The unit noted
that as an affiliate of MF Global Inc. and considered a “non-
public customer,” and said it reserves its right to dispute
laws about how the missing money is distributed.  James Giddens, the trustee liquidating the brokerage, has
set in motion distributions that will return about 72 percent to
customers.  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman for Giddens’s lawyer James Kobak, declined to comment.  Corzine  Parent company MF Global Holdings, once run by  Jon Corzine ,
a former New Jersey governor and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-
chairman, filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a
wrong-way $6.3 billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some
of  Europe ’s most indebted nations. It’s winding down in a
separate but related Chapter 11 bankruptcy to apportion returns
to creditors including JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To execute his European debt trade, Corzine used agreements
to repurchase in the near future at an agreed-upon price. In
earnings calls, MF Global said it was seeking to profit from the
difference between the yield it received on the European bonds
and the  interest rates  it paid under the  repurchase agreements .  Sapere said in court papers that the funds were transferred
from the futures commission merchant side of its business to the
broker-dealer side, “in a perhaps-undocumented or form-over-
substance ‘internal repo’ of the broker-dealer business.”  The fund called the transactions “gambles on sovereign
debt of distressed European countries.”  Giddens hasn’t identified the amount of securities
customers’ shortfall within the $1.2 billion estimated missing
from customer accounts. MF Global has about 50,000 commodity
accounts and about 400 securities accounts, Jarrell has said.  “The trustee, who owes undivided loyalty to both
commodities customers and securities customers, cannot properly
use the rubric of “discretion” to resolve those conflicts,”
lawyers for Sapere wrote.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v.  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  