-- Fannie Rating Faces Cut as Lawmakers Siphon Funds, BofA Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-09T15:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/fannie-rating-faces-cut-as-lawmakers-siphon-funds-bofa-says.html
The odds of credit rating downgrades
on the bonds of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  rose after lawmakers
tapped the government-supported mortgage companies to pay for
last month’s extension of a payroll tax cut, according to Bank
of America Corp.  Investors in the so-called agency debt market should favor
the bonds of other government-sponsored enterprises such as the
 Federal Home Loan Banks  and Federal Farm Credit Banks because of
the risk, Ralph Axel, a Bank of America analyst in New York,
wrote in a Jan. 6 report.  Congress, to finance the two-month extension of the tax cut
in December, ordered an increase in the premiums that
Washington-based  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  in McLean,  Virginia ,
charge to guarantee mortgage debt. The funds generated by the
extra fees will be directed to the government for the next 10
years.  “This greatly diminishes the last remaining avenue for
revenue growth, and we believe the  credit rating agencies  will
see this as a net negative for their credit,” Axel wrote in his
report. “When combined with the issue of limited capital, this
significantly increases the possibility of a rating downgrade in
the medium term.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee about
half of U.S.  residential mortgages (DOUTMORT) , have drawn about $153
billion in taxpayer aid since being seized in 2008. Under the
terms of their bailouts, the U.S. is promising unlimited capital
to the companies through this year and then as much as $274
billion in additional injections.  May Exhaust Aid  The companies, which are paying 10 percent dividends to the
government on their aid, may exhaust the remaining amount within
as little as seven years, assuming flat earnings, Axel wrote.  Michael Cosgrove , a spokesman for Freddie Mac, declined to
comment. Katherine Constantinou, a spokeswoman for Fannie Mae,
and Corinne Russell, a spokeswoman at the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, which oversees the mortgage firms, didn’t
immediately return telephone messages.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac carry top grades from Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered
the companies to AA+, from AAA, after reducing the U.S.
government’s top rating by a similar amount in August.  To comply with the payroll-tax law, the FHFA directed
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on Dec. 29 to increase their fees on
new mortgages by an average of 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, effective April 1.  The  tax-cut  extension legislation also mandated further
increases through next year to make the charges “consistent
with private-market pricing,” Axel wrote in the report. That
money also will be owed to the government, he said.  Fannie, Freddie Spreads  “The final price for the deal was not well publicized and
was actually very high for Fannie and Freddie and very rewarding
to GSE critics among both parties,” he wrote. “Not only does
this result reveal the political significance of the GSE issue,
but it also reveals how difficult it is for politicians to
support Fannie and Freddie today.”  The difference between yields on the benchmark notes of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and similar-maturity Treasuries has
widened to 30 basis points from last year’s low of 12 basis
points in April, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. Spreads on a broader range of agency debt average 35
basis points, up from 14 basis points in April, index data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  