-- Fed’s Lockhart Says ‘Slow’ Jobs Progress Justifies Weighing More Actions
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-01-09T19:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/fed-s-lockhart-says-slow-jobs-progress-justifies-weighing-more-actions.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he sees the economy improving
this year as he withholds judgment on whether the central bank
should increase accommodation.  “The Atlanta Fed’s outlook anticipates a moderate pace of
improvement but real progress on most fronts,” Lockhart said
today in a speech in Atlanta. He said later to reporters that he
is “open-minded” about the need for more stimulus.  Some officials on the  Federal Open Market Committee  have
called for efforts to boost the economy even as the  unemployment
rate  fell last month to the lowest level in nearly three years.
 New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said last week that
“additional housing policy interventions” can help boost
growth, and the Fed should consider further easing. Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  said he supported the purchase of
mortgage-backed securities.  Lockhart, who becomes a voting member of the FOMC this
year, said that “steady even if unspectacular growth
accompanied by inflation in the neighborhood of 2 percent
justifies some reluctance to change, in either direction, the
FOMC’s accommodative policy.”  “At the same time, I think slow progress toward full
employment justifies continuing consideration of whether more
can and should be done,” Lockhart said. “So for me as a policy
maker, now is not a time to lock into a rigid position.”  Surpassing Estimates  The unemployment rate fell to 8.5 percent in December, down
from 9 percent in September and 9.4 percent in December of 2010.
The economy added 200,000 jobs, surpassing the estimates of
economists who expected 155,000 jobs last month, according to
the median of a Bloomberg survey.  Lockhart said to reporters he hasn’t ruled out the option
of more Fed asset purchases while expressing doubt the move
would do much to spur economic growth. Another round of so-
called quantitative easing may not be “highly effective,” he
said, adding “I’m not closing out the option.”  The Fed next meets in  Washington  on Jan. 24-25. At the
meeting, governors and the regional-bank presidents will present
their projections for the Fed’s target interest rate for the
first time. The central bank lowered its benchmark federal funds
rate to a range of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008.  “Good communication can be a form of stimulus,” Lockhart
said in response to an audience question. “We are putting a lot
of effort into our communication with the public.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,280.80 at 2:29 p.m. in New York.  ‘Modest’ Growth  Lockhart said he foresees “modest” growth in gross
domestic product this year of 2.5 percent to 3 percent “if
there are no surprises from  Europe  or elsewhere.”  “It appears the fourth quarter is quite strong,” he said
to reporters. “I would be surprised if there isn’t some
retrenchment in the first quarter.”  The economy grew at a 1.8 percent pace in the third quarter
of 2011, after expanding at a 0.4 percent rate in the first
quarter and 1.3 percent in the second.  “We see inflation continuing to perform in an acceptable
range in the coming year,” Lockhart said. He said the decline
in unemployment “will continue but at a slow pace.”  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Lockhart voting this year. The Atlanta Fed
district includes  Alabama ,  Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of
 Louisiana , Mississippi, and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
 David Beasley  in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  