-- Florida Man Charged With Plot to Bomb Nightclubs, Businesses in Tampa Area
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-01-09T21:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/florida-man-charged-in-federal-sting-with-plot-to-bomb-local-businesses.html
A 25-year-old Florida man was charged
in connection with an alleged plot to bomb nightclubs, a
sheriff’s office and businesses in the Tampa area, the U.S.
 Justice Department  said.  Sami Osmakac, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in the former
 Yugoslavia , was arrested Jan. 7 and charged with one count of
attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction, the department
said today in a statement. If convicted, he faces life in prison
and a $250,000 fine, the Justice Department said in a statement.  Osmakac got a job at the store of a paid Federal Bureau of
Investigation informant, who recorded conversations with him
discussing attacks on the U.S., according to court papers. The
informant isn’t identified in an affidavit filed in support of
the arrest warrant.  Osmakac asked the informant for help buying guns and
explosives, according to the affidavit. He was arrested after
getting an explosive belt, a pistol, grenades and an AK-47
assault rifle from an undercover FBI agent, according to court
papers. The weapons had been rendered inoperable, the U.S. said.  Osmakac also made a video giving his reasons for the
attacks, the U.S. said. In the video, Osmakac said that he
thought Muslim blood was more valuable than that of non-Muslims
and that he should “pay back” the injustices suffered by
Muslims, according to the U.S.  The suspect planned to begin an attack at night and have
another “terrifying” attack six hours later, according to
court filings.  The FBI staged a similar sting operation using a secret
informant to arrest four men who were convicted in 2010 of
plotting to bomb New York synagogues and shoot heat-seeking
missiles at military planes.  The case is U.S. v. Osmakac, 12-cr-1008, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 