-- Ford CFO Said to Retire in 2012 as Fields Groomed to Be Chief
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/ford-s-booth-said-to-plan-first-half-retirement-as-mulally-grooms-next-ceo.html
Lewis Booth,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s chief
financial officer, plans to retire in the first half of this
year, clearing the way for Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally
to step up efforts to groom the next CEO, according to two
people familiar with the plan.  Mulally, 66, will probably retire around the end of 2013
and Booth’s departure gives him the opportunity to name a new No.
2 executive who could be trained as the next CEO, most likely
Mark Fields, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified disclosing private plans. Fields, 50, runs operations
in  North America  and  South America . Booth, 63, has been
Mulally’s de facto second in command, the only other executive
with a global view of worldwide operations, said the people.  Asked yesterday at the Detroit auto show if he planned to
retire in the first half of this year, Booth declined to comment.
When Mulally was asked later if he felt his job was done turning
Ford around, the CEO responded: “I’m just getting started.”  “This sets up  Mark Fields  for a higher position he can
step up to,” Michelle Krebs, an analyst with auto researcher
Edmunds.com, said yesterday. “This will move more pieces into
place, but I still don’t think we’ll see the whole picture for a
while.”  Turnaround CFO  Booth became Ford’s finance chief in November 2008, as the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker was completing a year in
which it lost a record $14.8 billion and its share price fell as
low as $1.26.  The executive engineered Ford’s largest ever debt
restructuring in 2009, led the sale of its  Volvo  luxury line to
 China ’s Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. in 2010 and spearheaded
restoration of Ford’s dividend after a 5-year-suspension. The
automaker’s shares closed yesterday at $11.80, it made $6.6
billion in the first nine months of last year and it’s within
one level of an investment-grade  credit rating .  Booth, the son of a Liverpool,  England , car dealer, also
had a significant say in Ford’s global operations, said the
person. Prior to becoming CFO, Booth spent 12 years running
Ford’s regional carmaking operations, first in  South Africa ,
then  Asia  and finally in  Europe . He engineered a turnaround at
Mazda Motor Corp. in  Japan , at the time controlled by Ford,
overhauled the company’s European car lineup and likes to drive
a Transit Connect delivery van with racing stripes.  “He literally knows how the entire Ford world works more
than any executive we have in the company,” Executive Chairman
 Bill Ford  said in a 2009 interview.  Staggered Departures  Booth is leaving now in part because Ford’s board didn’t
want to lose him and Mulally at the same time, said the person.
That would have left too large a leadership void at the top of
the company. By staggering their departures, Mulally will have
time to groom someone, probably Fields, to first take on some of
Booth’s former duties and eventually grow into the CEO job, the
person said.  Fields preceded Booth in running Mazda from 2000 to 2002.  “ Lewis Booth  did an outstanding job,” said Krebs, who is
based in West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “He cleaned up the mistakes
of the past and kept people on track and accountable. You can’t
argue with the numbers or the course he helped put Ford on.”  In May of last year, Booth joined the board of British jet
engine maker Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc. Because of his Ford
responsibilities, Booth is not always able to attend the Rolls
Royce board meetings, said the person.  Mulally also has the title of president. The executive
hasn’t named a chief operating officer since arriving at Ford in
September 2006 from Boeing Co., where he headed that company’s
commercial aircraft operations.  Mulally Focused  Mulally hasn’t said when he plans to retire and he denied a
report in the Wall Street Journal last month that the board is
looking outside the company for his replacement.  “ Alan Mulally  has made clear that he remains absolutely
focused on continuing to make progress on our One Ford plan and
has no plans to leave anytime soon,” said Karen Hampton, a Ford
spokeswoman.  Had Booth been younger, he would have been a leading
candidate for the CEO job, the person said. Booth has said he is
at peace with not getting the post.  “Everything I have is because of Ford Motor Company, and
we got preciously close two years ago to losing it all,” Booth
said in an interview at the 2010 Paris auto show. “If between
us all we can get this place straight, then we can retire in
peace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  