-- Foreigners Rejected by U.S. High Court on Campaign Spending Ban
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-09T15:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/foreigners-rejected-by-u-s-high-court-on-campaign-spending-ban.html
The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the
federal ban on campaign spending by foreigners, declining to
take up a case about money and politics before this year’s
election.  In a one-line order, the justices today rejected an appeal
by two citizens of other countries who live legally in the U.S.
as non-permanent residents and say they want to become more
politically active.  The case offered the court’s conservative wing, led by
Chief Justice  John Roberts , a chance to extend a 2010 ruling
that said corporations have a free-speech right to spend on
campaigns. The five-justice majority in that case said it wasn’t
deciding whether the ban on spending by foreign individuals and
companies was constitutional.  Federal law bars immigrants who aren’t permanent residents
from making campaign contributions, spending money independently
on election issues or donating to advocacy groups that are
active on campaigns. A three-judge panel upheld the law in
August, saying Congress had legitimate reasons for barring
foreigners from putting their money into the U.S. political
system.  “Temporary resident foreign citizens by definition have
primary loyalty to other national political communities, many of
which have interests that compete with those of the  United
States ,” U.S. Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  wrote.  One of the people challenging the law, Benjamin Bluman, is
a Canadian citizen who said he wants to print fliers supporting
President Barack Obama’s re-election. The second challenger,
Asenath Steiman, is a dual citizen of  Canada  and  Israel  who said
she would donate money to Club for Growth, a  Washington  group
that supports anti-tax candidates.  Paternalism Cited  “Americans deserve to hear what resident aliens have to
say and are free to consider or ignore it when they exercise
their exclusive right to vote,” Bluman and Steiman’s lawyers
argued. The ban “paternalistically ‘protects’ them from this
choice.”  The Obama administration argued that the lower court
reached the right conclusion.  “With respect to participation in the political process,
the distinction between citizens and aliens is grounded in this
court’s decisions, in centuries of history and in the
fundamental significance of American citizenship,” U.S.
Solicitor General Donald Verrilli argued.  In its brief to the court, the administration called for a
relatively narrow interpretation of the 2010 ruling, saying its
reasoning didn’t affect the foreign-national ban.  Obama took a different tack during his 2010 State of the
Union address, when he said the ruling “will open the
floodgates for special interests, including foreign
corporations, to spend without limit in our elections.”  The case is Bluman v.  Federal Election Commission , 11-275.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 