-- Ex-Soros Trader Said to Return Outside Money in Hong Kong Hedge Fund Penta
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-01-09T07:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/former-soros-trader-said-to-return-outside-money-in-asia-hedge-fund-penta.html
Former  Soros Fund Management  LLC
trader John Zwaanstra plans to return outside capital in Penta
Investment Advisers Ltd., the Asia-focused hedge fund he set up
in 1998, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The company plans to give investors more details this week,
said the people, who asked not to be identified.  Penta managed as much as $2.9 billion in mid-2011, about 40
percent of which came from Penta principals, said another person.
Its assets have fallen below $2 billion, said one of the people
familiar with the plan to return investors’ money.  Zwaanstra and John Pridjian, chief financial officer of
Penta Investment Advisers, didn’t reply to Bloomberg e-mails.
Zwaanstra’s younger brother Todd, who works as a trader at its
 Hong Kong  unit Old Peak Ltd., declined to comment, citing a
company policy of not talking to the press.  Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index (EHFI38)  dropped 8.3 percent last
year, the second-worst annual loss since the Singapore-based
data provider began keeping records in 2000, according to
preliminary data. Its  global hedge fund index (EHFI251)  declined 4 percent.  “An increasing number of  Asia ’s best investors are quietly
closing down their public funds in favor of a lower-profile
approach to investing,”  Peter Douglas , principal of Singapore-
based advisory and wealth-management firm GFIA Pte, said an e-
mail. “Excessive regulation and the increasing demands of
institutional investors are among the main drivers to ‘go
underground’ and continue investing in an unconstrained and
focused fashion.”  Soros Fund  About 123 Asian  hedge funds  closed in the first 10 months
of 2011, almost the same as for the entire 2010, as performance
faltered and managers struggled to raise capital, according to
Eurekahedge.  Boyer Allan Investment Management LLP, another Asia-focused
manager set up in 1998, told investors last month that it will
liquidate most of its funds, a person with knowledge of the
matter said then. Its flagship  Pacific Fund (BLAP0A1)  returned more than
15 percent a year on average in its 13-year history yet reported
annual losses in 2008 and 2011.  Zwaanstra set up Penta after a three-year stint with Soros
Fund Management, raising more than $500 million initially. He
joined Jardine Fleming Holdings Ltd. in  Tokyo  after graduating
from  Harvard University  in 1988.  Penta once ran the largest Japan hedge fund which returned
more than 155 percent in 1999 before falling 47 percent the
following year.  Returning Assets  The manager froze redemptions from its then $650 million
Japan hedge fund in December 2000 for two months, saying limited
trading in shares of small Japanese companies and high-yield
bonds made it unable to sell securities to meet withdrawals
without hurting remaining investors.  In 2003, Zwaanstra returned more than half of the assets
under management in the $900 million fund when trading volume
fell on Japanese markets,  London ’s Financial Times reported then.  Soros Fund Management, Zwaanstra’s former employer, decided
in July to return outside capital and focus on running assets
for  George Soros  and his family who made up the bulk of its then
$25.5 billion assets to avoid having to register with the
Securities and Exchange Commission by March 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  