-- Murdoch Was Angry Over Elton John Settlement, Ex-Sun Editor MacKenzie Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-09T16:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/former-sun-editor-says-bribes-to-police-wouldn-t-surprise-him.html
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
took a “hands-on approach” to his U.K. newspapers, the Sun
tabloid’s former editor told an inquiry into press ethics,
recounting Murdoch’s reaction to a story about Elton John.  Murdoch was angry about the Sun paying a 1 million-pound
($1.54 million) settlement to the pop singer over a false news
story in 1987, the inquiry heard today from Kelvin MacKenzie,
who edited the Sun from 1981 to 1994. The story wrongfully
claimed Elton John had paid for sex with underage “rent boys.”  “Murdoch thought I’d gone too far,” MacKenzie said. “I
then received something like 40 minutes of nonstop abuse”
during a phone call from Murdoch. “It wasn’t so much the money
of course -- it was the shadow it cast over the paper.”  The inquiry was called for last year by Prime Minister
 David Cameron  in response to a phone-hacking scandal at another
 News Corp. (NWSA)  tabloid, the News of the World, which the New York-
based company shuttered in July to contain public outrage over
the scandal. Murdoch, 80, told lawmakers in live testimony last
year that he wasn’t responsible for the scandal and that he’d
“lost sight” of the News of the World.  MacKenzie said he spoke with Murdoch “most days” and that
the chairman took an interest in “whether it was upbeat enough,
and that kind of thing.” Murdoch didn’t interfere with
editorial matters, he said.  The inquiry, overseen by Judge Brian Leveson, has heard
evidence from celebrities, crime victims and other targets of
media interest to determine problems in the relationship between
the public and the press. Further segments of the inquiry will
examine the U.K. media’s relationship with police and
politicians, then suggest changes.  ‘No Certainty’  MacKenzie, questioned about his views on accuracy, defended
his record and said, “there is no certainty in journalism, in
the same way there’s no certainty in the legal world.” He told
the same inquiry in October that he checked the source of a
story one time in his 13 years as editor of the Sun -- for the
 Elton John  story.  “I never did it again,” MacKenzie said in October.
“Basically my view was that if it sounded right it was probably
right and therefore we should lob it in.”  MacKenzie also told the inquiry it “wouldn’t surprise”
him if Sun journalists had paid police officers for information
under his leadership, although he wasn’t aware of any payments
himself. Police bribery by News of the World reporters is one of
the three related probes, along with phone hacking and computer
hacking by journalists, or their private investigators.  ‘Journalist at Heart’  The Sun’s current editor, Dominic Mohan, told the same
inquiry today that Murdoch often calls him “several times a
week” and sometimes “not for a month or two.” Murdoch also
takes a regular interest in the tabloid’s iPad application, asks
about the number of visits to the Sun’s website and complains
sometimes about slow download times, Mohan said.  “He’s a journalist at heart and will be very curious to
know what we’re putting on the front page and will want to know
if I have a good headline,” Mohan said of Murdoch.  Leveson told lawyers today there was no chance he would
recommend the government call off the inquiry as the result of a
potential error in a Guardian newspaper article about the phone-
hacking scandal. The publication last month corrected a story
from July about the News of the World’s interception of the
voice mails of murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler  in 2002, when
she was still missing -- a story that triggered the closure of
the tabloid and the start of the inquiry.  Voice-Mail Deletions  The Guardian changed the story to say the News of the
World’s reporters hadn’t deleted Dowler’s messages to make room
for new ones and hindered the police search. A report on the
events surrounding the voice-mail deletions is expected soon
from the Metropolitan Police, Leveson said.  Police have arrested 17 people since January after it was
revealed the interception of voice mails was more widespread
than News Corp. had said. News Corp. said today it hired a new
group general counsel, Gerson Zweifach, a partner with law firm
Williams & Connolly LLP, to replace  Lawrence Jacobs , who left in
June to pursue other opportunities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  