-- Fracking Moratorium Urged by U.S. Doctors Until Health Studies Conducted
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-01-09T21:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/fracking-moratorium-urged-by-u-s-doctors-until-health-studies-conducted.html
The U.S. should declare a moratorium
on hydraulic fracturing for natural gas in populated areas until
the health effects are better understood, doctors said at a
conference on the drilling process.  Gas producers should set up a foundation to finance studies
on fracking and independent research is also needed, said Jerome
Paulson, a pediatrician at  George Washington University School
of Medicine  in  Washington . Top independent producers include
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) , both of  Oklahoma
City , and  Encana Corp. (ECA)  of Calgary, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  “We’ve got to push the pause button, and maybe we’ve got
to push the stop button” on fracking, said Adam Law, an
endocrinologist at Weill Cornell Medical College in  New York , in
an interview at a conference in Arlington,  Virginia  that’s the
first to examine criteria for studying the process.  Fracking injects water, sand and chemicals into deep shale
formations to free trapped natural gas. A boom in production
with the method helped increase supplies, cutting prices 32
percent last year. The industry, though, hasn’t disclosed enough
information on chemicals used, Paulson said, raising concerns
about tainted drinking water supplies and a call for peer-
reviewed studies on the effects. The EPA is weighing nationwide
regulation.  Longstanding Process  “We need to understand fully all of the chemicals that are
shot into the ground, that could impact the water that children
drink,” Representative Ed Markey of  Massachusetts , a senior
Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said in a
phone interview. The industry is trying “to block that
information from being public,” he said.  The gas industry has used hydraulic fracturing for 65 years
in 30 states with a “demonstrable history of safe operations,”
said Chris Tucker, a spokesman for  Energy In Depth , a
Washington-based research and advocacy group financed by oil and
gas interests, in an e-mail. Drilling in shale deposits in the
eastern U.S. began in 2004.  Gas drillers have to report to the U.S., state and local
authorities any chemicals used in fracking that are “considered
hazardous in high concentrations” in case of spills or other
emergencies, Tucker said. Those reports don’t include amounts or
concentrations, he said.  The industry created a public  website  last April for
companies to voluntarily report lists of chemicals used in
individual wells, including concentrations. Colorado and  Wyoming 
have passed laws requiring drillers to file reports to the
website, Tucker said.  Hazards Unknown  Despite those disclosures, U.S. officials say they don’t
know all of the hazards associated with fracking chemicals.  “We don’t know the chemicals that are involved, really; we
sort of generally know,” Vikas Kapil,  chief medical officer at
National Center for Environmental Health, part of the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said at the
conference. “We don’t have a great handle on the toxicology of
fracking chemicals.”  The government has found anecdotal evidence that drilling
can contaminate water supplies. In December, the EPA  reported 
that underground aquifers and drinking wells in Pavillion,
Wyoming, contained compounds that probably came from gas
drilling, including glycols, alcohols, benzene and methane. The
CDC has detected “explosive levels of methane” in two wells
near gas sites in Medina,  Ohio , Kapil said.  He said he wasn’t authorized to take reporters’ questions
after his presentation.  Chemicals Used  Fluids used in hydraulic fracturing contain “potentially
hazardous chemical classes,” Kapil’s boss, Christopher Portier,
director of The National Center for  Environmental Health , said
last week. The compounds include petroleum distillates, volatile
organic compounds and glycol ethers, he said. Wastewater from
the wells can contain salts and radiation, Portier said.  U.S. natural gas production rose to a record 2.5 trillion
cubic feet in October, a 15 percent increase from October 2008.  A moratorium on fracking pending more health research
“would be reasonable,” said Paulson, who heads the  Mid-
Atlantic Center for Children’s Health and the Environment  in
Washington, in an interview. His group is funded in part by the
CDC and Environmental Protection Agency, he said, and helped
sponsor the conference with Law’s organization, Physicians
Scientists and Engineers for Healthy Energy.  Tucker called the CDC’s participation in the conference
“disappointing,” saying the conference is “a closed-door pep-
rally against oil and natural gas development.”  Representatives of  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and the
 American Petroleum Institute , a trade group, registered to
attend the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  