-- HFZ Buys Manhattan Apartment Building With Vornado Fund for $170 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-01-09T16:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/hfz-buys-manhattan-apartment-building-with-vornado-fund-for-170-million.html
HFZ Capital Group and Vornado Capital
Partners bought a 12-story apartment building on Manhattan’s
Upper East Side for $170 million.  The property, at 11 E. 68th St. at Madison Avenue, includes
5,000 square feet (470 square meters) of retail that will be
owned and managed by Vornado Capital, an $800 million fund
sponsored by  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , New York-based HFZ said today
in a statement. HFZ will own and renovate the rental housing.  “We are delighted to purchase an apartment building with
such a distinguished New York history,” Ziel Feldman, HFZ’s
founder and president, said in the statement. The property’s
residences “could never be replicated in today’s market.
Gracious, old-world proportions in one of the best locations in
Manhattan make the property totally unique,” he said.  The building was owned by the same entity, which the buyers
didn’t name, since it was built in 1913, according to the
statement. The 44 apartments have asking rents ranging from
$2,750 for a studio to $8,500 for a one-bedroom, according to
 StreetEasy.com , a real estate listings website. The landlord
 offered discounts  to tenants who signed a lease by Jan. 5 and
accepted the “flexibility” of a shorter lease period,
according to StreetEasy.  Eastdil Secured LLC was the broker for the deal. Doug Harmon, senior managing director at New York-based Eastdil,
declined to comment. Wendi Kopsick, a spokeswoman for Vornado,
said she couldn’t immediately comment.  Manhattan  apartment rents climbed 4.9 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier as tenants opted to renew leases in
a tightening market, according to an Oct. 13 report by appraiser
 Miller Samuel Inc . and broker Prudential Douglas Elliman Real
Estate. The median effective rent, or what tenants pay after
landlord-sponsored incentives, increased to $2,970 a month from
$2,831 a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  