-- German Exports Rebounded in November, Bolstering Economy
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-09T07:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/german-exports-rebounded-in-november-bolstering-economy.html
German  exports (GRBTEXMM)  rebounded in November
from a slump, helping bolster  Europe ’s largest economy as the
debt crisis clouds growth prospects.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, rose
2.5 percent from October, when they slumped 2.9 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast a gain of 0.5 percent, the median of 13 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Imports (GRBTIMMM)  declined 0.4 percent from
October, when they rose 0.1 percent.  Germany’s economy is cooling after a worsening fiscal
crisis prompted governments from Italy to Ireland to toughen
budget cuts, pushing the currency union toward a recession.
While some exporters have relied on faster-growing markets to
boost sales, manufacturing contracted last month and factory
orders slumped the most in almost three years in November.  “This has to be seen as a rebound after a strong decline
in October,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “But of course export growth in Germany has
slowed. Companies are confronted with reduced demand.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.2725 at 8:05 a.m. in Frankfurt.  The trade surplus widened to 16.2 billion euros ($20.6
billion) from 11.5 billion euros in October, today’s report
showed. The surplus in the current account, a measure of all
trade including services, was 14.3 billion euros, up from 10
billion euros a month earlier.  France, Italy  Germany’s economy may still drive the region’s expansion
this year, with gross domestic product rising 0.8 percent,
according to the European Commission. In France and Italy, GDP
may increase 0.6 percent and 0.1 percent, respectively, it said.
In 2013, German GDP will probably rise 1.5 percent.  Porsche SE (PAH3)  has said it anticipates U.S. sales to rise to
more than 30,000 cars on demand for the revamped 911 sports car.
German rival  Daimler AG (DAI)  plans to produce a record 988,110
Mercedes-Benz brand cars and sport utility vehicles in Germany
in 2012, Automotive News Europe reported Jan. 1.  “We are better prepared for a potential crisis” than
during the 2009 recession because of lower production costs,
Norbert Reithofer, chief executive officer of German carmaker
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , said on Dec. 15. He also reiterated
2011 profit to rise “significantly.”  European Turmoil  While German business confidence rose for a second month in
December, European economic sentiment fell to the lowest in more
than two years, with consumers the most pessimistic. Euro-region
unemployment held at 10.3 percent in November, the highest in
more than a decade.  Europe’s turmoil is also affecting the global economy,
clouding prospects for exporters. The  International Monetary
Fund  will probably cut its forecast for global growth, Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said on Jan. 6. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development in November also lowered
growth forecasts for its 34 member states to reflect doubts that
the monetary union will survive the crisis.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, forecast
stagnant 2012 profits in November.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  Chief
Executive Officer  Bernd Scheifele  told Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung he
expects a “difficult” business environment because of rising
energy costs and the sovereign debt crisis.  The  European Central Bank  has stepped up its use of
unconventional tools to help bolster the economy, offering banks
unlimited cash, buying government bonds and cutting borrowing
costs to 1 percent, matching a record. The central bank will
hold its next monetary assessment on Jan. 12.  “We expect the ECB to respond to likely euro-zone GDP
contraction in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the early months
of 2012 by cutting interest rates further,” said  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in London.
“Rates could very well come down as low as 0.5 percent in the
second quarter of 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  