-- German Bailout Veteran Asmussen Adds to Merkel’s Government Alumni at ECB
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-09T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/german-bailout-veteran-asmussen-adds-to-merkel-s-government-alumni-at-ecb.html
Less than 12 hours after German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  emerged from an all-night crisis summit
on Oct. 27, Joerg Asmussen appeared in front of lawmakers in
Berlin to sell the deal he helped broker in Brussels.  “Look at the decisions taken,” her then-deputy finance
minister told a parliamentary committee hearing. “You can
clearly see the German handwriting.”  A crisis troubleshooter for Merkel since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, Asmussen brings his
experience in bailout politics to the  European Central Bank .
After joining the Frankfurt-based bank’s executive board, the
45-year-old was appointed its head of international and European
relations Jan. 3, and will attend his first rate-setting meeting
in two days.  Treading the familiar ground of euro-area finance minister
meetings and the same summits he attended with the chancellor,
Asmussen’s appointment underscores the central bank’s role in
cajoling governments to tame the euro-region debt crisis.  “Asmussen certainly sounds more pragmatic” than his
“particularly orthodox” German predecessor on the ECB’s
executive board,  Juergen Stark , said  Nick Kounis , head of macro
research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “That may make it easier to
deal with the crisis in that a politically experienced person
like Asmussen may be more successful in extracting concessions
from the politicians.”  Merkel’s Inner Circle  Asmussen, whose job at the ECB is to make sure that cash-
strapped euro governments don’t rely on the bank’s printing
press to return to sustainable finances, is the second member of
Merkel’s inner circle to move to an executive position at the
Frankfurt-based central bank. Jens Weidmann, previously her
chief economic adviser, joined the central bank’s council in May
after becoming the youngest head of the Bundesbank at age 43.  A Social Democrat, Asmussen joined the German Finance
Ministry in 1996. He was made director general for financial
market policy in 2003, a role that he filled until 2008 during
Merkel’s first term. It gave him a seat as a member and then
chairman of the administrative board of the BaFin financial
regulator during the banking crisis that led to the creation of
a 480 billion-euro ($610 billion) bank-rescue fund and state
bailouts for IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG and  Commerzbank AG. (CBK)   His responsibilities grew even after  Wolfgang Schaeuble , a
 Christian Democrat  like Merkel, took over the ministry.  As the
banking crisis triggered the deepest recession in living memory,
he was promoted to deputy minister, adding responsibility for
macroeconomic affairs, fiscal and European policy to his
financial-market remit. He has been at Merkel’s side throughout
the debt crisis that emerged in  Greece  in late 2009.  ‘Not an Ideologue’  Asmussen benefits from being a “smart backroom guy and not
an ideologue,” said Fredrik Erixon, director of the European
Centre for International Political Economy in Brussels, who has
met Asmussen on several occasions.  Both Asmussen and Weidmann studied under former Bundesbank
head  Axel Weber , who pulled out of the race for the ECB
presidency in February. Stark quit at the end of last year as
chief economist, saying his personal credibility was at stake
after the ECB resumed sovereign-bond buying last August.  The dual appointments are “a sign that Merkel wants a
personal relationship with top people at the ECB,” Erixon said
by phone. Her government has undergone a “big shift” from
rejecting ECB intervention to backing the ECB’s independence and
ability to take its own decisions, in “a very clear signal that
the German government has decided not to take any action even if
the ECB were to decide to do massive bond purchases.”  Danish Border  Born in 1966 in the northern German city of Flensburg, on
the Danish border, Asmussen  studied economics  at the University
of Giessen and the University of Bonn, and got a masters degree
in business administration during studies at  Bocconi University 
in Milan in 1991-1992.  He was considered joint favorite for the post of ECB chief
economist along with  France ’s Benoit Coeure, who was also passed
over for the job and instead made head of markets, taking charge
of the refinancing operations that are central to the ECB’s
effort to stem the debt crisis. ECB President  Mario Draghi  named
Belgium’s Peter Praet to the economics job.  “The chancellor always knew that there are no fiefdoms in
the ECB and that there can’t always be a particular country that
holds a particular post,” German deputy government spokesman
Georg Streiter told reporters on Jan. 4. “The post that
Asmussen has now taken on is of extraordinary importance and
great significance, because it’s a key position.”  Schaeuble Defied  Asmussen told Bild newspaper that he’s “satisfied” with
his job and will “together with ECB President Draghi” take
care of the euro region’s short-term crisis management as well
as ensuring the area’s long-term stability. Schaeuble wanted
Asmussen to become the third German chief economist at the ECB.  Merkel can “live very well” with Asmussen in his new
post, Streiter said. That doesn’t mean he’ll be “the German
government’s henchman or its executor on the ECB board,” said
Juergen Michels, chief European economist at Citigroup Inc.  “While there’s a lot of common ground between the ECB and
the German government, there are also areas in which the two
take opposite positions,” Michels said in a phone interview.
“It doesn’t hurt that Asmussen has these contacts and
capabilities, but that doesn’t mean that he’s just a branch of
the German government in his position at the ECB.”  All the same,  David Marsh , author of books on  Germany , the
Bundesbank and the euro, said that by passing over Asmussen for
the chief economist job, the ECB is opening a door for Merkel to
act during the crisis.  Draghi has “made it easier for the Berlin government to
take coming difficult decisions on the euro from a clear-headed
economic rather than an overtly political point of view,” Marsh
said in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  