-- Germany Sells Bills With Negative Yield for First Time Amid Crisis Concern
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-01-09T15:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/germany-auctions-bills-with-yield-of-minus-0-01-correct-.html
Germany  sold six-month treasury bills
at a negative yield for the first time amid demand for the debt
securities of  Europe ’s biggest economy as a haven from the
sovereign debt crisis roiling the region.  The government auctioned 3.9 billion euros ($4.98 billion)
of securities maturing in July at an average yield of minus
0.0122 percent, the Federal Finance Agency said in an e-mailed
statement today. It was the first time it sold the securities at
a negative yield, Joerg Mueller, a spokesman in  Frankfurt , said
in a telephone interview. The Netherlands sold 107-day bills at
minus 0.007 percent on Dec. 12.  Some investors are prepared to pay when lending to the most
creditworthy governments in exchange for the assurance of
getting their capital returned as a solution to the euro-region
debt crisis, which forced  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
bailouts, eludes policy makers. Yields on three-month U.S.
Treasury bills fell below zero for the first time in December
2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “It just underpins how nervous the overall market is,”
said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG
in  London . “There are investors out there who really worry
about the return of their money. That’s why they are OK donating
some of their money to Germany, just to make sure they get it
back.”  Bill Demand  The yield on the two-year German note fell two basis points
to 0.143 percent at 3:20 p.m. London time, and declined earlier
to 0.140 percent, the least since Bloomberg started tracking the
data in 1990.  The sale drew bids that were about double the amount
allotted, the debt agency said. Some 25 of the Federal Finance
Agency’s 39-member auction group participated in the bidding, it
said. Investors bid for 1.8 times the securities offered.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  outlined the increased pace of their response
after a meeting in Berlin today, signaling that euro-area
leaders may complete their new budget rulebook by Jan. 30, one
month ahead of schedule.  “There is a good chance that we can sign the debt brakes
and everything that’s connected to it already in January, but at
the latest in March, and that we’re making really good progress
in negotiations,” Merkel said at a joint press conference with
Sarkozy after they met.  A surge in demand for Danish bonds and bills from investors
seeking to escape Europe’s debt crisis allowed the Nordic nation
to get paid to borrow last month. Denmark sold 1.8 billion
kroner ($308 million) of 59-day bills and 220 million kroner of
151-day bills on Dec. 29 at negative yields of 0.21 percent and
0.07 percent, respectively.  The lowest rate at a U.S. bill auction was 0.00 percent for
four-week Treasury bills, which first happened July 6, 2011. The
lowest yield at a three-month bill auction was 0.005 percent on
Nov. 7 and Dec. 19. The lowest yield at a six-month bill
offering was 0.030 percent on Sept. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  