-- German Industrial Output Fell in November
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-01-09T12:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/german-industrial-output-fell-in-november.html
German industrial output declined in
November as factories produced fewer investment and consumer
goods, adding to signs that growth in Europe’s largest economy
may have stalled.  Production (GRIPIMOM)  fell 0.6 percent from October, when it rose 0.8
percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today. Economists
forecast a 0.5 percent drop, according to the median of 30
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey (GRIPIMOM) . In the year, production
rose 3.6 percent when adjusted for working days.  Germany’s economy is cooling as the sovereign debt crisis
combines with slower global growth to damp demand for its
exports. It may still avoid recession. Unemployment at a two-
decade low is helping to bolster consumer sentiment,  service
industries  expanded in December and business confidence
unexpectedly rose for a second month.  “Recent data does show that the economy will probably
contract in the fourth quarter, but that does not mean it’s
heading for a recession,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at
ING Group in Brussels. “Of course it will be affected by the
crisis and don’t underestimate the German winter, which will
shut down the construction sector. But by the middle of this
year at the latest it should be motoring ahead again.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  was little changed at 12:35 p.m.
in London, while Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures swung
between gains and losses. The euro rebounded from its lowest
level against the dollar since September 2010 as German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
met in Berlin to drive forward their agenda for stricter budget
rules in the 17-nation  euro zone .  Construction Surge  German production of investment goods fell 1 percent in
November and consumer goods production declined 0.7 percent,
today’s report showed. Energy output eased 0.4 percent, while
construction activity jumped 4.5 percent.  Germany had its fifth-warmest December on record, according
weather bureau DWD, boosting construction.  “Normally, cold weather means we shut down plants for a
time and get on with maintenance,”  HeidelbergCement (HEI)  Chief
Executive Officer Bernd Scheifele said last week. “There’s only
been a few years when we have been able to keep cement
production running for an entire year.”  Scheifele in December predicted a “difficult” business
environment in 2012 because of rising energy costs and the debt
crisis. Companies will withhold investments until the problems
in Italy and  Greece  are solved, he told Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung.  Factory Orders  German factory orders dropped the most in almost three
years in November, with orders from both the euro region and
outside the currency union slumping, the Economy Ministry said
on Jan. 6.  The  International Monetary Fund  will probably cut its
forecast for global growth, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said the same day. German growth will slow to 0.6 percent in
2012 from 3 percent last year before recovering to 1.8 percent
in 2013, the Bundesbank predicted on Dec. 19.  Australian retail sales unexpectedly stalled in November,
ending four months of gains and pushing the nation’s currency to
a one-week low as traders increased bets that the central bank
will cut  interest rates .  China ’s lending and money supply growth in December
exceeded economists’ estimates, signaling monetary conditions
may be easing as the nation’s central bank said it must be
prepared for possible shocks from the U.S. and  Europe .  U.S. Demand  Some German companies are counting on demand for their
products outside Europe. Exports rose 2.5 percent in November,
almost compensating for their 2.9 percent decline in October,
the Federal Statistics Office said today.  Daimler AG’s (DAI)  Mercedes-Benz is targeting higher car
deliveries in 2012 after selling a record number of vehicles
last year, Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said Jan. 5.
Rival Porsche SE anticipates U.S. sales to rise to more than
30,000 cars next year on demand for the revamped 911 sports car.  U.S. consumer borrowing probably rose by $7 billion in
November, compared with a $7.64 billion gain the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed before
the  Federal Reserve  releases the figures later today.  Annalisa Piazza, an economist at Newedge Group in  London ,
said she expects “further weakness” in German industrial
output in coming months. “That said, business confidence
indicators have been relatively resilient. As such, we rule out
that the German economy will fall into a deep recession any time
soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  