-- German Solar-Panel Installations Break Record in Rush to Beat Subsidy Cut
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-09T11:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/germany-sees-record-solar-installs-in-2011-grid-regulator-says.html
Germany  added a record amount of
solar panels last year as developers raced to beat a subsidy cut
in the world’s biggest photovoltaic market.  December installations reached 3 gigawatts, the most that
Germany ever added in a single month, the Bundesnetzagentur grid
regulator said today. Volume for 2011 may be the country’s most
ever, 7.5 gigawatts, according to preliminary estimates, a level
that the BSW-Solar lobby group said will probably trigger an
additional 15 percent subsidy cut starting in July.  The figures add to pressure on Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government to curtail subsidies that have supported a three-year
boom, making Germany the top market for solar power. They also
indicate strengthening demand may help offset the plunging price
of panels that’s depressed the shares of such manufacturers as
 Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and LDK Solar Co.  “Prices for solar systems are falling quicker than
subsidies,” the grid regulator’s head,  Matthias Kurth , said in
an e-mailed statement.  German Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen will invite
the  energy industry  for talks about the installations, market
developments and possible adjustments to solar subsidies next
week, he said today in an e-mail.  The year-end rush was sparked in part by “massive” panel
inventory from Chinese manufacturers for large-scale solar
plants, said Frank Asbeck, chief executive officer of  Solarworld
AG (SWV) , Germany’s largest panel maker.  ‘Dumping’ Panels?  Solarworld is seeking to join forces with European peers to
start proceedings against Chinese competitors for allegedly
“dumping” panels on German markets at below-market costs in
recent months, he said.  Renewable energy subsidies in Germany need to decline to be
more in line with the realities of the current economic climate,
Economy Minister Philipp Roesler has said.  A planned subsidy cut that took effect on Jan. 1 and
Roesler’s proposal to cap yearly installations at 1,000
megawatts also helped cause the installation rush, Asbeck said.
He suggested further cuts to subsidies for large solar plants.  “It’s right that we now adjust” above-market rates paid
to operators of photovoltaic  power plants , Roesler told his pro-
business Free Democratic Party colleagues in Stuttgart last
week. “Survivability means commercial viability.”  Cap Discussions  Roettgen criticized the discussion about a cap, saying it
prompted the year-end rush as investors feared the support would
eventually disappear. The so-called breathing cap currently in
place, which reduces subsidies depending on new installation
levels, is “adequate” to further drive down costs for solar
power, he said.  Germany, which seeks to exit nuclear energy by 2022, added
about 4,150 megawatts of panels in the fourth quarter of last
year compared with about 3,400 megawatts in the first nine
months. Installations of about 225 megawatts through April would
trigger an automatic 15 percent cut in subsidies beginning in
July, the regulator said. Germany installed about 7.4 gigawatts
of panels in 2010 before Merkel’s government trimmed subsidies.  Industry Struggles  The country’s solar industry struggled with slowing demand
in the first nine months of last year amid rising competition
from manufacturers in  China .  Solon SE (SOO1) , based in Berlin, and
 Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  of Erlangen, Germany, filed for insolvency
last month. Q-Cells, once the largest maker of solar cells, is
looking for a buyer.  The figures leave Germany on course to surpass the 52
gigawatts that it’s targeting to install by 2020, based on its
National Renewable Energy Action Plan, London-based researcher
Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  