-- German Note Yields Fall to Record Low Following Merkel, Sarkozy Meeting
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-01-09T17:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/german-two-year-note-yield-near-record-low-before-merkel-sarkozy-meeting.html
German two-year notes rose, pushing
yield to a record low, after a meeting between  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  failed to ease
concern the region’s debt crisis will spread.  Germany auctioned 3.9 billion euros ($4.98 billion) of six-
month bills at a negative yield for the first time as investors
sought out the safest assets. Ten-year bunds erased losses after
a report showed industrial output in  Europe ’s largest economy
declined, adding to signs growth may have stalled. Greek two-
year yields climbed to a record amid concern the nation’s
writedown deal with private-sector creditors will fail.  The yield at the auction shows investors are “saying I
need to park the money super safe,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of
European rate strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate and
Investment Bank in  London . Shorter-maturity debt is “becoming
somewhat divorced from the mainstream in the sense that they’re
being utilized by investors to park liquidity in a time of
uncertainty.”  Germany’s two-year yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 0.14 percent at 5 p.m. London time, after
slipping to 0.135 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg started
tracking the data in 1990. The 0.25 percent note due December
2013 gained 0.045, or 45 euro cents, per 1,000-euro face amount,
to 100.205. The 10-year yield was little changed at 1.85 percent
after rising as much as four basis points.  Merkel and Sarkozy outlined plans that may see euro-area
leaders complete their new budget rulebook by Jan. 30. They are
also considering accelerating capital contributions to the
bailout fund being set up this year to stem the debt crisis.  Best Return  German bonds gained 9.7 percent in 2011, the best return
since 2008, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Investors
favored the securities as the debt crisis threatened to infect
the euro area’s bigger economies and push the region into
another recession.  Germany  sold the six-month bills with a yield of minus
0.0122 percent, the first time a national money-market
instrument offered a negative yield. The auction drew bids that
were nearly double the amount allotted.  Industrial production in Germany fell 0.6 percent from
October, when it rose 0.8 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said
today. Economists forecast a 0.5 percent drop, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  The cost of insuring against non-payment on European
sovereign debt rose to a record. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western
Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 15 governments rose as
much as four basis points to 386. An increase signals
deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  Greek Notes  Two-year Greek notes dropped for a third day amid
speculation the current restructuring plan involving so-called
private-sector involvement will fail.  Greece  is “one of the things that needs to be resolved
fairly quickly,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European rates
strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “As the speculation
starts to appear about bigger haircuts, potential failure of the
PSI talks, there’s a bit more pessimism.”  Greece must do more to consolidate its finances, or private
creditors must write off a larger share of their claims or euro-
area countries have to add more funding,  Der Spiegel  reported on
Jan. 7, citing an International Monetary Fund document.  The yield on the Greek two-year note climbed 41 percentage
points to a record 176 percent. The price dropped to 20.975
percent of face value.  Highest Volatility  Volatility on Greek sovereign debt was the highest in euro-
area markets today, followed by Ireland, according to measures
of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-
default swaps.  Irish two-year notes gained, with yields dropping 33 basis
points to 7.45 percent, after a report showed  consumer
confidence  plunged the most in a decade. The consumer sentiment
index fell to 49.2 in December from 60.1 a month earlier, the
biggest decline since August 2001.  French 10-year bonds gained, with yields falling five basis
points to 3.31 percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold
the securities instead of similar-maturity bunds narrowed four
basis points to 147 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  