-- Gingrich’s Former Firm Declines to Release Freddie Mac Contract
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-01-10T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/gingrich-s-firm-refuses-to-release-contract.html
A lawyer for a consulting firm
founded by former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  said he was
barring the release of a contract between the Republican
presidential candidate and  Freddie Mac .  Gingrich said last week it would be up to his partners in
his former company, the  Center for Health Transformation , to
determine whether to release the documents. Earlier, he said he
would be happy to release the contract, yet couldn’t make it
public because Freddie Mac, the mortgage company now under U.S.
conservatorship, refused to waive a confidentiality agreement.  Freddie Mac officials said last week that Gingrich was
“welcome” to release the contract, under which his consulting
firm was paid at least $1.6 million over eight years for his
services.  Even though Freddie Mac is willing to allow the document to
be made public, allowing a release of the documents in this case
might put the confidentiality of other Center for Health
Transformation clients at risk, said Stefan Passantino, an
attorney representing the firm.  “The risks of any kind of confidentiality waiver, even if
the company tried to limit it to one client or one document, are
too great to be feasible,” Passantino said in an e-mail
yesterday. “A limited waiver is not possible and I am unable to
authorize such a release.”  Debate Questions  Gingrich has faced questions in debates from his Republican
presidential rivals about his relationship with the mortgage
finance company. Freddie Mac and its sister company,  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,
have drawn about $153 billion in taxpayer aid since losses from
risky mortgages caused them to be brought under U.S.
conservatorship in September 2008.  The contract could answer some of the outstanding questions
surrounding the deal, including precisely what Gingrich was paid
and how much of it went directly to him. Since Bloomberg News
first reported the payments on Nov. 16, these accounts have
varied, with the former speaker lately claiming his firm was
paid at least $1.6 million while he personally only received
about $35,000 a year.  Gingrich’s description of the work he performed has
differed from that of company insiders.  During a Nov. 9 Republican debate, Gingrich initially said
he was paid to offer Freddie Mac advice as a “historian,” and
that he cautioned officials that its business model was
“insane.”  Former Freddie Mac officials familiar with Gingrich’s work
for the company said he didn’t disparage their business model
and was paid to build bridges to congressional Republicans and
develop an argument on behalf of the company’s public-private
structure that would resonate with opponents seeking to
dismantle it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  