-- Glaxo Is Keen to Advance Rest of OTC Asset Sale, CFO Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-01-10T08:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/glaxo-keen-to-move-ahead-with-rest-of-otc-asset-sale-cfo-says.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is trying to
sell its remaining over-the-counter medicine brands as quickly
as possible, Chief Financial Officer Simon Dingemans said.  Prestige Brands Holdings Inc. (PBH) , maker of Comet cleaner and
Murine eye solutions, last month agreed to buy 17 over-the-
counter brands from London-based Glaxo for $660 million. Glaxo,
the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, is continuing the process of
divesting other brands still owned by the company, including the
Alli diet pill, Dingemans said.  “We are keen to move the process along as quickly as we
can,” he said in an interview yesterday at the J.P. Morgan
Healthcare Conference in San Francisco. “We are engaged in
discussions with a number of different parties.”  Dingemans wouldn’t elaborate on potential acquirers, and
declined to give a time frame for the transaction. The leftover
brands had sales of about 400 million pounds ($618 million) last
year, Glaxo said in a Dec. 20 statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  is trying to expand
Glaxo’s business in oral health, wellness and nutrition, and
plans to keep fast-growing brands such as Sensodyne toothpaste
and the Panadol pain reliever.  “We decided to move on the U.S. piece first because it
offered attractive values,” Dingemans said. The company then
wanted to “explore the other pieces one by one,” he said.  ‘Very Happy’  Glaxo is “very happy” with the current relationship with
 Human Genome  Sciences Inc., its U.S. partner on the Benlysta
lupus treatment, Dingemans said when asked about market
speculation that Glaxo may make a bid for Human Genome.  “I see the rumors from time to time, it makes no
difference to how we operate with them,” Dingemans said.  The U.K. drugmaker also is “very happy” with the
performance of its Viiv Healthcare Ltd. venture with Pfizer
Inc., which specializes in HIV treatments, according to
Dingemans. Glaxo remains “open-minded” about options for Viiv
in the future “but at the moment we are perfectly fine” with
the current structure, the CFO said.  Reaching an agreement to sell the over-the-counter brands
“has taken longer than expected, and that is clearly a function
of the markets that we are in,” Dingemans said during the
interview.  Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Bain Capital LLC also
submitted bids, and Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN)  was interested in some
brands, people with knowledge of the process said Nov. 16,
before an agreement was reached for assets in the U.S.  Alli and Appetite  Sanofi isn’t interested in buying the Alli diet pill, one
of the products on sale, Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said in a May 6 interview.  Alli contains orlistat, a chemical that blocks the
intestines from absorbing fat when taken as often as three times
a day with meals. Orlistat has been linked to reports of liver
injury, prompting consumer groups to demand its removal from the
market. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  announced new
warnings on the pill’s label in mid-2010.  Alli “was not a definitive factor” in slowing down the
process, Dingemans said. But “some people have more appetite”
for pieces of the portfolio than others, he said.  This led to the decision to split up the sale, Dingemans
said.  “We decided at the end of the day we would do better to
break it up and take individual pieces that we can match to
where the greatest interest and the greatest value sits,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in  San Francisco  at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  