-- GM Leads U.S. Carmaker Gains in China as Honda Motor’s Deliveries Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-09T22:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/gm-china-sales-rise-8-3-percent-in-2011-on-buick-chevrolet-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  reported record car sales in China last year, outpacing
Japanese rivals hurt by production disruptions from the March 11
earthquake and  Thailand ’s floods.  Deliveries to Chinese dealers climbed 8.3 percent from a
year earlier to 2.55 million vehicles, Detroit-based GM  said  in
a statement yesterday. Ford said its sales grew 7 percent to
519,390 units.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Japan’s biggest carmaker,
said last week that China sales rose last year at the slowest
pace since at least 2004 and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  yesterday reported
its first ever annual decline in deliveries in the country.  GM, which received a $50 billion bailout from the U.S.
government in 2009, sold an average of one car or truck every 12
seconds in the world’s largest car market last year as it
started a five-year rollout of more than 60 new and upgraded
models in  China . Japan’s earthquake and tsunami affected
suppliers for many Japanese automakers, with many also shutting
plants in Thailand after the worst flooding in almost 70 years.  “It’s clear that Detroit is undergoing a resurgence even
as the Japanese automakers grapple with a terrible 2011,”
 Ashvin Chotai , London-based managing director for Intelligence
Automotive  Asia , said in a telephone interview. “In China, GM
and Ford have been fairly aggressive with new models.”  China Sales  Industrywide deliveries for 2011 may have risen 3 percent
to 5 percent, the least in 13 years, according to the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers, which is scheduled to
release annual figures this week. Sales growth slowed after the
central bank raised borrowing costs to tackle inflation and the
government phased out subsidies, rebates and a sales tax break
on vehicle purchases.  GM expects growth in China this year to be similar to last
year because the company has “a lot of of launches,” Tim Lee,
president of international operations, said today during an
interview at the North American International Auto Show in
 Detroit .  Changes made by the government to influence automotive
investment in China will probably be “no big deal,” he said.  Last month, China said it will end a seven-year policy to
encourage foreign investment in the automotive manufacturing
industry on Jan. 30 to allow for “healthy development.” The
announcement comes two weeks after the country said it would
impose anti-dumping duties on some vehicles imported from the
U.S. after failing to block a U.S. tariff on Chinese tires.  Regaining Lead  The record China deliveries for the American carmakers add
to the best year for U.S. industry auto sales since 2008, when
GM and Chrysler Group LLC sought U.S. bailouts. GM, Ford and
Chrysler all gained share in 2011, ending the year controlling a
combined 47.1 percent of the U.S. market, up from 45.2 percent
in 2010, according to Autodata Corp., a  Woodcliff Lake , New
Jersey-based research company.  GM also reclaimed the top spot in world vehicle sales from
Toyota last year, which it fumbled away to the Japanese carmaker
in 2008 as the Detroit giant careened toward bankruptcy.  The George W. Bush administration provided GM with cash,
starting with $4 billion on Dec. 31, 2008, that kept the
automaker solvent until the Obama administration could manage
the 2009 bankruptcy.  GM’s stock has risen 13 percent this year in New York
trading, compared with an 8.8 percent gain for Ford. Toyota has
advanced 2.9 percent in Tokyo trading, while Honda’s shares are
up 4.5 percent.  Doubling Deliveries  In China, GM aims to double deliveries to 5 million units
by 2015, and plans to focus on expanding its luxury car brand
Cadillac and its sport-utility vehicle lineup.  Shanghai GM, the U.S. carmaker’s sedan venture with  SAIC
Motor Corp. (600104)  that produces Buick and Chevrolet-brand cars,
boosted full-year sales 16 percent to 1.2 million vehicles. In
2010, GM sales in China climbed 29 percent to 2.35 million
units.  “GM stayed ahead of the competition despite a slowdown in
the growth of industry demand thanks to our broad portfolio of
appealing vehicles,”  Kevin Wale , GM’s China president, said in
a statement.  In response to slowing demand for mini commercial vehicles,
GM cut the price of its Wuling Sunshine light trucks, which
retail at about $4,400, from May. The automaker also rolled out
its local sedan brand Baojun to target first-time buyers in
inland provinces and less developed cities.  Ford, which is adding four new plants in China with its
partners, posted a 25 percent increase in sales of its Mondeo
sedan last year, while deliveries of the Focus hatchback rose 10
percent in the country, according to a company statement. Sales
at Jiangling Motors Corp., its commercial vehicle venture, rose
9 percent to 194,588 units in 2011.  ‘Sustainable Growth’  “Ford is on track to deliver on its promise to bring 15
new vehicles to China by 2015,” David Schoch, chairman and
chief executive officer of Ford Motor China, said in the
statement. “Ford expects sustainable growth moving forward in
China.”  Honda’s sales in China fell 4.5 percent last year to
617,764 units, the company said in a statement. The March
earthquake in  Japan  resulted in a parts shortage that affected
production in China, Zhu Linjie, a Beijing-based spokesman for
the carmaker, said by telephone.  “The Americans capitalized on the setbacks suffered from
the supply constraints of the Japanese and also benefited from
the growing strength of their brand,” said  Michael Dunne , head
of Dunne & Co., a Hong Kong-based industry researcher.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  