-- GM’s Akerson Says He Will Align Volt Production to Sales Demand
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-01-09T02:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/gm-s-akerson-says-he-will-align-volt-production-to-sales-demand.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S.
automaker, will adjust production of the plug-in hybrid
Chevrolet Volt to meet demand, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said.  “We’re going to match production with demand,” Akerson
told reporters today following an event in  Detroit  for the new
Cadillac ATS compact car, before the start of the North American
International Auto Show. “There’re new variables in the
equation, so we’ll see.”  Akerson was commenting on whether the Detroit-based
automaker could meet output targets for the Volt, which failed
to meet U.S. sales goals last year. The company plans to expand
production of its Volt plug-in hybrid to 60,000 this year, with
45,000 earmarked for the U.S. GM sold 7,671 Volts in the U.S. in
2011, missing a target of 10,000 deliveries.  GM said Jan. 5 in response to a National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration investigation that it will improve the
structure and battery-coolant system of the Volt sedan to
protect it better against fires after crashes.  U.S. auto-safety regulators are pleased with GM’s plan to
fix its Volt electric vehicle, National Highway Traffic Safety
Administrator  David Strickland  said.  The investigation lowered demand for the car, according to
Bandon, Oregon-based CNW Marketing Research Inc.  Volt Demand  It’s going to be hard for GM to reach its Volt sales
targets without the help of fleet customers,  Rebecca Lindland ,
an industry analyst with IHS Automotive, said in an e-mail
today.  “I think fleet customers will help but it is going to be
tough to reach that 60,000 mark without them,” she said.
“These contracts can be lucrative when structured correctly. It
is also a good way to get more consumers familiar and
comfortable with the technology so it is worth the investment
for GM.”  Mark Reuss , president of GM North America, echoed Akerson’s
position.  “There’s no trend because we haven’t satisfied demand,”
Reuss told reporters. “I told everybody that we’d be looking at
satisfying demand right around second quarter. We’re not there
yet so I don’t know.”  The ATS, the first compact Cadillac in about 25 years, will
join the XTS full-size sedan this year as part of Akerson’s plan
to bolster the luxury brand’s sales and make it more competitive
against rivals such as  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW and
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz.  Akerson in an interview last year with the  Detroit News 
seemed to acknowledge that the competition will be tough, saying
Cadillac’s new offerings won’t “blow the doors off” GM’s
rivals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  