-- Google Falls Most Since August After Motorola Posts Disappointing Results
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-09T21:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/google-declines-after-motorola-mobility-results-trail-estimates.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  fell after disappointing
results from Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., the handset maker
it plans to buy, underscored the hurdles it will face vying with
Apple Inc. in the smartphone-hardware market.  Google dropped 4.2 percent to $622.46 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since Aug. 18.  Motorola Mobility (MMI) ,
which Google aims to acquire for $12.5 billion, reported
preliminary fourth-quarter sales on Jan. 6 that trailed
analysts’ predictions.  “The MMI pre-announcement could serve as a reminder of the
operational challenges for Google to enter the hardware space
and the clouded optics surrounding an overall slower-growth,
lower-margin Google once the deal closes,” JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts wrote today in a research report.  Google, which makes the Android mobile-phone operating
system used by Motorola Mobility, is counting on the deal to
bolster its intellectual-property holdings and expand its reach
in the mobile industry. Motorola Mobility has more than 17,000
patents that  Mountain View , California-based Google can use in
its legal tussles with rivals such as  Apple (AAPL) , which makes the
iPhone handset.  Sales Shortfall  Motorola Mobility’s fourth-quarter sales were probably
little changed at $3.4 billion, the Libertyville, Illinois-based
company said in a statement. Analysts had forecast revenue of $4
billion, according to a Bloomberg survey. Motorola Mobility,
which recently won a German patent ruling against Apple, cited
higher costs from intellectual property litigation and an
“increased competitive environment” in the mobile-device
market in the quarter.  The handset maker said it shipped about 10.5 million
devices during the period, of which more than half were
smartphones. The company expects the acquisition to be completed
early this year.  “The problems at MMI appear significant and will soon
become one of Google’s key concerns,” Stifel, Nicolaus & Co.
analysts wrote in a note today. “Even if Google purchased MMI
for its mobile-patent portfolio, the loss of momentum is still
relevant and may become a thorn in Google’s side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  