-- Gross Expands Local Bonds to Most in Five Years
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/gross-expands-local-bonds-to-the-most-in-five-years.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the  world’s largest bond fund , has boosted holdings
of U.S. municipal debt to the most in more than five years and
may buy more.  Adding securities that outperformed Treasuries, stocks and
commodities last year may bolster  Bill Gross ’s $244 billion
 Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , which lagged behind others in 2011. It
returned  4.16 percent  compared with the average 4.78 percent of
its peers last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  State and local borrowers in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market withstood the lengthiest recession since the 1930s as
they cut spending to close deficits and tax revenue rose for
eight straight quarters to Sept. 30, the longest string of gains
since 2008, the Census Bureau said Dec. 20. The “hundreds of
billions of dollars” of defaults predicted by bank analyst
 Meredith Whitney  didn’t happen.  “Our portfolio managers around the country felt that it
was an area that was worth taking a look at and investing in,”
said Joe Deane, who manages $16 billion as head of municipal-
bond investments at Pimco in  New York . “We just felt that on an
overall relative-value basis, that it was really one of the most
attractive asset classes out there.”  Top-rated 30-year tax-exempt bonds yielded as much as  137.7
percent  of similar-maturity Treasuries in November, the most
since April 2009. That made their tax-sheltered income more
valuable to high-earning individuals than the taxable interest
of U.S. debt.  Historic Highs  “Their yields of 5 to 6 percent are near historically high
ratios to Treasuries,” Gross said in his January  investment
outlook . “They do, however, entail risk -- not only volatility
but occasional  default risk .”  That’s not a prediction of widespread defaults as suggested
by Whitney, Gross wrote, “but simply a recognition that you
usually get what you pay for.”  Gross said in his outlook that investors should consider
Treasuries, long-term inflation-indexed  U.S. debt , high-grade
corporates, bank debt and municipal securities to hedge the risk
that policy makers are unable to foster growth and inflation
accelerates.  The Total Return Fund, which has beaten 97 percent of its
peers in the past five years, invests in government, mortgage
and investment-grade company fixed-income securities. It aims
for income and capital preservation. Municipal securities
accounted for 5 percent, or $12.2 billion, of its holdings at
the end of November, according to figures on Pimco’s website.  That’s up from 4 percent in the 13 previous months and the
biggest allocation since at least 2006, according to an analysis
of the figures by Bloomberg.  Profitable Market  The increase came as the tax-exempt market earned 11.2
percent in 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes tracking prices and interest income. That beat 9.3
percent for Treasuries and 7.2 percent for company debt. The
Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  of stocks was unchanged and the S&P
 GSCI Spot Index (SPGSCI)  of commodities rose 2.1 percent.  Even when adjusted for the risk of price volatility,
municipal bonds beat Treasuries, investment-grade corporate debt
and  junk bonds , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach , California, was able to take
part in 2011’s rally even though it bought munis late in the
year, said Deane, who joined in July after co-heading the tax-
exempt department at Western Asset Management Co.  “We got an awful lot of it in the fourth quarter,” Deane
said in a telephone interview Jan. 6.  Possible Increase  Pimco’s total municipal holdings are $55.8 billion, Deane
said. The firm, a unit of  Germany ’s  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest
insurer, may increase munis in the Total Return Fund in 2012
based on how the securities compare with other asset classes, he
said.  “It will depend on what’s going on in the rest of the
world,” Deane said. “And do we get volume that will come back
in and get us back to those kind of interest-rate levels that we
found so attractive a month or two ago.”  Yields on benchmark 30-year municipals increased to  3.94
percent  on Dec. 2, the highest in four months, according to
Bloomberg data. That’s as states and cities sold  $31.8 billion 
of debt in October and $30.3 billion in November, the busiest
months of 2011, according to Bloomberg data. The 30-year yield
was 3.71 percent Jan. 6.  Another buying opportunity may occur if states and cities
increase borrowing to take advantage of low  interest rates ,
Deane said. Fifteen states have reported revenue exceeding
projections, according to the  National Association of State
Budget Officers . Yields would then rise to attract buyers, he
said.  More Volume  “Probably by February or March, you’re going to see,
especially at these interest-rate levels, an increase in new-
issue volume,” Deane said. “That will help balance out the
market.”  Municipals will probably return 6 percent to 7 percent this
year, less than last year, Deane said.  “If you get your coupon and an extra 100 to 150 basis
points in terms of total return, I think from where we are right
now, we’d be pretty comfortable with that,” he said.  Following are descriptions of coming sales of municipal
debt:  COLORADO (STOCO1)  is set to borrow $230 million of tax- and revenue-
anticipation notes as soon as tomorrow. The sale will provide
interest-free loans to school districts. The notes are rated SP-
1+, S&P’s highest short-term investment grade. (Added Jan. 9)  METRO WASTEWATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT, COLORADO (27661MF) , which
serves 1.7 million people in and around Denver, plans to sell
$380 million of sewer-improvement bonds through competitive bid
on Jan. 11, according to offering documents. The bonds are rated
Aa1, Moody’s Investors Service’s second-highest investment
grade. (Added Jan. 6)  ALLEGHENY COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA (9442MF) , the second-most-populous
county in the state and home to Pittsburgh, will borrow as soon
as this week $175 million of tax- and revenue-anticipation
notes. The debt matures July 2012 and will help the county meet
spending needs until it receives tax collections, according to
sale documents. The notes will price competitively. The deal is
rated SP-1+, S&P’s highest short-term investment grade. (Added
Jan. 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  