-- Microsoft Files Lawsuit Against Motorola Mobility in London
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-01-09T17:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/microsoft-files-lawsuit-against-motorola-mobility-in-london.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, sued  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  in  London ’s
 High Court .  Court papers didn’t give details on the content of
Microsoft’s claim against Motorola Mobility, which is being
acquired by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , maker of the Android operating system.  The suit was filed Dec. 23, three days after Microsoft won
a ruling before the U.S. International Trade Commission over
claims Android-based smartphones infringe Microsoft’s patents,
and two weeks after a hearing in Germany over similar claims
alleged by Microsoft against Motorola Mobility.  The ITC, which issued two findings on the matter last
month, said some features of Android phones use licensed
technology without permission, rulings which fell short of
Microsoft’s original broader claims that its inventions are
widely used in Android phones. Motorola Mobility General Counsel
Scott Offer said at the time that the majority of that ruling is
favorable to the handset maker and may provide clarity on what
Microsoft owns to avoid potential infringement.  Lacretia Taylor, a spokeswoman for Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft, didn’t have an immediate comment on the U.K.
lawsuit.  Gemma Priscott and  Jennifer Erickson , spokeswomen for
Motorola Mobility, didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  Google said Aug. 15 it would buy Libertyville, Illinois-
based Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion to obtain patents that
may be used to fend off suits targeting handsets and tablet
computers that use Android. Microsoft makes its own mobile-
operating system, Windows Phone 7, which competes with Android.  The case is: Microsoft Corporation v. Motorola Mobility
Inc., case no. HC11C04536, High Court of London, Chancery
Division (London).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 