-- Idenix Leads Hepatitis Drug Developers Higher on Inhibitex
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-09T21:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/idenix-leads-hepatitis-drug-developers-higher-after-bristol-inhibitex-deal.html
Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX)  and
Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc., developers of hepatitis C drugs,
rose on speculation they may follow  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX)  and
 Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS)  as acquisition targets.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  said on Jan. 7 it would pay about
$2.5 billion in cash to buy Inhibitex. Pharmasset agreed to be
acquired by  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  for $10.8 billion in a deal
announced Nov. 21. Idenix rose 37 percent to $9.66 at the close
in  New York , the company’s biggest gain since 2004. Achillion
gained 23 percent to $9.72, its biggest climb in two years.  The companies are testing experimental medicines that may
enter a developing $20 billion market for hepatitis C treatments
that are easier to use and more effective than existing
products.  Idenix, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and New Haven,
Connecticut-based Achillion both reported positive results today
on drugs in the second phase of testing normally needed for U.S.
approval.  “We expect continued consolidation in the HCV space with
Achillion as a potential target,” said  Edward Tenthoff , an
analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos., a note to clients.  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ,  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH (BING) , Abbott Laboratories, Pfizer
Inc. and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  are all potential buyers, Tenthoff said.  Novartis has been looking at potential hepatitis C targets,
CEO Joseph Jimenez Jr. said at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare
Conference in San Francisco. Jimenez said he was “amazed at
prices” for the companies and wasn’t willing to pay that much.
The company may partner to develop new drugs, instead, he said.  Spokesmen for Roche, Abbott, and Boehringer Ingelheim
declined to comment.  Idenix Drug  As many as 170 million people worldwide carry the hepatitis
C virus, and current drugs, given through injection, can have
side effects that make therapy difficult to endure. The new
medicines are designed to be taken as pills, with a higher cure
rate and fewer side effects.  Idenix reported today in a statement that its lead drug
candidate for the virus, IDX184, showed no serious adverse
events in patients after 28 days of treatment. The trial is in
the second phase of testing normally required for U.S.
regulatory approval.  Ronald Renaud, Idenix’s CEO, wouldn’t comment specifically
on any possible acquisition of the company.  “It’s a very fast moving space,” Renaud said in a
telephone interview. “There’s a lot of jockeying that’s going
on right now so folks can be well-positioned in the not-too-
distant future,” he said.  Trial Restrictions  Renaud said the company had submitted the data to the FDA
and expects to hear whether restrictions on its trials are
lifted within a month. Idenix’s study had been partly halted by
the agency over safety issues.  Interim results from a phase 2 study of Achillion’s
experimental once-daily treatment for hepatitis C patients found
that the virus was undetectable in all patients with genotype 1
of the disease, the most common in  North America , South America,
and  Europe .  Chief Executive Officer Michael Kishbauch of Achillion said
in November his company is in talks with potential partners and
acquirers.  Glenn Schulman, a spokesman for Achillion, said he didn’t
have further comment when reached today. “Right now we’re
focused on advancing our pipeline,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Other drugmakers that may look to expand in the market for
hepatitis C treatments include Roche Holding AG, Brian Skorney,
a New York-based analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co., said in a
telephone interview in November, after the Gilead agreement was
announced.  Won Approval  Merck and Vertex last year won approval for the first new
therapies for hepatitis C in almost a decade. A third, smaller
deal was announced in October when Roche, based in Basel,
Switzerland, agreed to buy  Anadys Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ANDS) , another
maker of experimental medicines for hepatitis C, for about $230
million.  Bristol-Myers, based in New York, agreed to purchase
Inhibitex at $26 a share, a price that more than doubles the
Alpharetta, Georgia-based biotechnology company’s $9.87 closing
price on Jan. 6. The transaction is expected to dilute earnings
for Bristol-Myers through 2016, with an impact of about 4 cents
per share in 2012 and 5 cents per share in 2013, according to
the statement.  Premium Paid  The premium paid by Bristol-Myers, of about 126 percent of
Inhibitex’s price over the previous 20 trading days, ranks as
the second-largest on record for a biotechnology or
pharmaceutical company worth more than $500 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg since 1999. The record is Genzyme
Corp.’s 2006 deal for AnorMed Inc. with a 162 percent premium.  “The world is moving toward an all-oral regimen for
hepatitis C, and Bristol-Myers, which is strong in antivirals,
seems like it wants to be a part of that,”  Les Funtleyder , a
health-care strategist and portfolio manager with Miller Tabak &
Co. in New York, wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  Inhibitex’s INX-189 is in the second stage of testing
normally needed for U.S. regulatory approval. Pharmasset’s PSI-
7977 is in the third and final phase, and could generate $3
billion to $5 billion in revenue for Foster City, California-
based Gilead,  Michael Yee , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets
in San Francisco, estimated in November.  The market for medicines that work against the virus is
about $3 billion worldwide, according to  Andrew Berens , a senior
health-care analyst with Bloomberg Industries, in Skillman, New
Jersey. It may be worth $20 billion by 2020, said Michael Kishbauch, chief executive officer of  Achillion Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (ACHN) , in a November interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  