-- If Grateful Dead’s Music Were a Wine, What Would It Taste Like?
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/if-grateful-dead-s-music-were-red-wine-how-would-it-taste-elin-mccoy.html
Locked away in his garage just over a
year ago, Mendocino winemaker Mark Beaman spent hours soaking up
the vibe of the  Grateful Dead  album “Steal Your Face.” Then he
set about creating a red wine that “interprets” the album’s
music and uses the cover art on its label.  “The Dead’s music style is an earthy, savage blend,”
Beaman says. “It made me think of a smoky, bacony syrah, a big
one with backbone.”  It took a party with Deadheads and five months to get the
recently released punchy 2009 blend of syrah, zinfandel,
grenache and petite sirah ($17) to match the music and label.  “Aromas are like the voice, while the guitar lick is the
fruit that plays through the wine from start to finish,” says
Beaman. “I want someone who tastes the wine while listening to
the music to say, ‘I get it.’”  The 2009 Steal Your Face red is Beaman’s latest liquid echo
of an iconic album for  Wines That Rock , a collaboration with
 Mendocino Wine Co. , where Beaman is a winemaker.  Like a book cover, a wine label is all about attention-
getting -- making a bottle jump out from crowded retail shelves
and inspiring you to buy it.  We’ve all seen the catchy names, cutesy animals, red
trucks, and ironic or nostalgic images that are supposed to make
wine seem more approachable and fun. You can pretty much guess
how Sledgehammer Zinfandel will taste. Royal Bitch, Sweet Bitch,
Sassy Bitch, and pink-labeled just plain Bitch are also just
what you’d expect: easy-drinking, girls-night-out wine for under
$10.  Dirty Laundry  Brands like Dirty Laundry, Woop Woop, Happy Camper, Hey
Mambo, and FlipFlop certainly telegraph unpretentiousness, but
seem more about pairing with moods than foods. They, too, are
basic plonk.  Beaman’s Steal Your Face takes this to another level, where
the taste and character of the wine inside the bottle are
designed to match what the label suggests. Wines That Rock and
many new higher-quality labels are seeking an instant emotional
connection to your lifestyle.  Sonoma’s  Lasseter Family Winery ’s 2010 salmon-pink Enjoue
Rose, a seductive Provencal knock-off, features a woman diver
doing a closed pike into a vineyard lake and screams summer.  Among the most imaginative new approaches to telegraphing
the character of the wine in the bottle are the labels from
biodynamic Austrian winery  Gut Oggau , in Burgenland, which makes
exceptional regional bottlings.  Owners Stephanie Tscheppe-Eselbock and Eduard Tscheppe have
created personas for nine members of a fictive three-generation
family and assigned one to each of their nine wines, with a
hand-drawn portrait on the label. Young, puffy-lipped
“Theodora” is a cheerful, cheeky, and juicy white blend that
sells for 10 euros ($12.80) at the winery. Bearded parent
“Joschuari” (35 euros) reflects a concentrated complex
blaufrankisch, with excellent aging potential.  Jade’s Jewels  Even Bordeaux, bastion of the staid and conservative label,
is updating. Bruno Borie of  Chateau Ducru-Beaucaillou  enlisted
UK-based jewelry designer Jade Jagger. Her luxuriant gold
vegetation on deep black background for the estate’s luscious,
velvety second wine 2009 Croix de Beaucaillou ($135, magnum)
looks like a fancy perfume bottle, though Jagger explains, “My
design represents the elegance, finesse, and depth of Croix.”  The famous-artist label is generally a tip-off to an aims-
to-be-serious wine. Think  Chateau Mouton-Rothschild , which has
been commissioning a different artist each year since 1945. For
the glossy, exotic 2009 vintage ($900), appearing on shelves
later this year, Baroness Philippine de Rothschild tapped
Mumbai-born Anish Kapoor. Buyer beware: the stature of the
artist is no guide to the character or quality of the vintage. A
Picasso sketch adorns the famously poor 1973.  White Waltz  Original musical compositions are the latest addition to
this artist-label concept. Sonoma’s  Imagery Estate Winery 
recently commissioned a piece from California composer  Richard
Derwingson  -- the score for his “Imagine a Waltz” graces
current release 2009 White Burgundy ($29). You can hear it by
watching the video on the  website .  Why this chardonnay-pinot blanc-pinot meunier blend is
called white Burgundy is beyond me (hello, Burgundy is in
 France ). In this case the inspiration for the music wasn’t the
wine itself, but rather a Parthenon-style building in the
vineyard, which led the composer to use the Greek Dorian mode in
his composition. I detected no architectural flavors in the
tart, attractive white, perfect for serving at an orchestra
fundraiser.  The music-label thing is growing on me, though. I kicked
back with Beaman’s smooth, spicy, haunting  Pink Floyd  Dark Side
of the Moon cabernet sauvignon (a bargain at $17) and the
album’s classic sixth track “Money.”  (Elin McCoy writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
 Elin McCoy  at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 