-- Mild February Is Probable for U.S. East Coast, Rogers Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-01-09T21:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/mild-february-is-probable-for-u-s-east-coast-rogers-says.html
The weather in the U.S. East Coast
will probably remain mild through February even as cold Arctic
air descends into  Canada  and chills the northern Great Plains,
said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Computer models suggest the pattern might change, although
Rogers said he doesn’t believe any variation will be strong
enough to bring cold temperatures to the U.S., which has seen
mild weather through most of the winter season.  “While trending colder, it is still not as cold as
originally expected,” Rogers said in a note to clients today.  The period from Nov. 1 to Jan. 8 was the third-warmest this
century, based on natural gas-weighted heating degree days,
according to Bethesda, Maryland-based Commodity Weather.  The values are calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees Fahrenheit (18 Celsius) to
show energy demand. Natural gas-weighted degree days are
adjusted to reflect population density and usage of the fuel.
Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy being used to
heat homes and businesses.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling.  The average December temperature in  New York ’s Central Park
was 43.3 degrees, or 5.8 degrees above normal, according to the
 National Weather Service .  NYC Warmth  The temperature in Central Park hit a high of 62 degrees on
Dec. 6, 7 and 21. It was above 55 degrees eight times.  Parts of  Vancouver ,  Alberta  and  Montana  will be more than 3
degrees cooler than normal in February, while the Plains will be
1 to 2 degrees cooler than average, Rogers said. He said there
is uncertainty as to whether patterns will shift enough to bring
lower temperatures to the high population areas of the U.S.
Northeast and East Coast.  A shift may be under way that will take a few weeks to
manifest, he said.  “But there is also a better chance that the current
pattern volatility is only a stronger version of the early
December variability that still ultimately reverts back to a
warm-dominated pattern,” Rogers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  