-- Hildebrand Quits as Swiss National Bank Chief After Wife’s Currency Trade
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-01-09T16:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/hildebrand-quits-as-swiss-national-bank-chief-after-wife-s-currency-trade.html
Philipp Hildebrand resigned as head
of the  Swiss central bank (SNBN)  four days after pledging to fight for
his job in a furor over his wife’s currency trading.  Swiss National Bank Vice President Thomas Jordan, 48, was
appointed interim chairman after the surprise announcement at a
news conference in Bern that Hildebrand called today.  “I came to the conclusion that it’s not possible for me to
deliver definite proof that my wife requested the currency
transaction without my knowledge,” Hildebrand, 48, said.  The episode called into question Hildebrand’s credibility
as guardian of the Swiss franc, and pressure on him to resign
increased following media reports that his family may have
profited from inside information. While the government said it
still supports the SNB head, and an internal investigation
cleared him of wrongdoing, the purchase of $504,000 by Kashya
Hildebrand in August, three weeks before the SNB imposed a
currency cap, was found to be “sensitive.”  Economists at VTB Capital and Swissquote Bank SA said his
departure will leave investors testing the franc cap.  “The market will now be questioning whether the
credibility of the euro-franc 1.20 floor is in jeopardy,” said
Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at Swissquote in
Geneva. “Any serious threat to the floor will be immediately
met with an aggressive response.”  Franc Determination  The Swiss currency surged after the announcement to as high
as 1.2108 per euro. It traded at 1.2131 as of 5:51 p.m. in
Zurich, 0.1 percent stronger than its closing price on Jan. 6.
The SNB said in a statement that it will continue to defend the
franc cap of 1.20 versus the euro with the “utmost
determination.”  Hildebrand’s departure from the SNB’s three-member board
deprives  Switzerland  of a policy maker who managed to stem the
franc’s rally to records against the dollar and the euro, which
had threatened to derail the economy.  “Jordan is the likely replacement for the top job,”
Geoffrey Kendrick, head of European currency strategy at Nomura
International in  London , said in an e-mailed note. “This will
leave a replacement role needed for a third position on the
board. This is very likely to be an internal candidate.”  The SNB on Dec. 15 kept  borrowing costs (SZLTTR)  at zero and
maintained its pledge to defend its franc ceiling with unlimited
currency purchases if needed. The central bank will hold its
next quarterly monetary assessment in March.  “In times like these, credibility needs to be iron-clad,”
Hildebrand said today. “As soon as a central banker realizes
that the credibility isn’t warranted under all circumstances, he
has to do what I did today.”  SNB Policy  “We don’t expect any change in the conduct of Swiss
monetary policy,” said Julien Manceaux, an economist at ING
Group in Brussels. “Monetary conditions should remain
accommodative and we still believe that the current euro-franc
floor is here to stay, with or without Philipp Hildebrand.”  Hildebrand is not the first European central banker to
leave before the end of their term in the past year. Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber  and European Central Bank Executive Board
member Juergen Stark both quit over the ECB’s bond-buying
program, while Lorenzo Bini Smaghi also left the board
prematurely.  Central bankers have come unstuck by controversy in the
past.  Ernst Welteke , Weber’s predecessor, resigned in 2004 after
accepting hospitality from Dresdner Bank AG and Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG.  Antonio Fazio  resigned as governor of the  Bank
of Italy  a year later in the face of two criminal probes into
whether he favored Italian lenders in takeover battles.  Hildebrand Efforts  Hildebrand joined the central bank in 2003, becoming its
youngest ever policy maker, and took over as president in
January 2010. Before that he was chief investment officer at
private banks Vontobel Group in Zurich and Union Bancaire Privee
in Geneva.  As head of the SNB, he helped toughen financial regulation,
forcing UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG to boost capital
buffers. He also lowered borrowing costs to zero and in
September introduced the first currency ceiling since the 1970s
to help protect the economy and fight deflation threats.  As the global financial crisis spurred investors to buy
francs, a haven in times of turmoil, the central bank tried to
initially stem its advance by selling the currency in the 15
months through June 2010. Hildebrand introduced the cap in
September after the franc reached a record against the euro,
trading near parity in the previous month.  ‘Record Low’  That move came three weeks after a currency purchase by
Kashya Hildebrand. A former hedge fund employee who owns a
Zurich art gallery, she has defended the purchases, saying she
bought dollars because the currency was “at a record low and
almost ridiculously cheap.” While Hildebrand informed the SNB
on the following day and later donated currency profits to a
charity, lawmakers including Christoph Blocher from the  Swiss
People’s Party  had called for his resignation.  Hildebrand said that his departure “saddens me greatly,”
calling the past three weeks “difficult.”  Hildebrand’s “departure was inevitable,” said  Neil MacKinnon , global macro strategist at VTB Capital in London.
“It’s unfortunate but his position was untenable. Markets will
be looking at the SNB to carry on as normal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  