-- Hildebrand Mail Shows Clash of Accounts Over Purchase With Sarasin Adviser
-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2012-01-10T09:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/hildebrand-e-mails-show-clash-of-accounts.html
Philipp Hildebrand discussed buying
dollars with his adviser at  Bank Sarasin (BSAN)  on the day his wife
made a currency trade that later led to his resignation as head
of the  Swiss National Bank ,  documents  show. An e-mail by 
Hildebrand disputes that account.  Hildebrand told Felix Scheuber, a relationship manager a
Sarasin, he was considering “increasing his USD exposure,”
though he would “leave it up to his wife Kashya to so decide,”
according to a document titled “Client Contact Report,” dated
Aug. 15, 2011.  Later that day, Scheuber met with Kashya Hildebrand at her
 Zurich art gallery , where she was “very keen” to buy dollars,
Scheuber’s report shows. Within hours, she sent an e-mail
instructing him to buy $504,000 for the couple’s joint account.  Last week, the 48-year-old former hedge fund manager vowed
to stay on as the country’s central bank head, saying he had e-
mails that proved Kashya Hildebrand acted independently. “My
word is my bond,” he said yesterday in his resignation speech
in Bern, telling journalists that his wife was solely
responsible for the dollar trade.  The transaction went through three weeks before the  Swiss
National Bank (SNBN)  limited the franc’s exchange rate in its biggest
policy intervention in three decades.  The e-mails, posted yesterday on the SNB’s website, offer
two conflicting stories and show why Hildebrand couldn’t provide
the definitive record he needed to keep his job.  ‘Never Discussed’  In an e-mail to his wife and the client adviser at 7:36
a.m. on Aug. 16, the day after the trade confirmation,
Hildebrand disputed Scheuber’s account, saying he was
“surprised” at the “reference to a dollar transaction in your
e-mail. We never discussed any dollar purchases yesterday.”  In a reply at 8 a.m., Scheuber went back to the previous
day’s discussion. “I also remember you saying in our
yesterday’s conversation that if Kashya wants to increase the
USD exposure then it is fine with you,” Scheuber wrote.  In the e-mail on Aug. 16, Hildebrand told Scheuber that he
wouldn’t authorize future transactions of that type. For
“compliance reasons, you are not authorized to execute any
currency transactions unless the order comes from me or I
confirm it,” he wrote. “I need to know and sign off on any
trades that Kashya might instruct you on,” he said, while also
informing the SNB’s legal department of the transaction.  “PS: Kashya: sorry about that but currencies really are a
special case here,” he wrote.  ‘Low Prices’  Benedikt Gratzl, a spokesman for Basel-based Sarasin, told
Bloomberg News that the documents are “accurate,” while
declining to comment further.  The Hildebrands’ account transactions opened a debate in
 Switzerland  about how central bankers’ finances should be
managed. That topic was already under discussion when Philipp
Hildebrand spoke with Scheuber on Aug. 15.  That day, they talked about how the SNB chief could
“benefit from the current low prices,” according to Scheuber’s
report. Hildebrand told his adviser to buy shares in  Novartis AG (NOVN) 
and Roche AG, Switzerland’s biggest pharmaceutical companies,
and  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) , a Swiss-based oil services
firm, for a total of 75,000 Swiss francs.  They then questioned whether Hildebrand should hand over
management of his portfolio to Sarasin. Hildebrand opted to
retain control.  “There is still no desire to implement a discretionary
managed portfolio,” Scheuber recorded.  Blind Trusts  At a Jan. 5 press conference, Hildebrand defended that
decision, saying a portfolio manager’s unsupervised trades could
still risk harming a central banker’s reputation. An option
would be to place bank governors’ interests in a blind trust,
where the owner has no knowledge about the investment decisions
and just sees the returns.  For Hildebrand, that argument became obsolete when he
resigned four days later. By then, Novartis stock had gained 24
percent since Aug. 15, while Roche had increased 27 percent.
Weatherford gained 6.1 percent.  “I’ve come to the conclusion that it is impossible for me
to provide final, definitive proof that my wife carried out the
transactions without my knowledge,” Hildebrand said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  