-- Millions Defy Terror Threat to Join Philippine Procession Through Manila
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-01-09T08:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/millions-defy-terror-threat-to-join-philippine-procession-through-manila.html
About three million people thronged
an annual Roman Catholic procession in the Philippine capital,
brushing aside a request from President  Benigno Aquino  to stay
at home amid warnings of a possible terrorist attack.  The feast of the Black Nazarene draws one of the biggest
crowds among festivities held in Manila and 161 devotees were
treated for injuries and high  blood pressure  as the crowd pushed
forward to touch the revered sculpture of  Jesus Christ  carrying
a cross, the Philippine Red Cross said on its website.  “The procession is moving slowly,” police spokesman
Agrimero Cruz said in a mobile-phone message today.  In a hastily arranged press conference yesterday, Aquino
said that police and soldiers would bid to secure Manila from
any threat of attack and urged the city’s people to help by not
attending the festival. The  capital  has a population of nearly
12 million people.  “The sad reality of the world today is that terrorists
want to disrupt the ability of people to live their lives in the
ways they want to, including the freedom to worship,” Aquino
said in the briefing. Smaller crowds “will undoubtedly lessen
the risk,” he said. Still, “It’s the state’s obligation to
protect them to the fullest extent.”  The Black Nazarene,  believed  to be more than 400 years old,
is paraded from the Quirino Grandstand, where Aquino was sworn
in, to the Quiapo Church in downtown  Manila . As the procession
nears its end, the roads through which the crowds pass become
narrower, Aquino said. A bomb attack is one of the scenarios the
government is guarding against, he said.  ‘Very Thorough’  Manila’s 15,000 police officers will all be on duty and
will be supported by soldiers, Aquino said yesterday, adding
that the security will be “visible, very obvious and very
thorough.” All backpacks and bags will be inspected, Interior
Secretary Jesse Robredo said at yesterday’s briefing.  Six to nine people were under surveillance as police probed
the terrorist threat, Robredo said. “There are indications they
came from Mindanao, from which group we can’t say yet,” he
said.  Mindanao in the southern  Philippines  is home to the
country’s main Muslim separatist organization, the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front, and splinter groups that include Abu Sayyaf.  The government asked mobile-phone companies to temporarily
disconnect services along the route as a security measure,
Aquino’s spokeswoman Abigail Valte said by e-mail today.  Sulu Alert  The U.S. issued an “emergency message” today, advising
its citizens in the Philippines to  avoid areas  where the
procession will pass. On Jan. 7, it warned its citizens of the
risk of terrorist activity in the Philippines, saying attacks
could occur even in Manila. Aquino said his warning was
unrelated to the first of the U.S. advisories.  Authorities raided “several” suspected terrorist safe
houses in Manila and nearby Rizal province with no arrests made,
Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin told reporters today.
Militants with ties to the  Abu Sayyaf  group or the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front may be plotting to attack, he said.  A 15-kilometer bridge in Patikul in the southern province
of Sulu was damaged by an explosion Jan. 7, three days after a
bombing incident in another nearby town, prompting the police to
place Sulu on alert, Police Director Felicisimo Khu said in a
statement yesterday. Sulu’s Provincial Director Tony Freyra said
the Abu Sayyaf may be behind the bombings, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  