-- Tim Tebow Follows John Elway’s Advice to ‘Pull the Trigger’ in Denver Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-09T17:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/tim-tebow-follows-elway-s-advice-to-pull-the-trigger-in-denver-win.html
Tim Tebow ’s advice from  John Elway 
before the National Football League playoffs was to “pull the
trigger.” He did just that with a career-high 316 passing yards
and the winning play in the  Denver Broncos ’ overtime victory
against the Pittsburgh Steelers.  Now Tebow gets another shot against the  New England
Patriots , who ended the second-year quarterback’s six-game
winning streak last month in Denver.  After the Broncos limped into the playoffs on a three-game
losing run, Tebow made his postseason debut one to remember. He
ran for one touchdown and threw two scoring passes yesterday,
including an 80-yarder to Demaryius Thomas on the first play of
overtime to give the Broncos a 29-23 win over the record six-
time  Super Bowl  champion Steelers in Denver.  “We just executed a little bit better,” Tebow, who jumped
into the stands and ran a lap round the field slapping hands
with fans after the winning score, told reporters. “We knew
that it was, ‘Win or go home.’ This team wanted to fight, and we
wanted to play another game.”  The game drew the best preliminary television rating for a
National Football League wild-card game in 24 years, CBS said
today in a statement. The contest was seen in an average of 25.9
percent of homes in the top 56 U.S. television markets, the CBS
Corp. network said, the best first-round rating since a game
between the Seattle Seahawks and Houston Oilers in 1988, which
also went to overtime and drew a 26.7.  Playoff Drought  It was Denver’s second playoff win since Elway retired in
1999 after guiding the Broncos to a second straight Super Bowl
title. Elway is now the team’s vice president of football
operations and has at times been critical of Tebow’s play since
he replaced  Kyle Orton  as the starter in Week 6. Tebow, 24, led
the Broncos to seven wins in eight games, then had eight
turnovers during a three-game skid to end the regular season.  Tebow’s 46.5 completion percentage was the lowest among NFL
starting quarterbacks this season, almost 25 percent worse than
league leader Drew Brees of the  New Orleans Saints . After a 7-3
loss to  Kansas City  in which Tebow completed 6-of-22 passes for
60 yards, Elway urged Tebow to be less tentative entering the
playoffs.  “That’s human nature, especially when you’re young, to
become more cautious,” Elway, a Hall of Famer who went 14-7 in
the playoffs, told the  Denver Post  last week. “The key thing
for him is to go out, put everything behind him, go through his
progressions and just pull the trigger.”  Steelers Defense  Facing a Steelers’ defense that allowed a league-low 227
points and 172 passing yards a game, Tebow connected on four
passes of 30 or more yards during the second quarter, helping
the Broncos open a 20-6 lead. Pittsburgh had been the only team
in the NFL that hadn’t allowed a 100-yard receiver this season
and Thomas topped that in a four-minute span, hauling in passes
of 51 and 58 yards from Tebow.  Tebow’s biggest play came to open the overtime, when he
caught the Steelers’ safeties blitzing with a pass over the
middle to Thomas, who stiff-armed a defender and broke free for
the winning score. The touchdown came 11 seconds into the extra
period, the quickest overtime touchdown in NFL history.  “He pulled that trigger and put it on the money,” Elway
said after the game.  Tebow became the third player to pass for more than 300
yards and two touchdowns in a NFL playoff game while rushing for
at least 50 yards and a touchdown, joining former San Francisco
49ers quarterbacks  Joe Montana  and Jeff Garcia.  ‘A Winner’  “The guy is a winner,” said Steelers running back Isaac Redman. “He played real well out there.”  Tebow led five fourth-quarter Denver comebacks earlier this
season, including an 18-15 overtime win in his first start
against Miami on Oct. 23. The Broncos had trailed 15-0 with less
than three minutes left in the fourth quarter.  The Broncos also won overtime games against San Diego and
 Chicago  during a six-game winning streak that moved them atop
the American Football Conference West division and into playoff
contention. The run ended against the AFC East-leading Patriots
on Dec. 18, when Tebow rushed for two touchdowns in the 41-23
loss and had one of Denver’s three turnovers in the final 8 1/2
minutes of the second quarter.  Denver is a 13 1/2-point underdog against the Patriots, who
were off during the first round after winning an AFC-best 13
games, including eight straight to end the regular season.  Tebow and the Broncos are the biggest playoff underdogs
since the 2007 season, when the then-undefeated Patriots were
favored by 14 1/2 points over the  San Diego  Chargers, according
to Pregame.com, a Las Vegas-based handicapping information
website. The Patriots won that game 21-12.  “They are a very good team,” said Tebow. “They’ve got
one of the best players in football in  Tom Brady  and one of the
best coaches in coach  Bill Belichick , so you know they’ll have a
great game plan, and you’ll know they’ll be well-rested.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  