-- Linde Buys European Unit of Air Products for $751 Million
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-09T14:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/linde-buys-european-gas-unit-of-air-products-for-751-million.html
Linde AG (LIN) , the world’s second-biggest
supplier of industrial gases, agreed to buy a European business
from  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD)  for 590 million euros ($751
million) to expand its health-care operations.  The home care business, which supplies domestic patients
with oxygen, generates 210 million euros in annual sales from
sites in Belgium, France, Germany, Portugal and Spain, the
Munich-based company said in a statement. Linde will almost
double sales from this product area, making the German company
among  Europe ’s top suppliers of home care respiratory products.  Linde plans to use the home care division as a springboard
to reach an additional 260,000 patients receiving care outside
of hospitals. The company is paying 2.81 times sales, based on
the enterprise value. That compares with a median of 2.72 times
sales for European industrial gas deals in the last 10 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m a bit surprised by the multiple,” said Thorsten Strauss, an analyst at NordLB in Hanover, with a “hold”
recommendation on Linde. “It’s hard to expand in industrial
gases, so this is clearly a strategic price.”  For Air Products, based in Lehigh Valley,  Pennsylvania , the
transaction highlights a strategic reassessment of home care
assets in the U.K., Ireland,  Argentina  and  Brazil . “Several
options” for these assets are being assessed, it said. The
company has been divesting units to focus on more profitable
products.  “Health care is one of our three strategic growth
pillars,” Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Reitzle said in the
statement. “It has proven to be a stable business and builds on
the mega-trend of changing demographics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  