-- Turkey Said to Tell India Help on Iran Oil Payments May End
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-01-10T10:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/india-said-to-be-told-turkey-may-stop-routing-its-payments-for-iranian-oil.html
Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  told  Indian
oil (IOCL)  refiners it may no longer be able to be an intermediary for
their purchases of  Iranian crude , four people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Executives from the crude-processing companies met with
Indian oil ministry officials yesterday to discuss alternatives,
including routing remittances through  Russia , the people said,
declining to be identified because the information is
confidential. Other options include stopping purchases from Iran
altogether and importing from other countries, they said. Indian
officials are scheduled to visit Tehran for trade talks starting
Jan. 16, two of the people said.  “This is a serious issue,”  Praveen Kumar , an oil and gas
analyst at Facts Global Energy in  Singapore , said in a telephone
interview. “India doesn’t seem to have a plan B at the moment.
The refiners will be worried about what they are going to do.”  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd . and  Hindustan
Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)  are among Indian buyers struggling to find
lenders willing to handle payments to Iran because of sanctions
against banks in the Gulf state.  Saudi Arabia  will increase
crude exports to some Indian refiners this year as they seek to
diversify supplies, four people with knowledge of the plans said
Nov. 15. Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh discussed
alternative financial conduits with Russian officials during his
visit to Moscow in December.  Strait of Hormuz  The European Union will discuss imposing harsher sanctions
on Iran, including a ban on crude imports, in response to the
country’s nuclear program when the bloc’s foreign ministers meet
on Jan. 30. Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said Dec.
27 that his nation would block fuel shipments through the Strait
of Hormuz, a transit point for a fifth of the world’s oil, if
penalties are imposed, according to a report by the  Islamic
Republic News Agency .  Crude rose as much as much as 1.5 percent to $102.87 today
in  New York , extending this month’s gain to almost 4 percent.  “The supply side shock potential is keeping the oil price
where it is,” said David Lennox, a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney who forecasts New York crude will average
$110 this year.  India, which got 11 percent of its crude imports from Iran
last year, is exploring the option of making payments for
Iranian crude through Russia’s  Gazprombank OJSC (GZPR) , though no deal
has been reached, three of the people said yesterday.  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s biggest natural gas producer, owns about 42
percent of Gazprombank, according to the lender’s website.  Avoiding Sanctions  Andrei Serov, a Moscow-based spokesman at Gazprombank,
wasn’t available for a comment at his office because of a
holiday in Russia.  “Russia has stayed away from sanctioning Iran, so this
route might just work for India,” Facts’ Kumar said.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL) , or BPCL as India’s second-largest
state refiner is known, planned to pay Iran for crude purchases
by using the accounts of other government-run processors at Halk
Bank, three people with knowledge of the situation said Dec. 21.
That plan has now been rejected by the Turkish lender after BPCL
made some payments, three of the people said yesterday.  Nobody answered a phone message left by Bloomberg News
yesterday at Halk Bank’s office in Ankara.  BPCL, which started buying about 20,000 barrels a day of
Iranian crude through a term contract in September, is
considering whether to stop taking supplies, they said. Other
Indian companies that buy Iranian crude include  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) 
and Indian Oil Corp.  Contract Renewals  Term contracts for other Indian buyers of Iranian crude run
from April to March, the people said. The refiners have yet to
renew their deals for the next financial year, they said.  Indian refiners’ debts to Iran for purchases rose to as
much as $5 billion in July, the Islamic Republic News Agency
cited Central Bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani as saying. The
outstanding payments threatened to jeopardize about $9.5 billion
in annual trade between the nations, with Iran telling customers
they wouldn’t receive August shipments unless the bills were
paid, according to the Fars news agency. The refiners started
clearing the outstanding payments in August after Halk Bank
agreed to make transfers.  U.S. President Barack Obama on Dec. 31 signed into law
measures that deny access to the U.S. financial system to any
foreign bank that conducts business with the central bank of
 Iran . The law includes language that allows the president to
waive the sanctions if he determines they would threaten
national security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  