-- India Says Work at Russia-Built Nuclear Plant Remains Stalled
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-01-09T10:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/india-says-work-at-russia-built-nuclear-plant-remains-stalled.html
Nuclear Power Corp. of India  said
work at its plant at Kudankulam in the southern state of  Tamil
Nadu , being built with Russia’s help, remains at a standstill
following continuing protests by villagers near the site.  “No work’s happening now,” S.A. Bhardwaj, director of
technical services, said in New Delhi today. “Once the
agitations are over, it’ll take us about two months to get
contract workers back at the site. We can start generating power
about four months after that.”  The first of two 1,000-megawatt reactors at Kudankulam,
which state-owned Rosatom Corp. is helping to build, will start
in a couple of weeks, Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said
in Moscow Dec. 16, after meeting Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev .  The plant near the southern tip of  India  is part of 60,000
megawatts of nuclear capacity planned by Singh to battle a
shortage of power in  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major
economy. Residents of nearby villages intensified their protest
in August, five months after an earthquake in  Japan  triggered
the world’s worst nuclear disaster in 25 years.  The protesters have asked the government to shut the plant,
demanding that more be done to ensure the safety, livelihood and
security of the people.  “We’re trying our best to explain to the people that this
plant is safe,” Bhardwaj said. “Various rounds of discussions
have taken place between the protesters and a team of experts.
They have genuine fears and it’s up to us to answer their
questions.”  The start of the first unit of the plant has been delayed
to May from December and the second is scheduled to begin in
February 2013, according to Nuclear Power Corp.’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  