-- ING Merges Equity Products Units to Cut Costs, Boost Sales
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-01-09T13:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/ing-merges-equity-products-units-to-cut-costs-boost-sales.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, merged its cash-equity business with
related products to increase sales, cut costs and improve risk
management.  The plan to combine cash equities, equity derivatives and
global-securities finance, which includes stock borrowing and
lending, into a global equity products unit this month was
announced to staff on Nov. 15, according to a statement posted
on the firm’s employee network and obtained by Bloomberg.
Carolien van der Giessen, a spokeswoman for the Amsterdam-based
bank and insurer, confirmed the contents.  “As well as revenue-enhancing benefits, significant cost
synergies will be created in conjunction with enhanced risk
management and more efficient capital utilization,” ING said.
Global Equity Products will employ about 300 people and will
hire product specialists to increase sales and research, Van der
Giessen said.  The new unit includes part of the equity capital markets
business, excluding mergers and acquisitions. The integration
will take about two to three years to be completed, Van der
Giessen said. The management team is led by John Wills, who
previously co-headed ING’s securities finance business, and
includes Mark Pieter de Boer and Dick Ravesteijn.  The business is part of ING’s financial-market arm, which
is within the firm’s commercial bank. The company’s commercial
bank reported 1.7 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in underlying
profit before tax in the first nine months of 2011, accounting
for more than 40 percent of the banking division’s earnings.  ING’s shares fell 24 percent last year and  rose (INGA)  1.5 percent
to 5.54 euros as of 1:45 p.m. in Amsterdam today, giving the
company a market value of 21 billion euros. The shares outpaced
the 0.1 percent increase by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Insurance
Index (SXIP) .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  