-- Ion Beam, SK Capital Agree to Set Up Molecular-Imaging Company
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-01-09T09:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/ion-beam-sk-capital-agree-to-set-up-molecular-imaging-company.html
Ion Beam Applications SA (IBAB)  and U.S.
private-investment firm SK Capital Partners agreed to set up a
molecular-imaging company and will share the development costs
of the current pipeline of new molecules.  Ion Beam also said it named Olivier Legrain as chief
operating officer as a prelude to taking over from Pierre Mottet
as chief executive on May 9. The company, based in Louvain-la-
Neuve,  Belgium , will hold a 40 percent stake in the IBA
Molecular Imaging venture; SK Capital will hold the rest.  Ion Beam shares climbed as much as 29 percent after the
announcements and traded at 6.15 euros, or 28 percent higher, as
of 9:53 a.m. in Brussels. The stock fell 42 percent in 2011.  The enterprise value used for the transaction is about 180
million euros ($229 million) on a debt- and excess cash-free
basis and will result in a “significant” exceptional loss in
2011, Ion Beam said today in an e-mailed statement. The company
expects the deal to generate cash inflow of more than 100
million euros for Ion Beam after the debt adjustment. The
development of new proprietary molecules will generate their
full value over time, the company said.  “The SK Capital involvement will reinforce IBA’s
molecular-imaging capabilities by enhancing its manufacturing
capabilities, generating new products and expanding its
geographic coverage,” Ion Beam said. “The new tracers will
help to identify kidney cancer and Alzheimer’s disease earlier
than ever previously imagined.”  Mottet, 50, will step down as CEO after the shareholder
meeting in May and will be appointed as vice chairman of the
board as part of the plan to take over from Jean Stephenne as
chairman in May 2013, Ion Beam said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  