-- Iran’s Uranium Enrichment at Fortified Site Draws U.S. Criticism
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-01-09T18:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/iran-s-uranium-enrichment-at-fortified-site-draws-u-s-criticism.html
Iran has begun enriching uranium at a
heavily fortified underground site, the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  said in an announcement that drew immediate U.S.
condemnation.  “The IAEA can confirm that Iran has started the production
of uranium enriched up to 20 percent in U-235 using IR-1
centrifuges in the Fordow Fuel Enrichment Plant,” IAEA
spokesman Gill Tudor said in an e-mail today. “All nuclear
material in the facility remains under the agency’s containment
and surveillance.”  IAEA inspectors conduct safeguard inspections of the
facility in Fordow, near the holy city of Qom. U.S. State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said the enrichment
represented an “escalation” of Iranian violations of United
Nations agreements on their nuclear program.  “This is a further escalation of their ongoing violations
with regard to their nuclear obligations,” Nuland said today.
“We call on  Iran  once again to suspend enrichment activities.”  Nuland said Iran was taking the “next step” and couldn’t
have civilian uses in mind.  “When you enrich to 20 percent there’s no possible use if
you’re talking about a peaceful purpose,” Nuland said. “You’re
enriching to a level that takes you to a different kind of
nuclear program.”  She said the U.S. was open to talks with Iran if it would
“come clean” about its nuclear program.  Escalating Tensions  Tensions between Iran and the West have escalated as the
U.S. moves to sanction Iran’s central bank and the European
Union considers an embargo on  Iranian oil (OPCRIRAN) .  Iran threatened last month to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit point for one fifth of oil traded worldwide, if
sanctions are imposed on its crude exports.  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said moves on
additional sanctions “must be timed and phased” to avoid
damage to oil markets.  Today, an Iranian court sentenced to death a former U.S.
soldier of Iranian descent for alleged spying. The U.S. has
rejected those accusations and called for his release. “We
consider these charges a complete fabrication,” Nuland said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Krause-Jackson at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  