-- Iran Sentences American to Death for Spying
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-01-09T12:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/iran-sentences-american-to-death-for-spying-amid-hormuz-tensions.html
Iran’s revolutionary court sentenced
a former U.S. soldier of Iranian descent to death for spying
amid rising tensions over concern the  Persian Gulf  nation may try
to close the Strait of Hormuz if Western sanctions are imposed.  The court found Amir Mirzaei Hekmati guilty of
collaborating “with a hostile country and spying for the
Central Intelligence Agency,” Iran’s state-controlled Fars news
agency said, citing its reporter.  Hekmati, who was born in  Arizona  in 1983, said he joined
the U.S. military in 2001 after completing high school,
according to an earlier report by Fars. Iranian state television
broadcast video images of him last month.  The sentencing comes as the European Union discusses
imposing a ban on Iranian oil imports due to the country’s
nuclear program when the bloc’s foreign ministers meet on Jan.
30. Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said Dec. 27
that his nation would block oil shipments through the  Strait of
Hormuz , a transit point for a fifth of the world’s crude, if
sanctions are imposed, the   Islamic Republic News Agency  said.  Crude oil for February delivery rose as much as 59 cents to
$102.15 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $101.66 at 9:41 a.m. London time.
The contract fell 0.3 percent on Jan. 6 to $101.56, the lowest
close since Dec. 30, and has risen 2.9 percent this year.  The U.K.’s Royal Navy said today it’s deploying one of its
most modern destroyers, HMS Daring, to the Persian Gulf in a
“long planned” and “routine” replacement of another ship.  Blocking Strait  The move is not in reaction to developments in relation to
 Iran , a navy spokesman, who declined to be identified in line
with government policy, said in a telephone interview today,
confirming a report in the Daily Telegraph newspaper.  Iran has the ability to block the Strait of Hormuz “for a
period of time,” and the U.S. would take action to reopen it,
U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman General Martin Dempsey said
in an interview aired yesterday on the CBS “Face the Nation”
program.  An Iranian blockade could disrupt world trade in goods as
companies divert ships from the Persian Gulf to safer regions.
Such a move could force companies including Ford Motor Co.,  BASF
SE (BAS)  and Caterpillar Inc. to seek safer routes for transporting
items including car parts and chemicals, John Manners-Bell,
chief executive officer of Transport Intelligence Ltd., a
Wiltshire, England-based logistics consultant, said Jan. 5.  ‘Any Reason’  “If for any reason the strait were closed it would have a
huge impact on the economy in the  Middle East  and would cause a
systematic restructuring of flows of goods around the world,”
Manners-Bell, who used to manage European marketing at  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , said by phone.  A pipeline that would allow crude oil from the  United Arab
Emirates  to bypass the Strait of Hormuz separating it from Iran
has been delayed because of construction difficulties, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  As many as 270 construction issues have pushed back the
completion date, said the two people, declining to be identified
because they’re not allowed to speak publicly on the matter. The
$3.3 billion project won’t be ready until at least April, one of
them said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  