-- Iran Sentences American to Death Amid Tensions Over Hormuz
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-01-09T16:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/iran-sentences-american-to-death-for-spying.html
An Iranian court sentenced a former
U.S. soldier of Iranian descent to death for spying amid rising
tensions over concern the  Persian Gulf  nation may try to close
the  Strait of Hormuz  if Western sanctions are imposed.  The revolutionary court found Amir Mirzaei Hekmati guilty
of collaborating “with a hostile country and spying for the
Central Intelligence Agency,”  Iran ’s state-controlled Fars news
agency said today.  The sentencing comes as the European Union discusses
imposing a ban on Iranian oil imports due to the country’s
nuclear program when the bloc’s foreign ministers meet on Jan.
30. The chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, General
Martin Dempsey, said America would take action to open the
Strait of Hormuz, a transit point for a fifth of the world’s
crude, if Iran closes the sea passage.  “This case is going to ratchet up the pressure” on
President  Barack Obama , said Meir Javedanfar, a lecturer on
Iranian politics at the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya,
 Israel . “It’s going to embolden those who want the U.S. to take
a tougher stance on Iran. It could very well turn into a
campaign issue.”  Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that his nation would block oil shipments through the Strait of
Hormuz if sanctions are imposed, the  Islamic Republic News
Agency  said.  Oil Slides  Hekmati, who was born in  Arizona  in 1983, joined the U.S.
military in 2001 after completing high school, the  Associated
Press  said, citing his family. Iranian state television
broadcast video images of him in custody last month.  Behnaz Hekmati, his mother, said she and her husband Ali
are “shocked and terrified” over the death sentence, writing
to the AP in an e-mail. Ali Hekmati earlier told the AP his son
was visiting his grandmothers in Iran when he was arrested.  Hekmati, represented by a court-appointed lawyer, has 20
days to appeal, according to the AP.  Crude oil for February delivery fell 6 cents to $101.50 a
barrel at 9:29 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
are up 15 percent from a year earlier.  The U.K.’s Royal Navy said today it’s deploying one of its
most modern destroyers, HMS Daring, to the Persian Gulf in a
“long planned” and “routine” replacement of another ship.  The move isn’t in reaction to developments involving Iran,
a navy spokesman, who declined to be identified in line with
government policy, said by telephone.  Pressure Rises  Iran has the ability to block the Strait of Hormuz “for a
period of time” and the U.S. would take action to reopen it,
Dempsey, the top American military commander, said in an
interview aired yesterday on the CBS “Face the Nation”
program.  In Copenhagen, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  told
reporters that European sanctions, including discussions about a
potential oil embargo, are “putting pressure” on Iran “to
negotiate their nuclear program.”  An Iranian blockade could disrupt world trade in goods as
companies divert ships from the Persian Gulf to safer regions.
Such a move may force companies including Ford Motor Co.,  BASF
SE (BAS)  and Caterpillar Inc. to seek safer routes for transporting
items including car parts and chemicals, John Manners-Bell,
chief executive officer of Transport Intelligence Ltd., a
Wiltshire, England-based logistics consultant, said on Jan. 5.  ‘Huge Impact’  “If for any reason the strait were closed, it would have a
huge impact on the economy in the  Middle East  and would cause a
systematic restructuring of flows of goods around the world,”
said Manners-Bell, who used to manage European marketing at
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   A pipeline that would allow crude oil from the  United Arab
Emirates  to bypass the Strait of Hormuz separating it from Iran
has been delayed because of construction difficulties, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  As many as 270 construction issues have pushed back the
completion date, said the people, declining to be identified
because they’re not allowed to speak publicly on the matter. The
$3.3 billion project won’t be ready until at least April, one of
them said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  