-- IRS Gives Another Chance for Citizens to Come Clean
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/irs-reopens-voluntary-disclosure-program-for-offshore-assets.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
giving U.S. citizens who have shielded assets offshore a third
opportunity to come clean, pay a penalty and avoid criminal
prosecution.  After collecting $4.4 billion in two so-called voluntary
disclosure programs for offshore accounts, the IRS announced
plans yesterday to revive the program. Participants will pay as
much as 27.5 percent of their most valuable offshore assets or
their biggest overseas bank account. They also must disclose the
banks and advisers that helped them escape U.S.  tax  laws.  The program’s revival is part of the U.S. government’s
efforts to track down and prevent  tax evasion  around the world.
Since 2009, the U.S. has prosecuted clients of  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Switzerland ’s Weglin & Co. said on Jan. 4 that
three of its bankers have been charged with conspiring to help
U.S. clients hide more than $1.2 billion from the IRS.  “We’re gaining momentum in our international efforts and
the word is spreading across the globe,” IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman told reporters on a conference call yesterday.  He wouldn’t comment on legal cases the U.S. is pursuing.  Shulman said 33,000 disclosures were made in the two
previous versions of the voluntary program. An effort that began
in 2009 resulted in $3.4 billion in collections. The second
program in 2011 yielded about $1 billion for the IRS, and
Shulman said he expects that amount to rise.  ‘Enormous’ Problem  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who heads the
 Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations, said the statistics
demonstrate “how enormous the offshore tax evasion problem
is.”  “Taxpayers are turning themselves in because federal
prosecutors have finally begun to go after the individual tax-
haven banks, bankers and other financial professionals helping
them chat on their taxes,” Levin said in a press release.  Taxpayers with undeclared assets might be more willing to
work with the IRS amid fewer options to protect themselves
offshore, said Kevin Packman, the chairman of the offshore tax
compliance team at  Holland & Knight LLP  in Miami.  Meanwhile, some banks aren’t taking U.S. clients because
they don’t want to comply with a rule being developed that would
require overseas financial institutions to report the identities
of such customers to the IRS.  “You have a whole host of banks throughout  Europe  who are
kicking out taxpayers,” Packman said in a telephone interview.
“You have nowhere to hide. Even people in compliance outside
the U.S. are having trouble keeping their accounts open.”  Complex Rule  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  of Canada,  Allianz SE (ALV)  of  Germany  and
 Aegon NV (AGN)  of the Netherlands have criticized the reporting rule
as too complex.  The IRS doesn’t have an estimate of assets U.S. citizens
hold offshore, Shulman said. Still, the $4.4 billion in
penalties amassed under the programs so far is unlikely to plug
the gap between the amount of taxes owed by U.S. citizens and
the amount the IRS collects. The agency  said  Jan. 6 that U.S.
companies and individuals didn’t pay $385 billion in taxes owed
in 2006, an increase from $290 billion five years earlier.  Unlike in the previous programs, the IRS this time isn’t
specifying a deadline for disclosing assets. It said the program
will remain open “for an indefinite period.”  The agency raised the penalty to 27.5 percent from 25
percent in 2011 and 20 percent in 2009. Taxpayers disclosing
smaller accounts could pay reduced penalties of either 5 percent
or 12.5 percent.  In an attempt to encourage taxpayers to come forward soon,
Shulman said the penalties might be increased further or the
program ended at any point.  “It makes a lot more sense for them to come in now and get
the protection of not being prosecuted criminally,” Shulman
said. “If we catch them involuntarily, it’s going to be much
worse for the taxpayer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  