-- ITALY DAYBOOK: UniCredit Begins Share Sale, Rights Offering
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-01-09T07:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/italy-daybook-unicredit-begins-rights-offering-detroit-motor-show.html
Shareholders of  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  will be
able to buy stock from today through Jan. 27, and the rights
will be tradable until Jan. 20. Shares in Italy’s biggest lender
dropped 37 percent in the past three trading sessions after it
priced a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.5 billion) rights offer at a
discount. UniCredit will sell shares at 1.943 euros each, the
Milan-based lender said Jan. 4.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said in an interview with France
24 television that the Italian banking system is “among the
most robust.”  MARKETS:
*Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  fell 0.8 percent to 14,645.64.
*The Italian 10-year bond yield spread between 10-year Italian
bonds and German bunds rose to 527.5 basis points.  EQUITIES:
* Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI)   may appoint Piero
Montani as CEO,  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported. The supervisory board
of the cooperative bank is scheduled to meet Jan. 10 to discuss
the appointment.
* Eni SpA (ENI)  (ENI): The National Iranian Oil Co. denied that it owes
any money to Eni for crude shipments, the official  Islamic
Republic News Agency  reported, citing the company‘s head of
international affairs. The Rome-based company continues its
crude oil shipments from Iran as scheduled, Mohsen Qamsari said.  GOVERNMENT:
* Europe  should act on making its bailout fund operational
“quickly” and adopt bonds to fund infrastructure investment in
the region, Monti told Il Sole 24 Ore.
*Italy will push ahead with market liberalizations and measures
to boost economic growth, Economic Development Minister  Corrado
Passera  told Corriere della Sera. Passera ruled out new taxes
and said Italy has to cut expenses of the public administration
and fight tax evasion instead.  WHAT TO WATCH:
*Chrysler Group LLC is set to unveil the Dodge Dart sedan, the
first Chrysler model based on a  Fiat SpA (F)   platform, at the
North American International Auto Show in Detroit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  