-- J&J Opposes Texas in $1 Billion Trial Over Risperdal Marketing Practices
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-01-09T19:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/j-j-to-oppose-texas-in-1-billion-trial-over-risperdal-marketing-practices.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , which has lost
judgments of almost $660 million over the marketing of its
antipsychotic drug Risperdal, began a trial today in which  Texas 
is seeking damages of more than $1 billion.  State Attorney General Greg Abbott accused J&J of paying
officials to get Risperdal on approved drug lists, marketing it
for unapproved uses to children and the elderly, and lying about
its effects. The case in state court in Austin was filed by a
whistle-blower and joined by the state, which is seeking
repayment of Medicaid payments.  Texas is asking for reimbursement of $579 million, said Tom Melsheimer, a lawyer for the whistle-blower. The amount could be
tripled by jurors under state law. In addition, jurors will
decide the number of violations and set a penalty of up to
$10,000 apiece, if the state wins.  “It’s going to be massive,” said  Patrick Burns  of the
advocacy group  Taxpayers Against Fraud . “They’ll lose in Texas,
and then they’re going to face litigation from stockholders for
failing to settle this.”  The result may be a record false-claims verdict, Burns said
by phone from  Washington .  A jury weighing only the claim that the company downplayed
the drug’s risks awarded Louisiana $257.7 million in 2010. A
judge in South Carolina last year ordered J&J to pay
$327 million over Risperdal sold in the state.  J&J and its Janssen unit, which sold Risperdal, deny any
wrongdoing.  Ethics Commitment  “We are committed to ethical business practices, and have
policies in place to ensure that our products are only promoted
for their FDA-approved indication,” Teresa Mueller, a J&J
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The  company (JNJ)  will fight the
allegations, she said.  When questions are raised about adherence to the company’s
marketing and promotion policies, “we act quickly to
investigate the situation and take appropriate disciplinary
action,” she said.  The Texas case goes to trial two weeks after J&J agreed to
a $1 billion civil settlement with the U.S. government and some
states over Risperdal sales practices, people familiar with the
matter said. Texas won’t participate in the federal settlement,
one of the people said. Mueller declined to comment on “rumor
or speculation” about a settlement.  The company reached a tentative agreement with federal
prosecutors to plead guilty to a misdemeanor criminal charge
related to Risperdal marketing, J&J, based in New Brunswick,  New
Jersey , said in an August regulatory filing.  $400 Million More  The company is discussing a payment of about $400 million
more to resolve that part of the investigation, according to one
of the people familiar with the civil-suit accord.  J&J, the world’s largest health products company, and its
Janssen unit have also been sued over marketing practices by
 Alaska ,  Arkansas , Louisiana,  Montana ,  New Mexico ,  Pennsylvania 
and  Utah . The Arkansas case is set for trial in March.  A suit filed by  West Virginia  was dropped after an appeals
court set aside a nonjury trial judgment against the company.
J&J won dismissal of the Pennsylvania case.  That decision and the jury’s verdict against the company in
 Louisiana , since enhanced to $330 million, are on appeal.  The company also has about 500 claims pending alleging
injuries caused by Risperdal, it said in regulatory filings in
November.  Risperdal Revenue  Risperdal, once J&J’s best-selling drug, generated
worldwide sales of $24.2 billion from 2003 to 2010, peaking at
$4.5 billion in 2007. After that, J&J lost patent protection and
sales declined.  Risperdal profit was 97 percent of its sales, or
$28.9 billion, from 1994 to 2010, Judge Roger L. Couch of South
Carolina Circuit Court in Spartanburg said in his June 3
decision on damages, citing trial testimony.  Risperdal is in a class of drugs, known as atypical, or
second-generation,  antipsychotics . They include  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) ’s Zyprexa and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Seroquel. The drugs have
been linked to weight gain and a risk of diabetes.  Lilly, AstraZeneca and two other J&J competitors making
these drugs have paid a total of $2.66 billion to resolve
government marketing claims, including allegations that the
companies pushed the drugs for unapproved uses.  Indianapolis-based Lilly paid more than $1.7 billion to
resolve state and federal investigations over Zyprexa.
AstraZeneca, based in  London , paid almost $590 million. Pfizer
paid $301 million for its drug Geodon.  Texas Whistle-Blower  The Texas suit was filed by a whistle-blower, Allen Jones,
an ex-investigator for the Pennsylvania Office of Inspector
General.  Jones probed allegations that the chief pharmacist for the
state’s mental health office had received payments from
pharmaceutical companies. He sued Texas in 2004, his last year
in the Pennsylvania job.  Jones determined in his probe that Janssen had “engaged in
a fraudulent scheme that included payments to at least one Texas
state official” to ensure that Risperdal was included as a
preferred drug in the state’s Texas Medication Algorithm
Project, known as TMAP, he said in court papers.  “Janssen had made payments to Texas and other state
officials to facilitate the exportation of TMAP to other states,
including Pennsylvania,” Jones said. He sued under a Medicaid-
fraud law similar to the federal False Claims Act. It allows a
whistle-blower to share in any settlement money or damages.  Health Officials  Texas claims that Janssen and J&J paid four state health
officials $340,000 to promote Risperdal, inducing them to breach
their duties to the state.  “J&J sent the four leaders of TMAP around the country to
promote TMAP, and, in the process, Risperdal,” David Rothman, a
state expert, said in a pretrial report.  “They each had to sign consulting agreements with the
defendants in which they pledged their fealty to the defendants,
to the exclusion of all others, including their employer, the
state of Texas,” Tommy Jacks, a lawyer for the state, said at a
hearing in February.  One official, the medical director of the Department of
Mental Health and Mental Retardation, at one point “was
spending more than half of his time with a state employee
traveling around the country” at J&J’s expense “to promote the
TMAP algorithm which favored their product in other states,”
Jacks said at the hearing.  No Influence  The officials weren’t influenced by any payments, John Schwartz, a defense lawyer, said at the hearing. About
90 percent of the money paid went to the state, not the
individuals, and their actions were approved by their superiors,
Schwartz said.  “There’s no evidence from anybody that any Texas Medicaid
decision-maker did anything differently as a result of anything
we said or did,” John McDonald, another J&J lawyer, said at the
hearing.  Texas hasn’t removed Risperdal from its list of approved
drugs for Medicaid patients or restricted its use, McDonald
said.  Jacks said Texas was counting only the money kept by the
individuals, and didn’t include any that was turned over to the
state.  The Texas attorney general joined Jones’s suit in 2006. The
state government’s decision to intervene limits J&J’s chances of
winning at trial, said Burns, of Taxpayers Against Fraud.  “If the government intervenes, these suits almost never go
to trial, and if they go to trial, the government always wins,”
Burns said.  Texas Jury  The defendants will face a jury of Texas taxpayers hearing
allegations that J&J’s actions cost them money.  “If I’m the rustler, I don’t want the cow sitting in
judgment,” Burns said.  The state also claims the company marketed Risperdal for
so-called off-label uses, treatment of medical conditions for
which it hadn’t received regulatory approval after clinical
trials. It was sold for use by children and the elderly, the
state says.  The Texas claims against J&J over off-label  marketing (JNJ) 
mirrors those against other makers of antipsychotics, powerful
medications which are sometimes prescribed for less-serious
conditions than psychosis, such as depression.  Texas alleged that Janssen began promoting prescriptions
for children as soon as the drug was being sold without any
approvals by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for such use.  Children Only  “They had their sales people out calling upon doctors as
early as 1994 who saw no adult patients, who saw only
children,” Jacks said at the February hearing. “They trained
their people to sell aggressively to promote Risperdal to
children and adolescents.”  One psychiatrist in north Texas who treated only children
was called by Janssen sales people 96 times, Jacks said.  There was no FDA-approved indication for any use in the
child and adolescent population from December 1993 to October
2006, Texas said in its complaint.  “In October 2006, Risperdal received a very narrow
indication for use in a limited population of children and
adolescents (age 5-17) for irritability associated with a
diagnosis of autism,” the state said.  The state also will pursue its claim that the company
downplayed the risks of Risperdal, despite FDA admonishments.  Texas alleged that J&J and Janssen improperly touted
Risperdal as safer than competing antipsychotics in November
2003 correspondence to doctors after the FDA told the companies
to enhance warnings about the drugs. This allegation was at the
heart of the Louisiana and  South Carolina  cases.  Jury selection in Austin started today. The trial is
scheduled to last about three weeks.  The case is State of Texas ex rel. Jones v. Janssen LP, D-
1GV-04-001288, District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 