-- Paulson May Take Cue From Hedge Fund Rival
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/john-paulson-after-worst-year-may-take-cue-from-griffin-on-climbing-back.html
John Paulson , the billionaire money
manager who’s vowed to restore his hedge fund to profitability
after the worst year of his career, may have to take a cue from
rival  Ken Griffin .  Paulson’s $28 billion firm, Paulson & Co., will need to
generate a 104 percent return to recoup a 51 percent drop in one
of his largest funds after wagers on a U.S. recovery went awry.
Until he hits that mark, Paulson will have to forgo his 20
percent performance fee, and will collect only his 1.5 percent
management fee. It has taken Griffin, the billionaire founder of
Citadel LLC, three years to recover most of the 55 percent he
lost for investors in 2008.  “With Paulson’s assets, size and longer-term investing
style, it’s going to be difficult for him to make money back,”
said Vidak Radonjic, managing partner at Beryl Consulting Group
LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , which advises clients on
investing in hedge funds. “He has large, concentrated stock
positions and the market isn’t really rewarding those with
holdings like that.”  Hedge funds are on track for their second-worst year in
more than two decades. They’ve dropped 7.6 percent from their
peak asset value in April, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc.
At the end of the third quarter, about 30 percent of the 2,000
funds that make up the firm’s benchmark  index (HFRIFWI)  were below their
so-called high watermark, or previous peak value. Like Paulson,
most of those managers won’t be able to charge performance fees
until they recoup losses.  Almost Recovered  Griffin, 43, needed to generate a return of about 122
percent to make some investors whole after his largest funds
lost $9 billion on credit-market wagers in 2008. Those funds
were about 2.5 percent short of a full recovery as of Dec. 31,
after returning about 20 percent in 2011, 11 percent in 2010 and
62 percent the previous year as markets rallied, according to a
person with knowledge of the returns who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  About 15 percent of clients’ capital has yet to reach the
high watermark, the person said. Citadel, with $11.5 billion in
assets, is among a handful of hedge funds that pass on all
expenses to clients, rather than charging the industry-standard
2 percent annual management fee.  Paulson, 56, who made billions betting against the U.S.
housing market in 2007, incurred losses last year on investments
including Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. He told
clients in November that he had reduced so-called net exposure
in his main funds as well as wagers on rising securities across
all his funds.  ‘Aberrational Year’  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson in  New York , and
Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Citadel,
declined to comment on the returns.  Paulson returned 164 percent in his Advantage Plus fund in
2007, thanks to a wager that subprime mortgages would tumble.
While investors who were in the fund that year have made money
even with last year’s loss, those who came in later aren’t as
lucky. Clients who invested at the beginning of 2008 are down
about 3.5 percent since then.  “Clearly this has been an aberrational year for us,”
Paulson wrote in a letter to investors dated Jan. 5. “Going
forward we remain committed to restoring all of our funds to
profitability.”  Paulson saw fourth-quarter redemptions of about $2 billion
across all his portfolios. He and his employees account for
about half of the firm’s capital, two people familiar with the
matter said in October.  In his Jan. 5 letter, Paulson said that he would continue
to keep all of his money in the fund other than what he needs to
take out to pay taxes and personal expenditures.  Industry Losses  Hedge funds lost 4.6 percent last year through November,
according to Hedge Fund Research. The industry’s largest
drawdown started in October 2007, when managers were down 21.4
percent from the industry’s peak asset value over the following
16 months, according to the research firm’s data. Funds took
three years to return to their high watermark, the Chicago-based
firm said.  Some managers had to shut their hedge funds after incurring
steep losses. Nick Maounis, who ran Amaranth Advisors LLC,
closed his firm after losing more than $6 billion, or 65
percent, in 2006. Jeffrey Gendell, who runs Tontine Associates
LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut , shuttered his funds after losing
almost 92 percent in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  