-- Kansas Will Get Bombardier Jobs in Wichita
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/kansas-will-get-bombardier-jobs-in-wichita-through-incentives.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  will hire another 400
workers in Wichita, Kansas, in exchange for state and local
incentives, a Sedgwick County official said, offsetting some of
the losses from  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s planned shutdown in the city.  Kansas officials plan to announce $16 million of incentives
for Bombardier at a news briefing tomorrow, Dave Unruh, chairman
of the county’s Board of Commissioners, said in an interview.
The news follows Boeing’s decision to bolt from Wichita, where
its 80-year-old operation employs 2,160, by the end of 2013.  “It’s very positive news for Wichita,” said Unruh. “It
shows the attractiveness of our region.” Wichita is the seat of
Sedgwick County.  Bombardier fired 820 workers from its Learjet division in
Wichita in 2009, or about a quarter of the workforce, as sales
of corporate aircraft slumped during the recession. The
Montreal-based maker of rail cars and aircraft plans to add
1,050 jobs in the city over about a decade under a 2010
agreement to build a new business jet there, said Patrick
Botter, a spokesman.  The Learjet unit has filled 400 of those jobs, bringing
employment to 2,822 in the city, which bills itself as the “Air
Capital of the World.”  Dan Lara, a spokesman for the Kansas Commerce Department,
declined to comment.  Wichita may lose another 800 aerospace jobs if Hawker
Beechcraft Corp. fails to overturn a U.S. Air Force contract
award to  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  and Sierra Nevada Corp. The $355 million
order for a light attack aircraft would support 1,400 jobs,
according U.S. Senator  Pat Roberts , a Kansas Republican.  About 800 of those jobs are in Wichita, according to Bill Boisture, chief executive officer of Hawker Beechcraft, based in
the city. The company sued to block last month’s award to Sierra
Nevada and Embraer, a Brazilian aircraft maker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in  Charlotte  at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  