-- Kenya Plans Eight New Exploration Blocks, Total Secures One
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-01-09T09:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/kenya-plans-eight-new-exploration-blocks-total-secures-one.html
Kenya plans to demarcate eight new
deep offshore oil exploration blocks by next month, and signed
an interim production sharing agreement with  Total SA (FP)  to operate
at least one of the areas, an energy ministry official said.  Gas finds off Tanzania and Mozambique have generated enough
investor interest to justify nearby Kenya carving out additional
territory for exploration, Martin Heya, the Energy Ministry’s
petroleum commissioner, said in an interview today in Nairobi.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-run oil company, and
Houston-based  Apache Corp. (APA)  are also discussing the possibility
of investing in some of the new exploration acreage, Heya said.  “Once companies showed interest, with recent discoveries
in the region, we had good reason to create new blocks,” he
said. “We want those companies with a lot of muscle because
these are very deep waters and that takes financial and
technical abilities.”  Plans to delineate the blocs L21 through L28 off the coast
of  Kenya , with water depths between 3,000 meters (1.9 miles) to
4,000 meters, are being completed and the details will appear in
a notice in the government gazette by February, Heya said.  Frequent power outages in East  Africa ’s largest economy are
viewed as a major obstacle to faster economic growth. The
country, which has no proven reserves, is trying to expand
energy sources including natural gas and renewable power to meet
an estimated 13.5 percent annual increase in electricity demand.  Tullow, Cnooc  Exploration companies are increasingly investing in Kenya
as neighboring Uganda, with an estimated 2.5 billion barrels of
oil reserves, gears up to become an oil producer, in a venture
between  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , Total and China National Offshore Oil
Corp. Production is expected to begin once the government
approves partnership and field development plans.  In Kenya, Tullow, the London-based explorer with the most
licenses in Africa, plans to drill a test well this month,
immediately followed by a second one in the country’s northwest,
Heya said. In addition to the preliminary agreement for block
L22, France’s Total also has a 40 percent stake in five of
Kenya’s Lamu Basin zones operated by Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in  London  at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 