-- Naira Interbank Market Halts on Nigeria Strikes
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-09T10:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/naira-interbank-market-halts-as-nigeria-strikes-curb-bank-trades.html
Nigeria ’s naira trading ground to a
halt on the  interbank market  as unions started a nationwide
strike to protest an increase in gasoline costs, which are more
than doubling, according to the  Central Bank of Nigeria .  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer was less than
0.1 percent weaker at 162.05 per dollar as of 11:04 a.m. in
Lagos, the commercial capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “No bank has appeared and so there is no activity going on
right now,” Mohammed Abdullahi, a spokesman for the Abuja-based
central bank, said by text message today. “The interbank market
is not officially closed.”  The Nigerian Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress,
representing more than 8 million workers, called an indefinite
strike to force President  Goodluck Jonathan  to reverse a
decision to scrap fuel subsidies. Banks, businesses, schools and
most offices were shuttered and streets deserted today in Lagos
and Abuja, the capital. Protest marches are also planned in
major cities across the country, union officials said.  The naira interbank market is unofficially shut today as a
“precautionary measure” owing to the general strike,  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions today.  The central bank is planning to go ahead with a foreign-
currency auction today, said Abdullahi. “There’s no indication
of any change” to the schedule of the twice-weekly currency
 auctions (NGAUMARG) , he said, while declining to disclose how much the
central bank would offer lenders.  Limited Services  Nigerian lenders, including Diamond Bank Plc and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , will run limited branch services from today,
according to officials at the companies.  “There has been significant civil protest against the
Federal Government’s decision so today’s strike is likely to
cause meaningful disruption to economic activity,”  Leon Myburgh 
and Coura Fall, Johannesburg-based Africa strategists at
Citigroup Inc., wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today. The
strike is “weighing” on the naira, they said.  Ghana’s cedi was unchanged at 1.6585 per dollar as of 10:40
a.m. in Accra, the nation’s capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  