-- Netflix Rises Most in Year to Bring 2012 Gain to Over 40%
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2012-01-09T23:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/netflix-rises-most-in-year-after-u-k-debut.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the film-streaming and
mail-order DVD service, rose the most in almost 12 months,
bringing its gain for the new year to more than 40 percent.  Whitney Tilson , managing director of T2 Partners LLC, told
CNBC Netflix was rising on buyout rumors and prospects for
subscriber growth in its U.S. streaming business and
internationally, including the U.K. service that started today.
Tilson bought Netflix at around $77 after unwinding a bet the
stock would decline last year.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, rose 14 percent to
$98.18 at 4 p.m. in New York, its highest close since Oct. 24.
The gain marked the largest one-day jump since Jan. 27, 2011,
and made Netflix the biggest gainer today among  S&P 500 index (SPX) 
members. The stock lost 61 percent in last year.  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings , in the U.K. for the
debut of the company’s service there, said in an interview with
PaidContent.org that the company was mostly over the transition
from splitting its streaming and mail-order businesses into
separate services. Streaming subscribers now constitute a
majority of the customer base, he said.  Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman, declined to comment on
the buyout speculation.  The company is sticking to its forecast that subscriber
growth turned up in December after falling for two months,
PaidContent.org reported.  Netflix’s U.S. streaming business is likely to grow along
with the total industry rate of 30 percent to 40 percent, Tilson
said. The international business will probably grow faster, he
said.  Visitors to the company’s U.S. website increase 52 percent
in December from a year earlier,  Mark Mahaney , a Citigroup Inc.
analyst, said today in a note to investors, citing ComScore.  The increase implies a “very positive trend” given the
negative publicity surrounding the company’s aborted plan to
rename its DVD service Qwikster and a drop in subscribers, said
Mahaney, who has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  