-- Netflix Takes On Amazon’s Lovefilm With Online Broadcasts in U.K., Ireland
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2012-01-09T16:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/netflix-takes-on-lovefilm-with-unlimited-video-in-u-k-ireland.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  forecast it will attract
millions of subscribers within a few years to the Internet film
and television service it started in the U.K. and Ireland today,
taking on  Amazon Inc.’s (AMZN)  Lovefilm.  The video-streaming service will offer films and TV
programs such as “Top Gear” and “90210” from broadcasters
and studios including Disney U.K. & Ireland, the BBC, CBS and
Miramax, Netflix said today. The company expects to add millions
of users with the offering, Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said in an interview.  Netflix has said it will lose money this year because of
the U.K. expansion. It is competing for rights to shows with
broadcasters who have their own Web services as well with other
streaming companies, such as Lovefilm, and free services such as
Channel 4’s 4oD and the BBC’s iPlayer. Lovefilm had about
900,000 users in early 2008 and now has more than 2 million
subscribers in the U.K.,  Germany ,  Sweden ,  Denmark  and  Norway .  “It’s so easy to use Internet television, we’ve got great
content and it’s a very low price,” Hastings said. “Sure 4oD
is free, iPlayer is free, Lovefilm is just getting into
streaming. There’re a lot of opportunities in the market.”  Netflix rose 6.3 percent to $91.75 as of 11:52 a.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The  shares (NFLX)  declined more than 50
percent in  New York  in the 12 months before today.  The service costs 5.99 pounds ($9.24) a month for unlimited
video content in the U.K. and 6.99 euros ($8.91) in Ireland.  Lovefilm offers an unlimited film and TV streaming service
for an introductory price of 4.99 pounds per month, it announced
today in a statement.  Europe Plan  The subscription TV market in Europe,  Africa  and the  Middle
East , including pay-TV, video-on-demand, mobile and video-
streaming services as well as license fees, will expand 24
percent to $95 billion in the next four years, according to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Internet-streamed videos are
forecast to be the fastest growing segment.  Netflix’s early entry in U.S. market helped the  Los Gatos ,
California-based company to become the biggest video-streaming
service with more than 20 million members, spurring premium
channels HBO and Showtime to offer shows online.  Still, the company has had to scale back its plans for
Europe, putting plans to sell subscriptions to the rest of the
region on hold as it works through a cash shortage. Hastings
reiterated that Netflix is focused solely on expansion in the
U.K. and Ireland and declined to comment on talks in the rest of
 Europe .  Subscriber Revolt  Many of the company’s agreements with broadcasters in the
U.K. have not been exclusive, meaning that competing services
can offer customers the same shows and movies at the same time.
Still, Hastings said that customers will be attracted to the
breadth of content, which will expand as Netflix establishes
itself in the U.K.  Customers can access Netflix through Internet-connected
televisions, gaming consoles and on Apple Inc. and Android
mobile devices, Netflix said.  Hastings scrambled to contain a subscriber revolt after the
company attempted to spin off its DVD rental service into a
separate business. Hastings abandoned the plan and the company
lost 800,000 U.S. subscribers in the third quarter.  Lovefilm announced Jan. 6 that it had reached deals to show
programs from U.K. companies ITV Plc and  BBC  Worldwide. Netflix,
which announced a similar deal with the BBC last month, was in
discussions with ITV for archived shows, a spokeswoman said last
week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  