-- New York Subway System to Shut Lexington Avenue Line Overnight for Repairs
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-01-09T18:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/new-york-subway-system-to-shut-lexington-avenue-line-overnight-for-repairs.html
Riders of  New York ’s Lexington Avenue
subway lines, the busiest in  North America , may need to make
other travel arrangements for four nights beginning today as the
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority  closes tracks for repairs.  Stations on the 4, 5 and 6 lines from Grand Central-42nd
Street in  Manhattan  to Atlantic Avenue in  Brooklyn  will shut
from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m., the largest U.S. transit agency said
yesterday in a statement. Workers will inspect, repair and clean
tracks, signal systems and roadbed, the MTA said.  Completely closing a section of a subway line -- which has
never been done for maintenance -- is more efficient and less
expensive, cutting to days from weeks the time needed to
complete some tasks, the agency said. The MTA, which operates
the city’s subways, buses and commuter railroads, has been
struggling for years to find cheaper ways to perform maintenance
as it seeks to cut costs in the face of budget gaps.  “All of this is work that must be done to maintain the
safe, smooth and efficient operation of a subway system that
runs around the clock, seven days a week,” NYC Transit
President Thomas F. Prendergast said in the statement. “By
suspending service along line segments, workers can work on and
near the tracks without having to interrupt that work every few
minutes while a train moves through the area.”  New York’s subways are the only U.S. system that runs
nonstop, apart from the PATH train operated by the  Port
Authority  of New York and  New Jersey , and the red and blue lines
of the Chicago Transit Authority, said Kevin Ortiz, an MTA
spokesman. About 38,000 of the system’s 250,000 weeknight riders
will be affected, he said.  Irene, Sept. 11  Last year’s Tropical Storm Irene, the terrorist attacks of
Sept. 11, 2001, and labor strikes in 2005, the early 1980s and
the late 1960s shut down the entire subway system, Ortiz said.  The next installment of the agency’s repair program, called
“Fastrack,” will close the Seventh Avenue line’s 1, 2 and 3
trains between 34th Street and Atlantic Avenue for four
consecutive nights beginning Feb. 13.  MTA board members passed a $12.7 billion budget last month
that includes an $86 million deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  