-- New Jersey Sports Betting Heads to Lawmakers as Casinos Trail Pennsylvania
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-01-09T20:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/new-jersey-sports-betting-heads-to-lawmakers-as-casinos-trail-pennsylvania.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  legislation to let
casinos, racetracks and some restaurants and bars take bets on
sporting events will go before lawmakers today, as Atlantic City
faces growing competition from neighboring  Pennsylvania .  Cash collected by the state from Atlantic City’s 11 casinos
fell 17 percent from July to November compared with the same
period a year earlier, according to the Treasury Department’s
tax division. November’s gaming revenue dropped 23 percent from
a year earlier to $17.6 million.  New Jersey is the second-largest casino market in the U.S.,
behind  Nevada . In November, Pennsylvania’s gaming venues
reported gross gambling revenue of $245.8 million, surpassing
Atlantic City, at $245.1 million, for the first time, state
figures show.  If the Senate and Assembly approve the casino measure, and
Governor  Chris Christie , 49, a first-term Republican, signs it,
New Jersey then would have to go to court to overturn a federal
law that prohibits such gambling in most states, with exceptions
including  Delaware , Montana, Nevada and  Oregon .  To help revive the resort area along Atlantic Ocean
beaches,  New Jersey  last year approved a $261 million tax
reimbursement for the latest attraction, the Revel casino,
scheduled to open in the summer.  Christie favors expanded wagering on professional and
college sports. New Jersey voters in November passed a ballot
measure authorizing the Legislature to permit sports betting at
casinos and tracks, 64 percent to 36 percent.  Ending Subsidies  The bill involving restaurants and bars would permit bets
on horse racing, and no other sports, in as many as 12 venues in
the northern and central part of the state. The program would be
evaluated within three years for possible expansion.  Christie has vowed to end taxpayer subsidies that support
horse racing at venues including Monmouth Park and the
Meadowlands Racetrack, as crowds and revenue have dwindled. Last
month, the state agreed to 2012 racing dates to avert a shutdown
at Monmouth, known for its $1 million Haskell Invitational.  On Dec. 23, Jeff Gural, chairman of New York real estate
investment firm Newmark Knight Frank, won approval from the
state  Sports and Exposition Authority (26522MF)  to lease the Meadowlands
for 31 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  