-- New Mining Near Grand Canyon Banned
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-01-09T19:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/new-mining-near-grand-canyon-banned.html
U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar 
imposed a 20-year ban on new uranium and other hardrock mining
near the Grand Canyon National Park to protect the Colorado
River basin.  “People from all over the country and around the world
come to visit the Grand Canyon,” Salazar said today in a
statement distributed to reporters in  Washington . “We have been
entrusted to care for and protect our precious environmental and
cultural resources.”  The  ban  applies to about 1 million acres of land in
northern  Arizona . Previously approved mining, and new projects
on claims and sites with existing rights will be allowed, and
may lead to the development of as many as 11 uranium mines over
the next two decades, according to the statement. Mineral
leasing and geothermal leasing will continue, the Interior
Department said.  The ban will help protect drinking water for 25 million
people, as well as the Grand Canyon’s $687 million  tourism
industry , Washington-based Pew Environment Group said in an e-
mailed statement.  Other National Parks  Mining companies still have legal access to the majority of
public lands in the western U.S., including national parks and
forests, Jane Danowitz, who directs Pew Environment’s public-
lands program, said in the statement.  “We hope the Obama administration will work with Congress
now to reform the 1872 Mining Law so that other American
treasures are also protected,” Danowitz said.  Mining in northern Arizona poses no environmental threat
and would create thousands of jobs, Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah
Republican, said in an e-mailed statement. Republican senators
Mike Lee of Utah, John McCain of Arizona and  John Barrasso  of
Wyoming, as well as Republican representatives Rob Bishop of
Utah and Arizona’s Jeff Flake, David Schweikert and Ben Quayle
also spoke against the move in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan in Washington at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  