-- News Corp.’s Fox to Add Late-Night Animated Shows as ‘Simpsons’ Turns 23
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/news-corp-s-fox-to-add-late-night-animated-shows-as-simpsons-turns-23.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting Co.,
home to “The Simpsons” and “Family Guy,” is creating a
Saturday night animation lineup that will go against NBC’s long-
running “Saturday Night Live.”  The new block will air at 11 p.m. Saturdays starting in
January 2013,  Kevin Reilly , president of Fox Entertainment, said
yesterday at a TV critics conference in  Pasadena ,  California .
The Fox shows may take some male viewers from “Saturday Night
Live,” Reilly said.  Fox is turning to cartoons on Saturdays, a stalwart of its
Sunday night programming anchored by “The Simpsons,” which
first aired in 1989. The Sunday block, which also includes
“Family Guy,” has been a constant ratings winner for the
network, Reilly said.  “This is a way to seed more animation,” Reilly told
reporters at the conference. “We’re looking for the next
generation.”  Fox also will offer animated series for viewing on
computers, mobile devices and video-game consoles. The company
reached an agreement in October with the voice cast of “The
Simpsons” to air the show through its 25th season.  Viewership of “The Simpsons” and “Family Guy” remain
strong even though reruns frequently air in syndication, Reilly
said. He wouldn’t say whether “The Simpsons” will continue
beyond the 25th season.  “Animation is incredibly resilient,” Reilly said.  Nick Weidenfeld, formerly head of program development at
Adult Swim, will oversee the Fox division responsible for
developing and producing the animated shows, the network said in
a statement. Hend Baghdady will be in charge of production.  The Saturday-night block of programming will consist of 22-
minute and 11-minute episodes, Reilly said. The online animation
programming will carry mostly 11-minute segments, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  