-- Norwegian Credit Growth Slowed for First Time Since June
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-01-09T10:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/norwegian-credit-growth-slowed-for-first-time-since-june-1-.html
Norwegian credit growth slowed in
November for the first time since June amid signs the European
debt crisis will hurt export demand from the Nordic economy.  Credit growth (NOCR12MT)  slowed to 6.6 percent in November from 6.8
percent in October, the Oslo-based statistics agency said today.
The pace was estimated to remain unchanged, according to the
median forecast of nine analysts.  Central Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said last week that
the bank still had room to lower rates even after cutting its
benchmark by a more-than-expected half a percentage point in
December to 1.75 percent. The prospects for  Norway ’s
manufacturing sector have worsened, Olsen said.  The country’s manufacturing industry shrank at the fastest
pace in two years in December, a  purchasing managers ’ index
published by Fokus Bank showed last week. The seasonally
adjusted index based on responses from purchasing managers fell
to 46.6 from 48.5 in November, Fokus Bank said.  Twelve-month credit growth for non-financial enterprises
slowed to 4.6 percent from 4.7 percent in October, while
household credit growth remained unchanged at 7.2 percent for a
fourth consecutive month.  “It is encouraging that household credit growth didn’t
increase further,” Ole Andre Kjennerud, an analyst at DNB ASA,
said in a note to clients. “It is good for the Norwegian
economy that credit growth does not fall significantly for non-
financial corporations, which can happen given the turmoil in
financial markets.”  Low borrowing costs helped boost property prices by 9
percent last year, according to the Norwegian Real Estate
Brokers Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  