-- Novartis Is Open to Deals of as Much as $3 Billion, CEO Jimenez Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-01-09T20:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/novartis-is-open-to-deals-of-as-much-as-3-billion-ceo-jimenez-says.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Jimenez said the drugmaker is open to “bolt-on” deals
of $2 billion to $3 billion this year as it seeks to expand its
product offerings and grow in businesses such as animal health.  The Basel, Switzerland-based company is looking to buy
“assets that would complement the pharmaceutical pipeline and
the Alcon pipeline,” Jimenez said today at the 30th annual J.P.
Morgan Healthcare conference in  San Francisco . “I don’t think
we need transformative deals that would change the scale of
those businesses,” he added.  Novartis also wants to grow in the over-the counter and
animal health sectors, he said.  “I would love to be able to increase scale in those two
businesses in a way that would give us greater global
presence,” Jimenez said. He declined to comment on whether the
company is interested in Pfizer Inc.’s  animal-health  business,
which the New York-based drugmaker said may be spun off or sold.  Jimenez has been reducing costs since he took the top job
in February 2010 and announced last October that the company
would eliminate 2,000 positions in the U.S. and  Europe  over the
next three to five years. Government austerity measures in
Europe have forced Novartis to lower prices by about 5 percent
in 2011.  Jimenez also said he “is amazed” at the prices that
developers of hepatitis C treatments have been attracting.  Bristol-Myers Acquisition  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. said Jan. 8 it agreed to pay about
$2.5 billion in cash to buy  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX) , the second maker of
hepatitis C drugs to be acquired within two months as companies
jockey for position in a developing $20 billion market. Bristol-
Myers offered $26 per share, more than double Inhibitex’s $9.87
closing price on Jan. 6. The deal gives the New York-based
company a similar drug to one  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  gained in the
$10.8 billion purchase of  Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS)  that was announced in
November.  Novartis is “very excited” about its own hepatitis C
compound in development, called DEB025, Jimenez said.  “We have high hopes for that drug,” the CEO said. Still,
“we would benefit from a partner” and “we would love to be
further” in hepatitis C, although Novartis isn’t willing to
overpay for any transaction, he said. Hepatitis C, a virus that
affects the liver, is carried by as many as 170 million.  “We have taken a hard look at all of the assets in the hep
C space so you can assume that we are actively involved in it,”
Jimenez said. “At the same time, we are going to be very
disciplined” on either potential partnerships or acquisitions
and “any deal will have to be good for Novartis shareholders.”  Gilenya Report  Jimenez also said sales of Gilenya haven’t been hurt by a
report that a multiple sclerosis patient died on Nov. 23 after
starting treatment with the pill, the first approved to treat
the debilitating neurological disease.  “We have not seen an impact on prescriptions” he said.
“Gilenya continues to outperform our launch expectations.”  Prescriptions remain “very strong,” he added. An
investigation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the
European Medicines Agency is continuing, he said.  “There is no connection between the death and drug at this
stage,” Jimenez said.  Alcon is the eye-care company that Novartis finished
acquiring last year. Its product offering includes eye medicines
and Ciba Vision contact lenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  