-- Obama’s Consumer Financial-Protection Trump Card: Simon Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-01-09T00:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/obama-s-consumer-financial-protection-trump-card-simon-johnson.html
The biggest news for the Republican
presidential-nomination race last week wasn’t the outcome of the
Iowa caucuses but the recess appointment of  Richard Cordray  to
head the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau .  Unless you think  Rick Santorum  can scale up in record time
to run a national campaign, the Iowa results just confirmed what
we already knew:  Mitt Romney  is likely to face President  Barack Obama  in November. The Cordray appointment indicates that the
president sees things the same way, and has decided to focus the
fight on one of Romney’s vulnerabilities: his views on the
financial sector.  The president, of course, can’t make an issue out of too-
big-to-fail banks because his administration has helped to
solidify their grip on the financial system. The 2010 Dodd-Frank
financial-reform law effectively failed to limit lenders’ size,
freeing the biggest institutions to grow ever larger. Mega-banks
will be harder to deal with, both as healthy institutions and if
they run into financial trouble.  Fortunately for Obama, it doesn’t appear that Romney has
any objection to “anything goes” in terms of bank size, and
isn’t likely to try to make too-big-to-fail an election issue.  Obama will also be reluctant to raise the matter of
campaign contributions by bank executives and the political
influence that gives them. Both he and Romney are likely to
garner roughly equal amounts of cash from the people who run, or
benefit from, large financial companies.  Essential Safeguards  But Obama can fight on other grounds, including the issue
of consumer protection, by arguing that the pre-Dodd-Frank
regime allowed ill treatment or outright abuse of customers by
some financial-services firms -- and that the bureau will
provide essential safeguards. Cordray’s nomination had been
blocked by Republican senators; now Obama can claim he refused
to take no for an answer.  Republicans argue that they blocked the Cordray nomination
because the design of the bureau is inappropriate. It lacks at
least three commissioners and isn’t subject to the congressional
appropriations process, they say. Outside  Washington , no one
cares about this level of detail; the bigger question is whether
tighter oversight of financial firms is appropriate.  Of all the Republican presidential candidates, only  Jon Huntsman , the former Utah governor and ambassador to
 China , has the right line on this issue: Embrace it as an
essential part of a broader, pro-market approach. Huntsman, for
example, pledges on his  website  that his administration “will
direct the  Department of Justice  to take the lead in
investigating and brokering an agreement to resolve the
widespread legal abuses such as the robo-signing scandal that
unfolded in the aftermath of the housing bubble.”  The financial boom-bust-bailout cycle exposed fundamental
problems with the rule of law in the U.S. One example involves
property rights -- the ability to own real estate and financial
assets without fear of expropriation by powerful interests.
There may have been securities-law violations, especially with
regard to disclosure of underlying loan contracts and property
titles in mortgage-backed securities sold to investors.  Here, too, Huntsman proposes a  solution : “If investors’
rights were abused, this needs to be addressed fully. We need a
comprehensive settlement that puts all these issues behind us,
but any such settlement must include full redress of all legal
violations.” Unfortunately, Huntsman’s clear arguments and
clever positioning have been ignored by the rest of the
Republican field, which mostly confines itself to advocating for
repeal of the Dodd-Frank law.  Strange Notion  Newt Gingrich , the former House Speaker, has suggested the
strange notion of jailing former Senator  Chris Dodd  and
Representative  Barney Frank , though Gingrich may have been
joking. Representative  Ron Paul  is very good on the abusive
power of big banks and the general need for property rights.
Unfortunately, the Texan is also convinced that government
action of any kind must be avoided, and ignores the possibility
that powerful people in the private sector can do bad things.  Obama’s secret weapon in hammering home the consumer-
protection issue is that the CFPB is not an exercise in
excessive regulation. As Bloomberg News has documented, the
bureau mounted a charm offensive, before its formal startup last
summer, to persuade well-run and honest financial firms to agree
to its agenda.  As laid out originally by  Elizabeth Warren , a White House
special adviser now seeking a U.S. Senate seat in  Massachusetts ,
and implemented by her successor, Raj Date, a former banker, the
bureau has focused on bringing transparency to complex financial
transactions. Only in America is it controversial to ask that
the language in debt contracts be made simple enough that
everyone knows what they are signing.  The Cordray appointment  enables  the CFPB to apply its full
regulatory powers over non-bank lenders. Cordray’s status will
probably be subject to legal challenges since it’s unclear that
his was a bona-fide recess appointment. But any lawsuit would
only help make Obama’s political point.  Obama will seek to define Romney as someone who represents
financial power and privilege. The CFPB under Cordray will help
Obama portray himself as the protector of opportunity and
guarantor of credit access for ordinary Americans.  Huntsman could have turned consumer financial protection to
his advantage by vigorously campaigning for property rights, as
outlined on his website, as part of a genuine pro-market agenda.
Romney will prove much more vulnerable.  ( Simon Johnson , who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008 and is now a
professor at the  MIT Sloan School of Management  as well as a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  