-- Daley Departs as Obama Shifts Strategy to Confronting Congress
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-01-10T05:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/obama-names-omb-s-lew-chief-of-staff-as-daley-decides-to-return-to-chicago.html
The departure of White House Chief
of Staff  William Daley  reflects President  Barack Obama ’s choice
to abandon a strategy of seeking accommodation with
congressional Republicans and his critics in corporate America.  Daley’s resignation a year after taking the job is a “not
inevitable but logical consequence” of Obama’s movement since
September toward confrontation with Congress, said William Galston, who was a domestic policy adviser to former President
 Bill Clinton .  Jacob Lew , currently director of the Office of Management
and Budget, will succeed Daley once he has completed work on the
administration’s fiscal 2013 budget proposal, due to be
delivered to Congress during the first week of February.  Obama turned to Daley, a former JPMorgan Chase & Co.
executive and U.S. commerce secretary, in January 2011 as the
president sought to improve relations with U.S. businesses and
congressional Republicans following the 2010 midterm elections
in which Democrats lost their House majority and saw their
margin in the Senate shrink.  He was a central player in Obama’s failed attempt to reach
a long-term budget deal with Republicans last July. The
president’s job approval ratings plunged after the August
standoff on the debt ceiling that brought the nation to the
brink of default. Congressional Democrats criticized Daley for
concessions such as Medicare cuts the White House offered in its
attempts to achieve a grand bargain.  Speech Scheduling  Daley also took blame for a misstep in scheduling Obama’s
Sept. 8 address to a joint session of Congress to announce his
jobs plan. Daley spoke by telephone with House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, prior to the White House’s
announcement of a speech and then Boehner publicly requested the
speech be delayed a day.  After the $447 billion jobs bill was blocked in Congress,
Obama changed course.  Going into the 2012 election, the president is seeking to
portray himself as champion of middle-income Americans who is
confronting  Wall Street  and an obstructionist Congress. He
signaled his new message with a Dec. 6 address in  Kansas , saying
the nation is at “a make-or-break moment for the middle
class.”  The strategy that Daley was supposed to implement “had hit
a wall,” said Galston, now a governance analyst for the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “The skill set and the
relationships that he brought were much less applicable to the
new White House political strategy.”  Returning to Chicago  Daley, 63, informed the president of his decision to leave
when he returned to Washington last week after the holidays.
Obama said yesterday that he didn’t immediately accept it, and
he asked Daley to think it over. In the end, Daley said he
wanted to return to his hometown of Chicago, where his family
has dominated local politics for decades.  “No one in my administration has had to make more
important decisions more quickly than Bill,” Obama said.
“There is no question that I’m going to deeply miss having Bill
by my side.”  Lew, Obama said, “has my complete trust.”  The change is occurring as the White House gears up for
Obama’s re-election campaign with the economy still struggling
to gain steam and the  unemployment rate  at 8.5 percent.  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said
in a statement that Daley’s departure “makes it even more clear
every decision is being made through the lens of re-election”
at the White House.  Priebus said Daley had been hired to bridge a divide
between Obama and U.S. business and “found himself trying to
defend the indefensible” with the administration’s policies.  New Confrontation  Obama ratcheted up tension with congressional Republicans
last week by installing  Richard Cordray  as head of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau and three members of the  National
Labor Relations Board  through recess appointments. Republicans
had used procedural maneuvers to block Cordray’s confirmation.  Lew will be Obama’s third chief of staff. His first,  Rahm Emanuel , resigned last October to begin his successful run to
succeed Daley’s older brother, longtime  Chicago  Mayor Richard M. Daley, who retired.  Lew brings continuity as a key member of Obama’s existing
team and deep relationships from a long career in Washington
that can be used either to ease negotiations with Republicans or
strengthen partisan unity in battle, Galston said.  Congressional Relations  “If the name of the game politically is close coordination
with the Democratic congressional leadership to respond
tactically to whatever the controversies are or whatever the
openings happen to be, I would expect him to be quite good at
that,” Galston said.  Obama named Lew as his budget office director in July 2010.
Lew, 56, previously served in the State Department and was
budget chief under PresidentClinton. He also has experience in
Congress, having served as policy director for the late House
Speaker Thomas P. “Tip” O’Neill, a Massachusetts Democrat.  Lew played a role in such bipartisan deals as the 1983
Social Security Trust fund rescue and the 1997 balanced budget
deal when he was Clinton’s deputy budget director. Former
Clinton budget director  Alice Rivlin  called Lew “a very skilled
negotiator.”  “He’s quiet,” she said. “He doesn’t throw his weight
around, but he gets the job done.”  Judd Gregg of  New Hampshire , the former top-ranking
Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, said Lew is respected
by both parties as “a straight shooter.”  “He’s a partisan, but he’s a fair guy,” Gregg said.  A graduate of  Harvard University  and Georgetown Law School,
Lew’s background also includes academia, as chief operating
officer at  New York University  for five years, and the private
sector, as managing director of  Citigroup Inc.’s (C)   Alternative
Investments  until January 2009 and chief operating officer of
Citi’s Global Wealth Management before that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  