-- Oil Drops for Third Day as German Production Slips, Iran Threat Eases
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-01-09T21:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/oil-futures-decline-in-new-york-after-early-gain-slip-below-101-a-barrel.html
Oil dropped a third day as German
industrial output declined, signaling that growth in Europe’s
largest economy may have stalled, and as concern eased that  Iran 
will block crude shipments from the Persian Gulf.  Futures fell 0.3 percent after  Germany  said  production (GRIPIMOM) 
declined 0.6 percent in November. The probability of Iran
closing the Strait of Hormuz is low and Saudi Arabia will
probably raise oil output,  Jeffrey Currie , head of commodities
research at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said in  London  today.  “The European economy doesn’t look good and that’s going
to hurt oil demand,” said Kyle Cooper, director of research
with IAF Advisors in Houston. “Although the U.S. economy is
performing better, petroleum demand isn’t looking good.”  Oil for February delivery fell 25 cents to $101.31 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement of
2012. Futures are up 15 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for February settlement decreased 61 cents, or
0.5 percent, to end the session at $112.45 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The European
contract’s premium to Nymex crude narrowed to $11.14 a barrel
today. The spread surged to a record high of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  German manufacturing was projected to slip 0.5 percent,
according to the median of 30 estimates by analysts in a
 Bloomberg News survey (GRIPIMOM) .  The  International Monetary Fund  will probably cut its
forecast for global growth, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said Jan. 6. German growth will slow to 0.6 percent in 2012 from
3 percent last year before recovering to 1.8 percent in 2013,
the Bundesbank predicted on Dec. 19.  Berlin Conference  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy outlined the increased pace of their response to
the financial crisis. Merkel and Sarkozy said euro-area leaders
may complete their new budget rulebook by Jan. 30, one month
ahead of schedule, and are considering accelerating capital
contributions to the bailout fund being set up this year.  The situation regarding Iran is bearish for the price of
crude oil, Goldman’s Currie said. Europe will turn to  Saudi
Arabia  to replace supplies from Iran, whose exports will go to
 China , where demand is quite strong, Currie said at a conference
in London today.  “Geopolitics have trumped market fundamentals lately,”
said  Rick Mueller , a principal with ESAI Energy LLC in
Wakefield, Massachusetts. “Prices will fall a great deal when
the Iran situation calms down.”  A halt of shipping through the strait might send the price
of Brent as high as $200 a barrel for a limited period,
according to  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   The waterway carries 17 million barrels of oil a day,
according to the U.S. Energy Department, almost 20 percent of
global consumption.  Pipeline Delay  A pipeline that would allow oil from the United Arab
Emirates to bypass the  Strait of Hormuz  has been delayed by
construction difficulties, two people with knowledge of the
matter said. Abu Dhabi, holder of most of the U.A.E.’s crude
reserves, had planned to start exports in January 2011 through
the pipeline to a port outside the strait, Dieter Blauberg, the
project’s former director, said in May 2009.  “It’s unfortunate that the pipeline that would allow Abu
Dhabi oil to avoid the strait has been delayed,” said Chris
Faulkner, president of Breitling Oil & Gas in Irving, Texas, an
independent producer focused on North America. “If there were a
move by Iran to close the strait the move would be significant.
Prices would climb $20 to $30 in 15 minutes.”  U.S. Economy   Last week the U.S. Labor Department reported the economy
added 200,000 jobs in December and the  unemployment rate  fell to
8.5 percent. Fuel demand dropped fell 2.6 percent to 18 million
barrels a day in the week ended Dec. 30, down 5.7 percent from a
year earlier, according to the Energy Department.  “U.S. economic prospects have looked brighter lately but
that hasn’t been reflected in the weekly numbers,” Mueller
said. “There will be a lot more supply in 2012, with non-OPEC
producers such as the U.S. and Brazil increasing output and
Libya recovering faster than anyone forecast.”  Oil supply from non-OPEC producers will advance 1.9 percent
to an average of 53.68 million barrels a day this year, an
International Energy Agency report on Dec. 13 showed.  Libyan
output (OPCRLIBY)  rose 100,000 barrels to 700,000 a day last month, the
highest level since February, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of oil companies, producers and analysts.  Hedge funds increased bullish positions on oil by 4.1
percent in the week ended Jan. 3, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report. Open
interest advanced 3.5 percent, rising for a second week after
falling in December to the lowest since May 2007, according to
the CFTC.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 582,951
contracts as of 3:21 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 612,945
contracts Jan. 6, 1.3 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.4 million contracts, the highest level since
Nov. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  