-- Oil Advances for First Day in Four on Iranian Dispute, Euro Debt Meeting
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-01-10T08:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/oil-trades-near-lowest-this-year-on-rising-stockpiles-european-outlook.html
Oil rose in  New York  for the first
time in four days as Venezuela said OPEC shouldn’t intervene to
offset sanctions against Iran and European leaders are scheduled
to discuss strategies for resolving their debt crisis.  Futures climbed as much as 1 percent as Germany’s
chancellor prepared to meet the International Monetary Fund’s
managing director today in Berlin. The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries can’t get involved in a dispute between the
U.S. and Iran over sanctions, according to Venezuela’s oil
minister  Rafael Ramirez .  “The Iranian situation is really for speculators and
traders to have a bit of fun,” said  Gavin Wendt , founder and
senior resource analyst at Mine Life Pty in Sydney. “When the
situation gets resolved, prices will fall by about $5 to $6.”  Crude for February delivery rose as much as $1.02 to
$102.33 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $102.30 at 4:32 p.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract slid 0.3 percent to $101.31, the
lowest close since Dec. 30. Prices advanced 8.2 percent in 2011,
the third annual increase.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed as much as 81 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $113.26 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a $10.92 premium to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade. The spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Strait of Hormuz  Oil in New York has gained 3.1 percent this year amid
Iranian threats to block the Strait of Hormuz in response to
U.S. and European sanctions over its nuclear program. The
waterway carries 17 million barrels of oil a day, according to
the U.S. Energy Department, almost 20 percent of global
consumption.  Iran  has begun enriching uranium at a heavily fortified
underground site, the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said
yesterday. The European Union is weighing whether to move up a
Jan. 30 meeting of foreign ministers by a week to consider an
embargo on imports of oil from OPEC’s second-largest producer,
according to a diplomat.  “The supply-side shock potential is keeping the oil price
where it is,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney, who forecasts New York crude will average
$110 a barrel this year. “The situation in Europe is impacting
on economic growth, but we think that story is so well factored
into the market now.”  Iran is unlikely to block the strait because it would
suffer the most, according to  Dennis Ross , who served two years
on the National Security Council as U.S. President Barack Obama’s special assistant on Iran. The U.S. hasn’t seen any
efforts to close the route to shipping, Pentagon spokesman
 George Little  said yesterday.  Nigeria Protests  “Any Iranian action in defense of their sovereignty is
Iran’s issue,” Ramirez told reporters in Caracas yesterday,
where Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  met his Venezuelan
counterpart,  Hugo Chavez . “OPEC can’t get involved in this
issue.”  A general strike in Nigeria has entered a second day,
threatening shipments by Africa’s biggest oil producer. The
strike so far hasn’t affected the oil exports of Royal Dutch
Shell Plc’s venture, which has the largest operations in the
country,  Tony Okonedo , a company spokesman, said yesterday by
phone from Lagos. Protesters are opposed to the government’s
decision to end fuel subsidies.  Nigeria , an OPEC member, produced an average 2.2 million
barrels a day of crude in December, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It is the fifth-largest supplier of oil to the
U.S. At least 90 percent is pumped by Shell, Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Chevron Corp., Total SA and Eni SpA in joint ventures with
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  U.S. Stockpiles  Crude supplies in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, probably rose 1 million barrels last week, according
to the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News survey an Energy Department report tomorrow. An increase
would match the longest run of stockpile gains since the three
weeks ended May 6.  Gasoline inventories may have climbed 2 million barrels
last week to 222.2 million, the  highest  in almost 10 months, the
survey showed. Distillate-fuel supplies, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, are expected to have gained 2
million barrels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  