-- Holiday Fizzle Slams Retailer Debt as Swaps Soar: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-09T17:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/holiday-sales-fizzle-slams-retailer-debt-as-gap-swaps-soar-credit-markets.html
Bond investors are driving down the
price of debt issued by retailers as they report comparable-
store sales for the holiday season that are failing to live up
to a record Thanksgiving weekend.  The cost of protecting bonds of  Gap Inc. (GPS)  from default
approached a record last week and contracts on J.C. Penney Co.
had the biggest two-day surge in 14 months. Merchandiser
debentures have lost 0.4 percent this month with Family Dollar
Stores Inc. the only one of the top 50 borrowers in Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. retailer index showing positive
returns for January. Investment-grade corporate bonds overall
are little changed.  San Francisco-based Gap,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) 
reported December same-store sales that were below analysts’
estimates after mistiming promotions or running out of
inventory. Weaker retailers will struggle to maintain market
share as competition increases, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “It’s a case of hangover,” said Anthony Valeri, market
strategist at  LPL Financial , which manages $330 billion. “After
a strong start to shopping over Thanksgiving weekend, big
discounts and weaker-than-forecast December sales have left
investors a little queasy.”  While some retailers such as  Macy’s Inc. (M)  had sales that
beat estimates and boosted earnings forecasts, analysts say
revenue for S&P 500 retailers grew 6.4 percent last quarter,
compared with 7.2 percent for the overall index excluding
financial companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Searching for Bargains  An initially “bullish view” of the holiday sales season
didn’t pan out, said Scott Tuhy, an analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service. Retailers may have hurt their own profits by offering
deals just to get consumers in the door, he said.  “The consumer wasn’t going to come out unless there was a
deal, because they’ve been so trained by retailers to expect a
deal,” Tuhy said.  Fitch estimates that the 45 retailers it rates or monitors
have $12 billion of debt coming due this year.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk rose for a fourth day with the Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbing by 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of 120.3 basis points
as of 12:13 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Fannie Mae   The odds of credit rating downgrades on the bonds of  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  rose after lawmakers tapped the government-
supported mortgage companies to pay for last month’s extension
of a payroll tax cut, according to Bank of America Corp.  Investors in the so-called agency debt market should favor
the bonds of other government-sponsored enterprises such as the
 Federal Home Loan Banks  and Federal Farm Credit Banks because of
the risk, Ralph Axel, a Bank of America analyst in New York,
wrote in a Jan. 6 report.  Congress, to finance the two-month extension of the tax cut
in December, ordered an increase in the premiums that
Washington-based Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  in McLean, Virginia,
charge to guarantee mortgage debt. The funds generated by the
extra fees will be directed to the government for the next 10
years.  Bankruptcy Opposed  Investors in Residential Capital LLC’s debt are pressuring
Ally Financial Inc. to support the unprofitable mortgage unit.
Bondholders that own more than $800 million of ResCap’s secured
debt hired White & Case LLP to oppose a possible bankruptcy
filing for the unit, the  law firm  said in a statement. The law
firm said the group is “concerned” that Ally may try to walk
away from the unit’s liabilities.  Even as Ally, the former financing arm of automaker General
Motors Corp., prepares to repay $17.2 billion in government
bailout funds, its mortgage unit faces lawsuits over faulty
loans that could wipe out the parent company’s profits. ResCap
hired Centerview Partners LLP to weigh options, including
bankruptcy, a person familiar with the talks said Nov. 9.  While the  National Retail Federation  raised its forecast
for the  holiday shopping season  after a record $52.4 billion in
sales during the Thanksgiving weekend, Target, Kohl’s, and J.C.
Penney lowered their fourth-quarter profit estimates after
ramping up discounts. Sales were forecasted to rise 3.8 percent
for the season, compared with 5.2 percent in 2010, the
Washington-based trade group said Dec. 15.  Gap Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Gap surged to 313 basis points on
Jan. 6, which is 0.1 basis point shy of an Oct. 4 record,
according to data provider CMA. Gap’s comparable sales for
December declined 4 percent, the company said Jan. 5, compared
with the average estimate for a 1.3 percent drop from analysts
surveyed by researcher Retail Metrics Inc.  “They have to reinvent the company from the outside in,”
 Craig Johnson , president of consulting firm Customer Growth
Partners in  New Canaan , Connecticut, said Jan. 5 in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “They’ve lost their way.”  Swaps tied to the debt of Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney
had the worst two-day stretch since October 2010 as the third-
largest department store chain cut its fourth-quarter profit
forecast, citing declining sales and deeper discounts than
anticipated. Profit will be at most 70 cents a share, J.C.
Penney said in a statement Jan. 5, less than an earlier
projection of as much as $1.15 and below the average analyst
estimate of $1.08.  Junk-Rated Retailers  The contracts jumped 45.6 basis points on Jan. 4 and 5 to
327.9 basis points, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. They declined to 326.6 on Jan. 6.  The loss in retailer bonds this month compares with a
decline of 0.07 percent for U.S. investment-grade debentures,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Gap bonds have
lost 0.83 percent on average, Target debt declined 0.21 percent,
and Kohl’s decreased 0.87 percent, while Matthews, North
Carolina-based Family Dollar has gained 0.37 percent, the only
positive return in the U.S. Corporates, Non-Food and Drug Retail
index.  While bonds of junk-rated retailers have gained 0.28
percent this month, they’re trailing the high-yield market
overall, which has returned 0.76 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. High-yield bonds are graded below
Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Target, Kohl’s  Minneapolis-based Target, the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, said fourth-quarter profit would be at most $1.43 a
share, 10 cents below the maximum forecast earlier. The average
analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for $1.48. December
comparable-store sales rose 1.6 percent, less than the estimated
3.3 percent gain.  Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin-based Kohl’s cut its fourth-
quarter profit forecast by 31 cents to at most $1.73 a share,
and same-store sales dropped 0.1 percent, compared with the
projection for a 2.4 percent increase.  Stronger, growth-oriented retailers will continue to build
market share, and the industry’s same-store sales will climb as
much as 3 percent in 2012, Fitch said in a note dated Nov. 22.
Debt maturities this year are “moderate,” with $12 billion
coming due across the 45 companies that Fitch rates or monitors.  Macy’s  Macy’s reported a 6.2 percent increase in same-store sales,
topping the 4.6 percent estimate. The Cincinnati-based company
boosted its fourth-quarter earnings forecast by 3 cents to as
much as $1.60 a share. Analysts projected an average $1.61.  Retailers such as Macy’s have “effectively and
efficiently” managed and planned their inventory, have stronger
logistics, and have been “been able to maintain their margins
better than others,” said  David Brown , a  money manager  who
helps oversee $82 billion of fixed-income assets at Neuberger
Berman LLC in Chicago.  Macy’s $611.9 million of 7.875 percent notes due July 2015
have climbed to 116.1 cents on the dollar as of Jan. 6 from as
low as 113.98 cents on Oct. 11, Trace data show.  “Where the rising tide is not helping all ships, the
better operators are standing out more,” he said in a telephone
interview. “You have a highly competitive industry with modest
growth. Some of those companies who are not very tightly
managing their inventory and cash flow and properly investing in
their stores are going to continue to struggle.”  Personal spending climbed 0.1 percent in November, the
Commerce Department reported Dec. 23. That was less than the
median 0.3 percent gain projected by a survey of 79 Bloomberg
economists.  Even as the jobless rate unexpectedly dropped in December
to 8.5 percent, the lowest level in almost three years, “it’s a
long road back to strong employment, so these types of consumer
spending levels are probably here for a little while,” Brown
said.  “It’s just difficult for us to see in the context of a
sluggish economic growth that retailers as a whole are going to
outperform,” Moody’s Tuhy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  