-- Olympus Sues Present, Past Executives Over $1.7 Billion Cover-Up of Losses
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-01-10T01:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/olympus-may-sue-executives-over-cover-up.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  said it is seeking
damages from its president, Shuichi Takayama, and 18 other
current and former  executives  over their roles in a $1.7 billion
cover-up of losses.  The Japanese camera maker’s auditors filed the claims at
the Tokyo District Court on Jan. 8, Olympus said in a statement
today. The company’s shares surged as much as 28 percent on
investor optimism that it would keep its listing on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange that had been under threat because of the fraud.  Olympus managers involved in the scheme to hide investment
losses over more than a decade caused 86 billion yen ($1.1
billion) in damages to the company, according to the findings of
an independent panel released today. Former President  Michael Woodford , who was fired after he challenged the  board  on
takeover and accounting practices, is also taking legal action
against the company over his dismissal.  “It’s all part of the natural fallout to be expected with
each party trying to stake their positions and to protect their
legal interests,” Eugene Tan, assistant professor of law at the
 Singapore Management University , said yesterday following
Japanese media reports that the lawsuits had been filed. “We’ll
see suits and countersuits taking place in the next couple of
weeks, if not months.”  Olympus climbed 21 percent to 1,275 yen as of 9:46 a.m. in
Tokyo trading. The stock has lost about 49 percent of its value
since Woodford’s Oct. 14 firing as details of the fraud emerged
and the Tokyo Stock Exchange put the 92-year-old company on a
watchlist for possible delisting.  Fine Report  The bourse is likely to let the company retain its listing
and will fine it 10 million yen instead, the Nikkei reported
yesterday. The TSE today said no final decision has been made.  The company is seeking as much as 3.6 billion yen ($46.8
million) in damages from executives including ex-Chairman
Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, it said. Takayama, who took over after
Woodford, is being sued for as much as 500 million yen, the
company said in a statement today.  Former company auditor, Hideo Yamada, and Hisashi Mori,
fired as  executive director  over his role, are being sued for
3.01 billion yen and 2.81 billion yen, respectively, it said.  Olympus spokesmen weren’t immediately available to comment,
and repeated attempts since the scandal broke to contact
officials involved, including visits to their homes, have
failed.  Directors to Quit  The company last week said it may hold an emergency
shareholder meeting as early as March at which current board
members, including Takayama, will resign and investors will vote
on new management.  The company inflated fees to advisers on the $2.1 billion
acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008 and overpaid in
purchasing three Japanese companies with the intention of
increasing goodwill, the independent panel investigating the
fraud said last month.  The report said it found a culture of “yes men” and a
board that failed in its duty to stop a “rotten” core of
executives from duping auditors, regulators and investors.  Woodford filed a case in the U.K. last week seeking damages
for the remainder of his four-year contract and additional
costs. Before being named as Olympus’s first non-Japanese
president and chief executive officer last year, the British
national ran the company’s European operations, where he won
praise from analysts for cutting costs and improving
profitability. Woodford last week said he may also sue in  Japan .  No Control  The 51-year-old former CEO also abandoned efforts to regain
control of Olympus after failing to gain support from Japanese
shareholders.  Olympus’s biggest shareholder, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc., said after Japanese prosecutors raided the camera-
maker’s offices that it would maintain support for the company.
Southeastern Asset Management Inc., the company’s biggest
overseas stockholder, and Harris Associates LP have said the
entire board and all executives involved in the fraud must go.  The company “continues to suffer under shoddy corporate
governance and an utterly discredited board,” Josh Shores, a
London-based principal at Southeastern Asset, said in a Jan. 6
statement. “We maintain that the board should be replaced and a
new board should oversee the company’s revival.”  $5 Billion Slide  Olympus admitted in November that Kikukawa, Mori and
Yamada, a former company auditor, colluded to hide losses on
securities investments in the 1990s.  The company has lost about $5 billion of market
capitalization since firing Woodford and was forced to restate
more than five years of  earnings  last month to avoid an
automatic delisting after admitting to the 13-year cover-up.  Olympus’s net  assets  fell by 105 billion yen to 46 billion
yen after the restatement.  The company, also the world’s largest maker of endoscopes,
faces criminal probes in the U.S. and U.K., as well as Japan,
since Woodford made the takeover payments public in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  