-- Olympus, ENRC, News Corp., Samsung-Apple, Lehman, Chevron in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-09T12:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/olympus-news-corp-apple-lehman-chevron-in-court-news.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) , the camera maker that
admitted hiding losses for over a decade, said it’s considering
suing present and past executives after receiving a report from
a panel probing management responsibility for the cover-up.  The company will announce its response to the panel’s
report tomorrow, it said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock
Exchange yesterday.  Olympus should seek damages of more than 90 billion yen
($1.2 billion) from more than 10 current and past executives,
including President Shuichi Takayama, for covering up massive
losses, according to the panel’s report, Kyodo reported
yesterday. Former Chief Executive Officer Michael Woodford, who
was fired after he questioned $1.5 billion in takeover costs, is
suing the company over his dismissal.  The company inflated fees to advisers on the 2008
acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc and overpaid in purchasing three
Japanese companies with the intention of increasing goodwill, a
separate independent panel investigating the fraud said last
month. The panel said it found a culture of “yes men” and a
board that failed in its duty to stop a “rotten” core of
executives from duping auditors, regulators and investors.  Tokyo-based Olympus admitted in November that former
Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, Hisashi Mori, who was fired as
executive vice president, and Hideo Yamada, a former company
auditor, colluded to hide losses on securities investments in
the 1990s.  The company has  lost (7733)  about $5 billion of market
capitalization since firing Woodford and was forced to restate
more than five years of earnings last month to avoid an
automatic delisting from the Tokyo Stock Exchange after
admitting to a 13-year cover-up.  Olympus declined to comment on the report, Yoshiaki Yamada,
a spokesman for the company, said yesterday.  Woodford filed a case in the U.K. last week seeking damages
for the remainder of his four-year contract and additional
costs. The British national said last week he may also file a
case in Japan.  Woodford, 51, also abandoned efforts to regain control of
Olympus after failing to gain support from Japanese
shareholders.  For more, click here.  ENRC Sues Former Executive in Dispute Over ‘Dishonest’ Raise  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) , the producer of metals in
Kazakhstan, sued its former head of human resources Andrew
Balgarnie, accusing the ex-Morgan Stanley banker of dishonestly
giving himself a 100,000 pound ($154,500) raise.  ENRC filed the counterclaim against Balgarnie last month,
according to court documents. The move follows Balgarnie’s
decision to sue ENRC for wrongful dismissal in November,
claiming he is owed 310,000 pounds in back pay and bonuses.  Balgarnie “is an individual who appears to operate on the
basis that wrongdoing on the part of a senior executive is
acceptable so long as he can get away with it,” ENRC said in
court papers filed on Dec. 22. The company said it is seeking
the return of 74,000 pounds which resulted from a pay increase
not properly approved by Chief Executive Officer Felix Vulis.  ENRC, which held a three-month review of its corporate
governance last year amid conflicts between the board and
shareholders, agreed Jan. 5 to acquire First Quantum Minerals
Ltd.’s assets in the Democratic Republic of Congo for $1.25
billion, ending a legal dispute between the companies over the
Kolwezi copper project.  “The allegations of misconduct and dishonesty as set out
in ENRC’s counterclaim are vigorously resisted,” Balgarnie’s
lawyer James Cox said in an e-mailed statement.  Vulis resigned in February of last year only to be re-
appointed as CEO seven months later following a management
review that began when shareholders voted against rehiring
independent directors Richard Sykes and Kenneth Olisa in June.  ENRC’s three founders, Alexander Machkevitch, Alijan
Ibragimov and Patokh Chodiev, hold 14.6 percent of the company,
which makes ferroalloys, iron ore, aluminum and power in
Kazakhstan.  “Mr. Balgarnie’s claims are unfounded and ENRC is
vigorously defending its position,” the company said in a
statement.  For more, click here.  News Corp. (NWSA)  Phone-Hacking Probe Yields New Arrest, Police Say  British police investigating phone-hacking by journalists
at News Corp.’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid arrested a
47-year-old woman on suspicion of attempting to pervert the
course of justice.  The woman was detained Jan. 6 in Essex, England, the
Metropolitan Police Service said in a statement, without giving
her name. She was then bailed to return to an Essex police
station later this month, the MPS said. The  BBC  reported the
woman is Cheryl Carter, the ex-personal assistant of Rebekah
Brooks, who was chief executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K.
publishing unit before she resigned in July and was arrested in
the probe.  The scandal prompted Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. to close
the News of the World in July and drop its 7.8 billion-pound
($12.1 billion) bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc. (BSY)  Previous arrests also include former News of the
World editor Andy Coulson, who is free on bail until March.  The Jan. 6 arrest is the 17th in the probe, called
Operation Weeting. Brooks, who has denied wrongdoing, is on bail
until March and hasn’t been charged.  A call to Carter’s home in Essex wasn’t answered. A
spokeswoman for News Corp.’s News International unit in London
said that Carter left the company last year and declined to
comment on whether she was arrested. Carter  wrote  fashion
articles for News Corp.’s Sun tabloid in Britain as recently as
October 2011.  Brooks’s spokeswoman Emma Capon didn’t return a call for
comment.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  SEC Alters Settlement Policy in Cases With Criminal Convictions  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has modified
its boilerplate settlement language to require that defendants
admit wrongdoing when they have already done so in parallel
criminal proceedings.  The change doesn’t affect the SEC’s typical approach of
settling cases without requiring the subject of the action to
admit wrongdoing when there is no criminal conviction, SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said Jan. 6 in a statement.  “The new policy does not require admissions or
adjudications of fact beyond those already made in criminal
cases, but eliminates language that may be construed as
inconsistent with admissions or findings that have already been
made in criminal cases,” Khuzami said.  The SEC has come under fire for allowing subjects of
lawsuits to settle claims without admitting to the misconduct.
U.S. District Court Judge Jed Rakoff cited that policy last
month when he rejected the agency’s proposed $285 million
settlement with Citigroup Inc. over claims the bank misled
investors in a financial product linked to risky mortgages.  The policy change, which has been under consideration for
several months, is “separate and unrelated to” Rakoff’s ruling
in the Citigroup matter and has no impact on cases with no
parallel criminal proceeding, Khuzami said.  Peter Henning , a former SEC attorney who is now a law
professor at Wayne State University in Detroit, said “given the
admission of guilt in the criminal case, it’s hard to see how
this would have any impact.”  Samsung Fails to Win Sales Ban on Apple’s IPhone 4S in Italy  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the maker of the Galaxy mobile
devices, failed to win a sales ban on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s latest iPhone
in Italy, as a global patent dispute between the two companies
continues.  A Milan court rejected Dec. 5 the Suwon, South Korea-based
company’s bid to block the iPhone 4S in Italy, said Nam Ki Yung,
a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, confirming an earlier
report by Ansa news agency.  Samsung, which reported a 73 percent jump in fourth-quarter
operating profit Dec. 6 after selling a record number of
handsets last year, also failed to win a sales ban on the iPhone
4S in France last month. Samsung and Apple have been suing each
other in multiple countries over patents related to mobile
technologies and designs since the iPhone maker accused the
South Korean rival of copying its products last year.  “We will review the ruling and consider all available
measures to further protect our intellectual property rights and
stop this free riding on our technology,” Samsung said in a
statement, referring to the Jan. 5 decision.  Steve Park, an Apple spokesman in Seoul, reiterated the
company’s earlier statement on the dispute that Apple needs to
protect its intellectual property against “blatant copying.”  Lehman Judge Refuses to Block Zell Option on Archstone  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  lost a bid to block  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  from giving Sam Zell’s  Equity
Residential (EQR)  an option to buy 26.5 percent of Archstone when a
judge said Zell was entitled to the option.  Lehman tried to block the deal, saying it would be forced
to pay more than the $2.6 billion it sought to pay for the
banks’ 53 percent stake in Archstone. Lehman may be insolvent,
yet it is “cash-rich” and can afford to pay a bit more, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck said in a court hearing Jan. 6.  Peck said he assumed the Zell company would bid about $1.4
billion for half of the banks’ stake, because if Lehman matches
his offer, Equity Residential would get a so-called breakup fee
in compensation.  The banks’ deal with Zell is really “a disguised sale of
100 percent of the banks’ stake to Lehman,” designed to get a
good price, he said. “I know it.” However, he said, the Zell
company is entitled to the benefit of exercising its option.  Peck said he agreed with the banks, which had argued that
the fight over Archstone “is simply about money.” Lehman
wouldn’t be harmed if the deal went forward, he said. He said he
sided with the Zell company, which argued it would be harmed if
Lehman blocked the deal because it had spent time and money on
the investment, and would end up with nothing.  Lehman, which has said it aims to sell Archstone for $6
billion to help pay creditors, is first seeking to gain control
by buying the banks’ stake. Zell’s company is Archstone’s
biggest rival in the apartment business, referred to by Peck as
“the elephant in the room.”  Archstone is Lehman’s biggest real estate asset. It
currently owns 47 percent.  Lehman is embarking on a $65 billion liquidation plan after
three years in bankruptcy court, with cash of more than $20
billion raised so far. After agreeing to pay the banks $1.3
billion for 26.5 percent of Archstone, Lehman asked Peck to rule
that it has the right to take Zell’s option to the rest of the
banks’ stake at the same price.  Lehman sued the banks on Dec. 15 for breach of contract,
saying they colluded to sell a stake to Zell’s company,
Archstone’s “largest competitor.” As part of the suit it asked
Peck to block the deal with Zell.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Exxon, Salazar Reach Accord on Offshore Oil Lease Dispute  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and U.S. Interior Secretary Kenneth
Salazar agreed to settle a lawsuit in which the world’s largest
publicly traded oil company challenged the government’s decision
to cancel offshore leases that may yield “billions of barrels
of oil,” according to a court filing.  The accord “will allow ExxonMobil to develop this very
large, but technically challenging, resource as quickly as
possible using a phased approach,” Patrick McGinn, a spokesman
for Irving, Texas-based Exxon, said in an e-mail Jan. 6.  Exxon sued Aug. 12 over a ruling by the department that
canceled Gulf of Mexico leases for the so-called Julia Unit. The
company and the government entered into settlement agreement on
Dec. 30, according to a filing Jan. 6 in U.S. District Court in
Lake Charles, Louisiana.  Exxon said in its complaint that it sought a suspension for
its Julia leases in 2008 because of drilling complexity. It
cited federal regulations that allow oil oil producers to
suspend production in their fields, partly “to facilitate
proper development of a lease.”  The Interior Department denied the request in 2009, stating
that the company“had not demonstrated a commitment to
production” according to court papers. Unsuccessful appeals
followed.  As part of the settlement, the Interior Department granted
a suspension of production for the leases from Dec. 13, 2008, to
Oct. 31, 2013. The department will grant a second suspension
until Aug. 31, 2014, if Exxon and  Statoil ASA (STL) , a partner in
Exxon’s Julia fields, remains in compliance with the terms of
the agreement and takes certain steps toward production,
according to court documents.  Exxon and Statoil agreed to pay a yearly fee on the
original leases of $650 per acre until 87.5 million barrels of
oil are produced from the fields. The first fee will be owed for
2011, according to court documents. The minimum royalty rate for
the leases was increased to $11 per acre and the yearly rental
rate increased to $16 an acre.  Melissa Schwartz, a spokeswoman for the Interior
Department, said in an e-mailed statement that the proposed
settlement affirms the regulatory process, “provides incentives
for timely and thorough development of the leases, and secures a
fair return on those resources to the U.S. Treasury.”  The case is Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Kenneth Salazar, 11-
CV-1474, U.S. District Court, Western District of Louisiana
(Lake Charles).  Chevron’s Bid to Block Ecuadorean Asset Collection Denied  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s bid to protect its assets that could be
seized as part of an $18 billion environmental damages verdict
against the company in  Ecuador  was denied by a U.S. judge, who
said the request could be renewed at a later date.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, had asked
U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in New York to block the
collection of the judgment and the “dissipating” of any
proceeds pending resolution of the company’s racketeering
lawsuit alleging that the plaintiffs engaged in fraud to win the
Ecuadorean judgment. The company sought to “temporarily ensure
the availability” of all assets while the U.S. case proceeds.  “Chevron has made no effort to quantify the damages it
alleged has been sustained to date, let alone to support any
damage claim with evidence,” Kaplan said in his ruling Jan. 6.  Chevron was ordered on Feb. 14 to pay as much as $18
billion in compensatory and punitive damages for Texaco Inc.’s
alleged dumping of toxic drilling wastes in the Ecuadorean
jungle from 1964 to about 1992. The ruling came in an 18-year-
old lawsuit decided by a judge in Lago Agrio, a provincial
capital near the Colombian border.  While Kaplan blocked the collection of the Ecuadorean
judgment in March, a federal appeals panel in September tossed
that ruling. The appeals court hasn’t issued a full opinion in
the matter.  Chevron denies wrongdoing in the Lago Agrio lawsuit. The
company says Texaco cleaned up its share of the pollution at its
former oil fields, which were taken over by PetroEcuador,
Ecuador’s state-owned oil company. Chevron says it was released
from any future liability by an agreement between Texaco and
Ecuador.  Kent Robertson , a spokesman for Chevron, said in an e-mail
that “we appreciate the court’s prompt response to our motion.
The court decided the motion on very narrow grounds and did not
question the strength of Chevron’s fraud evidence. Clearly the
court has left the door open to a future attachment filing.  We
look forward to the balance of our racketeering case proceeding
and remain committed to holding the plaintiffs’ lawyers
accountable for their misconduct.”  Karen Hinton, a U.S. spokeswoman for the Ecuadorean
plaintiffs, said in an e-mail that “it is clear that Chevron’s
motion had no legal basis and was designed yet again to distract
attention from the company’s fraudulent misconduct in Ecuador as
well as its obligation to clean up its toxic waste in Ecuador’s
Amazon that threatens the lives of thousands of people.”  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, District of New York (Manhattan). The case
in Ecuador is Maria Aquinda v. Chevron, 002-2003, Superior Court
of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Koskie, Siskinds to Lead Class-Action Suit Against Sino-Forest  Koskie Minsky LLP and Siskinds LLP won approval from an
Ontario judge to lead an investor class-action lawsuit against
 Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and its executives, according to court
documents.  Ontario Superior Court Judge Paul Perell announced the
decision Jan. 6 in a 57-page judgment. Four firms competed to be
the lead counsel in a class action.  Sino-Forest, a China timber producer, dropped 74 percent in
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange after Carson Block, a
short seller, said in June the company had overstated its forest
plantation assets. The company, with $1.8 billion in bonds
outstanding, has been suspended from share trading since August
and denies the allegations.  Richard Chandler, a billionaire investor whose investment
company owns 19 percent of Sino-Forest according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, said the timber company needs to change
its chief executive officer and appoint new directors.  The law firms are seeking damages on behalf of buyers of
Sino-Forest shares and bonds in both the primary and the
secondary markets, said Dimitri Lascaris, a lawyer at Siskinds,
by e-mail Jan. 6.  The firms expect to present a motion for certification of
their class-action suit within three months, said Kirk Baert, a
lawyer at Koskie, in a telephone interview.  The case is trustees of the Labourers’ Pension Fund of
Central and Eastern Canada v. Sino-Forest, 11-CV-431153CP,
Superior Court of Justice (Ontario).  Court Filings  CMBS Holders Alleging ‘Brazen Scheme’ Most Popular Docket  A suit by a group of commercial-mortgage backed securities
investors accusing a junior lender and other parties, of a
“brazen scheme” to steal more than $60 million from
bondholders, was the most-read litigation docket on the
Bloomberg Law system last week.  The investors, three collateralized debt obligations and
TCG Holdings I LLC, hold pieces of a $1.26 billion deal sold by
Credit Suisse Group AG in 2007, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
analysts led by Richard Hill wrote in a report Dec. 29. They are
seeking to block Galante Holdings Inc. from purchasing a $150
million loan on the J.W. Marriott Summerlin Hotel, Resort, Spa
and Casino in Las Vegas, according to the court filing.  The suit names TriMont Real Estate Advisors as the so-
called special servicer. Special servicers, firms that handle
troubled property loans packaged into securities, have the
option to buy defaulted loans provided the value is deemed fair.
The lawsuit claims that Galante, which owns $10 million in
junior debt against the property, “conspired” with the
servicer to purchase the debt for less than it’s worth,
according to the RBS analysts.  The case is Cedarwoods CRE CDO II Ltd. v. Galante Holdings
Inc., 11-653624, New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan (New
York County).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 