-- Foreigners Seek Haven in London Luxury Homes
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-01-09T11:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/london-s-luxury-house-prices-advance-as-overseas-buyers-compete-for-haven.html
Luxury-home prices in central  London 
gained for a 14th consecutive month in December as overseas
buyers sought safer investments and competed for a smaller
number of properties for sale, Knight Frank LLP said.  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.7
million pounds ($5.7 million) rose by an average of 0.8 percent
from a month earlier, the London-based broker said in a report
today. Prices are 7 percent higher the previous peak in March
2008.  “Demand for prime London property in 2011, despite
uncertainty resulting from the euro-zone debt crisis and ongoing
global economic uncertainty, outpaced supply and led to strong
price performance,”  Liam Bailey , head of residential research,
said in the report.  Leaders of countries sharing the euro currency have been
struggling to rein in a debt crisis that began with  Greece  in
2009 and has spread to Italy. The  International Monetary Fund 
will probably cut its forecast for global economic growth as the
crisis worsens, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last
week.  London luxury-home values rose 12.1 percent in the year
through December, the smallest 12-month gain in three months.
Prime central-London prices have risen around 40 percent since
the market’s low in March 2009, Knight Frank said. U.K. home
prices overall fell 0.9 percent in December to a 30-month low,
according to a Jan. 6 report by Halifax, a unit of  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   The Lancasters  The number of new instructions to sell in neighborhoods
such as Knightsbridge and Belgravia fell 6 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, Knight Frank said. The broker
didn’t specify the number of properties for sale.  “Tight supply has remained a feature of the prime central
London property market through 2011,” Camilla Dell, founder of
London-based  Black Brick Property Solutions LLP , said in a
separate report. “We see little reason why this might change
materially in 2012.”  Black Brick, which advises luxury-home buyers in southeast
England, said it helped a client acquire a 7.85 million-pound
apartment in The Lancasters development in December.  The Lancasters, a city block of 1850s townhouses
overlooking Hyde Park, was developed by  Northacre Plc. (NTA)   London has the most people in  Europe  with a net worth of
more than $30 million, according to  Wealth-X , a company that
works with banks and luxury brands to build a database of people
who together hold around $10.7 trillion.  The U.K. capital has 5,955 “ultra wealthy” people, more
than twice as many as Paris, which has 2,850, according to a
Wealth-X report. Zurich is third with 1,775.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 