-- Top Forecasters Split on Euro as No. 1 Wells Fargo Sees Drop
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-01-09T14:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/top-currency-forecasters-split-on-euro-as-no-1-wells-fargo-sees-2012-drop.html
The most accurate foreign-exchange
forecasters say the euro will depreciate against the dollar for
a third straight year, equaling its longest slump since its
creation in 1999, as  Europe  slips into recession.  Nick Bennenbroek , the head of currency strategy at  Wells
Fargo & Co ., who topped the list for the third time in five
quarters as measured by Bloomberg Rankings, expects the euro to
drop in the first six months to $1.24, from $1.2961 at the end
of 2011. Westpac Banking Corp., which has had the second-lowest
margin of error for two consecutive surveys, predicts $1.20, as
measures by the European Central Bank fail to keep the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis from worsening.  Two years after Greece admitted to misrepresenting its
 budget deficit , Europe’s debt crisis is infecting the region’s
biggest economies, just as the U.S. shows signs of
strengthening. Sovereign borrowing costs continue to soar even
after the ECB, which meets this week, cut interest rates twice
in the last two months.  “The  European Central Bank  will continue to ease
aggressively in 2012 as recession approaches in Europe and the
U.S. numbers remain resilient,” Bennenbroek said during a Jan.
4 telephone interview in New York. “All the fundamentals
strongly argue for euro weakness.”  Worst Performer  The euro strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.2759 at 9:06 a.m.
in New York after dropping 1.9 percent to $1.2717 last week and
weakening from last year’s high of $1.4940 in May.  It depreciated 3.2 percent in 2011 and 6.5 percent in 2010,
and was the worst performing currency of 2011 versus nine
developed-nation counterparts as tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The 17-nation currency lost 2
percent after erasing a gain for the year as recently as
November as Greek and Italian lawmakers ousted their leaders,
according to the gauge.  The most-bearish forecaster sees the euro at $1.17, while
the most optimistic call is for a rally to $1.45 by mid-year.
The median of the 40 estimates is $1.30 by 2013.  Euro-area leaders’ attempts to solve the region’s debt
crisis continued today after a meeting between French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin.
The two leaders outlined the increased pace of their response to
the financial crisis which may see a new budget rulebook by Jan.
30, one month ahead of schedule. Euro-area finance chiefs
convene in Brussels on Jan. 23, with government leaders
gathering a week later.  Euro’s ‘Mirage’  ECB President  Mario Draghi , who succeeded  Jean-Claude Trichet  in November, offered unlimited three-year cash at 1
percent last month to persuade banks to keep providing credit to
the region. The injection helped bring down borrowing costs for
 Italy ,  Spain  and  Belgium .  “We would regard the recent stability in Europe as a
mirage and we expect growth to severely underperform even the
most bearish expectations as a combination of deleveraging,
austerity, huge confidence shock and tight financial conditions
all wreak havoc on the economy,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking in  New York , said in a
Jan. 4 telephone interview.  The European Commission cut its 2012 growth forecast by
more than half to 0.5 percent in November. The median estimate
of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News is for the region’s
economy to contract by 0.1 percent in each of the first two
quarters this year, while a separate survey shows the U.S
expanding 1.9 percent and 2.05 percent.  Margin of Error  Even with a euro forecast that bounced from $1.37 to $1.24
in 2011, Bennenbroek and Wells Fargo senior strategist Vassili Serebriakov’s core case of superior U.S. growth gained them the
best overall margin of error of 3.98 percent across 13 currency
pairs in the six quarters ended Dec. 31.  That was the lowest since the survey began in the second
quarter of 2010, even though they didn’t place among the top
five most accurate euro strategists.  Westpac, the fourth most-accurate euro-dollar forecaster,
expects the shared currency to weaken through December as the
ECB lowers interest rates from 1 percent to about zero and the
possibility of  Greece  exiting the euro resurfaces.  “It’s a cataclysmic scenario for Europe and an environment
where the euro trades very badly,” Franulovich said.  The ECB meets Jan. 12 and is predicted to leave rates
 unchanged (EURR002W)  after two consecutive reductions, according to the
median estimate of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., the
next two most-accurate, see the euro rebounding by June as the
ECB keeps the debt crisis from worsening. National Australia
Bank Ltd., which rounds out the top five, expects no change.  Recovery Scenario  The ECB will step up purchases of bonds from nations whose
borrowing costs are rising to unsustainable levels as
governments institute fiscal reforms, according to John Normand,
the London-based global head of currency strategy at JPMorgan.  “The ECB will not make a bargain explicit, but I suspect
they will increase debt purchases if reform legislation is
implemented,” Normand said in a Jan. 5 telephone interview.
Coupled with lower  interest rates , “the euro should stabilize,
then rebound,” said Normand, who expects the euro to gain to
$1.34 by the end of the second quarter.  Italy, Spain Austerity  Mario Monti, the former EU commissioner who became Italy’s
prime minister in November, spent his first month in office
enacting 30 billion euros ($38 billion) in austerity and growth
measures aimed at taming the world’s third-largest debt  load (ITDGRATE) .  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, whose party ousted
the Socialist Party in November’s elections, announced 14.9
billion euros of spending cuts and tax increases on Dec. 3.
Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos, committed his government
to reform and said last week that cuts in income are the only
way to stay in the euro.  JPMorgan, based in New York, slipped to third place in the
rankings from first last quarter as an expanding U.S. economy
damped speculation that the  Federal Reserve  would further ease
monetary policy, hurting the dollar.  Housing,  consumer confidence  and manufacturing data
exceeded analysts’  estimates (CESIUSD)  in the final months of 2011. The
economy added 200,000 jobs in December, reducing the
 unemployment rate  to 8.5 percent, the lowest level since
February 2009, the Labor Department said Jan. 6.  European leaders’ Dec. 9 pledge to form a fiscal union,
“and getting over the first-quarter hump of refinancing by
several of the euro-zone countries may give some room for a
return of risk appetite, which explains the profile we have for
euro-dollar to stabilize into the middle of this year,”
Emmanuel Ng, a currency strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking in
 Singapore , said Jan. 5 in a telephone interview.  ‘Looser Monetary Policy’  Oversea-Chinese Banking was the fourth-most accurate
forecaster for the second consecutive quarter and had the
second-lowest margin of error on the euro versus the dollar. It
expects the euro strengthen to $1.35 by year end.  “The differential between the economic performance of the
U.S. and Europe will contribute to some negativity on the
European currency,”  Rob Henderson , chief economist for markets
at fifth-ranked National Australia Bank, said by phone from
Sydney on Jan. 5. “We also expect that the ECB will in one way
or another be running looser monetary policy whereas the Fed is
pretty comfortable at the moment with keeping policy where it
is, so that’s another negative for the Europeans.”  National Australian forecasts the euro ending the current
quarter at $1.25.  Strategists were ranked according to the accuracy of their
estimates for 13 currency pairs in each of six quarters
beginning with the three months ended Dec. 31. To test long-term
accuracy, Bloomberg Rankings added one annual forecast, which
was made in December 2010 for December 2011.  Only firms with at least four forecasts for a particular
currency pair were ranked, and only those that qualified in at
least eight of 13 pairs were included in the ranking of best
overall predictors. Thirty-six firms qualified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  