-- Top Rupee Forecasters See Rebound on Bond Inflows After Rout: India Credit
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-01-10T03:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/top-rupee-forecasters-see-rebound-on-bond-inflows-after-rout-india-credit.html
International investment in  India ’s
bonds will rise this year as policy makers rein in inflation,
boosting the rupee after 2011’s 16 percent slump, according to
the most-accurate forecasters for the currency.  The rupee will strengthen 4 percent to 51 per dollar by the
end of 2012, according to ING Vysya Bank Ltd., the local unit of
the biggest Dutch financial services company and the most-
accurate forecaster as measured by Bloomberg Rankings in the six
quarters through December. The currency will gain 5.1 percent to
50.50, according to Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., which ranked
second.  International investors boosted their  ownership  of rupee-
denominated notes by $1.6 billion this month to $27.7 billion
after government data showed food prices fell for the first time
on record in the week ended Dec. 24. The 8.20 percent yield on
the nation’s 10-year securities is more than four times that on
 U.S. Treasuries (USGG10YR)  and almost five percentage points more than
similar-maturity Chinese debt.  “There will be a revival in sentiment and that should
bring in money,” Upasna Bhardwaj, a Mumbai-based economist at
ING Vysya Bank, said in an interview on Jan. 6. “We continue to
see investments on the debt side as inflation slows, and Indians
living overseas should also contribute to inflows to benefit
from higher  interest rates .”  Global funds bolstered holdings of India’s bonds by $3.9
billion last month, the biggest increase on record, as the
central bank said in a  statement  on Dec. 16 that policy makers
“are likely to reverse the monetary policy cycle” to support
growth after seven interest-rate increases in 2011. The inflows
have contributed to a 1.6 percent advance in the rupee this
month, the best performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Estimated Returns  The rupee, which gained 0.4 percent to 52.33 per dollar
today in Mumbai, will end 2012 at 50, according to the median of
21 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The currency will return 15
percent, including interest, the strategists predict. That
compares with estimated total returns of 18 percent on  Brazil ’s
real, 10 percent on  Russia ’s ruble and 4.1 percent for  China ’s
yuan.  India’s benchmark government bonds have rallied this year,
after slumping in 2011, on speculation  inflation  is slowing in
Asia’s third-biggest economy. Wholesale prices rose 7.40 percent
in December from a year earlier, the least in two years,
according to the median forecast of 15 economists in a Bloomberg
survey before government data due on Jan. 16.  Bonds Rally  Prices of food articles fell 3.36 percent from a year
earlier in the week through Dec. 24, the first drop since
Bloomberg started compiling the data in April 2006. Food prices
have a weighting of about 14 percent in the nation’s inflation
basket.  The yield on India’s benchmark 8.79 percent notes due in
November 2021 rose two basis points today to 8.22 percent today,
according to the central bank’s trading system. The  yield  on 10-
year notes, which rose 65 basis points last year, has slid 38
basis points in 2012.  India’s bonds have outperformed their regional peers this
month following the slump in yields. Rupee-denominated notes
have returned 1.27 percent in January, the best performance
among 10 Asian local-currency debt markets monitored by HSBC
Holdings Plc. The  difference  in yields between India’s
securities due in a decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries
was 621 basis points today, compared with a record-high 697
basis points reached on Nov. 9.  Current Account  There are signs inflation will slow to 6 percent or 7
percent “in the coming months,” Finance Minister  Pranab
Mukherjee  said in a speech in Mumbai on Jan. 7. Price increases
will moderate to around 7 percent by March, in line with the
 Reserve Bank  of India’s estimate, according to ING Vysya Bank’s
Bhardwaj.  “Inflation will be contained into 2012,” supporting fund
flows into the nation’s bonds, Emmanuel Ng, a currency
strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., said in an
interview on Jan. 5. “So once we have an improvement in risk
appetite, the rupee will respond fairly well as inflows
improve.”  The margin of error on Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.’s
rupee forecast was 2.26 percent, while ING’s was 2.17 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s current-account deficit and rising  oil prices  will
weigh on the rupee, according to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest lender by market value.  ‘Unfavorable’ Factors  The  shortfall  in the broadest measure of trade was $16.89
billion in the three months through September, compared with
$16.90 billion touched in the year-earlier period. Crude-oil
prices have climbed 2.8 percent in 2012 after rising 8.2 percent
in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Both factors helped
contribute to the rupee’s 2011 slide, the worst performance
among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies.  “In India’s case, they face both unfavorable cyclical and
structural factors,” Leong Sook Mei, the Singapore-based
regional head of global currency research at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ, said in an interview yesterday. “That’s why we
have been bearish on the rupee. Oil prices have stayed
relatively resilient, pressuring the current account even
further.”  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi predicts the rupee will weaken to
55 per dollar by the end of June before recovering to 51 by the
end of the year.  The  cost  of protecting the debt of  State Bank  of India, the
nation’s biggest bank that some investors consider a proxy for
the sovereign, is rising as  Europe ’s credit crisis dims the
allure of emerging-market assets.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps on the lender cost 405 basis
points on Jan. 6, the most since March 2009, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets. The
swaps, which were unchanged yesterday, pay the buyer face value
for the underlying securities should a company fail to adhere to
its debt agreements.  India’s benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares has gained this
year on speculation policy makers will reduce borrowing costs.
The index, which slid 25 percent in 2011, has rallied 2.9
percent in 2012. The Reserve Bank will cut its 8.5 percent
benchmark  repurchase rate  by 150 basis points in 2012, according
to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Barclays Capital , the third-most accurate rupee forecaster
tracked by Bloomberg, predicts the currency will climb 11
percent to 48 by year-end. The rupee will advance 3.2 percent to
51.4 this year, according to Westpac Banking Corp., ranked at
the same level as Barclays among Bloomberg’s most-accurate rupee
forecasters.  “We think inflation will come down this year, which should
give the RBI some room to cut rates in the second half of the
year and that should support investment,” Nick Verdi, a
currency analyst at Barclays in  Singapore , said in an interview
on Jan. 6. “These factors should serve to stem some of the
rupee’s weakness we have seen recently.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  