-- Morgan Stanley’s Grossman Succeeds Barron in Top Legal Role
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-01-09T19:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/morgan-stanley-s-grossman-succeeds-barron-as-chief-legal-officer.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s chief legal officer,
Frank Barron, is leaving this year and will be succeeded by Eric Grossman, who was most recently global head of legal.  “To ensure a seamless transition, I have asked Frank to
remain ‘of counsel’ to the firm through mid-year,” Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said today in an internal
memo to employees. “Frank will step down from the Operating
Committee but remain on the Management Committee until his
departure.” Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, confirmed the memo’s contents.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
hired Barron, 60, in July 2010 after  Gary Lynch , then the firm’s
chief legal officer, said he planned to leave. Grossman, 44, had
been a candidate for Lynch’s job before Barron, a litigation
partner at  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP (1187L) , joined the bank, a
person briefed on the matter said last year. Grossman joined
Morgan Stanley in 2006 and is a former partner at  Davis Polk &
Wardwell (1149L) .  Michael Stein, the Washington-based global head of
government relations, will report to Chief Operating Officer  Jim Rosenthal  instead of to Barron, according to the memo.
Rosenthal’s responsibilities include corporate communications
and community affairs, Gorman said in the memo.  Grossman worked in Davis Polk & Wardwell’s litigation
department, where he helped defend financial institutions
accused of violating securities laws, said Lynch, now Bank of
America Corp.’s head of legal, compliance and regulatory
relation. The two worked together at the  law firm  before Lynch
became Morgan Stanley’s chief legal officer, later hiring
Grossman.  Darryl Strawberry’s Agent  At Morgan Stanley, Grossman and Lynch worked together on
Morgan Stanley’s lawsuit over its separation agreement with
Discover Financial Services, which the bank spun off in 2007.
They also defended the lender in an almost $1.6 billion lawsuit
by financier Ron Perelman over the sale of Coleman Co. to one of
the firm’s clients, Lynch said in a phone interview.  Grossman also moonlighted as an agent for former Major
League Baseball player Darryl Strawberry shortly after he joined
Davis Polk & Wardwell in 1994, according to Robert Fiske, a
partner at the firm.  “He has a very good ability to take a very difficult
complex situation and analyze it and figure out what are the
important issues that will come out of that,” Fiske said in a
phone interview.  Morgan Stanley is a client of Davis Polk & Wardwell, Fiske
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 