-- Morgan Stanley’s Lynch Said to Be Among London Departures
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o ,   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-01-09T17:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/morgan-stanley-s-lynch-said-to-leave-as-head-of-european-credit.html
Patrick Lynch, the head of European
credit sales and trading at  Morgan Stanley, (MS)  was among a number
of departures at the bank in  London , two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  Fernando Ortega, the head of emerging-market fixed-income
sales and trading, Amanda Webb on the securitization sales desk
and Janko Nedic, a salesman for collateralized loan obligations,
also left, two other people said separately.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
said last month it planned to cut 1,600 jobs amid an
industrywide drop in revenue from  investment banking  and
trading. The figure amounts to about 2.6 percent of the New
York-based bank’s employees at the end of September, and the job
losses will take place in the first quarter at all levels.  “Morgan Stanley after 2008 really hasn’t come back,” said
 Jason Kennedy , the chief executive officer of London-based
recruiter the Kennedy Group. “The big salaries are so high at
that level. They’ve got to thin out and they’re cleaning house
of the old regime.”  Lynch didn’t reply to a text message to his cell phone.
Calls to Webb, Nedic and Ortega at Morgan Stanley’s offices
weren’t returned.  Sebastian Howell and  Hugh Fraser , spokesmen for the U.S.
bank in London, declined to comment.  High-Yield Desk  Lynch, 42, moved to London from the bank’s high-yield desk
in  New York  to help build Morgan Stanley’s European distressed
debt group before the subprime crisis. He was relocated to  Hong
Kong  in 2007 to head the Asian corporate credit group, before
coming back to London in 2008.  Morgan Stanley’s revenue from trading and investment-
banking dropped 36 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months, excluding accounting adjustments. The
bank  lost (MS)  34 percent of its market value since July 21, with its
shares ending last week at $15.90.  “We will continue to see job cuts in the banking sector
this year as cost control will be one of the top priorities,”
said  Simon Adamson , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in London.
“Investment banking will be a high-risk area because it’s
facing cyclical pressure and a permanent shift in its business
model.”  The cost of insuring Morgan Stanley’s debt more than
doubled in the same period, with credit-default swaps tied to
the lender jumping to 380 basis points, from 169, according to
CMA. The contracts climbed to a three-year high of 583 Oct. 3.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  