-- Morrison Holiday Sales Growth Slows More Than Estimated
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-09T09:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/morrison-sales-growth-slows-more-than-estimated-over-christmas.html
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW) ,
the smallest of the U.K.’s four main food retailers, said sales
growth slowed over Christmas as competitors fought harder for
business, and forecast that 2012 will be tougher than last year.  Revenue at stores open at least a year rose 0.7 percent,
excluding fuel and value-added tax, in the six weeks ended Jan.
1, the Bradford, England-based company said today. That compares
with the third-quarter’s 2.4 percent gain and missed the 1
percent median estimate of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Morrison maintained its profit forecast for the year ending
this month, while predicting a more difficult 2012 characterized
by “low-to-negative” selling volume and constrained  consumer
spending . The grocer also has to contend with discounting by
competitors such as  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , which extended its Big Price Drop
campaign over Christmas. Supermarkets held price promotions on
more than 40 percent of goods over the holiday, Morrison said.  “Like-for-like sales growth is slightly disappointing by
Morrison’s high standards,” said  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at
Panmure Gordon. Still, he doesn’t expect any change in consensus
estimates and kept a “hold” recommendation on the stock.  Market consensus for annual pretax profit is 920 million
pounds ($1.4 billion) to 925 million pounds, Finance Director
Richard Pennycook said on a conference call.  Morrison shares were little changed at 311.5 pence at 8:56
a.m. in London trading. They’ve risen 15 percent in a year.  Falling Volume  “It was a solid Christmas, in line with the market, and
it’s been a very tough market, a very aggressive market,” Chief
Executive Officer Dalton Philips said a call with journalists.
“ Consumer confidence  continues to be very low.”  Shoppers are buying one item less per basket, according to
Philips, with the volume of sales declining across the market.  The percentage of sales in the seven days before Christmas
rose by more than a quarter compared with the previous two years
as shoppers delayed purchases until nearer the holiday, he said.  Morrison is the first of the four main U.K. supermarkets to
announce Christmas sales.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  is scheduled to report
on Jan. 11 and market leader Tesco a day later. Industry revenue
rose 5.5 percent in the four weeks ended Dec. 24, market
researcher Nielsen said in a Jan. 6 report.  Morrison has added an own-brand entry-level range called M
Savers, an M Kitchen range of chef-produced ready-meals and
opened stores to build sales as consumers’ budgets were hurt by
food-price inflation and concern about the economy.  Turkey Stuffing  The CEO said “nostalgia was back” this Christmas.
Shoppers bought 9 percent more fresh turkeys instead of frozen
ones as they delayed purchases until closer to the holiday.
Sales of turkey stuffing rose 30 percent. The volume of
sparkling wine sold by Morrison over the holiday increased by
156 percent, compared with a 7 percent drop for champagne.  Shoppers returned to “traditional favorites because they
just don’t want to risk anything in these economic times,” the
CEO said.  Pennycook declined to comment on a report in the Sunday
Telegraph newspaper that Morrison is in advanced talks with
Carphone Warehouse Group Plc to acquire 11 Best Buy stores to
expand its Kiddicare online children’s clothing range to stores.  “We have ambitions for that business, we want to grow
it,” he said of Kiddicare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  