-- Tough Dilemmas for Companies on Campaign Spending
-- B y   B e n   W .   H e i n e m a n   J r .
-- 2012-01-09T14:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/tough-dilemmas-for-companies-on-campaign-spending.html
     Should companies use funds from the corporate treasury to
advocate directly for or against political candidates in
contested elections?  This basic question — now made immediate with the opening
of the election season in the Iowa caucuses — raises dilemmas
for boards and business leaders:  -Should we adopt detailed governance rules or keep
decisions informal and in a small group?   -Should we be passive and avoid such spending, or be active
and get involved in partisan politics?   -Should we voluntarily disclose all expenditures or keep
expenditures hidden unless disclosure is required by law?   -Should we support generally moderate candidates who can
compromise on major structural issues facing the U.S., or
narrow, even ideological candidates who will advocate for
issues of immediate concern to the corporation?  These are some of the most salient issues of campaign
finance facing CEOs and boards of directors as the nation
heads into what will certainly be a bitter election year, with
both houses of Congress and the Presidency up for grabs. As
well, it is a time of political gridlock on major
social, economic and budgetary issues, and the choices leaders
make pose real risks and opportunities —
financial, legal, reputational and political — for companies.  The issues arise in the wake of the  Supreme Court 's 2010
decision in Citizens United v. Federal Communications
Commission which declared unconstitutional the provisions of
the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (McCain-Feingold)
that had prohibited corporations and unions from paying
directly for ads even if those ads were made independently of
a candidate's campaign.  Prior to Citizens United, most major corporations
participated in campaign finance through employee funded
Political Action Committees (PACs) which are legally
authorized to make direct contributions to candidates under
strict limits (e.g. $5,000 per election). Now, in addition to
such limited employee PAC contributions, corporations can use
unlimited company funds for either (a) "independent
expenditures" which support or oppose a particular
candidate, or (b) "electioneering communications" which may
mention a candidate favorably or unfavorably in a discussion
of campaign issues but which do not expressly advocate
election or defeat.  This power in corporations (and unions) to make unlimited
expenditures independent of campaigns has spawned a robust
ideological debate: does it constitute freedom of speech and
advocacy, or does it distort the American political culture
and invite corruption. But underneath the contentious issues
of corporate free speech lie equally fundamental questions for
each company about its positions on first order public policy
issues which affect the strength of American society and the
American economy.  Let me offer some perspective, if not definitive
positions, on each of these tough new dilemmas raised by
direct expenditures from corporate treasuries after  Citizens
United  (putting employee PAC issues to the side as largely
unchanged from past practice):  Adopt and Publish Governance Measures  Given the importance of independent expenditures or
electioneering communications, corporations would clearly be
wise to have governance procedures that, among other things:
ensure compliance with applicable law; make clear that funds
are to be used for the good of the corporation not for goals
of individual officers; demarcate a high level group of
business leaders who will make such decisions; delineate
principles, policies and priorities which will guide such
decisions in the particular election cycle (such positions may
be set forth in the public policy section of a company's
citizenship report); have a systematic process for submission
and approval of funding requests; audit both adherence to law
and to company policy; and ensure that a board committee, or
the board itself, oversees these core aspects of corporate
campaign finance. Such procedures seem unexceptionable to me
as a standard means of ensuring due care is taken on important
corporate decisions. More than half of the S&P 100 have
instituted such governance measures, but this trend does not
appear to be taking hold with smaller public companies. (See
the website of the Center for Political Accountability)  Avoid Direct Expenditures Altogether  Some major corporations — such as Pfizer and UPS — have
taken the position that they will not use corporate funds
directly either for independent expenditures or for
electioneering communications. The reasons for this abnegation
include the following: a desire to avoid being constantly
battered on all sides for campaign funds by activists
associated with candidates or causes; a desire to avoid being
caught up in the intensely partisan nature of our current
electoral battles, and to present a non-partisan face to
national constituencies across the political spectrum; a lack
of skill in political advertising; and an understanding that
corporate funds may be more effectively spent developing and
advocating public policy positions after elections in the
Congress, the Executive, the regulatory agencies and the
courts. When I was at GE, before Citizens United, we chose not
to use corporate funds for "soft money/issue ads" for
precisely these reasons (and the company today expressly
states it will not engage directly in independent
expenditures).  Disclose Company's Own Political Spending  If a company chooses to use its own funds for direct
campaign spending, the issue raised in many shareholder
proposals is whether such corporations should — in addition to
the governance procedures noted above — issue a comprehensive
report which lists in one place all the recipients both of
such direct spending and of contributions made from the
company's employee PAC. Such a report would aggregate legally
required individual reports — and any other campaign funding —
to afford stakeholders a consistent and comprehensive
overview. Again, more than half the S&P 100 have committed to
the issuance of such a report, although precise details (such
as frequency) may differ. I believe that such spending is an
important dimension of a corporation's activity and should be
disclosed. Put another way, in an open society where long-term
corporate performance is built on trust among its various
constituencies, it is difficult to defend hiding such direct
corporate action (or forcing stakeholders to piece information
together from myriad reports), even though a comprehensive
report may cause stakeholder or media scrutiny and criticism.
Upholding disclosure requirements in Citizens United, Justice
Kennedy stated that "prompt disclosure of expenditures can
provide shareholders and citizens with information needed to
hold corporations....accountable."  Disclosing Policy and Spending for Trade Associations  This is the area of greatest controversy. Much of the direct
spending for or against a candidate independent of a
politician's campaign is carried out by so-called social
welfare organizations or trade associations established as
non-profits under the tax laws (sections 501(c)(4) and
501(c)(6)). Other direct spending on "issues" to influence an
election is undertaken by so-called "527 organizations," which
are also set up under the tax laws. Under long-standing
policy, the IRS does not disclose the donors to these
organizations. Thus, corporations can, through dues or other
donations, keep their identities hidden when such tax-exempt
organizations engage in direct campaign spending. The
involvement of individual corporations is also hidden when
those entities organized under the tax laws give money to
so-called "Super PACs" which are of looming importance in this
election. The Super PACs are organized under the Federal
Election Law; can raise and spend unlimited political funds so
long as they do not "coordinate" with formal campaigns; and
have to reveal only the umbrella organizations, not individual
corporations, that give them money. The obvious benefit of
such organizational spending for corporations is that it
aggregates resources, but the risk is that a trade association
may support candidates whose basic positions are at odds with
the public positions of the company.  The limiting cases on trade association policy and
disclosure are companies that seek to prohibit trade
associations from using dues for campaign spending
altogether, (see, e.g. Wells Fargo) or, on the other
hand, companies that let such associations do as they wish. A
handful of corporations seek a middle ground. They may seek
more information about association political
activities, including how much of a company's dues are spent
on politics, and disclose that. Alternatively, they may simply
report if their dues to a trade association active in campaign
spending exceed a certain threshold — say, $25,000. (See, e.g.
Merck) Generally, such trade association disclosure is
sporadic — even among companies who issue reports on their own
actions — and often opaque.  Ultimately, public policy must change if there is to be
consistent disclosure of specific corporate donors by trade
associations and Super PACs. It makes little sense that
organizations regulated by the  Federal Election Commission 
have to disclose campaign donors, but associations regulated
by the IRS do not, when those associations are active in
campaign spending — and contributing to Super PACs. The SEC
has a petition before it on requiring uniform disclosure on
campaign finance for all publicly held companies, but, given
Dodd-Frank overload and partisan rancor about its role in
general, the SEC is unlikely to act on this anytime soon
(certainly not in this election cycle). The chances of
Congressional action on this issue in 2012 are zero.  Shareholder Proposals on Information Requests Only  Shareholder proposals have rightly played an important role
in prodding companies both to adopt governance measures and to
disclose campaign spending, often following a model developed
by the Center for Political Accountability. The percentage of
votes cast in favor of such "procedural" proposals has been
increasing with each succeeding proxy season (an average of
20% from 2004-2010 and an average of 30% in 2011, with eight
over 40%). But, in my view, it would be a serious mistake to
give shareholders a vote (advisory or otherwise) on companies'
campaign spending. (Such proposals are being submitted at a
few companies this year and a bill to this effect, following
UK precedent, has been introduced in Congress, albeit with no
prospect of success.) This could turn annual meetings into
heated political contests over what is, essentially, a complex
business judgment. If shareholders do not like the
corporation's position on public policy or candidate
support/opposition, they can withhold votes from directors and
deny them the majority of votes cast which are necessary at
most corporations today for automatic re-election.  At the end of the day, important as governance procedures
and disclosure policies are, they should not obscure the
fundamental question boards and business leaders must address:
What are the corporation's substantive and detailed policy
positions on critical issues facing the nation?
Obviously, those policy positions will guide both campaign
spending and advocacy before governmental institutions, and
each company will have to make its own decisions about those
substantive positions.  But, I would end with this thought. Unless we have a
political system capable of addressing our nation's most basic
issues, we are doomed to decline. No set of issues is more
fundamental than resolving our acute fiscal imbalance and
putting in place policies to create economic growth. Our
current fractured, polarized and demagogic political system
makes compromise on such policies close to impossible. For
example, many business people in the Fortune 500 would broadly
support the "Simpson-Bowles" solution to the budget deficits
set forth in December 2010 as a fair "sharing of the pain."
Yet, Simpson-Bowles has many controversial, painful provisions
which can only pass with bipartisan support — from elimination
of tax benefits (home owners deduction, non-tax of employee
health plans) to defense cuts to changes in Medicare and
Social Security to individual  tax reform . It is DOA in the
current Congress.  Were I still in business and still deeply involved in
decisions about public policy, my fundamental criterion in
this election would be for companies to use fully disclosed
and accounted for employee PAC funds to support moderates
(from either party) who could work to find, not
block, solutions to our related deficit and growth issues. The
ultimate campaign spending dilemma facing corporations, in my
view, is how to find and support such candidates in a year
which — due in no small part to inflammatory and unlimited
campaign spending — is more likely to exacerbate partisanship
than moderate it.  Ben Heineman has held senior positions in
business, law, and government, is a senior fellow at Harvard's
Law and Kennedy Schools, and is author
of High Performance With High Integrity (Harvard Business
Press, 2008).
 