-- Pacific Brands in Talks With KKR Following Unsolicited Takeover Approach
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-01-10T05:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/pacific-brands-in-talks-with-kkr-following-unsolicited-takeover-approach.html
KKR & Co., the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is in talks with  Pacific
Brands Ltd. (PBG)  over a possible buyout, sending  shares  of the
Australian apparel maker to the biggest gain in six months.  Pacific Brands, which holds the rights to the Everlast,
Clarks and Bonds brands, rose 14 percent after saying it had
been approached by KKR. No price was disclosed. The Melbourne-
based company’s  market value  was A$584 million ($602 million) at
the close of trade in Sydney.  “It is trading at a very cheap multiple,” said Tony
Wilson, an analyst at Melbourne-based Evans and Partners.
“There’s an opportunity there to develop an online business and
extend some of their own retail operations. It may be that to
take full advantage of that they’re better off in private equity
hands.”  Pacific Brands, which manufactures and wholesales
underwear, footwear and other clothing, has the second-lowest
price to sales ratio in the 26 member  S&P/ASX 200 Consumer
Discretionary index , according to Bloomberg data. The value of
acquisitions in the global apparel sector in 2011 fell by a
quarter to $3.44 billion, and no deal worth more than $500
million has been announced since VF Corp.’s $2 billion bid for
Timberland Co. in June last year.  Share Slump  Pacific Brands had fallen more than 80 percent since its
 peak  in July 2007, and slipped 42 percent over the past 12
months to yesterday as it was hit by rising cotton prices and a
decision by Wesfarmers Ltd.-owned discount store Kmart to stop
stocking some of its products. The shares climbed 8 Australian
cents to 64 cents in Sydney trading today.  The consumer index slumped 3.3 percent over the past month
amid signs of stalling retail sales and warnings from Billabong
International Ltd., JB Hi-Fi Ltd., and Kathmandu Holdings Ltd.
of weak pre-Christmas sales.  “The reports of  KKR (KKR) ’s approach are the first from private
equity in retail for many months,” Craig Woolford, an analyst
at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney, wrote in a note to clients. “Is
this a signal about valuations?”  An acquisition may see Pacific Brands purchased for less
than it sold for 11 years ago when it was last taken private.
The company, built up as the consumer division of defunct
conglomerate Pacific Dunlop, was acquired for A$730 million in
2001 by CVC Asia Pacific Ltd. and Catalyst Investment Managers
Pty. Its owners raised A$1.26 billion in a 2004 public offering.  More Deals  Takeovers in the retail industry involving Australian
companies more than doubled last year to $3.4 billion, the
highest for such deals since 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The figure for 2010 was $1.55 billion. The value of
all transactions involving Australian companies reached $141.4
billion last year, down from $149 billion in 2010, the data
show.  KKR increased acquisitions globally last year with 30
offers worth $15.2 billion, according to Bloomberg data, the
highest dollar amount since 2007. It offered an average premium
of 20 percent in 174 deals since 1988, the data shows.  KKR will need to overcome previous failed deals in
 Australia . The New York-based group made an attempted A$1.75
billion purchase of fund manager  Perpetual Ltd. (PPT)  in 2010 before
the parties failed to agree terms, and lost out to a group
including  Carlyle Group  and TPG Capital in a bid for hospital
operator Healthscope Ltd.  “There is no certainty that these discussions will lead to
any agreement being reached,” Pacific Brands said in a
regulatory statement today.  Ian Smith , an Adelaide-based spokesman for KKR, declined to
comment on the Pacific Brands statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  