-- Pakistan’s Rupee Falls to Record Low on Export, Growth Concerns
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-01-09T08:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/pakistan-s-rupee-falls-to-record-low-on-export-growth-concerns.html
Pakistan ’s rupee fell to a record low
against the dollar on concern the nation’s trade deficit will
climb from a 3 1/2-year high as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurts
demand for its exports.  The currency slid 0.3 percent, the most since Dec. 27,
before the Islamabad-based  Federal Bureau of Statistics 
publishes trade data for the last six months this week. The
value of overseas shipments fell  $2.2 billion (PTRDBAL)  below that of
imports in November, the widest gap since April 2008, official
data show. Pakistan cut last month its economic-growth forecast
for the year through June 2012 to 3.6 percent from 4.2 percent.  “The widening trade gap is the biggest concern for
investors, increasing pressure on the rupee,” said Sayem Ali, a
Karachi-based economist at  Standard Chartered  Plc. “It will
accelerate inflation and hurt growth further.”  The rupee dropped to 90.985 per dollar as of 12:59 p.m. in
Karachi, the weakest level at least since 1988, when Bloomberg
started tracking the data. It may fall to 95 by the end of June,
Standard Chartered’s Ali predicted.  The currency lost 4.9 percent last year as floods in August
forced more than 1 million people from their homes and damaged
crops in parts of southern Pakistan still recovering from 2010’s
worst ever monsoon inundations that devastated the region.  International Aid  The rupee also depreciated on concern foreign-exchange
supplies will shrink as international aid dwindles.  The U.S. held back $800 million in military assistance in
July out of $2 billion pledged for this fiscal year because of
disputes over how to combat terrorism. The  International
Monetary Fund  ceased aid in 2010 after the country failed to
meet loan conditions.  Relations with the U.S., Pakistan’s biggest export market,
soured after a U.S.-led NATO airstrike on the border with
 Afghanistan  killed 24 local troops in November. In response,
Pakistan closed border crossings to trucks carrying supplies for
U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan and ordered American troops to
vacate the Shamsi airbase in the country’s southwest that has
served as a launching point for Predator unmanned aircraft.  “The currency was quite stable before the airstrike and
tension with the U.S.,” said Malik Bostan, a spokesman for the
Karachi-based Forex Dealers Association. “The government will
have to limit its decline through the central bank, or it will
keep falling. It will accelerate inflation and will hurt the
already-dying industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan, at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 