-- Parisian in America Finding Redemption in Republican Campaign
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/parisian-in-america-finding-redemption-in-republican-campaign.html
In a French presidential campaign,
calling your opponent an “ultra liberal” is an easy and
effective attack. It works in the U.S. Republican primaries as
well, with a different meaning altogether.  The French use it to describe a supporter of unfettered
capitalism, or a believer in “Anglo-Saxon” values. For
Republicans, it’s a way of speaking about people like, well, me
and my 65 million French countrymen.  Traveling last week with U.S. journalists at a  community
center  in central New Hampshire, where presidential hopeful  Newt Gingrich  addressed a few dozen senior citizens, I took his
ultimate insult a bit personally. The threat facing American
citizens, it seems, is becoming like the French, the subject of
a “European bureaucratic socialist model.”  “In America, you are always a citizen and the government
is always your server,” Gingrich told the people of Plymouth.
“In the European model, you’re merely a subject. The government
is the center of power, and you are the servant.”  According to  Mitt Romney , the candidate leading in opinion
polls in New Hampshire’s first-in-the-nation Republican primary
election tomorrow, President  Barack Obama  wants the U.S. “to
turn into a European-styled welfare state,” a system that will
“never work” here.  Political Spectrum  Yes, we do think differently. As a French government
official joked privately when I left on my  New Hampshire 
mission, Republican candidates make supporters of French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , whose party is considered right wing
in France, feel like they could find some political space in the
U.S. to the left of Obama.  If it’s any comfort to Gingrich, though, French servants
are becoming more American. French voters are embracing primary
elections, a custom adopted by the two major political parties
in 2007. Last October, Socialists attracted almost 3 million
voters by opening the vote to non-party members.  Of course, we are a small player. To the French, the U.S.
primaries are a big “show a l’americaine:” a lot of money, a
lot of ads, a lot of media coverage for what feels more like the
actual presidential election than a step in the process.  Spin Room  The adjustment for a Parisian reporter can be brutal. Asked
to collect reaction from the candidates’ campaign teams after a
televised debate in Manchester, I followed other reporters to
the so-called “spin room.” I envisioned the venue as a cozy
salon, where we would converse with advisers, sitting on sofas
under dimmed lights.  The experience I found was closer to entering a brightly
lit supermarket on a Saturday, with dozens of reporters shopping
for quotes in all corners of a gymnasium. If not for bored-
looking young aides holding signs for each camp like a Japanese
tour guide, I never would have known where to start.  At their campaign events, the candidates have wives with
scarily perfect hairdos standing next to them and shaking hands
after speeches like they are the parents of the bride. I now
know about Jon Huntsman Jr.’s seven children, including an
adopted Chinese daughter whom he calls his senior foreign policy
adviser.  All this talk of family is as exotic as it gets for me. In
 France , politicians’ families are rarely seen campaigning.
Sarkozy’s then-wife didn’t accompany him to vote in the second
round of the 2007 election.  Weight of History  Yet for all the smart phones and frantic e-mailing of these
primaries, this is one of the rare moments since living in this
country when I have felt the weight of its history.  I’ve followed French candidates to visit factories or speak
with students. I’ve attended large political rallies where
 Francois Bayrou , the third man of the 2007 race, recited poetry
to 15,000 in a concert hall.  “Town-hall” meetings in the U.S. are a different
experience. Standing with 80 locals under the wooden roof of a
welcome center in the town of Lancaster, New Hampshire -- and
ignoring a dozen cameras -- I could imagine for a moment what
this country was like 200 years ago.  There is something moving to see citizens doing due
diligence, braving temperatures close to zero (Fahrenheit, of
course) or joining a mid-day meeting to hear a candidate.  Having lived a decade in Paris after being raised in the
French Alps, I find it heartening to see states like New
Hampshire in the spotlight with special access to candidates
once every four years thanks to the timing of the contests.  I come from a centralized country, where we all vote on the
same day, which is why you will never see Sarkozy or his
Socialist rival,  Francois Hollande , invest special effort in the
small towns of Brittany or Normandy.  Speech Recitals  Reporters on the campaign trail here know the candidates’
speeches so well they could probably fill in for them. No wonder
I was the only one raising eyebrows when Gingrich said  Iran  may
require the use of military force or when he called Obama the
president of  food stamps .  They also don’t have to worry about politicians’ accents,
or about words popping up in debates that they never heard
before. “Gobbledygook?” “Pious baloney?”  After giving me doubts about my command of English, the
experience made me more sympathetic to foreign correspondents in
France. After all, they once had to deal with former French
President Jacques Chirac speaking of an “abracadabrantesque”
story. Or with 2007 Socialist presidential candidate Segolene
Royal making up the word “bravitude.”  Invoking God  It also felt very foreign to hear Gingrich speak about the
special rights God gave American citizens. God is a banned word
in French politics. In a country that prides itself for its
secularity, mentioning religious values won’t take you very far.  That explains why most French people watch the Republican
primaries like a reality show happening on another planet.  As for the candidates’ economic platforms, I knew what to
expect so I was just glad I didn’t happen to attend a meeting
where  Europe  was bashed for its debt crisis on top of its
bureaucratic decadence.  I can’t complain, overall.  Being French may not have been an asset to approach
candidates, yet it didn’t hurt my reporting with voters. All
were friendly, in typical American fashion. My only rough
encounters have been with candidates’ spokesmen or with that
journalist who shouted at me for using a power outlet for my
BlackBerry that he had his eye on.  I also tried to joke about it.  “Where are you from?” a lady asked me in Plymouth.
“France,” I said, “I am one of these lazy Europeans.”  She laughed. “But where do you live now?”  “In the U.S., for the past 2½ years,” I said.  She smiled. I was on the path to redemption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Nashua, New Hampshire at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  