-- Park City Eatery Balks at Credit Card Fines in Rare Court Fight
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/park-city-eatery-balks-at-credit-card-fines-in-rare-court-fight.html
Stephen and Cissy McComb say they 
managed their Italian eatery in Park City, Utah, for more than 
two decades without running afoul of security rules of  Visa Inc. (V)  
and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  -- until they were accused of mishandling 
data and opening the door to $1.26 million in fraud.  The McCombs, who opened  Cisero’s  in 1985, are now in a
legal fight with the bank that processed their credit charges
and, indirectly, with what they say are card networks that
change rules without notice, impose unfair one-sided contracts
and allow the taking of money from merchants’ accounts with no
proof of fault.  The couple sued, saying they didn’t break MasterCard and
Visa rules, that there was no security lapse and that no acts of
fraud were specifically claimed. The fraud was conjured from
unexplained and unsupported data, they said in court papers
filed in state court in Park City. Their suit may be the first
court challenge to penalties under the card networks’ security
procedures, said one of their lawyers, W. Stephen Cannon.  It’s rare for banks and their processors to file a lawsuit
against a merchant, lawyers said.  “This case has the potential to send the message that
merchants can stick up for themselves in these relationships and
demonstrate that they’re correct and the bank has it wrong,”
said  Douglas Kantor , a lawyer at  Steptoe & Johnson LLP  in
 Washington  who isn’t involved in the litigation. “Merchants
essentially live in fear that they will be crushed by the card
companies and banks if there’s ever a dispute, and therefore
don’t dispute most of these things.”  Kantor is counsel to the Merchants Payments Coalition, a
group of more than 100 trade associations.  Merchants Critical  The McCombs aren’t alone in criticizing payment-card
industry, or PCI, rules, said Mallory B. Duncan, general counsel
of the  National Retail Federation  in Washington.  “There’s a suspicion among many merchants that PCI is a
near scam wrapped in good intentions,” Duncan said by phone
from Washington. “The dissatisfaction with PCI and the
financial consequences of it in the retail industry are
rampant.”  The McCombs are in litigation against  Elavon Inc. , an
Atlanta-based payment-processing company, and US Bank. Both are
units of US Bancorp,  Minnesota ’s largest bank.  Middleman  US Bancorp is a middleman in Cisero’s credit business, out
of sight of customers who may be aware only of Visa, MasterCard
and the banks that issue the cards. Worldwide spending on Visa
debit and credit cards in the quarter ended Sept. 30 was $970
billion. Worldwide spending on MasterCard- and Maestro-branded
cards was $469 billion.  More than 8 million U.S. merchants accept Visa and
MasterCard, said  David Boies , an attorney for American Express
Co., according to a company transcript of an October 2010
conference call with analysts and reporters.  As the so-called acquiring bank, US Bank provided Cisero’s
with access to payment networks and maintained an account from
which it paid the restaurant for credit-card purchases, the
McCombs said. Elavon processed the payments.  The McCombs  countersued  in August after  US Bancorp (USB)   sued
them  for $82,692 in fines imposed by Visa and MasterCard.  Teri Charest, a spokeswoman for US Bancorp, said in an
e-mail that the bank denied any liability will fight the
lawsuit.  Latest Dispute  The dispute is the latest in the contentious relationship
between merchants and the card networks.  In 2003, in a suit brought by Cannon’s firm, New York-based
 Constantine Cannon LLP , Visa and MasterCard agreed to pay $3
billion to settle claims they overcharged on debit-card swipe
fees.  Merchants last year successfully lobbied for federal
legislation limiting the debit fees. Trade groups and merchants
including the  National Restaurant Association  have filed an
antitrust suit against the networks in federal court in
 Brooklyn ,  New York  that is still pending.  Cisero’s, which does about $2 million a year in business,
is on Main Street in  Park City , a onetime silver-mining town
that’s home to ski resorts and  Robert Redford ’s  Sundance Film
Festival , the largest U.S. showcase for independent movies.  The restaurant, decorated in earth colors, has high-backed
upholstered booths in the dining room and a club with dancing in
the basement. The pasta is made from scratch.  Film Festival  Customers during the January film festival have included
actors  Russell Crowe ,  Ben Kingsley  and Sandra Bullock as well as
Redford, said Stephen McComb.  US Bancorp told Cissy McComb in March 2008 that credit
cards used at the restaurant may have been fraudulently used
elsewhere, according to court papers. It was the first she
learned of the card networks’ latest rules, Cissy McComb said.  “We find ourselves in a position to do nothing but defend
ourselves and try to change the way merchants are treated,” she
said.  Visa and MasterCard require the merchant to hire an
approved forensic examiner to investigate if an “account data
compromise” event occurred when they determine there may have
been a breach.  After the networks said cards fraudulently used in the area
had been used at Cisero’s, the restaurant had separate
investigations done by two examiners. They showed that no one
hacked into the restaurant’s computers, the McCombs said in
court papers.  Customer Data  Unknown to them, data on 8,107 customers’ accounts had been
stored in their computer system, they said. That was fewer than
the 10,000 threshold for a fine to be imposed under Visa’s rules
that certain customer data shouldn’t be stored on a merchant’s
computer, they said.  Visa later said 32,581 accounts were on Cisero’s computer,
without explaining how it got that number, according to the
McCombs.  MasterCard and Visa said Cisero’s violated their security
standards. They fined US Bancorp, which is seeking to recoup the
money from the restaurant in its lawsuit.  Visa decided the “actual fraud” was $1.26 million and
calculated Cisero’s total liability for noncompliance at $1.33
million, according to court papers. The restaurant’s “total
pre-cap liability” was put at $511,513, the couple said in
court papers, and ultimately Visa said Cisero’s owed $55,000.  “These various shifting numbers based on unexplained
calculations” show that the “process is little more than a
scheme to extract steep financial penalties from small
merchants,” Cisero’s said in court papers.  Fraudulent Cards  MasterCard said it could assess $100,000 against the
restaurant but was imposing only $15,000, they said. The card
company later added $13,850 in loss claims by issuing banks
based on fraudulent cards supposedly made with data stolen from
Cisero’s system, the McCombs said.  The couple denied any data was stolen from their system and
“were never given a meaningful opportunity to provide
evidence,” they said.  Denise Dunckel, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Visa,
and James Issokson, a spokesman for Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard, declined to comment on the lawsuit. Their companies
aren’t defendants in the case.  In September 2008, the McCombs found that US Bancorp was
taking money from its account, they said, with deductions
eventually reaching $10,172. To prevent further seizures, they
closed the account and found a new bank and processor, they
said.  Unauthorized Charges  “It was at the end of the month and we had to pay our
payroll,” Cissy McComb said. “Elavon was taking every dollar
out of the account.”  US Bancorp sued to recoup the $82,692 it said it was owed
and the restaurant refused to pay after it “failed to secure
and keep safe the credit-card information of individuals who
made charges at Cisero’s,” the bank said.  “Unauthorized charges were made on some credit cards which
had previously been used to make purchases at Cisero’s,” US
Bancorp said in its complaint.  In its countersuit, Cisero’s asked for the withdrawn money
and damages for loss to reputation and emotional distress for
Cissy McComb. Under contract law, US Bancorp isn’t allowed to
impose fines, the McCombs said in court papers.  ‘Arcane’ Rules  When the restaurant and US Bancorp entered their first
contract, “arcane operating rules -- over 1,000 pages in length
-- were not publicly available to merchants and did not contain
provisions on data security,” the McCombs said in their
complaint.  The couple said they had no chance to negotiate over terms
and no choice but to sign.  “Restaurants must be able to accept electronic payments
from Visa and MasterCard to stay in business,” they said in the
complaint. Not accepting customers’ cards “is simply not an
option for Cisero’s.”  The restaurant also said the requirement that merchants
indemnify banks for penalties gives US Bancorp no incentive to
fight allegations by the payment networks. It asked the court to
rule it doesn’t have to reimburse the bank.  “At no time has Elavon, US Bank, Visa, MasterCard or any
other entity proven that a data breach occurred at Cisero’s,
that card issuers actually suffered fraud losses or that any
such losses were caused by a data breach at Cisero’s,” the
restaurant said in court papers.  The bank asked Judge  Keith Kelly  in Park City to dismiss
part of the restaurant’s complaint. He hasn’t ruled.  “The case is unusual because the banks and their
processors rarely get to the point where they actually file a
suit against the merchant,” said  Scott DeFife , head of
government affairs for the National Restaurant Association in
Washington.  “Because they did, it allowed Cisero’s to answer back,
‘Prove it and show us your math.’”  The case is Elavon Inc. v. Cisero’s Inc., 100500480,  Utah 
Third Judicial District Court, Summit County (Park City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 