-- Pennsylvania Agency’s Sale Will Pay for Building Tied to Dauphin Default
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-01-09T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/pennsylvania-agency-s-sale-will-pay-for-building-tied-to-dauphin-default.html
The  Pennsylvania Economic Development
Financing Authority (26718MF)  plans to sell $106.4 million in bonds to buy
a  Harrisburg (9661MF)  office building connected to bonds in default.  The  Dauphin County General Authority (26630MF)  bought the Forum Place
building in the state capital in 1998 with $86.2 million raised
with revenue bonds that went into default by 2002, according to
a July 2006 SEC opinion in a related matter. The agency said the
county defaulted after the building’s occupancy rate fell to 45
percent from almost 100 percent as state agencies moved out.  The state authority, known as Pedfa, will lease the nine-
floor Forum Place to the nonprofit Capital Region Economic
Development Corp., according to a preliminary official statement
for the sale. The offering is planned for as early as this week.
Dauphin County will use the money to refund building debt.  Bondholders called for full repayment of about $59.5
million of the county’s debt in April, plus about $3.2 million
in accrued interest, according to a  notice  filed July 15. The
interest was paid the same day, the notice said.  A county revenue bond maturing in January 2025 traded as
low as 25 cents on the dollar in November 2004. Last month, the
same security traded from about 42 cents to 60 cents on the
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Sustainable’ Structure  The new securities will repay holders of the defaulted
bonds in full and “replace the existing debt structure with a
sustainable one,” Stephen Drizos, the authority’s director,
said by e-mail. The debt will mature from 2013 to 2034.  The development company’s president, David Black, said it
will lease the 376,000 square feet (35,000 square meters) of
 office space  plus a 1,090-space parking garage to the state
General Services Department, which manages public buildings. The
agency already rents 96 percent of the space, under a 25-year
deal signed Feb. 4, 2009, the preliminary statement shows.  “The parking makes the lease more attractive and it helps
the county with the sale of this building,” said Troy Thompson,
a General Services Department spokesman. Tenants also include
the U.S. Social Security Administration and the Pennsylvania
Local Government Commission, the statement says.  The risk that rental payments won’t meet debt service needs
is “modest,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a statement.
The credit-rater scores the debt Aa3, its fourth-highest grade.  Harrisburg Debt  The authority finances projects such as industrial and
commercial facilities, while the development company works on
projects in Cumberland, Dauphin and Perry counties, according to
the offering document.  Harrisburg, the seat of Dauphin County, skipped payments on
securities related to a municipal incinerator owned by the
Harrisburg Authority, and the county covered some of the
obligations. The city of about 49,500 residents listed about $60
million in unpaid debts tied to the trash-to-energy plant in a
bankruptcy court filing last year.  A bankruptcy petition from the City Council was rejected in
November, a ruling that has been appealed. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Mary D. France said the council wasn’t authorized to act on the
city’s behalf before the court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  