-- Philippine Bonds Gain on Rate-Cut Outlook, Peso Erases Losses
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-01-09T09:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/philippine-peso-drops-a-third-day-on-export-concern-bonds-rise.html
Philippine 20-year  government bonds 
gained and the peso erased losses after central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said he anticipates easing monetary policy this
quarter.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas expects  inflation (PHC2II)  to be closer
to the low end of a 3 percent-to-5 percent target this year and
next, giving authorities scope to cut the benchmark policy rate
or reduce the reserve requirement ratio for banks, Tetangco said
in an interview today in  Manila . The Philippine Stock Exchange
Index closed at a five-month high.  “Expectations of a policy reduction, helped by liquidity,
is giving room especially on longer-term bond yields to drop,”
said Speedy Delfino, a fixed-income trader at Bank of Commerce
in Manila.  The yield on the 8 percent bond due July 2031 fell six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.035 percent, after
gaining the past two trading days, according to Tradition
Financial Services. The peso closed little changed at 44.105 per
dollar from 44.138 on Jan. 6, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.
It fell as much as 0.5 percent earlier today.  Bangko Sentral kept its  benchmark interest rate (PPCBON)  unchanged
at 4.5 percent for a fifth meeting in December after two
increases earlier in 2011. It also raised the reserve
requirement twice, bringing the ratio to 21 percent. Policy
makers meet to decide on borrowing costs on Jan. 19 and again on
March 1.  “The BSP is prepared to employ policy tools as may be
appropriate to boost domestic economic growth as long as current
readings on price and financial stability will allow,” the
governor said.  The  Philippines  may buy back debt and sell bonds targeted
at individual investors, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima told
reporters today in Manila.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 