-- Philips, Samsung, Nintendo, Righthaven: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/philips-samsung-nintendo-righthaven-intellectual-property.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHG) , which
gets more than a third of its revenue from medical systems, sued
 Zoll Medical Corp. (ZOLL) , claiming it’s infringing patents related to
devices used to restart hearts.  Philips contends that external defibrillators made by
Chelmsford, Massachusetts-based Zoll are infringing six patents.
It is seeking cash compensation and an order that would block
further use of its inventions, according to the complaint filed
Jan. 5 in federal court in  Seattle .  Philips, Zoll and Medtronic Inc. are the top makers of the
devices that police, firefighters and flight attendants use to
help people experiencing cardiac arrest. An external
defibrillator used in the first minutes after cardiac arrest can
triple the chances of survival, according to a study by the
 University of Pennsylvania .  The patents relate to ways of analyzing a patient’s heart
function, defibrillators with automatic and manual modes, and
methods to send medical information to and from the machines as
the patient are transferred to more advanced medical care.  “Zoll does not have a license or permission to use” the
inventions, Philips said in the complaint. The Amsterdam company
said it has lost profits and potential sales “that Philips
would have made but for Zoll’s infringing acts.”  The suit targets the E Series, M Series and R Series
defibrillators made by Zoll, which reported $523.7 million in
sales last year, all from different types of resuscitation
devices. Officials with Zoll couldn’t immediately be reached to
comment.  Philips announced last month that it had imposed controls
on discretionary spending and scaled back hiring after it
forecast weakening demand for health-care equipment in  Europe .  The Netherlands-based company is represented by  Douglas F.
Stewart  of Minneapolis-based  Dorsey & Whitney LLP (1134L) .  The case is  Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  v. Zoll
Medical Corp., 2:12-cv-00018, U.S. District Court for the
Western District of  Washington  (Seattle).  Samsung Fails to Win Sales Ban on Apple’s IPhone 4S in  Italy   Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the maker of the Galaxy mobile
devices, failed to win a sales ban on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s latest iPhone
in Italy, as a global patent dispute between the two companies
continues.  A Milan court last week rejected the Suwon, South Korea-
based company’s bid to block the iPhone 4S in Italy, said Nam Ki
Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, confirming an earlier
report by Ansa news agency.  Samsung, which reported a 73 percent jump in fourth-quarter
operating profit Jan. 6 after selling a record number of
handsets last year, also failed to win a sales ban on the iPhone
4S in  France  last month. Samsung and Apple have been suing each
other in multiple countries over patents related to mobile
technologies and designs since the iPhone maker accused the
South Korean rival of copying its products last year.  “We will review the ruling and consider all available
measures to further protect our intellectual property rights and
stop this free riding on our technology,” Samsung said in a
statement, referring to the Jan. 5 court decision.  Steve Park, an Apple spokesman in  Seoul , reiterated the
company’s earlier statement on the dispute that Apple needs to
protect its intellectual property against “blatant copying.”  The South Korean electronics maker overtook Apple as the
world’s largest maker of smartphones in the third quarter,
helped by the popularity of the Galaxy line of products.  Nintendo Wins ITC Patent Case Brought by Motiva Over Wii System  Nintendo Co.’s Wii game-control system didn’t infringe two
patents owned by closely held Motiva LLC, the U.S. International
Trade Commission said in a Jan. 5 ruling.  The ITC, a government agency with the power to exclude the
importation of infringing goods, upheld an earlier ruling
finding no infringement of two Motiva patents by Nintendo.
Motiva had sought to block the imports of the game controller  Motiva had claimed its patents 7,292,151 and 7,492,268 were
infringed.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Alligator Hunter Landry Sues Three Companies for Infringement  Troy Landry , the alligator hunter who stars on A&E
Television Network LLC’s “ Swamp People ” reality show, sued
three makers of T-shirts and caps for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed Jan. 3 in federal court in
Lafayette,  Louisiana , the three companies are accused of selling
merchandise that infringe his “Choot ‘Em,” “Tree Shaka,”
“Tree Breaka,” and “Mudda Fricka” trademarks. He said he
developed these marks himself and has continuously used them
since early 2010.  Landry himself sells products under these trademarks , and
said the allegedly infringing merchandise competes unfairly with
him, and causes the public to assume, incorrectly, that he has
an affiliation with the defendants’ products.  The companies he is suing are Halpern Import Co. of
Atlanta, National Cap and Sportswear Inc. of Waycross,  Georgia ,
and Ripple Junction Design Co. of Cincinnati. Neil Hoynes,
president of Ripple Junction, said in an e-mail that his company
doesn’t comment on litigation. Neither of the other two
companies responded immediately to e-mailed requests for
comment.  Landry asked the court to order them to quit infringing his
trademarks and to issue an order for the destruction of all
infringing products and promotional material.  Additionally, he seeks awards of money damages, profits
derived from the alleged infringement, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Landry is represented by  Roy H. Maughan Jr.  and  Namisha D.
Patel  of the  Maughan Law Firm  of Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  The case is Troy Landry Products LLC v. Halpern Import Co.,
6:12-cv-00004-RFD-CMH, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Louisiana (Lafayette).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Righthaven’s Winding Down Causing Receiver’s Frustration  The winding down of the affairs of the company established
to enforce the copyrights for Stephens Media Group’s
publications is an exercise in frustration for the court-
appointed receiver, if recent court filings are any indication.  Lara Pearson  of San Francisco-based  Rimon PC  is the
receiver appointed to handle the assignment of Las Vegas-based
Righthaven LLC’s  intellectual property . The property was
assigned to satisfy an attorney-fee award against Righthaven in
one of the copyright infringement cases it filed in federal
court in  Las Vegas  in 2011.  Righthaven didn’t do well in these cases. The courts found
that Righthaven lacked standing to enforce the copyrights
because Stephens Media still retained control of them.  In a Jan. 3 filing, Pearson said that she’s tried to no
avail to work with Righthaven to ensure its compliance with the
court’s order. Righthaven “has refused to execute the copyright
assignment and has ignored repeated requests for a trademark
assignment and an inventory of physical assets.”  The one item that Pearson was able to handle was the
Righthaven.com Internet domain name.  That sold on Jan. 6 for
$3,300  on the Snap.com Internet domain name auction site.  On Jan. 5, U.S. District Judge Robert J. Johnston ordered
counsel for Righthaven to be present in his court today.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Hoehn, 2:11-cv-00050-PMP-RJJ,
U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas)  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets /Industrial Espionage  Red Digital Says Cinema Camera Trade Secrets Misappropriated  Red Digital Camera, a maker of digital cameras used in the
movie industry that does business as  Red.com Inc. , sued a
competitor for trade-secret misappropriation.  In the complaint filed Dec. 21 in federal court in Santa
Ana,  California ,  Arri Inc.  of Burbank, California, is accused of
using trade secrets acquired through alleged e-mail hacking.  Red, based in  Irvine , California, claims an e-mail account
belonging to the founder of a camera-supply company was hacked
by that company’s chief technology officer. The camera-supply
company, Band Pro Film & Digital Inc., of Burbank, was in the
process of discussing the future of digital cinema cameras,
including possible joint ventures between Red and Band Pro,
according to court papers.  The person who hacked Band Pro founder Amon Band’s e-mail
account then moved on to Arri, bringing the trade secrets with
him, Red Digital said in its pleadings.  Michael Bravin, the former Band chief technology officer,
was indicted for computer fraud and e-mail hacking in August,
according to court papers. Red Digital quotes part of Bravin’s
plea agreement in its complaint, noting that he said he
intentionally accessed Band’s e-mail both during the course of
his employment and after he went to work for another company.  The criminal case against Bravin is U.S. v. Bravin, 2:11-
CR-00807-UA, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
( Los Angeles ).  Red Digital claims that as a result of Bravin’s activities,
it’s been harmed, and its sensitive information went to its
competitor.  Arri didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the suit.  Red Digital asked the court for money damages, including
profits from the sale of Arri products that benefitted from the
company’s alleged unfair competition. It’s also seeking an order
barring the use of any of its confidential information and the
destruction of all of Arri’s business plans “developed in
reliance on information gained from Bravin hacking” the Band
company’s computer.  It also asked for awards of attorney fees and litigation
costs.  Red Digital is represented by Chandler G. Weeks, Gregory L.
Weeks and Gregory K. Nelson of Weeks Kaufman Nelson & Johnson of
Solana beach, California.  The case is Red.Com Inc., v. Arri Inc., 8:11-cv-01l72-CJC-
AN, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Santa
Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 