-- Philippine Bank Chief Sees Easing by End March
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-01-09T08:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/philippine-bank-chief-sees-easing-by-end-march.html
The Philippine central bank chief
said he anticipates easing monetary policy this quarter should
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis further damp the growth outlook,
prompting stocks to climb as bonds erased losses.  “Given benign inflation conditions and a favorable
inflation outlook, we have room to support domestic activity
should the global economy deteriorate significantly,” Governor
 Amando Tetangco  said in an interview in  Manila  today, ahead of a
policy meeting this month. “The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is
prepared to employ policy tools as may be appropriate to boost
domestic economic growth as long as current readings on price
and financial stability will allow.”  Philippine  inflation (PHC2II)  at an 11-month low has widened the
scope for Tetangco to join counterparts in  Indonesia ,  Thailand ,
and  Australia  in cutting  interest rates  to protect growth.
Bangko Sentral held off from lowering borrowing costs last year
as Asia-Pacific policy makers juggled the need to guard against
price pressures with containing the threat to their economies
from faltering global demand.  “In a world where exports are going be soft in the first
half of the year, it makes sense for the central bank to lower
interest rates to boost private investment, consumption,” said
Matt Hildebrandt, a Singapore-based economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. “Inflation looks pretty subdued at this point and a rate
cut can come as early as this month.”  Bonds Recover  A report tomorrow may show Philippine exports fell for a
seventh month in November, all nine economists predict in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Benchmark bonds due January 2022 erased losses after the
report. The yield was unchanged at 5.2 percent, according to
3:17 p.m. prices at Amstel Financial Services, after rising 0.05
percentage point earlier. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP) 
surged to a five-month high, climbing 1.3 percent at the close
of trading today. The gauge rose 29.28 points in the last 10
minutes of trading, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bangko Sentral  kept its  benchmark interest rate (PPCBON)  unchanged
at 4.5 percent for a fifth meeting in December after two
increases earlier in 2011. It also raised the reserve
requirement twice, bringing the ratio to 21 percent. Policy
makers next meet to decide on borrowing costs on Jan. 19 and
March 1.  The monetary authority may cut its benchmark policy rate or
reduce banks’ reserve ratio as it forecasts inflation this year
and next will average closer to the low-end of a 3 percent to 5
percent target, Tetangco said today.  Keeping Low Rates  “With this inflation outlook, one can expect the low
interest-rate environment to continue,” he said. “As a result
of that, we should also expect an increase in investment that
would support growth.”  Inflation eased to 4.2 percent in December, a report showed
last week.  Money supply growth (PHMS3YO)  slowed to a three-year low of 6.9
percent in October, the latest data show.  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending
this year to a record 1.83 trillion pesos ($41 billion) by
building roads, bridges and schools as he seeks to bolster
growth to as much as 8 percent annually. The government also
plans to offer as many as 16 projects to investors this year,
compared to one contract awarded in 2011.  Bidding for Projects  “You have a good combination of an accommodative monetary
policy courtesy of a favorable inflation outlook and
expectations, and expansionary fiscal policy,” Tetangco said.  Ayala Corp., leading a consortium that won a contract last
month to build a four-kilometer, four-lane paved toll road
leading to provinces south of the capital, may bid for two road
projects and a contract to run an airport, Managing Director
Eric Francia said Dec. 15.  Aquino has won sovereign-rating upgrades from  Fitch Ratings 
and Moody’s Investors Service after intensifying efforts to
narrow the budget gap from a record 314 billion pesos in 2010,
and  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook on the country’s debt
rating last month.  The  Philippines ’ $200 billion economy expanded 3.2 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, holding near the 3.1
percent pace in the previous three months that was the slowest
since 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  