-- Pimco Predicts Further RBA Rate Cuts on China Slowdown, Budget Tightening
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-01-09T01:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/pimco-predicts-further-rba-rate-cuts-on-china-slowdown-budget-tightening.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will
have to cut  interest rates  further as  China ’s economic expansion
slows, according to Pacific Investment Management Co., manager
of the world’s biggest bond fund.  The Australian government’s commitment to return the budget
to surplus in 2012-13 will also add impetus for additional
policy easing, the money manager said in an e-mailed report
today.  Demand from China for resources has fueled a mining boom
that has buoyed Australia’s economy and kept it out of recession
for two decades. A government report due tomorrow may show that
export growth in China, Australia’s biggest overseas market, was
the slowest in two years. RBA policy makers have cut the bank’s
main lending  rate (RBATCTR)  by a quarter of a percentage point at each of
its past two meetings as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens global
growth.  “We expect the global environment to be less supportive,
with lower than consensus growth forecasts for China in
particular,”  Robert Mead , Pimco’s head of portfolio management
in Australia, wrote. “We think the RBA will need to ease
further in 2012.”  Traders are betting that RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  will
lower the benchmark by a further 0.75 percentage point by May,
futures prices show. They indicate a 84 percent chance of a 0.25
percentage point cut at the next policy meeting on Feb. 7.  Chinese Exports  China’s exports rose 13.4 percent in December from a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before the data is released tomorrow.
Excluding distortions in January and February each year related
to the Lunar New Year, that would be the smallest increase since
export growth resumed in December 2009.  The Australian government said in November that it would
cut A$6.8 billion ($6.9 billion) in spending to meet Prime
Minister Julia Gillard’s pledge to deliver a budget surplus even
as revenues fall. This more restrictive fiscal policy, along
with “tight” financial conditions will increase the likelihood
of monetary easing, Pimco said.  Australian 10-year government notes advanced, with yields
falling four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.76
percent as of 12:33 p.m. in Sydney. The nation’s debt maturing
in more than a year returned 14.4 percent last year, the third-
best performance after the U.K. and  New Zealand , according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Australia ’s dollar appreciated against 14 of its 16 major
counterparts last year and fell 0.6 percent to $1.0165 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at   greynolds1@bloomberg.net  