-- Rajaratnam Insider Case Aided by Slaine’s Help in Goffer Probe, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-01-09T21:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/rajaratnam-insider-case-aided-by-slaine-s-help-in-goffer-probe-u-s-says.html
David Slaine, a former Galleon Group
LLC employee who pleaded guilty to criminal charges, was crucial
to the prosecution of Zvi Goffer’s  insider-trading  ring and
helped lead investigators to Raj Rajaratnam and Primary Global
Research LLC, U.S. prosecutors said.  Slaine wore a wire to record dozens of conversations with
Goffer and others, helping to spur what became the biggest probe
of insider trading at  hedge funds , prosecutors from the office
of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  said in a letter to
U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan today. Calling Slaine’s
cooperation “nothing short of extraordinary,” the government
asked for leniency when he’s sentenced.  “Evidence gathered by Slaine played a role in, among other
things, the successful prosecution of Raj Rajaratnam and his co-
conspirators, as well as the defendants in the Primary Global
Research case,” according to the letter. “His assistance was
the launching point for many successful and ongoing criminal
investigations of multiple insider trading networks.”  Slaine, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud in December 2009, testified at the trial of Goffer, his
brother Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman that he cooperated
with federal agents for about 2 1/2 years to try to avoid
prison.  Facing 25 Years  Slaine faces as long as 25 years in prison when he’s
sentenced. He testified that he became friends with Craig Drimal, another former Galleon trader who pleaded guilty, in the
late 1980s or early 1990s.  A co-founder of Galleon Group, Rajaratnam reported to
Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayer,  Massachusetts , last month
to begin an 11-year prison sentence. He was convicted by a
federal jury in May of 14 counts of conspiracy and securities
fraud for trading on inside information.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in New York at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  