-- Transaction Tax, Probing CME, Danes on Capital: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-09T13:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/transaction-tax-probing-cme-danes-on-capital-rules-compliance.html
French President Nicolas Sarkozy said
it is “unacceptable” that there’s no tax on financial
transactions and said France “won’t wait for everyone to be
agreed” before imposing the tax.  “How can you explain that when you buy an apartment or go
to the supermarket you pay tax, but that financial transactions
are the only sort of purchase where you don’t pay,” he said.  Sarkozy, adding that the euro zone “must take its
responsibilities,” made the remarks to the closing session of
the “New Worlds” conference in Paris Jan. 6.  A European Union financial-transaction tax would drive away
investment and weaken employment unless a levy was accepted
worldwide, said Margrethe Vestager, Denmark’s economy minister.  Vestager made the remarks late in the day on Jan. 5 in a
telephone interview. “We only support a global tax.”  The  European Commission  in September proposed a regional
financial-transaction tax that would take effect in 2014 and
raise about 57 billion euros ($72 billion) a year. Denmark,
which holds the EU’s rotating six-month presidency, sees the
topic as a priority.  The  European Parliament ’s economic committee is set to
discuss the plan in Brussels today.  France and Germany have led the push for a transaction tax
to extract revenue from banks and other types of firms, which
supporters say could raise funds to tackle climate change and
reduce poverty. Skeptics, led by the U.K., have said that the
tax might hurt  Europe ’s economy without curbing the risk of
another financial crisis.  A transaction tax would need endorsement by the Group of 20
nations to succeed, Vestager said. She chided the U.S. for
showing “little willingness to address this issue.”  President Barack Obama’s administration has focused on
charging banks for their own regulation, favoring a levy on bank
balance sheets to fund government protection to the financial
system in lieu of a transaction-based fee.  Compliance Policy  SEC Alters Settlement Policy in Cases With Criminal Convictions  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has modified
its boilerplate settlement language to require that defendants
admit wrongdoing when they have already done so in parallel
criminal proceedings.  The change doesn’t affect the SEC’s typical approach of
settling cases without requiring the subject of the action to
admit wrongdoing when there is no criminal conviction, SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said Jan. 6 in a statement.  “The new policy does not require admissions or
adjudications of fact beyond those already made in criminal
cases, but eliminates language that may be construed as
inconsistent with admissions or findings that have already been
made in criminal cases,” Khuzami said.  The SEC has come under fire for allowing subjects of
lawsuits to settle claims without admitting to the misconduct.
U.S. District Court Judge Jed Rakoff cited that policy last
month when he rejected the agency’s proposed $285 million
settlement with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  over claims the bank misled
investors in a financial product linked to risky mortgages.  The policy change, which has been under consideration for
several months, is “separate and unrelated to” Rakoff’s ruling
in the Citigroup matter and has no impact on cases with no
parallel criminal proceeding, Khuzami said.  Peter Henning , a former SEC attorney who is now a law
professor at  Wayne State University  in Detroit, said “given the
admission of guilt in the criminal case, it’s hard to see how
this would have any impact.”  Denmark Will Push to Complete EU Capital Rules, Minister Says  Denmark will push to complete European Union bank capital
rules over the next six months, Danish Economy Minister
Margrethe Vestager said.  Vestager made the remarks Jan. 6 in Copenhagen as the
Danish government presented its program for holding the rotating
EU presidency.  She said the ministry still needs to “work out some
compromises,” including the minimum level of required capital,
requirements to put on capital beyond the minimum level, and
types of assets should go into different types of capital.’’  The EU executive arm in September set a July 2012 deadline
for the bloc’s 27 member states to sign off on an overhaul of
capital rules for them to go into effect in 2013. The EU
proposed in July to apply rules set by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision to more than 8,300 lenders.  EU banks must also raise 114.7 billion euros ($152.8
billion) in fresh capital ahead of a June 30 deadline as part of
measures introduced to respond to the euro area’s sovereign-debt
crisis, the European Banking Authority said on Dec. 8.  Hungary’s Orban Embraces Central Bank Chief to Save IMF Deal  Hungary’s Premier  Viktor Orban  retreated in his
confrontation with central bank chief Andras Simor as he seeks
to revive talks for an international bailout after a market rout
last week. The currency and bonds gained even as the country
received its third downgrade to junk.  Orban told reporters after meeting Simor Jan. 6 in Budapest
that the president can count on the government’s support,
including backing him personally. The government wants an IMF
agreement “as soon as possible” and will do “everything” to
support the central bank to stabilize the economy, he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union
broke off talks last month on Hungary’s bid for a bailout after
Orban refused to withdraw a new central bank regulation the
institutions said may undermine monetary-policy independence and
Simor’s authority. The forint fell to a record against the euro
Jan. 5 as investors speculated an IMF accord may be delayed.  The central bank law, which came into effect on Jan. 1, is
“fully compatible” with EU rules, Economy Minister Gyorgy
Matolcsy said in a letter sent to European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi Jan. 5.  Orban shunned the IMF since taking office in 2010 to
prevent interference in what he called his “unorthodox”
measures, which included effectively nationalizing $13 billion
of private pension-fund assets and imposing extraordinary
industry taxes to tame the  budget deficit . The EU has criticized
all the policies.  For more, click here.  Basel Group to Study Nations’ Respect of Bank Capital Rules  Regulators and lenders in the U.S., European Union and
 Japan  are to face “detailed” peer reviews of their
implementation of international bank capital rules, global
regulators said.  All member countries of the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision have agreed to undergo the assessments, the group’s
governing board said in a statement on its website. The results
of the reviews, to begin in the first quarter of 2012, will be
published, it said.  The EU, U.S. and Japan will be the first to be assessed, it
said. The reviews will include examining how lenders value their
assets.  Compliance Action  OCC to Clear Over-The-Counter S&P Index Options This Quarter  The Options Clearing Corp., or OCC, which clears and
settles all equity options trades on U.S. exchanges, plans to
begin processing over-the-counter transactions in three  Standard
& Poor’s  indexes this quarter.  The Chicago-based organization will clear trades in the S&P
500 Index, S&P Midcap 400 Index and S&P Smallcap 600 Index,
according to a regulatory filing dated Jan. 3. The company may
clear transactions that occur away from exchanges based on other
indexes and individual securities in the future, OCC said.  The SEC must approve the request before OCC can clear the
products. The agency requested comments on the proposal.  OCC will determine the margin required from clearing firms
by using its STANS system, which it employs for exchange-traded
options, the proposal said. Over-the-counter options will not be
interchangeable with exchange-traded products, although they
will be among themselves if they have identical terms, OCC said.  Separately, a market partly owned by  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) ,
which runs the largest U.S. options exchange, acquired the 127-
year-old National Stock Exchange to get access to new types of
customers.  CBOE Stock Exchange, owned by Chicago-based CBOE Holdings
and nine companies including  Interactive Brokers Group Inc. (IBKR)  and
Susquehanna International Group LLP, completed its purchase of
NSX on Dec. 30, according to David Harris, president and chief
executive officer of CBSX. Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  For more, click here.  Ex-Soros Trader’s Hedge Fund Said to Return Outside Money  Former Soros Fund Management LLC trader John Zwaanstra
plans to return outside capital in Penta Investment Advisers
Ltd., the Asia-focused hedge fund he set up in 1998, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The company plans to give investors more details this week,
said the people, who asked not to be identified.  Penta managed as much as $2.9 billion in mid-2011, about 40
percent of which came from Penta principals, said another
person. Its assets have fallen below $2 billion, said one of the
people familiar with the plan to return investors’ money.  Zwaanstra and John Pridjian, chief financial officer of
Penta Investment Advisers, didn’t reply to Bloomberg e-mails.
Zwaanstra’s younger brother Todd, who works as a trader at its
Hong Kong unit Old Peak Ltd., declined to comment, citing a
company policy of not talking to the press.  Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index (EHFI38)  dropped 8.3 percent last
year, the second-worst annual loss since the Singapore-based
data provider began keeping records in 2000, according to
preliminary data. Its  global hedge fund index (EHFI251)  declined 4
percent.  About 123 Asian hedge funds closed in the first 10 months
of 2011, almost the same as for the entire 2010, as performance
faltered and managers struggled to raise capital, according to
Eurekahedge. Peter Douglas, principal of Singapore-based
advisory and wealth-management firm GFIA Pte, said an e-mail
that “excessive regulation” and the “increasing demands of
institutional investors are among the main drivers to ‘go
underground’ and continue investing in an unconstrained and
focused fashion.”  For more, click here.  MF Global Regulatory Probe Includes Review of CME Group’s Audit  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is reviewing
actions by  CME Group Inc., (CME)  the world’s largest futures exchange,
as part of its investigation into the bankruptcy of MF Global
Holdings Ltd, according to a person briefed on the probe.  The CFTC is reviewing CME Group’s audit of MF Global prior
to the collapse of the New York-based broker, during which as
much as $1.2 billion in client funds went missing. The CFTC,
Securities and Exchange Commission, Justice Department and
bankruptcy trustee overseeing the MF Global-liquidation are
investigating the possible misuse of client funds.  The CFTC’s five commissioners haven’t voted to begin a
formal investigation into CME Group, according to the person
briefed on the matter, who requested anonymity because the
investigation is private.  “We haven’t been notified that we’re under
investigation,” Anita Liskey, a CME Group spokeswoman, said
Jan. 6 in an interview. CME Group was MF Global’s primary
auditor.  MF Global used about $700 million of customer funds to
“meet liquidity issues” at its broker-dealer in the days prior
to the bankruptcy, according to CME Group.  The New York Times reported earlier on the review of CME.  Capital Injection for  Piraeus Bank (TPEIR)  Wins Temporary EU Approval  The  European Commission  has temporarily approved, under
European Union state aid rules, a 380 million-euro capital
injection into Piraeus Bank provided under the Greek support
scheme for credit institutions.  The approval is temporary and will only be prolonged if the
Greek authorities submit an updated restructuring plan for
Piraeus Bank, the commission  said  Jan. 6.  Separately, the commission  said  it will seek views on
possible measures to get rid of obstacles to the European market
for card, Internet and mobile payments.  The consultation, starting Jan. 11, “assesses the current
landscape of card, Internet and mobile payments in Europe,
identifies the gaps between the current situation and the vision
of a fully integrated payments market and the barriers which
have created these gaps,” the commission said on its website
Jan. 6.  Nigeria Banks to Cut Services as Workers Plan General Strike  Nigeria’s  lenders (NGSEB10) , including  Diamond Bank Plc (DIAMONDB)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , will run limited branch services from Jan. 9
during a nationwide strike to protest the scrapping of fuel
subsidies that doubled gasoline prices.  “There will be skeletal services, people on essential
duties will come to work,” Abdulrahman Yinusa, chief financial
officer at Lagos-based Diamond Bank, which operates 220 branches
with 3,000 employees, said by phone Jan. 6 that there will be
“skeletal services” and only people on essential duties will
come to work.  Trade unions called an indefinite nationwide strike and
threatened to shut down ports, fuel stations, banks and oil
operations in Africa’s largest crude producer if the government
fails to restore the fuel subsidy. President Goodluck Jonathan
will hold an emergency meeting with governors of 36 states
tonight in Abuja, the capital, to discuss measures that can help
ease higher prices.  For more, click here.  Courts  ENRC Sues Former Executive in Dispute Over ‘Dishonest’ Raise  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) , the producer of metals in
Kazakhstan, sued its former head of human resources Andrew
Balgarnie, accusing the ex-Morgan Stanley banker of dishonestly
giving himself a 100,000 pound ($154,500) raise.  ENRC filed the counterclaim against Balgarnie last month,
according to court documents. The move follows Balgarnie’s
decision to sue ENRC for wrongful dismissal in November,
claiming he is owed 310,000 pounds in back pay and bonuses.  The company said it is seeking the return of 74,000 pounds
which resulted from a pay increase not properly approved by
Chief Executive Officer Felix Vulis.  ENRC, which held a three-month review of its corporate
governance last year amid conflicts between the board and
shareholders, agreed Jan. 5 to acquire First Quantum Minerals
Ltd.’s assets in the Democratic Republic of Congo for $1.25
billion, ending a legal dispute between the companies over the
Kolwezi copper project.  “The allegations of misconduct and dishonesty as set out
in ENRC’s counterclaim are vigorously resisted,” Balgarnie’s
lawyer James Cox said in an e-mailed statement.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  CFTC Names Vincente Martinez Director of Whistle-Blower Office  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission named Vincente
Martinez as the first director of the agency’s whistle-blower
office.  Martinez had been an assistant director in the division of
enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission, according
to an e-mailed statement.  RBS Hires Kibble From PwC to Lead Strategy and Corporate Finance  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the U.K.’s largest
government-owned bank, hired Richard Kibble from
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as group director of strategy and
corporate finance.  Kibble, 43, will start work in March and will report to
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  and Finance Director
Bruce Van Saun, Edinburgh-based RBS said in a statement Jan. 6.
Kibble has been a partner at PwC from 2008 and before that was
managing partner at Marakon Associates.  RBS last week hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to advise on the sale of
parts of its equities unit, including stockbroker Hoare Govett,
said a person with knowledge of the talks. Hester is shrinking
the lender’s securities unit after the bank received the biggest
banking bailout in the world in 2008. Hester said in November
plans by the government-backed  Independent Commission on Banking 
will force the lender to cut the division further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  