-- RBS Pay, Bonuses to Reflect Performance, Cameron Office Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-01-09T12:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/rbs-pay-bonuses-to-reflect-performance-cameron-spokesman-says.html
Pay and bonus levels at state-
controlled  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  will reflect
performance, Prime Minister David Cameron’s spokesman said.  The prime minister yesterday criticized bosses who take
high pay when their company’s share price hasn’t risen. His
spokesman, Steve Field, refused to comment today on whether RBS
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  is entitled to a bonus,
given that the company’s share price has fallen by almost half
over the past year.  Shares in RBS were 0.7 percent higher at 20.65 pence at
12:30 p.m. in London. On Jan. 10, 2011, they closed at 39.5
pence. Field said the issue of pay at RBS is being handled by
U.K. Financial Investments Ltd., the government’s arm’s-length
manager of its bank holdings.  “UKFI is set up as the shareholder and is very clear that
it will make sure that pay at RBS reflects performance,” Field
told reporters in  London . “We don’t get involved in individual
decisions at RBS. No decision has been taken on any of these
things.”  Hester was paid 3.27 million pounds ($5.05 million) in
salary, bonus and benefits for 2010, while Finance Director
Bruce Van Saun was paid 2.3 million pounds. Hester could be paid
4.2 million pounds in shares if he meets targets set in an
incentive plan by next year. Under the same plan, Van Saun could
be paid 2.5 million pounds, according to RBS’s annual report.  The Financial Times reported today that John Hourican, CEO
of RBS’s investment bank, stands to receive a special bonus of
more than 4 million pounds in April, under an agreement made in
2009. The Unite union, which represents the bank’s junior staff,
described that as “astonishing.”  “Yesterday  David Cameron  toured the television studios
posing as a prime minister tough on excessive pay rewards,”
 David Fleming , national officer of the union, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Today we see the 84 percent government
backed bank completely ignoring his pleas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  