-- Iranian ‘Bluster’ May Overstate Threat to Strait of Hormuz’s Oil Shipping
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-01-10T20:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/threat-to-hormuz-shipping-seen-receding-as-eu-plans-sanctions.html
Iran  is unlikely to shut down
shipping through the Strait of Hormuz in response to Western
sanctions targeting its oil exports, President  Barack Obama ’s
former adviser on Iran said.  Oil rose today for the first time in four days on renewed
concern that geopolitical tension in the  Middle East  may disrupt
supply and as higher stock markets raised economic optimism.
Crude for February delivery climbed 93 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
settle at $102.24 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
West Texas Intermediate oil traded on the Nymex has surged 20
percent in the past three months.  Tensions increased this week as Iran announced that it has
taken another step in its nuclear program and that it had
sentenced to death a former U.S. marine of Iranian descent
accused of spying.  “Do I really think that they’re going to go ahead and try
to shut down the  Strait of Hormuz ?”  Dennis Ross , who served two
years on the National Security Council as Obama’s special
assistant on Iran, said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s
office in Washington. “I do not. They will be the ones who
suffer the most from that.”  An Iranian newspaper Jan. 8 cited a senior commander of the
Revolutionary Guard Corps, Ali Ashraf Nouri, as saying Iran’s
leadership has decided to prevent shipping through the strait if
Iran’s “enemies block the export of our oil,” according to the
Associated Press.  EU Embargo Plan  European Union talks on an oil embargo on Iran are becoming
bogged down over discussions on exemptions for existing supply
contracts and the length of a planned phase-in period, according
to four diplomats.  Greece, Italy and  Spain  are trying to soften a U.K. push
for a blanket ban, concerned that an oil-supply shock would
further damage their economies already hit by the European debt
crisis, the diplomats said, declining to be identified because
no final agreement has been reached.  Foreign ministers from the 27 EU member states are
scheduled to decide at a Jan. 23 meeting in Brussels when to
impose and how to phase in the embargo, which is designed to
force Iran back to the negotiating table over its nuclear
program, the diplomats said. The EU said today it brought
forward the meeting from Jan. 30 to avoid a clash with a
leaders’ summit that day.  Iranian Politics  Ross, who last month rejoined the  Washington  Institute for
Near East Policy, a research group, said that internal Iranian
factors fan its public rhetoric. “A lot of the bluster”
reflects internal political jockeying in Iran, he said, noting
that Iran would be unable to export its own oil if shipping were
impeded.  “I don’t think one can completely discount” the risk
because the authorities may not control all the factions, he
said. “But I think that they understand the risks that they run
and, if you look at their historical behavior, for all their
tough talk, they don’t go out of their way unnecessarily to
provoke” a U.S military response that could threaten the
regime.  The U.S. hasn’t seen any efforts by Iran to close the
strait to shipping,  George Little , a spokesman for the Pentagon,
said yesterday.  Cooling the Rhetoric  “We don’t see any active steps being taken by the Iranians
to close the strait,” Little told reporters in Washington.
“The rhetoric has gotten a little heavy in recent days and it’s
time for it to go lighter.”  The probability of Iran closing the Strait of Hormuz is
low, and  Saudi Arabia  will probably increase crude output to
replace supplies from Iran,  Jeffrey Currie , head of commodities
research at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said in  London  yesterday.  The situation regarding Iran is bearish for the price of
crude, Goldman’s Currie said.  Europe  will turn to Saudi Arabia
to replace supplies from Iran, whose exports will go to  China ,
where demand is strong, Currie said at a conference.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS told Indian oil refiners that it
may no longer be able to be an intermediary for their purchases
of Iranian crude, four people with knowledge of the matter said.  Iran has begun enriching uranium to as much as 20 percent
U-235 at the underground Fordo site near the city of Qom, the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  said in an announcement that
drew immediate U.S. condemnation of Iran. The site is monitored
by IAEA inspectors to detect any attempt to enrich uranium to
the 90 percent level necessary for a nuclear bomb.  ‘Further Escalation’  “This is a further escalation of their ongoing violations
with regard to their nuclear obligations,”  Victoria Nuland , a
spokeswoman for the State Department, said yesterday of Iran.  Iran has said the 20 percent enriched uranium is intended
for a research reactor that produces isotopes for medical use.
Nuclear physicist David Albright, a former weapons inspector and
president of the Institute for Science and International
Security, a Washington research group, said Iran already has
enough such fuel to serve that purpose for several years.  Stockpiling 20 percent enriched uranium would make it that
much easier to get to the next step of 60 percent, and from
there to the 90 percent enrichment that is ideal for creating
weapons, Albright said.  ‘Provocative Act’  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague, in an e-mailed
statement yesterday, called the 20 percent enrichment “a
provocative act which further undermines Iran’s claims that its
program is entirely civilian in nature.”  Russia called for the start of “serious talks” on  Iran’s
nuclear program , urging all parties to avoid “ill-considered
and abrupt moves,” according to the statement on the Foreign
Ministry website.  In Iran, a court found Amir Mirzaei Hekmati guilty of
collaborating “with a hostile country and spying for the
Central Intelligence Agency,” Iran’s state-controlled Fars news
agency said yesterday.  Hekmati, who was born in  Arizona  in 1983, joined the U.S.
military in 2001 after completing high school, the  Associated
Press  said, citing his family.  Behnaz Hekmati, his mother, said she and her husband, Ali,
are “shocked and terrified” over the death sentence, writing
to the AP in an e-mail. Ali Hekmati earlier told the AP that his
son was visiting his grandmothers in Iran when he was arrested.
Hekmati, represented by a court-appointed lawyer, has 20 days to
appeal, according to the AP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  