-- Romney Poised for Victory Over Faltering Foes: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-01-09T20:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/romney-poised-for-win-over-faltering-foes-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Mitt Romney  is one lucky guy. Perhaps
nowhere is this more evident than in the collection of hapless
opponents he’s faced this campaign.  With the monumentally inept  Herman Cain  and  Michele Bachmann  gone, five Romney opponents remain, each one deeply
flawed, and none seemingly capable of the kind of sustained
attack necessary to derail Romney’s nomination.  Their last, best chance may have been this past weekend,
before Tuesday’s primary in  New Hampshire , where Romney leads
every public poll. Romney, who also leads in the next primary
state, South Carolina, must be damaged, and soon, or he’ll be
using  Florida ’s Jan. 31 primary as a dress rehearsal for his
coronation at the  Republican National Convention  in Tampa. The
rest of the field will be left pleading for non-prime-time
speaking roles.  In the pre-debate warm-up,  Newt Gingrich ’s camp predicted a
“fight night.” In his Iowa concession rant, Gingrich had smacked
down Romney; he had even called Romney a liar in an interview.
Word was out that Romney would need a flak jacket to protect
himself from a furious barrage. In fact, he needed nothing more
than his funeral director’s suit.  In the green-room mirror, each of the non-Mitts must have
seen a winner, if only of the runner-up slot. Once in front of
the cameras, they formed a circular firing squad.  Barely Breathing  With Texas Representative  Ron Paul  a sideshow and Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  a goner, it was up to  Rick Santorum  and a
barely breathing  Jon Huntsman  to throw themselves between Romney
and the nomination.  Yet the audience for Santorum’s brand of conservatism is
smaller in New Hampshire than in Iowa. Coming off his near-win
there, he needs to appeal to blue-collar workers who lost their
jobs in the mills along the Merrimack and to Catholic
conservatives who, according to exit polls, made up 38 percent
of voters in the state’s 2008 Republican primary. To challenge
Romney in New Hampshire on Tuesday, Santorum must offer a vision
more compelling than gay people not marrying and women not
having abortions.  He seemed to be making progress last week. Proffering
memories of his grandfather whose hands grew rough in the coal
mines, Santorum is the closest thing to  Pat Buchanan , who won
the New Hampshire primary in 1996 with shots across the bow of
the Republican yacht club. While Skipper Romney appears ever
cool and breezy regardless of the topic, the culture warrior
Santorum is sometimes sweaty with belief.  Santorum’s weak attack on the business whiz Romney -- “We
need a leader, we don’t need a manager” -- is not going to win
the race. Even after a quick infusion of cash following his
strong showing in  Iowa , Santorum’s campaign is in no position to
compete on the airways with Romney’s juggernaut. The news media,
which ignored Santorum when he was a lonely nobody in a sweater
vest and a pickup crisscrossing Iowa, are now vetting him,
drawing a portrait of a senator who took deep drafts at the
special interest trough after Pennsylvania voters sent him
packing in 2006 with a humiliating 17-point loss.  In Congress, he was a big spender with great affection for
earmarks and the brigade of lobbyists crawling down K Street.
After his defeat, he earned $1.3 million consulting for special
interests and sitting on the boards of companies he had aided in
the Senate.  While Santorum whiffed at Saturday’s debate, Huntsman at
last expressed his seething resentment of Romney. Trouble is, he
did it in Mandarin, proving again that he’s the perfect
candidate for the Boston Globe, which has endorsed him, but an
outlier in a party suspicious of education, erudition and all
things foreign.  Elusive Zingers  On Sunday morning, the candidates having had 10 hours to
conjure the zingers that eluded them the night before, were
somewhat more aggressive. But they still seemed reluctant to
sink their teeth into Romney’s ankle. Huntsman battled Romney
intermittently, and in English, strongly defending his service
as the Obama administration’s ambassador to  China  and slipping
in that his sons also served -- in the Navy.  The candidates didn’t put a dent in Romney’s cheery
assessment of his job-creating powers as a consultant. That
claim is in for a giant rebuttal this week. With financing from
Gingrich friend and billionaire casino owner  Sheldon Adelson , a
super PAC that supports Gingrich is scheduled to air ads in
 South Carolina  attacking Romney for destroying jobs and
livelihoods during his career as a private equity manager. On
Sunday, Gingrich criticized what he called “rich people figuring
out clever legal ways to loot a company, leaving behind 1,700
families without a job.”  While Gingrich is ratcheting up his attacks, a group of
Christian conservative leaders is seeking to create what the
fractured Republican field has failed to produce: a single,
viable alternative to Romney. (In the process, they hope to
salvage some of their own waning influence.)  Is it too late? Romney goes into Tuesday’s New Hampshire
vote unbowed. He spent much of Saturday’s debate with his hands
in his pockets and a grin on his face. No one tried to wipe it
off. Maybe no one can.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 