-- Romney Fights New Hampshire Expectations
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-09T17:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/romney-battles-new-hampshire-expectations-as-foes-vie-for-second.html
Mitt Romney  entered the final day 
before  New Hampshire ’s primary election as the favorite, with 
rivals attacking his electability and authenticity as a
conservative in an effort to emerge as his principal challenger
for the Republican presidential nomination.  Yet, with the backing of 33 percent of the state’s likely
voters in a tracking poll today, the former  Massachusetts ’
governor’s support has eroded by 10 percentage points in one
week.  U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas , former Pennsylvania
Senator Rick Santorum and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  each criticized Romney to position themselves for a
chance to stay in the race.  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who has staked his
campaign on a strong showing here, was pushing for a late surge
in popularity powered by voter distaste for the sniping that has
characterized the Republican contest.  “Mitt is going to win New Hampshire -- let’s not kid
ourselves,” said Corey Lewandowski, a Republican activist who
heads the state’s chapter of Americans for Prosperity, a Tea
Party-aligned fiscally conservative group. “The only race that
matters is the race for second place, and it looks like it’s
really between  Rick Santorum  and Dr. Paul for second place.”  The candidates participated in two nationally televised
debates within 12 hours before they fanned out to New Hampshire
schools restaurants, cafes and meeting halls yesterday.  Shifting Support  With Romney favored among 33 percent of likely New
Hampshire voters surveyed in a tracking poll run by the Suffolk
University Political Research Center in  Boston , Massachusetts,
Paul drew the support of 20 percent, Huntsman 13 percent,
Gingrich 11 percent, Santorum 10 percent and Texas Governor Rick Perry 1 percent.  While Romney’s support has slid from 43 percent in
Suffolk’s survey on Jan. 2, Huntsman’s support has increased
from 9 percent in that day’s results.  “It’ll come down to these last couple days here,” said
Brian Kelly, 57, a retired social worker from Concord who said
he has not decided who to vote for. “That’s always the way I
operate,” he said. “I go see them, see how they conduct
themselves -- I like to watch the whole game.”  Ken Rhodes, 56, a consulting engineer from Auburn, said he
felt an obligation to try to examine all the Republican
candidates before making up his mind. “As part of the New
Hampshire spirit, you look at everybody,” he said.  Race for No. 2  Still, with Romney maintaining an advantage over his
competitors, strategists and activists agreed that the race to
watch in New Hampshire was for runner-up.  “This was a bunch of cats scratching at an oak tree, and
yeah, they got a couple of claw-marks on it, but the tree still
stands,” Pat Griffin, a Manchester Republican strategist, said
of yesterday’s televised debate, in which Romney’s rivals
questioned whether Romney could defeat President  Barack Obama 
along with his electability and conservative credentials.  “Mitt Romney is damned if he does and damned if he doesn’t
here, because if he wins in a fairly impressive race, it’s not
going to be seen as enough compared to what people expect -- and
if he loses, then he lost,” said Griffin, who is unaffiliated
in the race. “The question is, does someone make news out of
this by beating Ron Paul for second?”  South Carolina  Following the debate in Concord yesterday, Santorum also
played down expectations as he left the state for an afternoon
of campaigning in South Carolina for its Jan. 21 primary vote.  “We thought that  South Carolina  was the place where we had
the best chance of winning, and New Hampshire was simply to keep
the process going,” he told reporters. “We’re in a great
position going to South Carolina with a lot of momentum.” He is
scheduled to be back in New Hampshire campaigning today.  Even as they made their closing arguments to New Hampshire
voters, the candidates were looking south.  “The South Carolina primary began today -- it was the
first time that you really saw people positioning, angling to
play there,” Griffin said yesterday. “The question for
Santorum in New Hampshire is whether he can draw enough support
so that Newt is sent south limping. There are still some minds
to be made up here.”  Ron Paul ’s Campaign  Paul continued to draw sharp distinctions between himself
and the rest of the Republican field, reminding the public and
party operatives that he has financial staying power and
committed supporters.  “All the same candidates support the status quo, and they
basically have been on different sides of the issues,” Paul
told reporters after a town hall in Meredith. He joked that he
could raise money with ease, saying his staff handling direct
mail and fundraising “shouldn’t get paid any money at all,
because the money comes in sometimes spontaneously.”  The same cannot be said of Gingrich, who is lagging in the
polls and in campaign funds following his distant fourth-place
finish in  Iowa . He got a boost over the weekend from casino
executive  Sheldon Adelson , a longtime supporter who donated $5
million to Winning Our Future, a political action committee that
has produced a web video portraying Romney as greedy,
documenting hardships experienced by workers who lost their jobs
after his private equity firm, Bain Capital LLC, bought their
companies.  During a town hall meeting at a Mexican restaurant in
Manchester yesterday, Gingrich took questions on issues ranging
from immigration to religion from a crowd including Hispanic
voters while protesters outside chanted and banged on the
windows. Yet he already was looking toward to the first contest
in the South, predicting that his strategy of branding himself
as a “Reagan conservative” in opposition to Romney would work
“very well” in South Carolina.  Huntsman’s Stand  Huntsman, the Obama administration’s former U.S. ambassador
to  China , also hit back at Romney for criticizing his work for a
Democratic White House. “Romney has a bumper sticker that says,
‘Proud of America,’” Huntsman said at the Bean Towne Coffee
House and Cafe in Hampstead. “How can you be proud of America
if you criticize serving the country?”  A crowd spilled out into the parking lot during the
afternoon event, where Chip Moynihan, who had come from nearby
Hampton said yesterday’s debate “has more people interested in
taking a look at” Huntsman.  Romney’s inner circle voiced enough confidence that some
began doing what few campaign associates ever do: predicting
victory. “There’s really not much that can happen on Monday
that can be a real problem” for Romney, said former New
Hampshire Governor John E. Sununu, who is backing him. “I think
Governor Romney is going to win New Hampshire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  