-- Rupiah Drops to Six-Week Low as Europe Crisis Deters Risk-Taking
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2012-01-09T09:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/rupiah-drops-to-six-week-low-as-europe-crisis-deters-risk-taking.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah dropped to a six-
week low on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is slowing global
growth, cutting demand for emerging-market assets. Bonds fell
for a fourth day.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy meet later today to flesh out a new rulebook for
fiscal discipline negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit. Bank Indonesia
sees room to reduce borrowing costs if needed, Deputy Governor
Hartadi Sarwono said in Singapore last week before a policy-rate
review on Jan. 12. In November, the central bank unexpectedly
reduced the rate by half a percentage point.  “Europe’s debt crisis is causing  risk aversion ,” said
Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “We are
not expecting any rate cut by  Bank Indonesia  this quarter. The
last rate cut was premature.”  The rupiah dropped 1.2 percent to 9,203 per dollar as of
4:16 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 9,233 earlier, the weakest
level since Nov. 29.  The central bank will keep the reference rate unchanged at
6 percent this week, according to 13 of 18 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Five predict a 25-basis point reduction.  Indonesia started selling 30-year, dollar-denominated bonds
at an indicative yield of between 5.375 percent and 5.5 percent,
according to a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be named because the information isn’t public. The Southeast
Asian nation is tapping international investors for the first
time after  Fitch Ratings  awarded Indonesia an investment-grade
 credit rating  last month.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.24
percent today, according to prices from the Inter-Dealer Market
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  