-- Russian Stocks Advance as Urals Crude Hits Eight-Week High
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2012-01-09T15:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/russian-stocks-decline-as-oil-retreats-on-european-concern.html
Russian stocks rose, extending last
week’s gain, as Urals crude oil reached an eight-week high.  The 30-stock  Micex (MICEX)  index advanced 0.5 percent to 1,448.36
at the close in Moscow, after climbing 2.7 percent last week.
Oil producers OAO Rosneft and OAO Lukoil both gained. The
dollar-denominated RTS index climbed 0.5 percent to 1,430.13.  Urals crude (EUCRURNW) ,  Russia ’s chief export earner, gained 0.3
percent to $111.56 per barrel, the highest intraday price since
Nov. 17, as concern over supply disruptions caused by growing
tension in Iran and strikes in Nigeria countered speculation
 Europe ’s debt crisis will hold back demand. The commodity has
gained 5.6 percent so far this year.  “Rising oil” can add “significant outperformance to
Russian assets,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika
Dialog in Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed note.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy met for the first time this year today to flesh
out a new rulebook for fiscal discipline negotiated at a Dec. 9
summit that seeks to create a “fiscal compact” for the 17-
member euro area. The European Union is Russia’s largest trading
partner.  “For Russia, Europe remains a question mark, and then
there are also the country’s own political uncertainties,”
John-Paul Smith, a London-based emerging-market strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview. “Russian stocks are
cheap, but there are structural impediments for translating that
cheapness into tangible shareholder returns.”  The  Micex index (INDEXCF)   trades (INDEXCF)  at 5.4 times analysts’ estimates for
member companies, the lowest among the biggest  emerging markets 
including Brazil,  India  and  China .  Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil company, rose 0.2 percent to
221.73 rubles. Lukoil gained 1 percent to 1,757.30 rubles.
United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, fell
2.1 percent to 189 rubles.  Russian markets are open during the country’s New Year
holiday that lasts until tomorrow. A total 17 billion shares
were traded on the Micex Jan. 6, compared with a daily average
of 46.7 billion stocks last month, according to  data (MICXVOL)  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  