-- Saks Woos Women Back to Clothes After Bags
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/saks-woos-women-back-to-clothes-after-bags-for-recession-retail.html
After getting women hooked on fancy
handbags and expensive shoes in recent years, retailers are
trying to rekindle a love affair with clothes.  U.S. department stores are leading the charge, with  Saks
Inc. (SKS) ,  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  improving in-house clothing
lines and refurbishing women’s departments.  The retailers are counting on women to spend more overall
and not simply shift their dollars away from higher-margin
purses and footwear, said Liz Dunn, a New York-based analyst
with Macquarie Group, an Australian investment firm.  “Retailers are trying to give women more reasons to buy
clothes,” said Candace Corlett, the president of WSL Strategic
Retail in  New York . “In the late 1990s and early 2000s, people
were scooping up lots of stuff so you now could say, ‘How many
pairs of black pants do I need?’”  While handbags can be marginally more profitable because
retailers discount them less, department stores are pushing
women’s apparel because it draws traffic and is purchased more
frequently, said Steven Dennis, founder of SageBerry Consulting
LLC, a Dallas-based luxury consulting firm.  Besides, women spend far more on clothes than accessories,
Corlett said. Women’s apparel sales amounted to $108 billion in
the 12 months ended in September, according to NPD Group Inc.
Women bought $22.5 billion of footwear and $5.7 billion of
handbags, the  Port Washington , New York-based firm said.  Accessories Obsession  Overcoming an accessories obsession that has been going
strong since the late 1990s won’t be easy, Corlett said. In many
cases, bags and shoes outshine apparel with innovative uses of
materials and pure panache. Hot sellers include a Gucci python
bag for $4,700 and Christian Louboutin red-soled platform pumps
for $795.  During and after the recession, many women were looking to
refresh their look without buying entire outfits, according to
Dunn and Corlett. Bags and shoes also can be worn on more
occasions and from season to season, they said. Even though the
jobs situation has improved recently, post-recession female
shoppers remain value-oriented, Dunn said, which makes the
stores’ new strategy challenging.  Saks has refurbished the mid-priced fourth floor of its
Manhattan store under a “Wear Now” banner touting the clothes’
current look. The space houses 15 connected designer shops,
featuring brands including Tory Burch, Ralph Lauren Blue Label,
and M Missoni. The New York-based  chain (SKS)  also extended its Saks
Fifth Avenue Collection, taking it beyond simple separates like
cashmere sweaters to include such fashions as three-color
striped rabbit fur vests and cropped, black shearling jackets.  Outperforming Sales  Sales have outperformed old-style departments at other
locations, said Saks Chief Executive Officer Stephen Sadove on a
Nov. 15 conference call with analysts.  Nordstrom, the Seattle-based chain of 117 department
stores, has been testing a refurbished women’s department in
nine stores, said Colin Johnson, a spokesman. It combined
multiple, narrowly defined women’s apparel areas -- which had
such names as “Individualist” and “Savvy” -- into three main
departments called “Trendy,” with its “edgier” fashion,
“Modern” with contemporary clothes and denim, and “Updated
Traditional,” with suits and separates, Johnson said. The idea
is to make the store easier to navigate.  In the spring, Cincinnati-based Macy’s is rolling out a
remade version of its private-label Charter Club line centered
on a handful of “modern classic” pieces that are the
foundation of its customer’s wardrobe: the blazer, the tunic,
georgette blouse, cardigan, printed skirt, pants and trench
coat, said Jim Sluzewski, a spokesman for the retailer.  Face the Mirror  Changing shopping behavior won’t be easy because women are
used to scanning the handbag aisle and seeing something they
don’t have in the closet, Corlett said. Also “you don’t have to
face the mirror to buy it,” she said.  Casual traditional women’s clothing was one of the two
weakest categories last quarter at Macy’s. At New York-based
Saks, women’s apparel generates 37.5 percent of revenue,
slightly lower than it was five years earlier. Women’s shoes
account for 12.8 percent. In the year ended in January 2006, all
shoes came to 8.5 percent. A similar story has played out at
Neiman Marcus Group Inc., according to regulatory filings from
the closely held Dallas-based retailer.  Last month, Saks already was offering deep discounts in its
new “Wear Now” department. The rabbit fur vests were nearly 60
percent off the original $995 price as was the black shearling
jacket, down to about $922.  The chains will have to take chances, according to Dunn.  “Retailers are hesitant to take too much risk on fashion
buys, and they need to, to get women excited about fashion
again,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in  Washington  at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  