-- Sarkozy Wins Backing From Germany’s Merkel for Financial Transaction Tax
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-01-09T16:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/sarkozy-wins-merkel-backing-for-introduction-of-financial-transaction-tax.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  won
the backing of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for a tax on
financial transactions, a levy that Britain maintains won’t work
unless it’s applied worldwide.  The French government, long a proponent of the tax, stepped
up its campaign last week, going so far as to suggest that
France would impose the levy even if others didn’t. At a joint
press conference in Berlin with Sarkozy today, Merkel threw her
weight behind the tax.  “Personally, I’m in favor of thinking about such a tax in
the euro zone,” Merkel said. “Germany and France both equally
view the financial transaction tax as a correct response.”  The European Commission in September suggested a tax of 0.1
percent on equity and bond transactions, and 0.01 percent on
derivatives, which it said could raise 55 billion euros ($71
billion) a year. European Union finance ministers are due to
discuss the levy in March.  French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said today in Paris
that France may present a bill on such a tax in February, hoping
that other countries follow.  “Someone has to be the first to jump in the water,” he
said.  Sarkozy, who faces elections in a two-round vote in April
and May this year, had pushed for such a tax, as well as greater
international regulation of financial industries, when France
last year held the presidency of both the G-8 and G-20 group of
countries. Instead, the year was dominated by the euro zone’s
debt crisis.  British Opposition  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday he would
block any attempt by the European Union to impose a financial
transaction tax in Britain, even if he’s not against a worldwide
tax. London is  Europe ’s largest financial center.  “The idea of a new European tax, when you are not going to
have that tax put in place in other places, I don’t think is
sensible,” he told the  BBC . “So I will block it unless the
rest of the world all agreed at the same time that we were all
going to have some sort of tax.”  Ernst & Young, an accounting company, said in a report that
while the tax itself may raise as much as 37 billion euros in
the EU, its net effect could be negative by between 2 billion
and 116 billion by decreasing economic activity and reducing
revenue from other taxes.  The U.S. opposes taxes on transactions, preferring bank
levies based on the size of their balance sheets.  Political Move  The French financial world has spoken out against the tax,
especially if it’s only going to be imposed in  France .  “A tax that’s limited to France would weigh on growth,
lead to a loss of competitiveness, and create a heavy handicap
for the financing of the French economy,” the French Banking
Federation said in a statement today.  Paris Europlace, which promotes Paris as a financial
center, said in a Jan. 6 statement that the tax would be
inefficient because it would make no distinction between
investment and speculation.  “The idea of a financial transaction tax in France,
without waiting for European partners to implement the same,
seems to be a political move by Sarkozy to show that he remains
active even as he prepares for the presidential election,” said
Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at Market Securities
in  London . “It will be very difficult to implement such a tax
in a unilateral fashion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  