-- Saudis, Turkey in Talks on Last Sabic Dumping Claim, Prince Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-01-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/saudis-turkey-in-talks-on-last-sabic-dumping-claim-prince-says.html
Saudi Arabia and  Turkey  are in talks
over a claim that  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s
largest petrochemical maker, is dumping exports in the Turkish
market, a Saudi oil ministry official said.  Turkey’s government agreed to re-evaluate the case against
the company known as Sabic after the European Union and  India 
last month dropped similar claims against the company, Prince
Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud, the deputy oil minister, said in a
telephone interview from Riyadh on Jan. 5.  Sabic is accused of dumping monoethylene glycol, Chief
Executive Officer Mohamed al-Mady told the Saudi newspaper al-
Watan on Jan. 4. The Turkish claim is the only such case
outstanding remaining against the company,  Al Watan  reported,
citing al-Mady. China dropped a claim of its own in 2010.  Saudi Arabia  sells natural gas, a raw material used to make
petrochemicals, at subsidized rates to Sabic and other
manufacturers. The Saudi government set the gas price at 75
cents a million British thermal units, NCB Capital, the
investment arm of Saudi Arabia’s largest bank by assets, said in
a report last month. U.S. natural gas averaged $4.028 a million
BTU last year.  Saudi authorities last year put the Petroleum Ministry in
charge of negotiations over claimed dumping with the EU and
India. Prince Abdulaziz is leading all talks on dumping claims
against Saudi petrochemicals exporters. Saudi Arabia “respects
all the international trade agreements that it had under the
World Trade Organization,” he said.  India, which is seeking to buy additional crude oil from
Saudi Arabia, imposed a 6.5 percent duty in November 2010 on
polypropylene imports from Sabic,  Advanced Petrochemicals Co. (APPC) 
and  National Industrialization Co. (NIC) , saying the suppliers sold
their products below cost. The Prince said the duty was imposed
before his team started negotiations.  “After the formation of the team in April last year,
efforts with the Indian side have been intensified, and the case
was resolved in satisfactory way to both parties,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar, Saudi Arabia, at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 