-- Shady Reporter Probes Poisoning in Classic 1930s Satire: DVDs
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/shady-nyc-reporter-probes-poisoning-in-classic-1930s-satire-peter-rainer.html
Journalists who bemoan the public’s
low opinion of their profession should watch “ Nothing Sacred ,”
a 1937 comedy showing that scorn for the press is hardly new.  Restored in its original Technicolor on a Kino DVD, the
film is one of Hollywood’s funniest putdowns of the Fourth
Estate.  Fredric March plays Wally Cook, a shady New York City
reporter who visits a small Vermont town to interview Hazel
Flagg (Carole Lombard), a local woman supposedly dying of radium
poisoning. He wants to bring Hazel back to the big city, where
he plans to serialize her story for his daily rag, The Morning
Star.  Unbeknown to Wally, Hazel has just been told by her soused
doctor (Charles Winninger) that she’s been misdiagnosed and
isn’t dying, after all. When the physician finds out Wally
is snooping around town, he delivers this scathing appraisal of
reporters.  “The hand of God reaching down into the mire couldn’t
elevate one of them to the depths of degradation,” he bellows.  Wally is no less cynical, calling his editor “sort of a
cross between a Ferris wheel and a werewolf.”  Indeed, nothing is sacred in this tiny town filled with
narrow-minded nasties who won’t even talk to Wally without being
paid.  Wild Wellman  Screenwriter Ben Hecht, a colorful former Chicago
journalist who also co-wrote the classic newsroom comedy “The
Front Page” with Charles MacArthur, obviously knew the subject
he was lampooning.  But director William Wellman, known as “Wild Bill” from
his days as a World War I fighter pilot, seemed like an odd
choice for a screwball comedy.  At the time, Wellman was best known as the director of
“Wings” (1927), the first film to win a best-picture Oscar,
and “The Public Enemy” (1931), which made Jimmy Cagney a star.
(He later directed two of the best 1940s dramas, “The Ox-Bow
Incident” and “The Story of  G.I. Joe .”)  Still, Wellman had a great sense of timing and relished the
man-versus-woman high jinks that are the prerequisite for this
kind of comedy. In the most famous scene in “Nothing Sacred,”
Wally and Hazel go toe-to-toe, semi-affectionately slugging each
other.  ‘Roxie Hart’  Wellman demonstrated his comic flair again in 1942, when he
directed Ginger Rogers in the Roaring Twenties spoof “Roxie
Hart,” which became the basis for the stage and movie musical
“Chicago.”  March’s best-known work was in serious films like “The
Best Years of Our Lives” and “Inherit the Wind.” In “Nothing
Sacred,” he relishes the opportunity to act goofy.  Yet the film belongs to Lombard. She was a rarity -- a
truly beautiful woman who was also a great comedienne.  Five years after “Nothing Sacred” was released and three
years after marrying  Clark Gable , Lombard was killed in a plane
crash in  Nevada  while returning home from a war bond rally. She
was 33.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  