-- U.S. Shale Bubble Inflates After Near-Record Prices for Untested Fields
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-01-09T20:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/shale-bubble-inflates-on-near-record-prices-for-untested-fields.html
Surging prices for oil and natural-
gas shales, in at least one case rising 10-fold in five weeks,
are raising concern of a bubble as valuations of drilling
acreage approach the peak set before the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Chinese, French and Japanese energy explorers committed
more than $8 billion in the past two weeks to shale-rock
formations from Pennsylvania to Texas after 2011 set records for
international average crude prices and U.S. gas demand. As
competition among buyers intensifies, overseas investors are
paying top dollar for fields where too few wells have been
drilled to assess potential production, said Sven Del Pozzo, a
senior equity analyst at  IHS Inc. (IHS)   Marubeni Corp. (8002) , the Japanese commodity trader, last week
agreed to pay as much as $25,000 an acre for a stake in Hunt Oil
Co.’s Eagle Ford shale property in Texas. The price, which
includes future drilling costs, exceeds the $21,000 an acre
 Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  paid last year for nearby prospects owned by
 KKR & Co. (KKR) ’s Hilcorp Resources Holdings LP. In the Utica shale of
Ohio and Pennsylvania, deal prices jumped 10-fold in five weeks
to almost $15,000 an acre, according to IHS figures.  “I don’t feel confident that the prices being paid now are
justified,” Del Pozzo said in a telephone interview from
Norwalk, Connecticut. “I’m wary.”  Vast New Resources  The world’s largest energy producers, including  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , are revisiting onshore U.S.
prospects passed over in recent decades in favor of deep-water
finds in West Africa and the  Gulf of Mexico . New drilling
techniques developed in the Barnett shale of north Texas have
enabled companies to crack previously-impervious formations.  Overseas explorers such as  China  Petrochemical Corp. and
 Total SA (FP)  want to learn from U.S. partners so they can exploit
vast shale resources in  Europe  and  Asia , said Mark Hanson, an
analyst at Morningstar LLC in Chicago.  The U.S. holds an estimated 2,543 trillion cubic feet of
gas, enough to meet domestic demand for more than a century at
current rates of consumption, according to the Energy Department
in  Washington . Shale accounts for 862 trillion of that total, or
34 percent. In China, shale formations hold an estimated 1,275
trillion cubic feet of gas, 12 times as much as the nation’s so-
called conventional fields.  Buying to Continue  The buying spree is likely to continue because
international oil producers are eager to amass reserves in the
U.S., which surpassed  Russia  in 2010 as the world’s largest
source of gas, said Christian O’Neill, an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Oil production also has blossomed in the world’s largest
economy, rising to a 9-year high of 5.78 million barrels a day
in October, the most recent month for which the Energy
Department in Washington has figures.  Hunt, the closely held Dallas company founded by  Texas 
tycoon H.L. Hunt in 1934, has only drilled “a handful” of
wells in its Eagle Ford shale acreage, which means it doesn’t
yet know how extensive or rich those holdings are, Del Pozzo
said. Similarly, because drilling in the Utica shale still is in
its infancy, the geological characteristics and potential bounty
of the region are hard to assess, said Manuj Nikhanj, head of
energy research at ITG Investment Research Inc.  “The big risk is that people are jumping in with both feet
too early,” Nikhanj said in a telephone interview from Calgary.
“Of course, the other side of that is that if they wait, they
risk missing out on what could turn out to be a big deal.”  Carizzo, Magnetar  Private-equity firms also are showing increasing interest
in US shale assets, Sylvester “Chip” Johnson, chief executive
officer of  Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc. (CRZO) , said in a Jan. 4 presentation
at a Pritchard Capital conference in San Francisco.  Carizzo, based in Houston, has been selling fields in some
of its first shale plays, such as the Barnett region, to raise
money for drilling higher-profit Utica and Eagle Ford prospects
that contain oil, he said.  Chesapeake sold $750 million preferred shares last month in
a subsidiary created to finance development of its Utica shale
holdings. The transaction entitles Magnetar Capital, Blackstone
Group’s GSO Capital Partners LP and an investment group that
includes EIG Global Energy Partners LP to 7 percent annual
distributions and a 3 percent overriding royalty interest in the
first 1,500 wells.  More Science  Buyers are studying fields more closely before committing,
Nikhanj said. Total, Europe’s third-largest oil producer by
market value, was selective about what sections of the Utica
shale will be included in the 25 percent stake it acquired on
Dec. 30 in 619,000 acres controlled by  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) 
and EnerVest Ltd.  Total’s outlay, including drilling costs, will be $2.32
billion, or the equivalent to about $15,000 an acre, based on
Bloomberg calculations. That’s more than four times the average
per-acre price from seven Utica shale transactions tracked by
IHS from March 2011 to September 2011.  “We are seeing prices move up quite dramatically in these
exploratory shale plays,” Nikhanj said. “But the Total joint
venture also shows us that these companies with deep pockets are
doing more science” before signing deals.  High-Risk Prospects  The quirky nature of shale geology means the risks are high
that an investment made in a sparsely drilled prospect will go
bust, Nikhanj said. Rock density, porosity and pressure levels
vary widely within each field, which means one parcel may hold
enough fuel to justify prices of $30,000 or $50,000 an acre,
while the adjacent land is almost worthless to drillers.  Brent oil futures, the London-traded benchmark for two-
thirds of the world’s crude, jumped 26 percent to an average of
$110.91 a barrel in 2011, the highest on record, spurred by
supply disruptions in North Africa and escalating worldwide
demand for fuels to run trains, airplanes and trucks.  As long as crude commands such lofty prices, explorers will
continue to seek out geologic formations soaked in oil and gas
components such as propane, Dan McSpirit, a Denver-based analyst
for BMO Capital Markets, said in a telephone interview.  China Petrochemical, the Beijing-based crude producer known
as  Sinopec (600028)  Group, and Total expect to glean expertise from their
U.S. partners in the horizontal drilling and high-pressure water
injection necessary to extract oil and gas from shale, said
Hanson, the Morningstar analyst. Ultimately, the know-how will
be transferred to virgin shale prospects in Europe, Asia and
 Latin America , he said.  ‘Massive Land Grab’  U.S. gas explorers including Chesapeake and  Devon Energy
Corp. (DVN)  are selling interests in shale fields to international
energy companies such as Total and Sinopec to finance drilling
on leases acquired during a “massive land grab” in 2007 and
2008 as oil and gas prices soared to record highs, O’Neill of
Bloomberg Industries said.  The plunge in energy prices that followed Lehman’s
bankruptcy and subsequent global financial crisis left operators
like Chesapeake too poor to fulfill clauses that set deadlines
for finishing wells on pain of forfeiting the leases, O’Neill
said.  “These deals give the domestic exploration companies
capital to drill so they won’t lose those assets, and gives the
foreign companies the learning process they’re going to need to
exploit shale resources on their own,” O’Neill said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  