-- Shopping Center Leasing Increases in U.S. as Consumer Confidence Increases
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/shopping-center-leasing-increases-in-u-s-as-consumer-confidence-climbs.html
U.S. shopping centers had their first
net gain in occupied space in four years as  consumer confidence 
and job growth began to strengthen,  Reis Inc.  said.  Neighborhood and community  shopping centers (BBRESHOP)  -- usually
anchored by grocery stores, drugstores or discount retailers --
had a net increase of 3.18 million square feet (295,400 square
meters) in the fourth quarter, the most since 10.1 million
square feet in the last three months of 2007, the New York-based
real estate research firm said in a report today.  “While this represents welcome news, we remain wary about
pronouncing a turnaround until we observe a few more quarters of
improvement,” Victor Calanog, Reis’s head of research, said in
the report. The fourth quarter tends to be the strongest period
of the year for retail leasing, he said.  Confidence (CONCCONF)  about the economic recovery grew last quarter
amid reports showing that  job creation  is accelerating. U.S.
employers added 300,000 workers in November and December,
pushing the  unemployment rate  down to 8.5 percent, the lowest
since February 2009, according to the Labor Department. Consumer
confidence reached an eight-month high in December, according to
a Conference Board index.  Vacancies at shopping centers averaged 11 percent in the
fourth quarter, unchanged from the previous three months and up
from 10.9 percent a year earlier, Reis said. The fourth
quarter’s rate was the highest since 1990, when it was 11.1
percent, and was driven up by the 1.89 million square feet of
new retail properties that came to market, the researcher said.  Asking Rents Rise  At regional and super-regional  malls (BBREMALL) , landlords’ asking
rents rose to an average of $38.92 per square foot from $38.81
in the third quarter and $38.79 a year earlier, according to
Reis. Vacancies declined to 9.2 percent from 9.4 percent in the
third quarter, the highest since Reis began publishing mall data
in 2000. The rate was up from 8.7 percent a year earlier.  Retail landlords have struggled since the recession that
ended in 2009 as weak sales cut tenant demand for space and
competition from online stores grows.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the
biggest U.S. department-store chain, said last month that it
would close as many as 120 locations after four years of
declining sales.  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the country’s largest apparel
retailer, plans to open more stores outside the U.S. as part of
a plan to generate 30 percent of sales from international
markets by 2013.  Discount retailers are helping to shrink some of the
vacancies, Reis said.  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  said Jan. 3 it plans
to open 625 stores in the U.S. this year.  “Some retailers are aggressively pursuing expansion plans
because there are deals to be had for retail space,” Calanog
said in the report.  Vacancies haven’t changed much for most of the past two
years largely because new supply has been restrained, he said.
About 4.9 million square feet of new shopping center space was
completed last year, compared with 4.5 million finished in 2010,
which was the lowest figure in Reis’s 31 years of data.  “Any recovery for shopping centers remains precarious,”
Calanog said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at   dtaub@bloomberg.net  