-- South Africa’s Century-Old ANC Vows to Quash Internal Rifts
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-01-09T09:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/south-africa-s-ruling-anc-pledges-to-quash-internal-rifts-on-centenary.html
South Africa’s ruling  African
National Congress  pledged to quash a divisive battle over
leadership posts as the continent’s oldest political party
celebrated its 100th anniversary.  The ANC will take measures to strengthen party discipline
and seek an end to tension between opposing factions, it said in
an annual policy statement released yesterday at a rally in
Bloemfontein in the central Free State Province, where the party
was created in 1912.  The ANC has won every election with more than 60 percent of
the ballots since the end of apartheid and first all-race vote
in 1994 and has added to its support by giving welfare grants to
a third of the population and increasing access to water and
electricity. The party’s unity has been undermined by the
decision of its Youth League, led by  Julius Malema , to switch
its support from President  Jacob Zuma  to his deputy, Kgalema Motlanthe, ahead of party elections in December.  “We shall combine political education with effective
organizational measures and mechanisms to promote integrity,
political discipline and ethical conduct and defeat the demon of
factionalism,” the ANC said in its statement.  Malema, 30, who is fighting his suspension from the party,
is lobbying the ANC to nationalize mines and banks. Zuma has
said nationalization is the subject of a debate within the party
and isn’t government policy.  Mineral Wealth  London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Australia ’s BHP Billito
Ltd. and   Xstrata Plc (XTA)   of Zug,  Switzerland , own mines in  South
Africa , the world’s biggest producer of platinum and chrome.
Citigroup Inc. in April 2010 valued the country’s mineral
resources at $2.5 trillion, the most of any nation.  Zuma, 69, is under pressure from labor unions, the Youth
League and the public to boost jobs in an  economy (SAGDPANN)  where one in
four people is without work. The National Treasury estimates
gross domestic product needs to expand 7 percent a year, more
than double this year’s expected rate, to cut the  unemployment
rate (SAUERATQ)  to 14 percent by 2020.  “The ANC managed to unite us as a nation,” Foster
Makhubela, 45, an English teacher who attended yesterday’s
centenary celebrations in Mangaung. “When it comes to elections
people vote for the ANC because there are no alternatives. The
ANC accepts that it has failed on some fronts.”  ‘Solid Foundation’  The South African Native National Convention was formed in
1912, uniting tribal chiefs, black leaders, churches and civil
rights groups in the fight for the rights of blacks. The group,
which changed its name to ANC in 1923, was banned in 1960. Most
of its leadership was arrested, including  Nelson Mandela , who
spent 27 years in prison, while others such as former ANC
President Oliver Tambo went into exile.  Popular resistance to apartheid and economic sanctions
forced the white government to the negotiating table and the ANC
was legalized in 1990. It took power under Mandela four years
later, winning 62.6 percent of the vote.  “The ANC has laid a sound foundation for socio-economic
development, although challenges remain,” Zuma said in a speech
delivered at a 45,000-seat sports stadium filled with supporters
wearing the party’s colors of green, black and gold. “We must
bring new energy and new ideas into the kind of society we want
to build over the next few decades.”  Zuma’s address was devoid of any new ideas to tackle the
country’s problems and did little to advance his chances of
being re-elected, Business Day, the country’s main business
newspaper, said in an editorial today.  ‘Daunting Year’ Ahead  “It was an awful dreary speech, made by a man who has
never gotten on top of his main job of leading the country and
who faces a daunting year, both at the head of his government
and in his party,” the Johannesburg-based newspaper said.  Party unity began to erode in December 2007, when Zuma won
control of the ANC from  Thabo Mbeki , Mandela’s successor, with
backing from the unions and the Youth League. Mbeki was ousted
as president of the country in 2008 after a judge suggested in a
court ruling that he pressured prosecutors to pursue corruption
charges against Zuma.  A group of Mbeki’s allies, led by former ANC Chairman
 Mosiuoa Lekota , then quit the ANC to form a rival party,
Congress of the People. Zuma was appointed president of the
country in May 2009.  “In certain areas we have lost the attention of the
masses, without a doubt,” Human Settlements Minister Tokyo Sexwale said in an interview in Bloemfontein yesterday. “It is
important we use this opportunity to reconnect with the people.
The ANC is still powerful, but it has been more powerful and can
be more powerful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  