-- South Africa Sells $1.5 Billion of Dollar Bonds on Near-Record-Low Rates
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-01-09T21:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/south-africa-said-to-plan-sale-of-as-much-as-1-5-billion-worth-of-bonds.html
South Africa  sold $1.5 billion of 12-
year bonds, tapping international markets for the first time
since March to take advantage of near-record-low U.S. interest
rates to repay existing debt.  The country sold the 4.665 percent debt at par to yield 270
basis points more than U.S. Treasuries, according to a person
familiar with the transaction who asked not to be identified
because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly. Barclays Plc and
Citigroup Inc. managed the sale.  South Africa followed  Brazil ,  Mexico , Indonesia and the
Philippines to the dollar bond market this year, betting yields
on U.S. Treasuries are set to rise as the world’s biggest
economy expands. Benchmark 10-year yields will climb to 2.6
percent by Dec. 31, from 1.98 percent today, according to the
median estimate of 63 economists and strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Indonesia  sold $1.75 billion of 30-year, dollar-
denominated bonds today to yield 5.375 percent, or 240 basis
points above U.S. Treasuries.  “The pricing was fair and caused the outstanding curve to
sell off,” said Jeremy Brewin, who oversees about $4 billion at
Aviva Investors in  London , about the South African bonds. Brewin
said he bought both Indonesian and South African debt today.  The yield on South Africa’s $1 billion of 5.875 percent
bonds due 2022 jumped 15 basis points to 4.32 percent as of 4:20
p.m. New York time, the highest since Nov. 29. The yield on the
comparable U.S. Treasury note fell three basis points.  U.S. Filing  The Treasury intends to use the proceeds of the sale to
repay maturing debt, and for general government purposes, it
said in a prospectus filed today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  South Africa plans to sell about $1 billion a year on
international  capital markets  over this and the next two fiscal
years as slower growth in Africa’s biggest economy puts pressure
on revenue, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in his mid-term
budget statement in October. The Treasury sold $750 million of
securities in March.  “The timing so early in the year must surely be related to
the low level of 10-year U.S. Treasuries,” Michael Grobler, a
Cape Town-based analyst at Afrifocus Securities, said by e-mail
in response to questions. “Generally, offshore interest remains
buoyant,” with most money managers “running overweight South
African dollar bond positions.”  South Africa’s long-term foreign-currency debt is rated A3
at Moody’s Investors Service with a negative outlook.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates the nation’s debt BBB+ with a stable outlook.  Nedbank Group Ltd. and Rand Merchant Bank, both based in
Johannesburg, are co-managing the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  