-- STMicro to Unveil Sensor Suit for Health Care, Sport at CES
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-01-10T08:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/stmicro-will-unveil-sensor-suit-to-help-people-with-injuries-this-week.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s
largest semiconductor maker, will unveil a smart-suit prototype
with motion sensors that may help people with injuries to
recover faster and enhance the performance of athletes.  The company will present the suit at the International
Consumer Electronics Show, or  CES , in  Las Vegas  this week. Sewn-
in multisensor nodes can capture motion. Such technology is used
to record the movements of actors to create animated characters
in films and games, and STMicroelectronics is betting it will
have wider applications in sports and in helping recuperation
from injury and illness.  “This technology will improve the recovery of patients in
rehabilitation after injuries and athletes’ performance as it
can track, compare and address issues in their movements and
posture,” Nunzio Abbate, marketing director for automation,
robotics and transportation, said in an interview. “A tennis
player will finally be able to compare his forehand with
Nadal’s.”  STMicroelectronics rose as much as 1.8 percent to 4.9 euros
in Paris trading today and was up 0.8 percent as of 9:40 a.m.,
giving the company a market value of 4.4 billion euros ($5.6
billion). The stock has  dropped  41 percent in the last 12
months.  The Geneva-based company said in October it was “on
track” to double revenue from such microelectromechanical
systems, or MEMS, in 2011 after sales rose almost 130 percent in
the first nine months. It didn’t give a total MEMS sales number.
Smartphones are also generating demand for MEMS, including
motion sensors, allowing consumers to turn, tilt and tap their
gadgets for games, search and other functions.  Market Leader  Global MEMS revenue, which includes applications in medical
electronics and automotive, is estimated to rise 11.6 percent to
$8.74 billion in 2012, according to  Jeremie Bouchaud , an analyst
at market researcher IHS iSuppli. STMicroelectronics was the
 market leader  in consumer and mobile MEMS in the first half,
benefiting from growth in handsets and tablet devices, IHS
iSuppli said in September.  Patients with illnesses such as  Parkinson’s disease  may
benefit from treatments based on the repetition of simple
movements through the technology, said Abbate.  Highest Growth  “MEMS is definitely one of the businesses within STMicro
which has had the highest growth in recent years and which has
one of the most promising outlooks in coming years,” said
Janardan Menon, an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  London .  The chipmaker, led by Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti , had a 64 percent decline in third-quarter net income as
net revenue fell to $2.44 billion from $2.66 billion.  MEMS will continue to rise in consumer devices including
smartphones, tablets and gaming consoles, Menon said. “We also
expect MEMS to grow in other areas such as medical and
industrial,” said Menon, who has a “hold” rating on
STMicroelectronics shares.  “The price of suits and other applications will be slashed
with our new technology,” Abbate said. He forecast the price of
a suit may drop to a tenth of current levels of “several
thousand euros,” opening up new markets. STMicroelectronics
won’t produce the suits but will sell the technology to make
such products, he said.  In the prototype suit, each node combines a
microcontroller, nine sensors, including an accelerometer and a
gyroscope, and software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  