-- LSU Football Coach Les Miles Has $5.7 Million Riding on BCS National Title
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/lsu-football-coach-les-miles-has-5-7-million-riding-on-bcs-national-title.html
Louisiana State University  football
coach  Les Miles  has $5.7 million riding on tonight’s Bowl
Championship Series title game.  A victory over the  University of Alabama  triggers a clause
in his contract that increases his annual pay by that much over
the remaining six years of the deal.  The potential raise comes when colleges are trying to rein
in sports program expenses. Head football coaches’ salaries
increased 11.7 percent in the fiscal year ended June 30,
exceeding the 5.7 percent gain in total revenue at top-tier
athletic departments during the same period, according to a
 report  by the  National Collegiate Athletic Association .  “This will definitely perpetuate the irrational upward
cycle in coaches’ salaries,” said  Andrew Zimbalist , a sports
economist at  Smith College  in Northampton,  Massachusetts . “It
wouldn’t be so bad if it was symmetrical; if you ended with the
worst record, then your contract says you get $1,000 less than
the lowest-paid coach in the conference. But they only go up.”  Miles earned $3.75 million this year in salary, plus
bonuses of $200,000 for winning the  Southeastern Conference 
championship and $200,000 when the Tigers qualified for a Bowl
Championship Series game. A victory in the national title game
pays an additional bonus of $100,000.  Even bigger money comes from a clause in his contract that
requires him to be paid at least $1,000 more in total salary
than the highest-paid coach working at a public university in
the  Southeastern Conference  if he wins the national title.  Saban Highest Paid  The highest-paid coach is tonight’s opponent,  Alabama ’s
 Nick Saban , who receives $4.7 million in salary and could earn a
$400,000 bonus if the Crimson Tide win tonight’s game at the
Superdome in  New Orleans , about 80 miles southeast of LSU’s
campus in  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana .  A call to Saban’s agent, Jimmy Sexton, wasn’t returned.
Miles’s agent, George Bass, said he wasn’t comfortable talking
about his client’s contract.  LSU Chancellor Mike Martin didn’t respond to a request for
an interview. University of Alabama spokeswoman Deborah Lane
said President Robert E. Witt wasn’t available for comment.  The average head coach salary among the 120 schools in
college athletics’ top division was $1.38 million in 2010. The
combined average salary for the rest of the football coaching
staff was $1.97 million, according to an NCAA report published
in August.  Though athletic directors say rising coach salaries are a
result of the free market, Zimbalist says the system is rigged.  “It’s all being fed off the fact that the athletes aren’t
being paid, most schools live off of university and state
subsidies, they all get tax privileges and they live in a world
where there are no stockholders saying they want to see a profit
on the bottom line,” Zimbalist said in an interview.  LSU’s Operating Profit  Few schools are as capable of paying the salary increase as
LSU. The Tigers’ athletic program posted operating revenue of
$111 million and an operating profit of $8.7 million for the
year ending June 30, 2010, according to financial records
acquired by filing open records requests with the university.  The school’s athletic department is one of 22 in college
sports’ top division that posted an operating profit, and it
receives no subsidy from the university. Its football team was
the fifth-most successful program in the country, posting an
operating profit of $43.9 million on revenue of $69.4 million.  LSU’s football program  trailed  Texas  ($70.1 million
operating profit on $93.9 million revenue),  Georgia  ($52.5
million, $71 million),  Michigan  ($44.9 million, $63.1 million)
and  Florida  ($44.3 million, $68.9 million).  LSU finished No. 1 in the BCS standings with a 13-0 record,
while Alabama finished No. 2 with an 11-1 record. The  Crimson
Tide’s  only loss this season was a 9-6 overtime defeat to LSU in
November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  