-- Super Painkiller Needs Extra Scrutiny From FDA, NY Senator Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-09T21:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/super-painkiller-needs-extra-scrutiny-from-fda-ny-senator-says.html
Powerful painkillers being researched
by  Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX) , a specialty pharmaceutical company, should be
severely restricted if U.S. regulators decide to approve them, a
New York senator said today.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat, wrote Food and Drug
Administration Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  urging her to
proceed with caution before allowing what he called “super”
drugs that are 10 times more powerful than Vicodin on the
market. Zogenix and at least three other companies are
researching pure-form hydrocodone pain relievers, according to a
 statement  from Schumer.  The products have never been sold in the U.S. and would be
the most powerful prescription painkillers available, Schumer
said. The senator urged FDA to closely track any approved
hydrocodone products and take precautions to deter abuse as well
as closely monitor advertising and sales.  “It’s tremendously concerning that at the same time policy
makers and law enforcement professionals are waging a war on the
growing prescription drug crisis, new and more powerful super-
drugs could well be on their way, flooding the market,” Schumer
said.  Zogenix’s product, Zohydro, began final phases of testing
in March 2010, according to the company’s website. Zogenix plans
to submit an application to the FDA for approval in the second
quarter of 2012, Victoria Aguiar, a spokeswoman for Zogenix,
said in an e-mail.  The company is attempting to develop a safer pain treatment
than Vicodin, which contains acetaminophen and can cause liver
toxicity, Aguiar said. Zogenix also plans to implement a risk
mitigation strategy that recognizes the abuse potential of its
product.  Zogenix rose less than 1 percent to $2.84 at the close in
 New York . The shares have declined 53 percent in the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 