-- Swiss Currency Test Looms for SNB’s Jordan in Race to Replace Hildebrand
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-10T11:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/swiss-franc-policy-test-looms-for-snb-frontrunner-jordan-after-hildebrand.html
Thomas Jordan’s first test as
interim president of  Switzerland ’s central bank will be to prove
he can defend the four-month old cap on the franc as well as its
chief architect did.  As Jordan, 48, emerges as the frontrunner to replace
Philipp Hildebrand on a permanent basis, he faces the challenge
of showing investors a change in personality at the top doesn’t
signal a shift in the  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) ’s foreign-exchange
policy. Hildebrand resigned yesterday after failing to quell a
furor over  currency trading  by his wife, leaving Jordan as
guardian of the franc before a permanent successor is chosen.  “He looks like the most likely candidate,” Ankita Dudani,
a foreign-currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  London , said in a telephone interview. “He’s got the
confidence of the markets already.”  Whoever wins the race to lead the SNB will inherit a 105
year-old institution which has pledged to devote unlimited funds
to prevent gains in the franc after paring its benchmark
 interest rate  to zero. The task faced by Hildebrand’s successor
may be burdened with internal change as the central bank
revisits ethics rules to avoid a repeat of the controversy.  Resignation Forced  The 11-member SNB Bank Council, the central bank’s
supervisory board, forced Hildebrand to resign,  Blick  newspaper
reported today, citing three undisclosed sources. The council is
holding an extraordinary meeting in Zurich today and a successor
will be named as soon as possible, Hansueli Raggenbass, head of
the council, said in an interview. It will be up to the
government to decide on an appointment.  The Swiss currency surged to the highest since September
against the euro after Hildebrand’s announcement. It pared gains
after the SNB said it remains ready to defend the franc cap of
1.20 versus the euro with the “utmost determination,” a stance
repeated later by Jordan. The franc traded at 1.2126 versus the
euro at 12:55 p.m. in Zurich today, little changed on the day.
It was at 94.97 centimes versus the dollar.  “The knee-jerk reaction from the market is to buy
francs,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a market strategist at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. “Even without Hildebrand
spearheading the campaign against the franc appreciation, the
SNB is likely to defend the 1.20 floor vigorously.”  Jordan Thesis  Unlike Hildebrand, whose career took him from hedge fund
roles in London and  New York  to Swiss private banks, Jordan has
a largely academic background with three years spent at  Harvard
University  in the 1990s. The native of Biel in Switzerland’s
French-speaking part studied economics and business studies at
the University of Bern and achieved a doctorate in 1993.  Jordan’s thesis, published in 1994, focused on the
advantages and disadvantages of the European currency union,
Tages-Anzeiger newspaper reported.  After completing his post-doctoral research at the
Department of Economics at Harvard, he joined the Zurich-based
central bank in 1997 as a head of the Economic Studies unit. A
year later, he was appointed lecturer at the University of Bern.
Between 2002 and 2007, he taught monetary policy at the
University of Zurich and was appointed honorary professor at the
University in Bern in 2003. In 2007, Jordan was appointed SNB
board member before becoming vice chairman three years later.  SNB ‘Maverick’  Hildebrand’s departure from the SNB’s three-member board
deprives Switzerland of a policy maker who managed to stem the
franc’s rally, which threatened to push the economy into a
renewed recession. The currency, which is considered a haven in
times of turmoil, has remained above 1.20 after the SNB imposed
its ceiling. The currency had reached a record of 1.0075 against
the euro on Aug. 9.  “Hildebrand was known as a bit of a maverick, bolder and
willing to take risks when it comes to policy decisions,” said
 Derek Halpenny , European head of currency research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The markets will assume
that whoever replaces Hildebrand will keep the cap in place
because the floor has been very successful.”  Still, it was Jordan who told Tages-Anzeiger newspaper in
August that a temporary franc peg would be consistent with the
SNB’s mandate, paving the way for the bank’s biggest policy
shift since the 1970s, when it capped the currency at 1.20. The
SNB, which on Dec. 15 maintained its ceiling and held borrowing
costs at zero, will hold its next quarterly assessment in March.  Franc Ceiling  Julien Manceaux, an economist at ING Group in Brussels,
said the franc cap “is here to stay, with or without”
Hildebrand.  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in
Munich, called Jordan a “qualified candidate” for the top job.  “You want someone with a lot of determination, so in some
sense it’s particularly unfortunate because Hildebrand was very
personally involved and associated with the policy,” said
 Steven Bell , chief economist at hedge fund GLC Ltd. in London.
“In a sense, it has cleared the air. They’ve said that we’ve
lost our leader, but the fight is unchanged.”  Pressure on Hildebrand to resign increased after media
reported his family may have used insider knowledge to its
advantage. While the government said it still supports the SNB
head and an internal investigation cleared him of wrongdoing,
the purchase of $504,000 by his wife in August, three weeks
before the SNB imposed the currency cap, was found
“sensitive.”  Hildebrand, 48, said at a briefing in Bern yesterday that
he came “to the conclusion that it’s not possible” to deliver
proof that his wife requested the currency transaction without
his knowledge, calling credibility “the most important asset of
a central banker.”  ‘Excellent Reputation’  “Hildebrand had an excellent reputation in the markets,
markets will miss him,”  Steven Saywell , head of foreign-
exchange strategy for  Europe  at BNP Paribas SA in London, told
Bloomberg Television in an interview today. “Clearly it was a
conflict of interest. Ultimately it comes down to credibility.”  Hildebrand is not the first European central banker to
leave before the end of their term in the past year.  Germany ’s
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  and European Central Bank
Executive Board member  Juergen Stark , both from Germany, quit
over the ECB’s bond-buying program, while Italy’s Lorenzo Bini Smaghi also left the board prematurely.  While  Michael Saunders , chief European economist at
Citigroup Inc. in London, wrote in an e-mailed note that the new
SNB head will likely continue to face calls for a higher franc
cap as the economy cools, Jan Amrit Poser, chief economist at
 Bank Sarasin (BSAN)  in Zurich, said it would be “hazardous” to raise
the ceiling anytime soon.  “For Jordan, the most important thing is continuity,”
said Poser, chief economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich. “The
biggest mistake they could make is to change the policy
completely. The message they really want to show is business as
usual.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  