-- Swiss Stocks Decline After SNB President Hildebrand Resigns
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-01-09T16:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/switzerland-stocks-decline-before-merkel-sarkozy-meet-on-crisis.html
Stocks in Switzerland (SMI)  dropped as the
Swiss National Bank President Philipp Hildebrand resigned after
a currency purchase by his wife last year became controversial.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  led losses.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest banks, fell at least 1.5 percent. Kuehne &
Nagel International AG, the world’s largest sea-freight
forwarder, rose 1.6 percent.  The Swiss Market Index, a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, lost 0.4 percent to 5,987.54 at the
close in Zurich. The gauge posted a 1.3 percent gain last week,
a third straight advance, as economic reports spurred optimism
that the global economy can weather the fallout from the
region’s debt crisis. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
retreated 0.4 percent today.  Hildebrand’s departure from the central bank’s three-member
board deprives  Switzerland  of a policy maker who managed to stem
the franc’s rally to records against the dollar and the euro,
which had threatened to derail the economy.  “Hildebrand was known as a bit of a maverick -- bolder and
willing to take risks when it comes to policy decisions,” said
 Derek Halpenny , European head of currency research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “So the initial reaction
to him stepping down is that it may diminish the resolve of the
SNB to defend the 1.20 per euro level.”  Currency Cap  Media reported Hildebrand’s family may have used insider
knowledge to its advantage. While an internal investigation
cleared him of wrongdoing, the purchase of $504,000 by his wife
in August, three weeks before the SNB imposed a currency cap,
was found “sensitive.”  “The markets will assume that whoever replaces Hildebrand
will keep the cap in place because the floor has been very
successful,” said Halpenny.  In Berlin, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met today for the first time in 2012
to flesh out a new rulebook for budget discipline negotiated at
a Dec. 9 summit that seeks to create a “fiscal compact” for
the 17-member euro area.  “The worries of the old year are also the worries of the
new year,” said Christian Zogg, who manages about $540 million
at LLB Asset Management in Vaduz, Liechtenstein. “As long as
the U.K. blocks some sort of fiscal union, there won’t be a big
pitch. It will continue to be volatile, with investors’ hope
probably lying with U.S. economic data.”  Jobless Rate  Swiss unemployment increased to the highest in eight months
in December as faltering global export demand and the franc’s
ascent prompted companies to cut jobs.  The  jobless rate (SZUEUEA)  rose to 3.1 percent in December from 3
percent in the previous month when adjusted for seasonal swings,
the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern said today.
That’s the highest since April and in line with the  median
forecast (SZUEUEA)  of 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Novartis, which accounts for about 19 percent of the SMI,
retreated 1.2 percent to 54.05 Swiss francs. The company said
it’s voluntarily recalling some over-the-counter products in the
U.S., including its Excedrin headache pills and NoDoz
medication, because they may contain broken or stray tablets
from other products.  UBS and Credit Suisse fell 3.5 percent to 10.70 francs and
1.9 percent to 20.99 francs, respectively, after Exane BNP
Paribas resumed coverage of the companies with an
“underperform” rating.  Temenos, Kuehne & Nagel  Temenos Group AG, the banking-software maker, slumped 7
percent to 14.6 francs, the most since Nov. 21, after saying
Mark Austen resigned from his position on the company’s board of
directors with immediate effect. The company previously
announced it would not seek Austen’s re-election at its next
shareholder meeting.  Kuehne & Nagel jumped 1.6 percent to 105.10 francs after
Citigroup Inc. named it one of its “most preferred” stocks.  Schindler Holding AG, the world’s second-largest maker of
elevators, increased 1.7 percent to 110.60 francs after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised European industrial-goods companies as a
group to “neutral” from “underweight.”  Sulzer AG (SUN) , the world’s second-largest maker of pumps, rose
2.3 percent to 104.7 francs.  The nation’s  watchmakers advanced (SMI) , with  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA climbing 0.9 percent to 363.80
francs and 1.5 percent to 50.15 francs, respectively.  Basilea Pharmaceutica AG rallied 7.1 percent to 39.40
francs. Helvea SA said that Astellas Pharma Inc. may become a
partner for Basilea’s experimental antibiotic and may buy the
whole company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  