-- Syrian Forces Fire on Protesters as Arab League Observers Visit Homs Area
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-01-09T17:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/syria-forces-kill-20-as-arab-league-repeats-call-for-cessation-of-violence.html
Syrian forces fired on protesters in
Homs as  Arab League  observers visited the central city that has
suffered the most casualties since the uprising against
President Bashar al-Assad began in March, activists said.  The crackdown, which has claimed more than 2,000 lives in
Homs, continued as the Arab League reiterated calls for the
government to protect civilians, withdraw troops from urban
areas and release political prisoners, Mahmoud Merei, head of
the Arab Organization for Human Rights said by phone from Syria
today. A car carrying Arab League monitors was shot at in Homs,
Al-Jazeera reported.  “Oppression seems to be the only policy of the government
and they are playing for time after and looking forward to their
ally Iraq taking over the presidency of the Arab League in
March,”   Patrick Seale , a biographer of Assad’s father, said by
phone. “The balance of power remains very much in the regime’s
favor. I don’t see any immediate change in the situation and I
don’t think the Syrian opposition has what it takes.”  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi yesterday said
he expected a report from monitors on Jan. 19. The Cairo-based
bloc said it will continue its mission in Syria as long as the
government abides by the terms of an agreement allowing the
monitors.  The unrest, which is the strongest challenge to Assad’s
rule since he came to power in 2000, has left more than 5,000
people dead, according to United Nations estimates.  Teen Dies  A 16-year-old boy died today in Douma, a suburb of the
capital Damascus, from wounds sustained a few days earlier,
while two people were killed in Idlib, said the U.K.-based
 Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , which has a network of
activists in  Syria . Twelve tanks were stationed in the suburbs
of Hama, it said in an e-mailed statement.  At least 20 people were killed yesterday in Homs, Hama,
suburbs of Damascus and the northern province of Idlib, Merei
said. Seven people died today in Homs, Hama, and the Damascus
suburb of Douma, according to Merei. The  Local Coordination
Committees , an activist group with members in Syria, put the
death toll at 19, which included two women and a child.  “The Syrian government has been very consistent from the
beginning with a policy to confront the demonstrations with a
combination of mass arrests, violence, and they haven’t
changed,” said Rami Khouri, director of the Issam Fares
Institute for Public Policy and International Affairs at the
American University of  Beirut . “It’s a policy to beat the
uprising down and hit people so badly that they surrender and
give it up, and that obviously hasn’t worked.”  Assad’s government has blamed “terrorists” and foreign
provocateurs for fomenting the protests.  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27.
Efforts by the U.S. and the European Union, which also have
imposed sanctions, for the UN Russia and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  