-- U.K. Haven Status Threatened by Growth, Euro Woes, Barclays Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-01-09T16:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/u-k-haven-status-threatened-by-growth-euro-woes-barclays-says.html
Britain’s status as a haven amid
 Europe ’s debt turmoil faces threats from a poor economic outlook
and the risk of a disorderly breakup of the euro,  Barclays
Capital  said.  While there is some justification for the near record-low
yields on U.K. government bonds, confidence could be damaged if
the economy again proves weaker than forecast as concerns mount
over the buildup of government debt, Barclays economist  Simon Hayes  said in a report released in London today.  “Investors might then begin to question more seriously the
economy’s longer-term growth capacity and the feasibility of
achieving a stable and manageable level of public debt,” he
said. “Moreover, the government might find it increasingly
politically difficult to maintain its austerity drive. Any hint
that the government’s commitment to achieving a medium-term
budget balance was waning would be likely to harm gilt-market
confidence.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  points to the bond markets as
an endorsement of austerity policies that have stifled growth
while shielding the U.K. from the concerns weighing on the euro
area. His government is  able to borrow (GUKG10)  for 10 years at about 2
percent, compared with rates of 3.3 percent in  France  and 7.1
percent in Italy. Helping to hold down U.K. yields is a  Bank of
England  bond-buying program aimed at boosting an economy
forecast by the Treasury’s fiscal watchdog to expand less than 1
percent this year.  Euro Shocks  Hayes said shocks from a disorderly breakup of the euro
area could prove “unmanageable” and neither the Bank of
England nor the Treasury have much scope to provide extra
support to the economy. “A pronounced hit to business and
consumer confidence would be likely,” he said.  U.K. government debt is set to rise from 76 percent of
gross domestic product currently and peak at above 90 percent by
2015, a level “not out of line with other comparable
economies,” he said.  Britain’s debt burden would only fail to stabilize if among
other factors gilt yields rose persistently above 5.2 percent
and economic growth stayed below 0.6 percent, Hayes said.
“These critical values are generally some distance from
outturns that we would consider plausible,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in  London  at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 