-- U.K. Stocks Decline as Glaxo Retreats After Drug Trial; Barclays Sinks
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-09T16:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/u-k-stocks-little-changed-before-euro-meeting-fresnillo-gains.html
U.K. stocks (UKX)  dropped for the third
time in four days as banks declined and GlaxoSmithKline Plc
retreated after a disappointing study on an experimental
respiratory drug.  Glaxo, which accounts for 5 percent of the FTSE 100 Index’s
 weighting (UKX) , sank the most in three years after saying Relovair
didn’t prove superior to an existing medicine in a late-stage
study.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets,
slid 4.5 percent.  The FTSE 100 fell 37.42, or 0.7 percent, to 5,612.26 at the
close of trading in  London , after earlier rising as much as 0.4
percent. The gauge has still advanced 0.7 percent so far this
year after a 5.6 percent drop in 2011. The broader FTSE All-
Share Index slid 0.6 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
increased 1.4 percent.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy outlined the increased pace of their response to
the financial crisis at a press conference today. Euro-area
leaders may complete their new budget rulebook by Jan. 30, one
month ahead of schedule, and are considering accelerating
capital contributions to the bailout fund being set up this year
to stem the debt crisis, Merkel said  “The press conference didn’t produce anything of much
substance,” Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG Index in
London, said by telephone. “It was a grand non-event.”  Debt Crisis  The FTSE 100 fell 5.6 percent last year, at one stage
losing as much as 19 percent from the year’s high, as European
leaders struggled to contain the sovereign-debt crisis and
assure the euro’s survival. The euro area is the U.K.’s largest
export partner.  Germany  sold six-month treasury bills at a negative yield
for the first time today amid demand for the debt securities of
 Europe ’s biggest economy as a haven from the debt crisis. The
 European Central Bank  said overnight deposits from commercial
banks rose to a record 463.6 billion euros ($591 billion) on
Jan. 6, the most since the euro was introduced in 1999.  “Banks would rather pay the ECB to hold their cash rather
than lend it to each other,” Ben Critchley, a sales trader at
IG Index in London, wrote in e-mailed comments. “Fund managers
and other institutions are so desperate for a safe haven that
they’d rather pay Berlin to borrow money than purchase other
assets. None of this means Armageddon is on its way, but it’s
not exactly an encouraging sign.”  Glaxo (GSK)  Slides  Glaxo dropped 4.1 percent to 1,435 pence, the largest
decline since January 2009. The U.K.’s biggest drugmaker said
there was “no statistical difference” between Relovair and
Glaxo’s Seretide, known as Advair in the U.S., in a 12-week
study. Glaxo developed Relovair as a successor to Advair, its
best-selling drug.  Barclays Plc slid 4.5 percent to 178.1 pence, the lowest
level this year. Lloyds banking Group Plc declined 3.4 percent
to 26.19 pence.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  retreated 2.8 percent to 1,234 pence after
Citigroup Inc. lowered its recommendation for the copper
producer to “sell” from “neutral,” while Deutsche Bank AG
cut its rating to “hold” from “buy.”  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  dropped 5.7 percent to 182.4 pence, the
largest decline since October, as RBC Capital Markets downgraded
the oil explorer to “underperform” from “sector perform.”  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  climbed 1.8 percent to
1,195 pence as Deutsche Bank upgraded the hotelier’s shares to
“buy” from “hold.”  Persimmon Plc (PSN)  rallied 5.3 percent to 506.5 pence after the
U.K.’s second-biggest homebuilder said 2011 results will be
toward the top end of analysts’ estimates. The company said
underlying operating margin will approach 10 percent and
forecast a 50 percent increase in pretax profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  