-- More U.S. Part-Timers Find Full-Time Jobs
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-09T14:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/u-s-part-time-workers-finding-success-unearthing-full-time-jobs-economy.html
More Americans are moving from part-
time to full-time jobs, adding to evidence a strengthening labor
market will bolster household confidence and spending.  The number of people putting in a  full week (USEMFULL)  rose to 113.8
million in December, the most since February 2009, the Labor
Department’s monthly employment report showed last week. At the
same time,  8.1 million (USEMPTER)  worked fewer hours because they couldn’t
find a full-time job, the least since January 2009.  “It’s what will traditionally happen when the job market
overall is beginning to improve,” Tig Gilliam, chief executive
officer of Adecco Group North America, said in a telephone
interview.  While the jobless rate fell 0.5 percentage point over the
past three months, going from 9 percent to 8.5 percent, the so-
called  underemployment rate (USUDMAER) , which includes part-time employees
who’d prefer a full-time job, dropped by 1.2 percentage points
to reach 15.2 percent. The gain in hours and earnings resulting
from a full-day’s work will probably help sustain consumers.  “By moving into more permanent positions, you get a more
productive workforce,” said Michael Gapen, a senior U.S.
economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York . “It makes labor
more valuable and that means moderate wage growth, even with the
 unemployment rate  at 8.5 percent. That translates into better
consumption momentum entering this year.”  Stocks rose as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  discussed plans to shore up the euro.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.1 percent to 1,279.08
at 9:34 a.m. in New York.  German Production  Germany ’s economy, meantime, may be stalling. A report
today showed industrial  production (GRIPIMOM)  in Europe’s largest economy
fell 0.6 percent in November from a month earlier.  In  Australia , retail sales were little changed in November
from a month earlier, when they rose 0.2 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today.  Adecco, headquartered in Melville, New York, is a division
of Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based Adecco SA, the world’s largest
supplier of temporary workers. Gilliam said his industry “is
still seeing double-digit growth in permanent placements and
conversions” from part-time and temporary to full-time
employment. “When the market gets that much better, the direct
hiring accelerates even more,” he said.  Payrolls increased by 200,000 workers in December and the
8.5 percent  jobless rate (USURTOT)  was the lowest since February 2009,
last week’s Labor Department figures showed.  Merrier Holiday  Beatrice Barry, a 37-year-old single mother, said her new
full-time job enabled her to brighten the holidays for her two
daughters.  “It’s a good feeling to have the financial security,”
said Barry, who found full-time work in November at the  Society
of Nuclear Medicine  in Reston, Virginia. “This year was a
stellar holiday shopping year for me. I was able to buy a couple
of larger-ticket items.”  Barry, who had been working part-time for the American
Industrial Hygiene Association, said she needed a full-time job
to support her children.  The improvement in the labor market is prompting some
economists to boost growth forecasts for 2012. The world’s
largest economy will grow at an average 2.1 percent annual rate
in the first half of the year, up from a prior estimate of 1.8
percent, according to new estimates issued Jan. 6 by economists
at Bank of America Corp. in New York.  “Over the last several weeks, U.S. economic data has
almost universally surprised to the upside,” Neil Dutta, a Bank
of America economist wrote in a Jan. 6 research report. “The
employment report is a case in point.”  Second-Half Slowdown  Nonetheless, the economy will probably slow in the second
half of the year as the threat of tax increases and government
spending cuts, political gridlock over the federal debt and a
recession in  Europe  hurt U.S. growth, Dutta wrote.  The number of people working part time for economic reasons
fell by 1.17 million in the past three months, the biggest
decline over a similar period since early 1994, figures from the
Labor Department show. That brought the underemployment rate for
the group to 5.2 percent, the lowest since January 2009.  The rise in full-time employment contributed to other gains
in December. Average hourly earnings rose 0.2 percent to $23.24,
and the average workweek increased by six minutes to 34.4 hours,
according to the Labor Department.  “We’re going to see one of the bigger increases in earned
income,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  