-- U.S. Stocks Advance Before Earnings as European Leaders Meet
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-09T22:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/u-s-stock-futures-fluctuate-before-merkel-sarkozy-meeting-alcoa-earnings.html
U.S. stocks advanced, extending last
week’s rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as European
leaders discussed shoring up the region’s currency and investors
awaited the start of the fourth-quarter earnings season.  Measures of industrial, energy and financial shares had the
 biggest gains (SPXL1)  in the S&P 500 among 10 groups.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the
largest U.S. aluminum producer, increased 2.9 percent before
reporting its quarterly results.  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  rallied 2.5
percent as Deutsche Bank AG said soft fourth-quarter results for
 chipmakers (SOX)  create a buying opportunity for the industry.  The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,280.70 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The benchmark gauge for American equities gained 1.6
percent last week, the second-best start of a year since 2006.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed 32.77 points, or 0.3
percent, to 12,392.69. About 6 billion shares changed hands on
U.S. exchanges, or 16 percent below the three month-average.  “We’ll see some earnings growth this year, but not a
lot,” said Kevin Caron, a market strategist in  Florham Park ,
 New Jersey , at Stifel Nicolaus & Co, which has more than $107
billion in client assets. “As long as U.S. fundamentals
continue to move in a positive direction and as long as
investors are comforted by the actions taken to maintain
liquidity in  Europe , the markets will be more complacent.”  Equities rose as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  sought to craft a plan for rescuing
the euro over the next three months. Euro-area leaders may
complete their new budget rulebook by Jan. 30, one month ahead
of schedule, and are considering accelerating capital
contributions to the bailout fund being set up this year to stem
the debt crisis.  Earnings Estimates  U.S. corporations ended 2011 with the slowest profit growth
in two years as the mending economy was met by a European slump
that vexed companies more tied to global sales.  S&P 500 
companies, which  beat (SPX)  analysts’ estimates in the previous 11
quarters, are forecast to report a 6 percent increase in per-
share profit during the September-December period, according to
projections compiled by Bloomberg.  American companies “are the cleanest dirty shirt but we
have to ask the question to what extent are they being hit on
revenue and to what extent can they continue to contain costs,”
Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., the world’s largest manager of bond
funds, said during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop” with Betty Liu.  Alcoa’s Results  Alcoa, the first Dow company to announce results for the
fourth quarter, rose 0.3 percent to $9.45 at 5:09 p.m. New York
time, after gaining 2.9 percent to $9.43 in regular trading.
After the market close, Alcoa reported its first quarterly loss
in more than two years as aluminum prices tumbled. The loss of 3
cents a share, excluding restructuring costs, matched the
average projection from 18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Seven out of 10  groups (SPXL1)  in the S&P 500 rose today, led by
industries most tied to the economy.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  added 1.4
percent to $97.10.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  advanced 1.5 percent to
$68.82.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  increased 1.5 percent to $6.27.  Semiconductor (S5SSEQX)  shares rallied after Deutsche Bank raised the
industry to “overweight” from “equalweight.” Broadcom
climbed 2.5 percent to $30.88.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  gained 0.9 percent to
$25.47. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index rose 2 percent.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  surged 14 percent to $98.18, for the biggest
advance in the S&P 500. The owner of the streaming and DVD-by-
mail service forecast it will attract millions of subscribers
within a few years to the Internet film and television service
it started in the U.K. and Ireland today, taking on Amazon
Inc.’s Lovefilm.  M&A Deal  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX)  soared 140 percent, the biggest gain in the
Russell 2000 Index, to $23.70.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  agreed
to buy the Alpharetta, Georgia-based biopharmaceutical firm to
boost its position in hepatitis C medicines.  Other hepatitis C drug developers also rallied.  Idenix
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX)  surged 37 percent to $9.66.  Achillion
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN)  jumped 23 percent to $9.72.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  lost 2.6 percent to $79.01 after
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. cut its  rating (COST)  for the largest U.S.
warehouse-club chain to “underperform” from “market
perform.”  GameStop Corp. (GME)  dropped 3.5 percent to $23.99. The world’s
largest video-game retailer cut its fourth-quarter and year
comparable sales forecast.  CareFusion Corp. (CFN)  dropped 8.6 percent, the most in the S&P
500, to $23.28. The maker of infusion pumps and hospital
supplies lowered the bottom end of its fiscal year earnings
forecast.  Highest Levels  Rallies in stocks and gasoline will push prices toward the
highest levels ever in 2012 even as U.S. Treasury yields hold
near record lows.  So say Douglas Kass of Seabreeze Partners Management Inc.,
Citigroup Inc.’s Edward L. Morse and Christopher Low of FTN
Financial, forecasters whose predictions for equities, energy
and bonds proved prescient in 2011. Repeating the feat with
their calls for 2012 would require an unprecedented breakdown in
price relationships across markets after correlations reached
the tightest levels ever.  “They can’t all be right,” Chad Morganlander, a Florham
Park, New Jersey-based money manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
which oversees more than $107 billion in client assets, said in
a telephone interview on Jan. 5. “Strategists provide a
valuable role in the financial community, but flexibility of
institutional and individual investors is paramount.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  