-- U.S. Consumer Credit Increases by Most in Ten Years on Household Optimism
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-01-09T20:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/u-s-consumer-credit-rose-by-most-in-decade-in-november-to-2-48-trillion.html
Consumer borrowing (CICRTOT)  in the U.S. surged
in November by the most in 10 years, showing households are
optimistic enough to take on debt and banks are willing to lend.  Credit increased by $20.4 billion, the biggest jump since
November 2001, to $2.48 trillion, Federal Reserve figures showed
today in Washington. The advance was almost twice as big as the
highest forecast of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Increasing borrowing signals a drop in  unemployment (USURTOT)  is
giving households the courage to take advantage of holiday
discounts, buy cars and finance higher education. At the same
time, dependence on credit means the job market has yet to
improve enough to provide the incomes needed to sustain consumer
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy.  “Consumers are feeling more confident and making more big-
ticket purchases,” said  Richard DeKaser , deputy chief economist
at Parthenon Group Inc. in  Boston , who projected credit would
climb by $11.6 billion, the highest estimate in the Bloomberg
survey. “The debt pay downs of previous years are now allowing
consumers to borrow a bit more freely.”  Stocks held earlier gains after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,280.12 at 3:20 p.m. in
 New York .  Survey Results  The median forecast in the Bloomberg survey projected a $7
billion gain. Estimates ranged from a $6.4 billion drop to an
increase of $11.6 billion. The level of borrowing was the
highest since September 2009.  Revolving debt (CICRRRTL) , which includes credit cards, climbed in
November by $5.6 billion, the biggest advance since March 2008,
according to the Fed’s statistics.  Non-revolving debt (CICRNRVL) , including educational loans and loans
for autos and mobile homes, increased by $14.8 billion, the most
since February 2005, today’s report showed. The Fed’s report
doesn’t track debt secured by real estate, such as home equity
lines of credit.  Auto purchases (SAARTOTL)  ran at a 13.59 million annual rate in
November, the highest level since August 2009, according to
industry statistics from Ward’s Information Products. Cars sold
at a 13.5 million rate last month.  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co., Chrysler Group LLC
reported December vehicle sales that beat analysts’ estimates,
capping the U.S. auto industry’s best year since 2008.  “We’re still in recession-like industry size,”  Don
Johnson , GM’s vice president of U.S. sales operations, said
Jan.4 during a conference call with analysts. The growth is
still based on a slow increase in jobs, he said.  Confidence among consumers rose to an eight-month high last
month as an improving job market helped Americans regain all the
ground lost following the budget battle and credit-rating
downgrade, figures from the Conference Board.  The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 8.5 percent in
December, the lowest level since February 2009, and payrolls
grew by 200,000 workers, figures from the Labor Department
showed last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  