-- U.S. Has Seen No Active Steps by Iran to Block Hormuz Strait
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-09T16:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/u-s-has-seen-no-active-steps-by-iran-to-block-hormuz-strait-1-.html
The U.S. hasn’t seen any efforts by
Iran to close the  Strait of Hormuz  to shipping, according to
Pentagon spokesman George Little.  “We don’t see any active steps being taken by the Iranians
to close the Strait,” Little told reporters today in
Washington. “The rhetoric has gotten a little heavy in recent
days and it’s time for it to go lighter.”  Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that his nation would block oil shipments through the Strait of
Hormuz if sanctions are imposed, the  Islamic Republic News
Agency  said.  “We have the capabilities and relations in the region to
promote stability in the Gulf,” Little said. “Naturally, the
Strait of Hormuz is a very important factor in the stability of
the region.”  “We’ve seen a lot of rhetoric” threatening shipping
through the Strait, he said. “We haven’t seen active
expressions of intent.”  Iran  has the ability to block the Strait “for a period of
time,” and the U.S. would take action to reopen it, U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey said in an
interview broadcast yesterday.  “They’ve invested in capabilities that could, in fact, for
a period of time block the Strait of Hormuz,” Dempsey said on
the CBS “Face the Nation” program. “We’ve invested in
capabilities to ensure that if that happens, we can defeat
that.”  The Strait, which connects the  Persian Gulf  with the Gulf
of Oman and the  Arabian Sea , is the world’s biggest chokepoint
for seaborne oil trade, according to the U.S. Energy Department.
Almost 17 million barrels a day, or about a fifth of oil traded
globally, crossed the waterway last year, the department said in
a report Dec. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  