-- U.S. East Coast to Remain Warm Until Cool Arrives Late in Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-01-09T14:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/u-s-east-coast-to-remain-warm-until-cool-arrives-late-in-week.html
Much of the northern U.S. and East
Coast is expected to be warmer than normal before turning colder
this weekend, according to forecasters.  Temperatures in the region may be 5 to 14 degrees
Fahrenheit (2.8 to 7.8 Celsius) above normal ahead of the cold,
 MDA EarthSat Weather  of Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said today.  “The chill that arrives late-week in the Midwest will push
into the East by the weekend and should get some reinforcing
cold push from the North,” MDA said.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling.  High temperatures are forecast to reach into the low 50s
later this week in New York and Philadelphia, according to the
 National Weather Service .  Boston ’s highs will be in the 40s.  Heating degree-days values across the U.S. are expected to
be 155 for the week, or 54 lower than normal and 85 below last
year, according to data from the  Climate Prediction Center  in
 Camp Springs , Maryland.  The values are calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees to show energy demand.
Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy being used to
heat homes and businesses.  The natural gas-weighted value for the mid-Atlantic,
including New York, is 187, or 74 below normal and 103 lower
than last year, according to the climate center.  Falling Temperatures  In a 6- to 10-day forecast covering Jan. 14 to Jan. 18, MDA
predicts temperatures along the East Coast will fall 3 to 4
degrees below normal.  Temperatures may drop 6 degrees below normal from the Great
Lakes through the Ohio Valley and western  New Jersey , according
to the 6- to 10-day outlook from  David Salmon , a meteorologist
with Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Commodity Weather Group LLC President  Matt Rogers  forecasts
the dip along the East Coast will be about 3 degrees below
normal during the period.  By Jan. 19, more seasonal temperatures are predicted for
the East Coast, while warmer-than-normal weather is expected
across the southern half of the U.S. from California to  Georgia ,
according to Rogers.  “Cold air supply is expected to be impressive across
Canada, especially into Calgary at times, but the capability to
share that with the U.S. is limiting and usually brief,” Rogers
said in a note to clients.  MDA predicts temperatures across Alberta could drop 15
degrees or more below normal, according to the company’s 11- to
15-day outlook. The Northeast is forecast to be more seasonal in
that time period.  Weather Derivatives doesn’t issue an 11- to 15-day
forecast.  The normal average temperature in  New York  for Jan. 17 is
about 33 degrees, according to MDA. The average is 29 in Boston,
24 in  Chicago , 43 in Atlanta, 42 in Seattle, 53 in Houston, and
55 in  Burbank , California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  