-- Multimillionaire Smokes Pot With Thief in French Movie: Review
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-01-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/multimillionaire-smokes-pot-with-goofy-thief-in-french-film-farah-nayeri.html
Philippe is a multimillionaire
aristocrat with a dream setup: He lives in a staffed Paris
mansion, keeps a fleet of fancy cars in his pebbled courtyard,
and jets around in a private plane.  There’s just one problem. Philippe is disabled as a result
of a paragliding accident, and needs round-the-clock help. He
hires a caregiver named Driss, who just did six months in jail
for a jewelry-store stickup, and who hails from the bleak
poverty-stricken suburbs of Paris.  That simple plot -- based on a true story -- has made
 “Intouchables”  (“Untouchables”) the surprise French hit
movie of the moment. The film, directed by Olivier Nakache and
Eric Toledano who both also wrote the script, has drawn some 17
million spectators so far and continues to fill movie houses. It
helped lift 2011 French box-office totals to their highest level
in 45 years. In a BVA poll, the movie was voted cultural event
of the year, the rich-man-poor-man storyline appealing to all
income brackets.  “Intouchables” is well paced and well acted. Francois
Cluzet is touching yet not sentimental as blue-blood Philippe
while Omar Sy is a hoot as the sidekick of Senegalese descent.  Redhead Interrogator  The movie starts with a job interview. Candidates for the
caregiver position sit in an ornate salon, staring at a row of
Faberge eggs. Then they’re quizzed by a busty redhead named
Magalie, and by Philippe, who’s in a wheelchair with neck
support. Most of the applicants are dull, and at a loss to list
their motivations: Money, humanity, empathy, they shrug.  Suddenly, Driss, the only non-white candidate, barges in,
hands smugly stuffed in his jean pockets. He just wants proof of
attendance so he can claim welfare benefits, he says. Then he
shamelessly makes a pass at Magalie. Philippe, visibly amused,
has him come back the next day to collect his signed slip.  Driss heads back to the suburbs (“la banlieue”) and drops
in on his mom, a cleaner with multiple kids crowded into a low-
rent apartment. She’s none too pleased to see the young felon.
Driss spends the rest of the evening outside with his friends,
feasting on fast food in a forest of cement blocks.  Back at the mansion the next day, Driss realizes that he
has landed the job he never asked for, and is on a monthlong
trial. He’s shown to a satin-draped bedroom and a sumptuous en-
suite bathroom with a free-standing oval tub.  Berlioz Project  He’s then led past tapestries and gilded canvases to the
even grander master bedroom, where he watches Philippe get
combed and fed. That’ll be his job, along with one or two less
palatable duties. Philippe bets he won’t last two weeks.  The young man’s initial reactions are entertaining. To
Driss, Berlioz is the name of a housing project, and Vivaldi’s
“Four Seasons” is the on-hold music at the welfare office. A
contemporary artwork with red blotches is just somebody having a
nose bleed, and certainly not worth tens of thousands of euros.  During an opera outing, Driss keeps pointing at the hairy
guy in a tree costume who happens to sing. When urged to keep
quiet, he barks, “Why? It’s all in German anyway!”  Besides being a goofball, Driss shows Philippe a good time:
He has him smoke joints, takes him for wild night rides through
Paris, and persuades him to meet the woman he’s having an
epistolary relationship with.  “Intouchables” comes in a long line of French blockbuster
comedies. They often can be corny, sophomoric and hard to
translate. What makes “Intouchables” different is that it’s
socially relevant. By picturing the widening wealth gap in a
lighthearted way, it’s the right story for a recessionary age,
not just another laugh-out-loud comedy a la “Trading Places.”  The movie now may strike a chord with the rest of the
world. Weinstein Co. has just bought the film for release in the
U.S., and has an option on the remake rights, too. Rating: ***.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 