-- Hungary Faces Choice Between IMF and Default, Ex-Premier Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-01-09T15:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/hungary-faces-choice-between-imf-and-default-ex-premier-says.html
Hungary must choose between
backtracking on economic policy as part of an  International
Monetary Fund  loan with “strict oversight” or defaulting on
its debt, former premier  Gordon Bajnai  said.  “The choice for the government is simple: an IMF standby
loan with strict conditions or sovereign default, with its
tragic short- and long-term consequences,” Bajnai said in an
article posted on the  website  of the Haza es Haladas think tank.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban yesterday abandoned previous
objections to an IMF bailout, indicating his government was open
to “any kind” of  credit line  to prop up financing. The
European Union and the IMF last month suspended aid talks after
Orban pressed ahead with legislation that the central bank said
violates its independence.  Orban’s policies, including the nationalization of private
pension funds and the levying of extraordinary industry taxes,
led to a loss of investor confidence, hurt growth and pushed the
country’s sovereign-credit grade to junk at  Fitch Ratings ,
Moody’s Investors Service, and Standard and Poor’s.  The acceptance of a standby IMF loan may restore economic-
policy credibility in the medium-term, Bajnai said. For Orban,
it would also mean a “political turnaround,” which makes
reaching such an agreement “doubtful,” Bajnai said.  “For a politician backed into a corner and guarding his
power, the tragedy of default” is only one side of the
equation, Bajnai said. “The other is the U-turn from the
direction followed thus far, the loss of political credibility,
the admission of failure, which in the end” may lead to his
“personal responsibility and downfall.”  Bajnai led a technocratic government for a year in 2009 and
2010, with the support of the former ruling Socialist party.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  