-- Hungarian Bonds Gain as Orban’s IMF Pledge Underpins Six-Week Bill Auction
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-01-09T16:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/hungary-s-six-week-borrowing-cost-rises-to-7-77-at-40-million-forint-sale.html
Hungary’s bonds and stocks rallied
after the government sold the planned amount of debt at an
auction on optimism Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will be able to
restart talks on an international bailout.  The government sold 40 billion forint ($161 million) of
six-week Treasury bills. The average yield was 7.77 percent,
compared with 7.24 percent at the last sale of that maturity on
Nov. 28 and the  highest (HBTB6WYA)  yield since June 2009, according to data
from the Debt Management Agency. The government’s 10-year bonds
rose, pushing yields to their lowest level this year, while the
benchmark BUX stock index rallied the most in six weeks.  The forint fell to a record low against the euro last week
after the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union
broke off talks on Hungary’s bid for a bailout as Orban refused
to withdraw new central  bank regulations  the institutions
objected to. Hungary is ready to accept “any kind” of  credit
line  that strengthens the country’s market financing, Orban said
in an interview with state news service MTI yesterday.  “The latest communication from the government’s officials
towards an IMF deal has been more constructive,” Mai Doan, a
London-based economist at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a
research report today. “Concrete steps towards the IMF deal are
required for a lasting recovery in Hungarian assets.”  The forint traded at 315.39 per euro at 5 p.m. in Budapest,
compared with 314.35 on Jan. 6. The currency, the world’s worst
performer against the euro in the past month with a 4.2 percent
decline, reached a record-low 324.24 on Jan. 5. Investors bid
for 148 billion forint in debt at the Treasury bill auction, the
 most (HBTB6WBR)  for that maturity since April 2011.  Debt Downgrades  Fitch Ratings  lowered Hungary’s credit score below
investment grade on Jan. 6, following similar moves from
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service last year,
saying doubts remain as to whether the government will submit to
conditions for aid.  “I expect protracted negotiations as the international
organizations will ask for more than amending the central bank
law,”  Daniel Bebesy , who helps oversee $1.5 billion mostly in
Hungarian government bonds at Budapest Fund Management, said by
phone today.  Orban had shunned the IMF since taking office in 2010 to
prevent interference in what he called his “unorthodox”
measures. They included the effective nationalization of $13
billion of private pension-fund assets, extraordinary industry
taxes to raise revenue for the budget,  Europe ’s highest bank
levy and forcing lenders to swallow exchange-rate losses on
foreign-currency mortgages.  ‘Self-Induced Stress’  “It’s completely self-induced stress,”  Lars Christensen ,
chief emerging-market analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said in a
phone interview before Orban’s comments. “This government could
end this stress tomorrow. Bond yields would be back at 6 percent
in 24 hours if the Hungarian government enacted the right
policies. They wouldn’t need the IMF.”  Bonds and the currency pared weekly losses after Orban
eased his confrontation with central bank President Andras Simor
on Jan. 6 and signaled a commitment to reviving bailout talks.
It’s “only natural” the IMF will want to see an economic
policy that “guarantees” the lender “will get its money
back,” he said yesterday.  Hungary ’s  10-year notes (GHGB10YR)  climbed, cutting yields 23 basis
points to 9.85 percent, the lowest close since Dec. 28,
according to generic prices compiled by Bloomberg. The BUX index
rose 3.5 percent, the most on a closing basis since Nov. 30, as
OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, rallied 5 percent.  ‘No Compromise’  Hungary’s budget deficit was 1.73 trillion forint in 2011,
252 percent of the government’s initial year-end target, after
the government assumed debt from counties and the state railway
company in December, the  Economy Ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Hungary’s own resources to cover financing needs would run
out by the end of the first half without IMF assistance or a
successful foreign-currency debt offering, according to William
Jackson, an emerging markets economist at London-based Capital
Economics Ltd.  “Time is of the essence,” for Hungary to reach a
financing agreement, IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said in a Jan. 6 interview with  CNN . “We’re not complacent. We
don’t compromise. But, equally, we never leave the table.”  Loan Repayments  The country will have to make payments of more than 4
billion euros ($5.1 billion) this year on its 20 billion-euro
2008 bailout. An installment of about 700 million euros is due
in February and then the same amount at quarterly intervals,
plus 300 million euros in June and 500 million euros in each of
September and December, according to the IMF’s website.  The government also needs to refinance a 1 billion-euro
bond maturing in November and a smaller yen note due in July,
according to data on the website of the debt-management agency,
known as AKK.  Against that, the agency has deposits of 2.5 billion euros
at the central bank and would be able to raise money by selling
nationalized private pension-fund assets. The state had 1
trillion forint remaining from the pension assets at the end of
October, according to data on AKK’s website, including 192
billion forint in foreign-currency denominated securities.  The debt-management agency failed to raise the planned
amount of debt at four auctions in the past month and scrapped
one bond-exchange auction. The AKK is planning to sell 33
billion forint in 2014, 2017 and 2022 bonds at an auction on
Jan. 12, according to data from the agency published today.  The cost of insuring against a default on Hungary’s
 government bonds  with credit default swaps fell to 687 basis
points, compared with 692 basis points on Jan. 6 and 735 basis
points on Jan. 5, the highest close on record. A basis point is
one hundredth of a percentage point.  “Hungary doesn’t need to go bankrupt if it gets help from
the IMF and the EU,”  Christian Schulz , an economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London , said in a telephone interview, adding
that Orban “has a long, long way to go to do everything to
comply with the demands of the creditors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  