-- Hungarian Bonds Gain for Third Day With Forint as Orban Accepts Aid Terms
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-09T09:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/hungarian-bonds-gain-for-third-day-with-forint-as-orban-accepts-aid-terms.html
Hungary’s government bonds and the
forint gained for a third day before a debt sale today on
speculation Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will abandon policies
that stalled an international bailout.  Ten-year  notes (GHGB10YR)  climbed, cutting yields 19 basis points to
9.89 percent, according to generic prices compiled by Bloomberg.
The government will offer 40 billion forint ($163 million) in 
six-week Treasury bills at 11:30 a.m. in Budapest, according to
data from the Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg. The forint
rose 0.5 percent to 312.95 per euro at 9:42 a.m. in Budapest.  The forint fell to a record against the euro last week
after the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union
broke off talks on Hungary’s bid for a bailout as Orban refused
to withdraw new central bank regulation the institutions
objected to.  Hungary  is ready to accept “any kind” of  credit
line  that strengthens the country’s market financing, Orban said
in an interview with state news service MTI yesterday.  “There’s been a 180-degree turn in communications, now the
focus is on action,” Peter Karsai, a trader at Commerzbank AG
in Budapest, wrote in an e-mail to clients today. “If we want
the IMF safety net, the wish list of the IMF and the European
Union needs to be implemented.”  Fitch Ratings  lowered Hungary’s credit rating below
investment grade on Jan. 6, following similar moves from
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service last year,
saying there remained doubts whether the government will submit
to conditions for aid.  BUX Rally  The government sold 35 billion forint of one-year bills, 10
billion forint less than targeted, on Jan. 5, following several
debt auctions in December at which the agency failed to reach
the planned amount. The average yield rose to 9.96 percent, the
highest since April 2009.  The benchmark BUX index of shares rose 2 percent today as
OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest lender, gained 3.4 percent.  “While we see Hungarian assets as cheap, it may be too
early to ‘buy on weakness’ given the stubbornness and inertia of
Hungarian policymakers as well as the looming risk of another
round of eurozone crises,” Peter Csaszar, a Warsaw-based
equities analyst at KBC Securities.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  meet today for the first time in 2012 as they
seek to craft a master plan for rescuing the euro over the next
three months.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net  