-- UniCredit Rights Fall in First Day of Trading After Issue; Shares Decline
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-01-09T17:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/unicredit-rights-fall-in-first-day-of-trading-after-issue-shares-decline.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  rights tumbled in the
first day of trading in Milan, adding pressure on the bank’s 7.5
billion-euro ($9.6 billion) stock sale. The shares extended
their 38 percent decline from last week.  The  rights (UCGAA) , which entitle holders to buy two new shares
each in  Italy ’s largest bank for 1.943 euros, traded at 47 euros
cents, 65 percent lower than their indicative price at the end
of last week. The shares, which were suspended for volatility at
least four times, fell 14 percent to 2.29 euros, the lowest
since December 1988.  “It doesn’t look like there are that many investors happy
to position on the rights at the moment,” analysts at Fidentiis
Equities wrote in a note to clients today. “Suspensions will
continue most of the day in our view.”  Investors dumped UniCredit stock last week as the lender
announced details of its share sale, which comes as Italian bond
yields trade close to a record high. The new shares were offered
at a discount of 43 percent to the Jan. 3 closing price. The
issue will dilute per-share earnings by an average of 67 percent
in the next two years, Natixis SA analysts have estimated.  Banco di Sicilia foundation, which owns less than 1 percent
of UniCredit, won’t take part in the share sale, la Repubblica
newspaper reported yesterday, citing Chairman Giovanni Puglisi.
He said it’s “inevitable” that new investors will buy shares
during the lender’s capital increase, according to the
Repubblica report.  Crisis Fallout  Investors including Fondazione CRT,  Allianz SE  and
Carimonte Holding have already said they will subscribe to their
rights for 14 percent of the offer, the lender said in a
statement last week. Shareholders accounting for another 10
percent of the offer have initiated procedures to participate,
without making any binding commitments, the bank said last week.  The lender’s discount reflects a deepening in  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis, Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni 
told  Il Sole 24 Ore  in an interview Jan 5. The yield on Italy’s
10-year bond has increased more than 200 basis points since
August over concerns that Italy may be the next victim of the
debt crisis.  At 2.29 euros a share, the rights now give access to
UniCredit’s stock at a 15 percent discount, a third of the
reduction when the offer was announced. Last week’s drop eroded
4.8 billion euros of UniCredit’s market value.  “Perceptions of UniCredit’s capital-raising are
intertwined with perceptions of the euro-zone crisis,” said
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London . “Fears about the wall of funding this quarter,
particularly in Italy, led to an exaggerated fall in the bank’s
share price.”  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , Italy’s third-largest
bank, dropped 14 percent to 19.7 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  