-- Municipal Debt ETF Rallies Five Days to Record as Supply of Bonds Declines
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-01-09T21:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/municipal-debt-etf-rallies-five-days-to-record-as-supply-of-bonds-declines.html
The biggest  exchange-traded fund (MUB) 
tracking U.S. municipal debt jumped to a record as fewer bond
sales by states and local governments left the ETF as one of the
few ways to capture gains in the market.  The iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond Fund climbed 0.3
percent to $110.93, giving it a  five-day increase (MUB)  of 2.5
percent, the biggest advance since January 2011, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That compares with a 0.6 percent gain in the
S&P Municipal Bond Index, on which the ETF is based.  Gains in the ETF are outpacing the underlying debt because
money managers who have run out of bonds to buy are using it to
mimic returns in the municipal market, according to Dodd Kittsley, the New York-based head of the due diligence group at
BlackRock Inc.’s iShares unit. States and cities sold  $258.26
billion (YTDMTOT)  of fixed-rate debt in 2011, down from $407.68 billion
the year before, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The supply in the muni market’s been highly
constrained,” Kittsley, whose firm oversees $3.3 trillion, said
in a telephone interview. “The  premium’s (MUB)  really a reflection of
MUB as an access vehicle for the market and reflects this
asymmetric liquidity in the underlying.”  The rally has sent the ETF’s price 2.4 percent above the
value of the bonds it holds, the highest premium in three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields Fall  Yields on benchmark 20-year municipals fell  9.1 basis
points (BVMB20)  on Jan. 9 to 3.3 percent, the biggest one-day drop since
Dec. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Large orders of ETFs are made through so-called authorized
agents of the sponsors, who purchase blocks of the underlying
assets and trade them with the fund to create new shares. The
mechanism helps an ETF’s share price stay close to its net-asset
value as investors  arbitrage (MUB)  discrepancies between the fund
shares and underlying holdings.  Illiquidity in the municipal market causing difficulty in
creating the ETF baskets can raise costs for authorized agents
and increase the price of the ETF. Issuance fell after the
federal Build America Bonds program, which offered states and
localities a 35 percent subsidy on interest costs, ended on Dec.
31, 2010.  “If you have an illiquid market and there’s not much
supply out there, everyone’s just holding onto their bonds, then
any sort of creation is going to move the price of the ETF even
if it’s a small one,” said Timothy Strauts, a Chicago-based ETF
analyst at Morningstar Inc., in a telephone interview today.  Investor Inflows  Investors have put more than $32 million into the ETF in
the past week and more than $471 million in the last year, data
compiled by New York-based XTF Inc. show.  The overall municipal market returned 11.2 percent last
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
tracking prices and interest income. That beat 9.3 percent for
U.S. Treasuries and 7.2 percent for corporate bonds.  Municipals outperformed other asset classes after the
“hundreds of billions of dollars” of defaults predicted by
bank analyst  Meredith Whitney  in December 2010 didn’t happen.
States and cities in the $3.7 trillion municipal market
withstood the longest recession since the 1930s as they reduced
spending to close deficits and tax collections rose for eight
consecutive quarters through Sept. 30, the longest stretch of
gains since 2008, the Census Bureau said Dec. 20.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
largest bond fund, has boosted holdings of U.S. municipal debt
to the most in more than five years and may buy more. Adding
securities that outperformed Treasuries, stocks and commodities
last year may bolster  Bill Gross ’s $244 billion Total Return
Fund, which lagged behind others in 2011. It returned 4.16
percent compared with the average 4.78 percent of its peers last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This seems to a very logical place to expect  asset
allocation  in the new year,” said Nicholas Colas, the New York-
based chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEX Group LLC. “The
world is searching for yield and worried about the incremental
taxes implied by every-rising Federal debt. Munis are at the
intersection of those trends.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  