-- Huntsman-Romney Rivalry Splits Allies
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-01-09T20:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/huntsman-backer-called-traitor-as-romney-rivalry-splits-allies.html
Five floors apart in a  Salt Lake City 
office complex, Lew Cramer and Lane Beattie have much in common:
they are best friends and serve on each other’s business boards.  What these two Republicans disagree about is who is the
most qualified presidential candidate. Cramer supports  Jon Huntsman  Jr., Utah’s former governor, while Beattie prefers  Mitt Romney , who led fundraising for the state’s 2002 Olympics.  “In this state there are a lot of divided loyalties,
there’s no question about it,” said Cramer, the World Trade
Center Utah chief executive officer, who endorsed Romney in 2008
and switched to Huntsman this year. “I’ve had friends kid me a
lot about being a traitor” even though he’s backing a native of
the state.  Their split points to a broader divide among  Utah 
Republicans over the two candidates who also have shared
backgrounds: both are Mormons, businessmen and former governors.
In interviews, Utah Republicans regularly refer to them
interchangeably as “favorite sons.”  Romney Advantage  Yet it’s Romney, who grew up in  Michigan  and was governor
of Massachusetts, who has the edge over Huntsman, who spent much
of his life in Utah. Romney is leading in polls, has more local
endorsements, and raised more money in the state than Huntsman.
Romney reported $1.9 million in contributions from Utah
residents through Sept. 30, the most recent figures available --
about seven times as much as Huntsman, who took in $255,850,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based research group.  “It put a lot of us in a precarious position,” said U.S.
House Representative  Jason Chaffetz , who ran Huntsman’s first
campaign for governor in 2004 and served as his chief of staff.  “It’s not that I’m anti-Huntsman, but I am very pro-Mitt
Romney,” added Chaffetz, who has campaigned with Romney in New
Hampshire. “I just think he would make a better president. I
think he has the best opportunity to beat Barack Obama.”  About 60 Utah legislators endorsed Romney, compared with
two for Huntsman, Chaffetz said. A Salt Lake Tribune  poll  in
August found that 71 percent of Utah residents who identified
themselves as Republicans supported Romney, compared with 13
percent for Huntsman.  New Hampshire Primary  The two candidates will be among those facing off in
tomorrow’s  New Hampshire  primary. Huntsman, who is behind in
polls and fundraising, has staked his candidacy on a top finish
there. The Boston Globe, the largest newspaper in Romney’s home
state, endorsed Huntsman last week. The latest Boston-based
Suffolk University  tracking poll  had Romney with 33 percent
support, compared to Huntsman’s third-place 13 percent. Running
second was U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, with 20
percent  In Utah, taking sides isn’t easy. Romney and Huntsman are
battling for resources in a close-knit, family-centric business
community, testing many longstanding relationships. Cramer wept
during an interview as he described serving steak and pie for
Christmas dinner at a Salt Lake homeless shelter with longtime
friend Huntsman.  Others, including business and political leaders with
personal ties to Huntsman and his family, say they believe it’s
Romney’s turn because he’s older -- and put in his time serving
the state during the Olympics. Romney is 64, Huntsman, 51.  “By law I had to approve Mitt’s budget,” said Beattie,
president and chief executive of the Salt Lake Chamber and the
state’s chief Olympics officer, who oversaw Romney’s work for
several years. “He was very direct. He said ‘Here’s the budget,
here’s what we’re going to raise.’ He was a master.”  Popular Politicians  Romney and Huntsman are both popular in Utah. Romney won 90
percent of the state’s Republican primary in 2008. Voters
elected Huntsman to a second term as governor in 2008 with 78
percent of the vote. Colleagues of both say the two have been
competitive for years and that tensions between their camps rose
when Huntsman endorsed  Arizona  Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
Republican presidential primary rather than Romney. McCain is
backing Romney in this year’s primary.  Romney’s ability to turn the scandal-plagued 2002 Winter
Olympics into a profitable venture is cited by many here as
their chief reason for supporting him. He was hired following
allegations that city officials provided favors to  International
Olympic Committee  delegates to win the games.  The Bain Capital founder culled unnecessary items from the
budget and raised additional funds to finish building local
venues, those who worked closely with him recalled. He also
hired advisers and recruited about 24,000 volunteers, persuading
the International Olympic Committee to house them for about 10
days.  ‘Huge Economic Problems’  “We thought Mitt was the best we could hire to solve some
huge economic problems,” said State Senator John Valentine, a
Romney-backer who served as Senate president under Huntsman and
as chairman of the Olympics oversight committee.  “I’m again looking to hire someone to solve huge economic
problems for our economy,” said Valentine, who called Huntsman
a “really good friend.”  Cramer met Huntsman when he was 28 and both were working
for President  George H.W. Bush  in the Commerce Department.
Huntsman called Cramer in 2006 and asked him to start the World
Trade Center. Since then, Utah doubled exports as  New Mexico ,
Arizona and  Colorado  lost them, Cramer said.  “That was because of the leadership of Governor
Huntsman,” Cramer said. “There are almost 100,000 jobs in Utah
directly related to exports. That’s pretty powerful in a state
with less than 3 million people.”  Flat Tax  On the stump in New Hampshire, Huntsman points to his
economic accomplishments in the post, including saying he
implemented a 5 percent flat tax. His stewardship helped the
state lead the nation in  job creation  in the mid 2000s, Huntsman
says, adding that  Massachusetts  was 47th at the time.  Influential Utah residents say the fundraising and campaign
networks that Romney built over the last four years give them
greater confidence in his chances of winning the presidency than
Huntsman’s economic record.  “I’ll tell you flat out politically I’m more aligned with
Jon Huntsman,” said Attorney General Mark Shurtleff, who has
served under four governors, including Huntsman. “He’s more
moderate on a number of issues, including immigration,” he
said.  “But you have to support the person for president who will
do the best job and who has the best background and leadership
experience and that’s why I chose Romney.”  Huntsman’s comments about his Mormon religious beliefs when
he returned to the U.S. last year after serving as President
 Barack Obama ’s ambassador to  China  put off some Utah natives.  Remarks on Religion  “It’s really hard for an outsider to understand this, but
a lot of the backwash has to do with when he returned and people
started interviewing him about his background and he said ‘I’m
not religious, I’m spiritual,’” said Lieutenant Governor Greg
Bell, who endorsed Romney.  “I felt he was distancing himself from Utah and Utah
values and the Latter Day Saints in general.”  Longtime Huntsman friends, many of whom hail from the
state’s oldest and wealthiest families, said they don’t sense
any hard feelings because of their choice to endorse Romney.  Utah Jazz Chief Executive Officer  Greg Miller , whose family
owns a number of business ventures, including the Miller
Motorsports Park where Huntsman occasionally raced, said he
tried to explain clearly to the Huntsmans why he backed Romney.  “Our family’s relationship with the Romneys isn’t as broad
or deep as it is with the Huntsmans,” said Miller in an
interview in his 10th floor office, with a commanding view of
ski slopes.  “I’ve had multiple interactions with the Huntsman family
since then and haven’t felt any signs there were hard
feelings,” said Miller, whose father helped Huntsman in his bid
for governor. “I treated it more like a business decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Salt Lake City at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  