-- Turkey Stocks Fall for a Fourth Day as Worries Mount Over Banks
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-01-09T16:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/turkey-stocks-head-for-almost-two-year-low-unicredit-unit-drops.html
Turkish stocks dropped for a fourth
day as a tightening monetary policy and predictions for slowing
growth left investors worried about banks’ margins.  The main  ISE National 100 (XU100)  index fell 0.7 percent to
49,836.98 at the close in Istanbul.  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK) ,
part-owned by  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , dropped 2.3 percent to 2.55 liras
after its parent slipped 13 percent, extending its plunge over
the past week to 47 percent.  The Turkish  banking index (XBANK) , which tracks 16 lenders,
declined 1.9 percent to 93,224.38 after having fallen as much as
3.4 percent. The gauge accounts for 36 percent of the ISE Stock
Exchange National 100 Index, which plummeted 28 percent in the
past year. The central bank has spent $15 billion to shore up
the lira; it has not provided funds at its lower 5.75 percent
one-week repo funding rate since Dec. 29. Inflation in Turkey
was 10.5 percent in December, the highest in three years.  Turkish banks will be forced to deal with a tighter
monetary policy in 2012 after a year of expansion amid record-
low rates, Yavuz Uzay, head of Turkey research at  Renaissance
Capital  in  London , said in response to e-mailed questions.  Banks will also face “maturity mismatch, lack of deposit
growth, squeezing margins, rising non-performing loans and
rising provisions,” he said. “The Turkish banks story still
involves a lot of risks, but valuations now reflect such risks
to a great degree,” he said.  Bank Valuations  Turkish banks are trading at a price-to-earnings multiple
of 7 times compared with a ratio of 8.7 for the MSCI Europe
Financials Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A sharp rise in funding costs resulting from a reversal of
the central bank’s low-rates policies will push down the banking
sector’s margins in the first half of 2012, Standard Bank Group
Ltd’s unit in  Turkey  said in a report issued today. Quality of
loans will also be in question and “there is a high likelihood
of a sharp increase in bad loans in the first half unless the
currency appreciates substantially,” the report by head of
research Ercan Uysal said.  Non-performing loans picked up in the second half, rising
37 percent to 3.6 billion liras ($1.9 billion) at the end of
December from 2.7 billion liras in July, according to data on
the banking association website.  Total loans in Turkey grew 30 percent last year, defying
government efforts to keep loan growth at below 25 percent as an
expansion in lending drove the current-account deficit to record
levels, which contributed to the lira’s weakness and pushed up
inflation.  UniCredit tumbled last week as the lender announced details
of its share sale, which comes as Italian bond yields trade
close to a record high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  