-- US Airways, Pilots Agree to End Suit Over Work Slowdown After Court Order
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-01-09T22:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/us-airways-pilots-agree-to-end-suit-over-work-slowdown-after-court-order.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and the US
Airline Pilots Association asked a federal judge to make
permanent his Sept. 28 order directing the union to end a work
slowdown.  In a Jan. 6 filing, lawyers for both sides told U.S.
District Judge Robert J. Conrad Jr. in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , that they decided to end the lawsuit. A trial had been
set for Oct. 22.  US Airways in July accused the union, which represents
5,200 of its pilots, of encouraging members to call in fatigued,
write up more maintenance issues and reject voluntary flight
assignments because of dissatisfaction with the pace of contract
negotiations. Conrad said those tactics caused “a significant
decline” in the airline’s on-time performance, harming the
company’s reputation and finances.  “We’re hopeful this is behind us and that our pilots will
turn their attention to contract negotiations,” said Todd Lehmacher, a  US Airways  spokesman. While he declined to discuss
what led to the joint request to make the injunction permanent,
Lehmacher said the step “should conclude the case.”  ‘Flawed Safety Culture’  The union had failed in its duty under federal labor law to
halt the slowdown, the judge said in September after a two-day
hearing the month before. The pilots’ association denied backing
the slowdown and blamed the delays on a “flawed safety
culture” at the Tempe, Arizona-based airline.  Charlotte, where the union is based, is the airline’s
biggest hub.  The pilots’ agreement to make Conrad’s preliminary
injunction permanent avoids the expense of further litigation
while allowing members to focus their efforts on getting a new
contract, said Todd Fieser, a union spokesman.  The agreement “doesn’t interfere with the duty of pilots
to ensure the safety of our passengers or the safe operation of
the aircraft,” he said.  The airline last month asked a federal judge in  Brooklyn ,
 New York , to throw out a lawsuit filed against it by the same
union in May, which accused the carrier of violating U.S. labor
laws. The union has opposed that request to dismiss.  The airline-filed case is US Airways v. US Airline Pilots
Association, 11-cv-00371, U.S. District Court, Western District
of North Carolina (Charlotte). The union-filed case is US
Airline Pilots Association v. US Airways Inc., 11-cv-2579, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  