-- HMV Group’s Christmas-Period Sales Fall 8.2%
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-01-09T09:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/hmv-group-s-christmas-period-sales-8-2-lower-on-weak-demand-1-.html
HMV Group Plc (HMV) , the U.K.’s biggest CD
and DVD retailer, said sales in the five weeks to Dec. 31, the
key Christmas period, were 8.2 percent lower than a year
earlier, because of a “challenging” trading environment.  Same-store sales declined 9.8 percent in the nine weeks to
that date, the period since the fiscal first half, and doubts
remain about the company’s ability to continue as a going
concern, reported last month, Maidenhead, England-based HMV said
in a regulatory statement.  “Undoubtedly, trading conditions and the consumer
environment remain challenging, but we remain confident in HMV’s
future prospects,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Fox said in
the statement.  The company’s strategic review of HMV Live, its events
division, is making good progress and talks with banks are
“constructive and positive,” according to the statement.  In June, HMV reported a 123.1 million-pound ($198 million)
full-year loss after taking impairment charges on the sales of
Canadian outlets and Waterstone’s book chain. Last month, it
reported a first-half loss that widened by 32 percent to 36.4
million pounds and said weak trading might cast “significant
doubt” on its ability to go on.  “These are still disappointing results but they’re broadly
in line with our expectations,” Fox said by phone. December
accounts for a quarter of HMV’s annual sales.  HMV Live for Sale  The company has 90 million pounds of debt due in September
2013 and wants to raise funds from a sale of HMV Live before an
interest-rate increase in January 2013.  Breaking even looks unattainable and a sale of HMV Live
won’t be enough to pay down debt, Peel Hunt analyst  John Stevenson  said in a note.  HMV is not currently looking to sell its stake in the music
service 7digital, Fox said. “We’ve said that it’s something we
can look at but at the moment there is no process ongoing in
relation to that,” he said.  The company is cutting back on CDs and DVDs in favor of
consumer electronics. Items such as MP3 players and headphones
account for 12 percent of HMV U.K. sales, while CDs represent 25
percent and DVDs 45 percent, Fox said. Technology sales rose 51
percent in the Christmas five weeks. About 500,000 pairs of
headphones and 20,000 tablet computers were sold.  “The measures we’re taking to turn the business around are
starting to bear fruit,” Fox said, adding that he’s confident
HMV will be “around for some time to come.”  The stock fell as much as 10 percent and was down 6.7
percent at 8.45 a.m. in London trading. The stock lost 89.1
percent last year and has dropped another 19.4 percent so far
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  