-- Vietnam May Adjust Reference Rate 5%-6%, Weakening Dong
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-09T09:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/vietnam-may-adjust-reference-rate-5-6-weakening-dong-1-.html
Vietnam ’s government may weaken the
dong this year as gold buying puts downward pressure on the
currency, according to economists who advise the prime minister.  The country may adjust the dong-dollar  reference rate  by
five percent to six percent in 2012, the National Financial
Supervisory Commission wrote in a report released in Hanoi today.
The currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side
of the  fixing (SBVNUSD) . Fluctuations in  gold prices  can “increase
pressure on the  exchange rate , widen the trade deficit and
negatively affect the overall balance of payments,” the
researchers, led by Chairman Vu Viet Ngoan, wrote.  The dong declined 7.4 percent last year, the most since
2008, as policy makers devalued the currency by about 7 percent
on Feb. 11 to help narrow the gap between the official and
black-market rates. The local gold price frequently exceeded the
international price during the second half of 2011, resulting in
increased demand for dollars as Vietnamese seek to import the
precious metal. The dong was unchanged at 21,030 per dollar as
of 4:06 p.m. in Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  High inflation is also “putting depreciation pressure on
the domestic currency,” the report said.  Consumer prices  (VNCPIYOY) 
gained 18.1 percent in December from a year earlier, the fastest
pace in  Asia , official data show. Devaluing the dong won’t
significantly boost exports because many finished goods require
imported raw materials, according to the report.  Vietnam had a balance-of-payments surplus of $2.5 billion
last year, the report said. While that was an improvement on the
previous year, this situation is not stable because of a
dependence on short-term capital inflows, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  