-- Vietnam Bonds Decline on Speculation Banks Selling to Raise Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-09T10:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/vietnam-bonds-decline-on-speculation-banks-selling-to-raise-cash.html
Vietnam ’s five-year bonds fell on
speculation an increase in money-market rates prompted banks to
sell the securities to raise cash. The dong was steady.  Overnight (VNCDON)  interbank borrowing rates climbed to 12.25
percent today, the highest level since Dec. 16, from 11.95
percent on Jan. 6, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The money
market will continue to face shortages in the early months of
2012, the National Financial Supervisory Commission wrote in a
report released today. The central bank should inject cash into
banks to help ease the funding crunch, Deputy Chairman Le Xuan
Nghia said in a meeting with economists in Hanoi.  “Due to low liquidity, banks have been selling bonds to
raise cash,” said Tong Minh Tuan, deputy head of research at
Hanoi-based BIDV Securities Co., a unit of Bank for Investment &
Development of Vietnam.  The  yield (GGVN5YR)  on the benchmark five-year note gained three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 12.54 percent, the
biggest increase since Dec. 23, according to a daily fixing from
banks compiled by Bloomberg.  The dong was unchanged at 21,030 per dollar as of 5 p.m. in
Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank
fixed the  reference rate (SBVNUSD)  at 20,828 today, unchanged since Dec.
26, according to its website. The currency is allowed to trade
up to 1 percent on either side of the rate.  The government may lower the reference rate by as much as 6
percent this year as gold buying puts downward pressure on the
currency, according to the Financial Supervisory Commission’s
report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in  Hanoi  at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  