-- Vivus Rises on FDA-Ordered Change to Weight-Loss Pill Label
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-09T21:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/vivus-rises-on-fda-ordered-change-to-weight-loss-pill-labeling.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) , maker of experimental
weight-loss pill Qnexa, jumped the most in 13 months after U.S.
regulators ordered changes to a proposed warning label that may
mean more women would be able to take the drug.  Vivus rose 15 percent to $11.65 at the close in  New York  in
its biggest gain since Dec. 8, 2010.  The  Food and Drug Administration  asked the  Mountain View ,
California-based company to remove a contraindication stating
the drug’s risks outweighed possible benefits for women of
childbearing potential, Vivus said today in a statement. The
warning remains for women who are pregnant. An FDA advisory
panel will review Qnexa on Feb. 22 and the agency is scheduled
to decide by April 17 whether to clear the pill for sale.  While the label change may double Qnexa’s potential market
to include women able to bear children, the move increases the
risk that the drug won’t be approved by April 17, Steve Yoo, an
analyst with Leerink Swann & Co., said today in an interview.  “They’re changing things in mid-process,” Yoo said.
“Anytime you change things in mid-process, the timelines can be
pushed out.”  Qnexa combines the appetite suppressant phentermine with
topiramate, which is used to control seizures and migraine
headaches and marketed by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  as Topamax. The FDA
asked Vivus earlier this year to use existing databases to
determine the risk of oral cleft in children whose mothers took
topiramate to prevent migraines.  Preliminary results from Vivus’ analysis found five oral
clefts in the group of 1,740 children whose mothers had taken
topiramate alone in the first trimester of pregnancy, for a
prevalence rate of 0.29 percent, Vivus said Dec. 21 in a
statement. That compared with a rate of 0.16 percent in the
group whose mothers had taken anti-seizure drugs, including
topiramate, before pregnancy.  The study’s final results aren’t expected until the third
quarter of this year, Yoo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  