-- Vodafone to Triple Share of Data Revenue in India in Two Years
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-01-09T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/vodafone-expects-share-of-data-in-india-sales-to-grow-threefold-in-2-years.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  expects to triple
the share of data  revenue (VOD)  at its Indian unit as more customers
use smartphones to access the Internet and download music in the
world’s second-largest wireless market.  The contribution of data to the unit’s total revenue will
rise to 10 percent in two years from about 3 percent at the end
of September,  Samaresh Parida , Mumbai-based director of strategy
at Vodafone India Ltd., said in a Jan. 6 interview. Services
like banking and applications to help farmers increase
productivity, will help drive data use, he said.  Mobile-phone operators including Vodafone and  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. (BHARTI)  are trying to boost phone bills, which averaged less than
$2 last year, by pushing high-end services such as streaming
video. Vodafone spent 116 billion rupees ($2.2 billion) in 2010
buying licenses for third-generation services after the entry of
 Norway ’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and  Japan ’s  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  pushed voice-
call rates to as low as a penny a minute.  “Right now the growth of data is pretty phenomenal, but
it’s from a very small base so we’ll be pushing the throttle on
growing the business in data as fast as possible,” Parida said.  Vodafone may also consider buying competitors to increase
its spectrum holding after the government eases merger and
acquisition rules, he said.  The stock yesterday dropped 1.3 percent to 177.10 pence in
London trading.  ‘Bill Shock’  First-half data revenue in India climbed 66 percent helping
boost segment revenue from the South Asian nation to 2.12
billion pounds from 1.87 billion pounds a year earlier, Vodafone
 reported  in November.  Persuading customers in  India  to use costly data services
will take time, according to Sanjay Kapoor, chief executive
officer for India and  South Asia  at  Bharti Airtel , India’s
biggest mobile-phone company.  Average revenue  per global system
for mobile communications, or GSM, user in India declined to 100
rupees ($1.90) at the end of March from 131 rupees a year
earlier, according to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India.  Bharti Airtel has introduced plans with small amounts of
free data to reduce 3G “bill shock,” Kapoor said Nov. 4. The
plan, which provides 1.25 gigabytes of free data for a month,
costs 675 rupees. Still, only a quarter of the company’s 7
million 3G customers are active users. Bharti had a total of 174
million Indian subscribers at the end of October.  ‘A Curse’  Vodafone, which has an average of 5 to 6 megahertz of
spectrum in most zones in India, compared with the 22 megahertz
it holds on average in other countries, needs additional
airwaves to boost its data services, according to Parida.  “This limited spectrum is a curse to the industry,” he
said. The government needs to provide a “spectrum roadmap” on
when new airwaves will be auctioned, Parida said.  India’s latest five-year telecommunications  plan  says the
freeing up of spectrum for use by mobile-phone companies is a
“high priority” and it aims to do so by 2015. The government
plans to release more 4G spectrum, though an exact timeline has
not been set.  “If I don’t get 4G spectrum, what will I do? It’s a scary
thought,” Parida said. “But it could be real in the
environment where it’s not managed properly.”  India held auctions of third-generation and fourth-
generation wireless spectrum in 2010, raising a combined $20
billion for the government. Vodafone bought 3G licenses in nine
of India’s 22 telecommunications zones.  ‘No Fun’  The world’s biggest mobile operator dropped out of India’s
4G auction, held in May 2010, citing “beyond rational” bids.  India’s current policy also includes caps on the amount of
spectrum a merged company can hold, thereby limiting the scope
for operators to use acquisitions to gain airwaves. A new
policy, which the government last month delayed by at least six
months, could ease those rules.  “To me, customers are not the attraction,” Parida said.
“It would be spectrum. But if the spectrum has to be given
away, that is no fun.”  India restricts the amount of spectrum a company holds to
15 megahertz for a so-called circle in some regions and 12.4
megahertz in other parts, according to the Department of
Telecommunications.  Essar Deal  Vodafone last year agreed to pay $5.46 billion to buy out
its partner Essar Group’s stake in the local venture, aiming to
gain more control in a  market (MBPRIND)  forecast by Gartner to grow 28
percent to 872 million active subscribers by 2015. The carrier
has 146 million customers and a 17 percent market share, making
it India’s third-biggest behind Bharti and  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM)   Vodafone is also waiting for a judgment from India’s
 Supreme Court  on its appeal of a 112.2 billion tax claim
relating to its 2007 purchase of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s Indian
wireless operations.  Vodafone said in a statement yesterday it plans to expand
partner agreements with other Asian and South American operators
this year. These deals allow Vodafone to expand roaming
services, and in some cases, its brand, without taking equity
stakes in other companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  