-- VW Exploring Alternatives for Porsche Merger
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-01-09T14:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/vw-exploring-alternatives-for-porsche-merger-winterkorn-says.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, will look at alternative ways to pursue a combination
with majority shareholder  Porsche SE (PAH3)  after scrapping plans last
year for a merger because of legal tangles.  “We continue to strive for an integrated automobile group”
with Porsche,  Martin Winterkorn , chief executive officer of both
carmakers, told reporters at the  North American International
Auto Show  in Detroit today. “One option is the put-call
structure, and there are a few others.”  The  Porsche SE (PAH3)  holding company owns a majority of VW’s
common stock. Volkswagen in turn owns 49.9 percent of Porsche’s
automaking business and holds an option to purchase the
remaining 50.1 percent from the holding company.  VW has been considering alternatives to a 2009 agreement,
which called for a merger last year, after lawsuits in the U.S.
and Germany complicated the valuation. To avoid further delays
in cooperation, Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW may drop the merger
and instead buy Porsche’s carmaking business, two people with
direct knowledge of the situation said in November.  Winterkorn is seeking to integrate Porsche’s lucrative
manufacturing operation, which builds the 911 sports car and
Cayenne sport-utility vehicle, into VW to bolster his goal of
surpassing  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the
world’s largest auto company. The VW group, which also owns the
Skoda and Seat brands, sold a record 8.16 million vehicles last
year, a 14 percent gain from 2010, the carmaker said today.  Shares Rise  Volkswagen aims to grow faster in 2012 than the overall
market, which the carmaker expects to increase by a low single-
digit percentage figure, Christian Klingler, VW sales chief,
told reporters in Detroit today.  VW  rose (VOW3)  as much as 1.65 euros, or 1.3 percent, to 125.65
euros and was up 0.3 percent as of 3:12 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading. Porsche was little changed at 41.78 euros.  Volkswagen expects a combination with Porsche to further
boost profitability, with savings of 700 million euros ($889
million) projected from the integration. VW, whose other main
luxury brands include Audi, Lamborghini and Bugatti, makes more
vehicles in a week than Porsche does in a year.  Failed Hostile Takeover  The two companies have been working on a full-blown merger
since 2009, when Porsche failed in a hostile attempt to take
over VW, the sports-car maker’s biggest supplier. Porsche racked
up more than 10 billion euros in  debt (PAH3)  from the effort.  Short sellers of VW stock have sued Porsche in the U.S.,
claiming it secretly piled up VW shares and later caused the
investors to lose more than $1 billion.  Claimants in  Germany  are seeking 1.1 billion euros in
damages. Prosecutors in Stuttgart are also investigating
suspicions that Porsche didn’t adequately inform investors about
its intentions to take control of VW.  The main alternative to the original merger agreement is
for VW to exercise options to acquire the remaining 50.1 percent
stake in Porsche’s automaking business for 3.9 billion euros,
leaving  Porsche (PAH3)  as a holding company for its 50.7 percent stake
of VW’s common stock.  The drawback is that the options can’t be exercised until
Nov. 15, 2012, and would trigger a tax bill estimated by VW at
about 1 billion euros, overwhelming the potential savings. The
taxes would shrink to zero by the second half of 2014, according
to VW.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in  Detroit  via 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  