-- Wall Street Said to Weigh Freezing Pay Bumps for Junior Bankers
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-10T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/wall-street-firms-said-to-weigh-freezing-pay-increases-for-junior-bankers.html
Wall Street’s biggest firms, facing
a slump in investment-banking revenue, are considering freezing
compensation levels for some junior bankers, according to people
familiar with the deliberations.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is likely to suspend its practice,
an industry norm, of boosting pay automatically each year for
analysts, associates and vice presidents within the investment-
banking division, a person with direct knowledge of the decision
said. While those employees will get their regular annual salary
increases, bonuses probably will be lowered to keep total pay
flat from a year earlier, said the person, who requested
anonymity because the plan isn’t public.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  are being
watched by competitors for signs the companies are planning
similar moves, said people at four other firms. Cutting pay can
be perilous if your rivals don’t because it’s easier for junior
bankers to defect, draining a future generation of talent.  Wall
Street  firms may make the change en masse only if one or more of
their biggest rivals act first, the people said.  “There’s always the risk that people may go across the
street for a better deal,” said Joseph Sorrentino, a managing
director in  New York  at Steven Hall & Partners, an executive-
compensation consultancy. Among junior bankers “you have some
potential future stars and you want to make sure you keep them
engaged and keep them happy and performing.”  JPMorgan, which doesn’t plan to alter its practices, may
change course if other firms do so, a person briefed on its
decisions said.  Starting Salaries  Base pay for junior bankers typically increases
automatically by about 15 percent to 20 percent, akin to a
unionized salary scale, as they work a year and move up a so-
called class. Younger bankers, who typically comprise about 75
percent of the investment-banking workforce of the biggest Wall
Street firms, often start with a $200,000 annual salary and can
expect $240,000 or $250,000 in the second year, said two senior
bankers.  JPMorgan’s investment bank, which includes equity and
fixed-income trading, had 26,615 employees as of Sept. 30.
Goldman Sachs, with 34,200 employees, doesn’t break out how many
work in each division.  A banker typically spends three to four years as an
associate and then three years as a vice president before he can
be named director. Top-producing vice presidents in their third
year, sometimes called a VP-3, could get $600,000 to $700,000 in
total compensation, said a senior Wall Street banker.  Top Tier  At  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  AG, senior executives are evaluating
whether to cut or freeze pay for the top tier of vice presidents
as a way to pare all junior-banker pay, said a person familiar
with the matter.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined
to comment, as did Lucas van Praag at Goldman Sachs, Victoria Harmon at Zurich-based Credit Suisse and  John Gallagher  at
Deutsche Bank, based in  Frankfurt . JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs
are both based in New York.  The review of junior-banker pay focuses on investment-
banking divisions and not lower-level employees in equity or
fixed-income trading departments, the people said.  Associate compensation continued to rise in the wake of the
financial crisis, the executives said. Starting pay for each
position also increased, so a first-year associate job that paid
$200,000 a year rose to $210,000 for the next person to fill the
slot. With compensation pools down this year at almost all Wall
Street banks, climbing associate pay has caused a squeeze on pay
for senior managers, said a banker involved in such decisions.  More Transparent  Pay among junior bankers tends to be more transparent and
aligned with peers at competing firms than it is for senior
bankers, the people said, partly because the newest employees
still talk with former classmates. Word of lower entry-level pay
at one bank can hinder recruiting at top business schools, which
is why the biggest banks rarely consider such pay freezes.  A plunge in trading revenue last year, stagnating economic
growth and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis have forced Wall
Street’s most senior bankers to rethink their pay practices as
they seek to cut costs. Part of the calculus is determining
whether the downturn in bank profits represents a permanent
shift or a temporary phenomenon tied to the 2008 financial
crisis and recession.  Compensation at the biggest banks may fall 20 percent to 60
percent this year, depending on the firm and the job, senior
bankers said. Mergers-and-acquisitions bankers may face pay cuts
at the lower end of that range and those in fixed income or
trading could see higher reductions, senior bankers said.  Dimmed Prospects  Most of the biggest U.S. banks will inform employees about
bonuses and compensation at the end of this month.  Bank of
America Corp ., for example, will tell employees their
compensation starting Jan. 26, said a person familiar with the
matter. The new pay rates typically take effect in February.  Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the major U.S. banks most
reliant on trading, had their earnings estimates cut this month
as a weak fourth quarter dimmed prospects for a capital-markets
rebound in the first half of 2012.  JPMorgan Cazenove analysts led by Kian Abouhossein cut
earnings outlooks for investment banks for 2011, 2012 and 2013,
citing worsening conditions in fixed income and equities. In a
Jan. 6 note to clients, the analysts lowered their Goldman Sachs
2012 earnings estimate by 19 percent and Morgan Stanley’s figure
by 17 percent.  Investment-banking and trading revenue probably has dropped
in each of the past two years. In 2011, global stock offerings
plunged 29 percent from 2010 and U.S. bond issuance fell 6.7
percent as companies delayed plans to raise capital, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Final Decisions  Fixed-income trading revenue at U.S. banks may fall 12
percent from the third quarter, minus accounting adjustments,
while equities drop 10 percent and investment-bank revenue
remains unchanged,  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities,
wrote in a Dec. 16 report.  Some large European banks won’t make final decisions on
bonuses and compensation until early next month, allowing them
to tweak plans based on what their rivals determine in January,
executives at those firms said.  Pay increases have traditionally been automatic because
“there are traditionally very long hours in terms of the amount
of work and this is another way to try to boost their morale and
signify that they’re a strong part of the firm and that they’re
appreciated,” said Steven Hall’s Sorrentino.  Deutsche Bank won’t announce internally in  North America 
its bonus and compensation decisions until at least the first
week of February, said a person familiar with the matter, who
predicted bonuses to be down there 30 percent to 50 percent.
 Barclays (BARC)  Capital, a unit of London-based Barclays Plc, is likely
to hold off until the second or third week of February, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Kerrie-Ann Cohen, a  Barclays Capital  spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmcracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  