-- Washington Veteran Lew May Provide Air of Calm as Obama’s Chief of Staff
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-09T21:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/washington-veteran-lew-may-provide-air-of-calm-as-obama-s-chief-of-staff.html
Jack Lew, a government professional
with experience on  Capitol Hill , the State Department and the
executive branch, is likely to bring a sense of calm to the
White House engaged in a re-election campaign, analysts said.  Lew, 56, director of the Office of Management and Budget
since November 2010, is being named by President  Barack Obama  as
White House chief of staff to replace William Daley, who
resigned after just a year.  “Jack’s economic advice has been invaluable, and he has my
complete trust,” Obama said at the White House today in making
the announcement.  Lew, who took over the budget agency in 2010 after a stint
at the State Department, and who was  Bill Clinton ’s OMB chief,
is in the middle of preparing a $3 trillion-plus budget to be
released next month for the year that begins Oct. 1.  “He did a good job in settling down OMB after a turbulent
couple of years” under the previous budget director,  Peter Orszag , said  Stan Collender , a budget expert and partner in the
firm Qorvis Communications. “He’s very good with staff.”  “He’ll bring a sense of calm into the White House in the
middle of the elections, in a period that’s typically
turbulent,” Collender said.  Congressional Experience  Lew’s resume includes a stint as policy director for the
late House Speaker Thomas P. “Tip” O’Neill, a Massachusetts
Democrat. Before returning to the White House in 2010, he served
as Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s chief operating officer
and, according to the  agency’s website , her “alter ego.”  A graduate of  Harvard University  and Georgetown Law School,
Lew’s experience also runs from academia, as chief operating
officer at  New York University  for five years, to the private
sector, as managing director of  Citigroup (C)  Inc.’s   Alternative
Investments  until January 2009 and COO of Citi’s Global Wealth
Management before that.  When Obama nominated him for the budget post in July 2010
to replace Orszag, then-Senator Judd Gregg, a New Hampshire
Republican, called him “very smart, very capable.”  Along with Vice President Joe Biden, Lew was a key
negotiator with Congress during last summer’s budget deal that
led to a cap on federal  government spending . He was in almost
every closed-door meeting with lawmakers and at the White House.  Confirmation Hearing  Lew won praise during his confirmation hearing as director,
with Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad of North
Dakota describing him as a administrator who “knows how to
reach across the aisle to find bipartisan solutions.”  Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , a Republican House
leader, called Lew “pragmatic” and “well-qualified.”  The chief of staff is one of the most powerful positions in
the White House outside the president, controlling the agenda,
determining who sees the president and who doesn’t and setting
the tone for the executive branch with lawmakers and the
American electorate in re-election years.  The appointment isn’t subject to Senate confirmation.  Like his budget duties, Lew will have to balance staff and
the issues competing for Obama’s attention while imposing
discipline.  “He’ll be able to keep the government trains running on
time,” Collender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  