-- Web-Name Expansion Should Have ‘Do Not Sell’ List, Ad Group Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-01-09T21:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/web-name-expansion-should-have-do-not-sell-list-ad-group-says.html
A Web-expansion program that may add
hundreds of top-level domains such as .apple and .nyc to the
Internet needs a “Do Not Sell” list to protect brand names, an
advertising group said.  Companies and organizations should be able to register
their brands at no cost on a temporary list in a first round of
applications for new domains beginning Jan. 12, the Association
of National Advertisers wrote in a letter today to the nonprofit
group that manages the Internet’s address system.  The list would eliminate the need for companies to apply
for top-level domains, the part of the Web address to the right
of the “dot,” for the sole purpose of preventing those
destinations from falling into the wrong hands, Doug Wood, ANA’s
general counsel, said in an interview.  The  Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ,
which operates under a U.S. Commerce Department contract,
approved a plan in June to consider hundreds of top-level
domains beyond .com and .org to spur online innovation. Each
application will cost $185,000 under Icann’s program.  Brad White, an Icann spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail requesting comment.  The Association of National Advertisers has criticized the
expansion, saying it will increase companies’ costs, confuse
consumers and fuel Internet fraud. The organization has
assembled a coalition of large U.S. brands, including  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , to oppose the program and call
on the Commerce Department to persuade Icann to delay it.  Fixing ‘Deficiencies’  Under the proposed changes, the advertisers group would
assemble a team to develop proposals for fixing “deficiencies”
in the program subject to the approval of Icann’s board,
according to the letter, which was addressed to Stephen Crocker,
Icann’s chairman.  Crocker, in an interview earlier today, said Icann has no
plans to postpone or scale back the program.  “We’re very sensitive to the issue of consumer protection
and protecting brand owners,” he said. “We have extensive
safeguards during the process and even afterward if there are
abuses detected.”  Crocker didn’t immediately reply to a request for comment
on the advertising group’s proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  