-- White Sugar Premium Steady on Lower-Than-Expected Indian Exports
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-01-09T11:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/white-sugar-premium-steady-on-lower-than-expected-indian-exports.html
White sugar’s premium over the raw
variety is holding steady because exports of the sweetener from
 India  have been smaller than initially estimated, according to
Swiss Sugar Brokers.  White, or refined, sugar on the NYSE Liffe exchange in
London was trading $91 a metric ton above the price of the raw
sweetener on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  by 10:36 a.m. London
time, up from $89 a ton a month ago,  data (.SUGPREM)  on Bloomberg show.  The pace of sugar exports from India, the world’s second-
largest producer, suggests that the country may be “hard
pressed” to ship the planned 1 million tons,  Michael McDougall ,
a broker at Newedge Group in New York, wrote in a Jan. 5 report.
Indian mills obtained permission to ship 356,237 tons as of Jan.
4, according to data published on the food ministry’s website.
India exports mostly the refined variety.  The “white premium keeps hovering around $92, challenging
the white sugar surplus, mainly supported by less aggressive
Indian exports so far,”  Naim Beydoun , a broker at the Rolle,
Switzerland-based company, said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Global production will be 6 million tons more than
consumption in the 2011-12 season ending Sept. 30, Rabobank
International estimates.  Sugar exports from India are unlikely to top last season’s
3 million tons, Toby Cohen, a director at the London-based
broker and researcher C. Czarnikow Futures Ltd., said at a
conference in London in November.  The white premium is also gaining support as supplies from
 Thailand , the world’s second-largest exporter, will only reach
the market next month, Beydoun said. Mills there started
processing sugar cane from the 2011-12 harvest into sugar on
Nov. 15, according to researcher F.O. Licht GmbH.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 