-- Two CDR Financial Executives Said to Plan Guilty Pleas Today in New York
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-01-09T22:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/two-cdr-financial-executives-said-to-plan-guilty-pleas-today-in-new-york.html
Former CDR Financial Products Inc.
Chief Financial Officer Z. Stewart Wolmark and Vice President
Evan Zarefsky pleaded guilty in a multimillion dollar scheme to
rig municipal bond investments.  The pleas today before U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero 
in federal court in  New York  came a week before opening
arguments were scheduled to be heard in a trial over alleged
bid- and auction-rigging in the municipal  bond market . CDR
founder and former chief executive officer  David Rubin  and his
Beverly Hills, California-based firm pleaded guilty on Dec. 30.  Wolmark, 56, admitted in court today to manipulating bids
during his tenure at CDR from 1998 to November 2006.  “During that period I participated with others in an
agreement to allocate and rig bids,” he said. “I also
knowingly participated in an agreement with others to manipulate
the bids in return for inflated fees paid to CDR,” he said.  CDR was hired by public entities that issue municipal bonds
to act as their broker and conduct what were to be competitive
bidding process for contracts for the investment of municipal
bond proceeds, according to prosecutors. Instead, CDR employees
allegedly took kickbacks for running sham auctions for the
investments.  Conspiracy, Wire Fraud  Wolmark and Zarefsky, 37, each pleaded guilty to two counts
of conspiracy and one count of wire fraud. They face as long as
35 years in prison on all counts, the judge said.  Zarefsky told Marrero that soon after he joined CDR in
April 2000, he became involved in the conspiracy.  “I knew that it was wrong but then later I subsequently
came to understand that it was unlawful,” Zarefsky said.  Rebecca Meiklejohn, a lawyer with the  Justice Department ’s
antitrust division, said today in court that her office was
prepared to call four former CDR employees who have pleaded
guilty in the case to testify against both defendants at the
trial.  Jury selection in the case began last week and a panel was
selected Jan. 4 to hear the case, lawyers said. Rubin pleaded
guilty on Dec. 30.  “Through corruption and bid rigging, Zevi Wolmark and Evan
Zarefsky reaped profits for their company by defrauding
municipalities and denying them the competition they
deserved,” said Sharis Pozen, Acting Assistant Attorney
General in charge of the Justice Department’s Antitrust
Division. “Our investigation into the municipal bond
derivatives industry has now led to guilty pleas by 12 financial
executives and charges against six others.”  Defense Lawyers  In court, Michael G. McGovern, a lawyer for Wolmark, and
Daniel L. Zelenko, a lawyer for Zarefsky, told the judge they
disputed the length of the sentences their clients face as
calculated by the government.  Marrero said that while both men signed plea agreements
with the government, neither has been guaranteed a reduced term
by prosecutors. Marrero told the defendants return to court June
8.  “Today, Evan Zarefsky has accepted full responsibility for
his actions,” Zelenko said after court. McGovern declined to
comment.  Both men face at least $1.5 million in fines. Rubin and CDR
both pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy and one count of
wire fraud, according to the government. Rubin, CDR’s sole
shareholder, pleaded guilty for the company, a court transcript
shows.  Sham Auctions  Rubin, who prosecutors said took kickbacks for running sham
auctions for investments, also faces as long as 35 years in
prison and a fine of as much as $1.5 million, the U.S. said. CDR
faces fines of as much as $101 million. The fines may be
increased to double the amount gained from the crime or double
the loss to victims, the government said.  Bank of America Corp., (BAC)   JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG, (UBSN)   Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  previously acknowledged
that former employees engaged in illegal activity. The companies
have paid $743 million in restitution and penalties.  The Justice Department has filed charges against 18 former
executives of financial-services firms.  The case is U.S. v. Rubin/Chambers, 09-cr-1058, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 