-- Woods Commits to Play at PGA Pebble Beach Pro-Am for First Time Since 2002
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-01-09T16:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/woods-commits-to-play-at-pebble-beach-for-first-time-since-2002.html
Tiger Woods will play at next month’s
 Pebble Beach  National Pro-Am Tournament, his first appearance at
the U.S. PGA Tour event since 2002.  Woods, who ended his 749-day winless drought at the Chevron
World Challenge last month, disclosed his plans for the Feb. 9-
12 event on his  website .  “I haven’t been to this tournament lately, but I have a
lot of good memories at Pebble,” Woods said in a statement.
“It will be fun going back.”  Woods, 36, will begin his 2012 golf season at the HSBC
Championship on Jan. 26 in  Abu Dhabi . He last played at Pebble
Beach Golf Links in Carmel, California, during the 2010  U.S.
Open , where he tied for fourth.  Since Woods last played in the Pebble Beach pro-am event,
the tournament has undergone several changes to its format.  The event, which groups professionals with amateurs and is
played on three courses along the  California  coast, reduced its
field to 156 professionals and amateurs from 180, a move aimed
at improving pace of play. The Shore Course at Monterey
Peninsula Golf Club also replaced Poppy Hills Golf Course in the
three-course rotation, a change that intrigued Woods.  “I’ve never played Monterey Peninsula and am looking
forward to it,” he said. “From all I’ve heard, it’s a
wonderful course and the greens are fast.”  U.S. Open  Woods won the tournament in 2000. He came from five strokes
back against Matt Gogel in the final round, four months before
he went on to post a 15-shot win in the U.S. Open at Pebble
Beach.  The 14-time major tournament champion is four titles shy of
tying  Jack Nicklaus ’s record of 18, a quest that will resume at
the  Masters Tournament  in Augusta,  Georgia , in April.  Coming off of a victory at the Chevron event, Woods said he
is eager to begin his 2012 season. He struggled with injuries
last season.  “It’s good to be healthy again, and I’m hoping to get off
to a fast start,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta  at
 Mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 