-- Yanzhou Coal, Mindray Jump on Earnings Outlook: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-09T22:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/yanzhou-coal-mindray-jump-on-outlook-for-earnings-growth-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks (CH55BN)  traded in the U.S.
rose, led by  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  and  Mindray (MR)  Medical
International Ltd., on speculation looser lending conditions may
boost company earnings.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  advanced 1.2 percent to
99.75 as trading closed in New York, taking its increase this
year to 4.1 percent. Yanzhou, China’s fourth-largest coal
producer, gained 4 percent to $21.82 as investors bet lending
growth will boost energy consumption. Mindray added 6.1 percent,
the most since May, after the maker of medical devices predicted
net revenue rose 25 percent in 2011 from a year ago.  China’s central bank said yesterday that new loans totaled
640.5 billion yuan ($101 billion) in December, the most since
April, and  M2 (CNMS2YOY) , a measure of money supply, rose more than
economists forecast. People’s Bank of  China  Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said Jan. 8 that the nation must be ready to combat
possible shocks from  Europe ’s debt crisis and an uncertain U.S.
economic outlook, echoing comments by Premier Wen Jiabao.  “We have more evidence now that the turning point of
monetary policy easing has started and that’s very positive for
stocks,” said Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co.,
which oversees $285 million. “Low-valuation cyclical stocks
will benefit most from it.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 2.9 percent to 2,225.89
at the close, its biggest advance since Oct. 12. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , which tracks Chinese companies trading
in  Hong Kong , gained 2.4 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks added 0.2
percent to 1,280.70, while The iShares FTSE China 25 Index  Fund (FXI) ,
the biggest Chinese exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 2.1
percent to $35.92.  M2 Rises  The central bank said M2 rose 13.6 percent in December, the
most since July. The median forecast of 18 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for an increase of 12.9 percent.  China must be ready to pick appropriate policy instruments
to combat external shocks, PBOC’s Zhou said in an interview with
Xinhua on Jan. 8.  The Chinese economy “is yet to hit the rocks, not this
year,” Yu Yongding, a former central bank adviser, said at a
conference in New York yesterday. “ China’s economy  will be OK
this year. I’m cautiously optimistic.”  SouFun Holdings Ltd., owner of the nation’s biggest real
estate website, jumped 12 percent to $16.83, the highest since
September and the biggest gain among companies in the benchmark
Bloomberg index.  Perfect World Sinks  Perfect World Co. (PWRD) , a Beijing-based online game developer,
tumbled 27 percent, the most since its initial public offering
in July 2007, to $8.81. The company sank after claims that the
company is being investigated by U.S. and Chinese regulators
“were made by a self-proclaimed insider on several Chinese
websites, which were later picked up by several Chinese news
outlets,” Andy Yeung, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York, said in a note yesterday.  The company is working on an official statement with its
legal counsel, Linda Bergkamp, who is responsible for investor
relations at Perfect World, said in an e-mail response to
Bloomberg News.  China Telecom Corp. (CHA) , the nation’s third-largest wireless
carrier, fell 2.5 percent to $55 on concern the company may need
to pay more subsidies to win users after China Unicom (Hong
Kong) Ltd. introduces the Apple Inc. iPhone 4S on Jan. 13. China
Unicom on Jan. 6 said it would give users a free iPhone 4S if
they sign a multiyear service agreement. China Unicom rose 1.3
percent to $21.58.  Focus Media  China Telecom traded in the U.S. at a 1.5 percent premium
over its shares in Hong Kong, widening from 0.1 percent on Jan.
6.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a digital advertising company
based in  Shanghai , gained 0.4 percent to $18.71. The company
said yesterday in a statement its acquisition of a regional
distributor was to secure advantageous tax treatment and short-
selling firm Muddy Waters LLC’s questioning of the deal contains
“false statements, unsupported innuendo and conjecture.”  Focus Media has denied previous accusations from Muddy
Waters that it overstated its ad display network and overpaid
for acquisitions.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, expanded 9.1
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, down from 9.5
percent growth in the second quarter and the slowest pace in two
years. The government may report Jan. 17 the fourth-quarter
growth may have slowed to 8.7 percent, according to the median
estimate of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  