-- Hyundai Puts Quality Advances Ahead of 2012 U.S. Sales Goals
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-01-09T21:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-09/hyundai-puts-quality-advances-ahead-of-2012-u-s-sales-goals.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s
largest automaker, says gains in vehicle quality assessments and
brand perception trump sales volume goals this year.  While the Seoul-based company plans to boost deliveries of
Sonata and Elantra sedans for a fourth consecutive year,  John Krafcik , chief executive officer of its U.S. sales unit, isn’t
yet announcing a volume goal for the year. Hyundai grew 20
percent to a record 645,691 in the U.S. in 2011.  “Any number I might provide today, the only thing I know
for sure is it’s going to be outdated,” Krafcik said in a Jan.
5 phone interview. “It’s not going to be the number we end up
targeting in three or six months. We want to focus on improving
our quality and our brand reputation in 2012. That is the
priority.”  Hyundai has won sales from competitors such as  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. on the strength of new designs and
improved fuel economy. The company’s market share grew to 5.1
percent last year, from 3 percent in 2008.  U.S. sales this year for Hyundai should exceed 700,000
units, and rise more than 8 percent compared with 2011, said
Dave Cutting, an analyst with forecaster LMC Automotive in Troy,
 Michigan .  “It will be growing, but leveling off due to increased
competition from other manufacturers,” Cutting said. Industry
U.S. sales of new light vehicles should rise 7.8 percent to 13.8
million units in 2012, according to LMC.  The Elantra sedan today was named North American Car of the
Year in  Detroit . The compact model beat Ford Motor Co.’s Focus
and Volkswagen AG’s Passat. Hyundai’s Genesis won the award in
2009, the first time a Korean automaker claimed the top honor.  Supply Constraint  Krafcik declined to say if reaching the 700,000-unit mark
was a goal. “It’s unclear at this time whether we can do
that,” he said.  Gains will come from the redesigned Azera large sedan that
goes on sale as early as this month and a full year of Veloster
three-door coupe sales, Krafcik said. A modified version of the
Genesis Coupe and turbo-engine Veloster being shown today at the
North American International Auto Show in Detroit will also
generate “a small amount” of incremental sales, he said.  Total sales will continue to be constrained by capacity to
supply midsize Sonata and compact Elantra cars, Hyundai’s U.S.
best sellers, Krafcik said.  Production Capacity  “The demand side signals there’s upside, but from the
production availability side, we’re doing what we can with what
we’ve got,” he said.  Last year, the company’s Montgomery,  Alabama , plant that
builds those models, produced a record 338,000 vehicles, more
than 10 percent above the factory’s official capacity.  “I don’t know that that order of improvement is possible
in 2012, but we’ll see,” Krafcik said. “Maybe we’ll find some
way to eke out a little more.”  Krafcik, echoing comments from Hyundai Motor Vice Chairman
Chung Eui Sun in November at the Los Angeles Auto Show, said
there’s no plan to boost North American production capacity at
this time.  Instead, Hyundai is under pressure to rank this year among
the top brands in U.S. vehicle quality assessments, including
those by J.D. Power & Associates.  Quality Deadline  Hyundai Motor’s top management in  South Korea  set a goal in
2009 of becoming one of the industry’s top three brands in
“actual” quality, as determined by outside surveys, by this
year, and one of the world’s top five brands in “perceived”
quality by consumers, by 2014.  “Internally, we are tracking very, very well, but we are
taking nothing for granted,” Krafcik said.  The company this year will “focus on assuring internal
stability, to lay a foundation in becoming a top player,”
Chairman Chung Mong-Koo told employees in a Jan. 2 in  Seoul .
“For this, we must strengthen our product quality management.”  Hyundai fell to 11th place in J.D. Power’s most recent
survey of new vehicle quality, released June 23, just below the
industry average, from seventh place in 2010. Its affiliate, Kia
Motors Corp., rose to 19th place from 26th place in 2010.  “We are doing everything we possibly can to get there,”
Krafcik said. “I would imagine there would definitely be
unhappiness if it is not achieved.”  Luxury Entries  Quality and styling gains made in the past decade have
helped Hyundai increase transaction prices and allowed it to
enter luxury vehicle market with its Genesis and Equus sedans
that vie with pricier models from Toyota’s  Lexus  and Daimler
AG’s Mercedes-Benz.  Hyundai last year sold 3,193 units of the Equus, starting
at $58,750, topping its annual target of about 2,000. Combined
sales of Genesis sedans, starting at $34,200, and Genesis
coupes, grew 13 percent to 32,998.  With Equus, Hyundai estimates it has a 5.7 percent share of
the market for large luxury sedans, better than its total U.S.
share. The company had sales of more than 36,000 premium
vehicles last year and “we’re now a player in the luxury
segment,” Krafcik said.  Quality and styling enhancements are driving the company’s
U.S. gains, said  Rebecca Lindland , a Norwalk, Connecticut-based
analyst for IHS Automotive.  “Everything has changed for them,” Lindland said. “You
don’t have to apologize for driving one these days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Detroit at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  