-- Maduro Takes Charge of Venezuela After Teary Farewell to Chavez
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-03-09T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/maduro-takes-charge-of-venezuela-after-teary-farewell-to-chavez.html
Nicolas Maduro was sworn in as
 Venezuela ’s acting president hours after eulogizing his mentor
 Hugo Chavez  in a fiery and tearful state funeral that drew
leaders and celebrity activists from around the world.  Maduro, after being fitted with the presidential sash last
night during a special session of congress boycotted by members
of the opposition, vowed to continue Chavez’s fight on behalf of
the poor and against the U.S. “empire.” The former bus driver
said the government has nothing to fear from elections that
would take place “immediately,” as required by law.  “I don’t assume this office out of personal ambition,”
said Maduro, who Chavez named his political heir before
undergoing a fourth surgery for cancer in December. “I never
wanted to become president. I’m doing it to honor his legacy.”  The ceremony at the national assembly last night capped a
marathon day in which more than 20 heads of state, including
 Iran ’s Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Cuba’s  Raul Castro , bid farewell
to Chavez, who died March 5 after a two-year illness. Mourners
including Rev.  Jesse Jackson  and actor  Sean Penn  shouted
“Chavez didn’t die” as they listened to llanero music of the
president’s youth and a sword belonging to 19th century
liberator  Simon Bolivar  was placed on a flag-draped coffin.  Maduro, in a 32-minute sermon at Chavez’s funeral, recalled
a December meeting in Cuba when a weakened Chavez asked his
close aides for help drafting a final message to his followers.  They refused.  “We didn’t fulfill his order, we couldn’t, it was
impossible,” Maduro said during the speech in which he
alternately held back tears and shouted threats against Chavez’s
foes. “The entire life of our comandante has been a testament
to his word, his passion, his actions, his work, his people.”  Long Lines  Outside the military academy in Caracas where the memorial
was taking place, teary-eyed mothers with newborns and civilian
militia members armed by Chavez stood in a three-kilometer-long
line under a blazing midday sun to catch a last glimpse of their
beloved leader. They’ll have plenty of time to do so, after the
government said that it was embalming Chavez’s body for
permanent display at a museum being built to honor his legacy.  “I will stay here until I see him,” said Nelly Pedrique,
a 55-year-old cleaning lady. “I need to say goodbye because he
was a good man.”  Chavez was laid to rest in an army uniform wearing the
trademark red beret that he used while leading a failed 1992
military coup that catapulted him to fame.  Supporters, most of them wearing the red shirts of Chavez’s
21st century socialist revolution, vowed to respect their
leader’s wishes and rally behind Maduro, his longtime foreign
minister.  Maduro’s Oath  Maduro, in his first act after taking office, named Science
and Technology Minister Jorge Arreaza as his vice president. He
administered the oath to Arreaza, who is also Chavez’s son-in-
law, at a separate ceremony held before Chavez’s corpse.  With Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa  looking on and pro-
government lawmakers cheering, Maduro in his inaugural speech
goaded the opposition, saying they’d be making a mistake by
failing to present a candidate in the upcoming election.  Venezuela’s electoral council in the coming hours is
expected to set the date for the vote, which the constitution
requires must be held within 30 days of the president’s death.  Capriles’ Criticisms  Opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski denounced as
“fraud” a Supreme Court ruling allowing Maduro to serve as
caretaker while campaigning for the presidency, which he said
violates article 229 of the nation’s charter. He said he’d
decide in the coming hours whether to run for the presidency.  “Nicolas, the people didn’t elect you,” Capriles, who
lost to Chavez by 11 percentage points in October, said in
televised comments yesterday. “They didn’t vote for you, kid.”  Maduro is likely to win the election with 46 percent of
the vote compared with 34 percent for Capriles, according to a
poll taken by Caracas-based Datanalisis from Jan. 31 to Feb. 20.
The poll’s margin of error was 2.4 percentage points.  Maduro, who hours before Chavez’s death suggested that the
U.S. may have poisoned the president, struck a more moderate
tone at yesterday’s memorial. He thanked President  Barack Obama 
for sending a delegation that included Rep. Gregory Meeks, a  New
York  Democrat, and retired congressman William Delahunt of
 Massachusetts . The U.S. hasn’t had an ambassador in Caracas
since Chavez expelled envoy Patrick Duddy in 2008.  “We love the people of the United State and we have
historic ties to its unions, businessmen and intellectuals,”
Maduro said in his inaugural speech. “Sooner rather than later
the elites that govern the U.S. will have to learn to respect
the popular insurrections of  South America .”  Jesse Jackson  Earlier, civil rights leader Jackson praised Chavez and
Maduro, saying that political differences between the two
countries shouldn’t get in the way of historic ties shaped by
Venezuela’s export of oil and baseball players to the U.S.  “Hugo fed the hungry. He lifted the poor. He raised their
hopes. He helped them realize their dreams,” said Jackson.
“And so today we do mourn because we lost a lot. But we have a
lot left: a stable government, an orderly transition.”  Authorities still haven’t said what type of cancer Chavez
was suffering from, though some details of his final moments
have emerged.  General Jose Ornella, the head of the presidential guard,
told The  Associated Press  that he was with Chavez when the 58-
year-old former paratrooper mouthed a desire not to die moments
before succumbing to a heart attack. An official in the
Information Ministry, who asked not to be identified because of
internal policy, declined to comment on the AP report.  Maduro, whom Chavez endorsed before undergoing surgery in
Cuba for the last time in December, has sought to project unity
in frequent televised appearances. He was sworn into office last
night by National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello , a rival
within the Chavismo movement who some constitutional experts say
should assume as a caretaker until Chavez’s successor is chosen.  Loyal Military  He also expressed admiration and respect for the armed
forces, who in turn affirmed their loyalty to the Chavismo
movement. Unlike Chavez, a former tank commander, Maduro has
never served in the military.  Still, with the economy reeling from 23 percent inflation
and an overvalued currency that have eroded incomes and
exacerbated food shortages, Maduro has his work cut out for him.  The country is likely to contract in the first quarter of
the year, and inflation could rise to 33 percent, Bank of
America said in a report yesterday.  Venezuela’s dollar-denominated bonds, which are rated four
levels below investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s , have rallied
22 percent over the past year. The yield on the benchmark 9.25
percent bonds due in 2027 fell 12 basis points yesterday to 9.30
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Caracas at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  