-- Maduro Sworn in as Venezuela Leader Hours After Chavez’s Funeral
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-03-09T00:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/maduro-sworn-in-as-venezuela-leader-hours-after-chavez-s-funeral.html
Nicolas Maduro was sworn in as
 Venezuela ’s acting president today hours after eulogizing his
mentor  Hugo Chavez , who died this week following a two-year
battle with cancer.  National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  administered
the oath of office to Maduro, who will seek to extend Chavez’s
legacy and campaign for a six-year term in a snap presidential
election. The national electoral council hasn’t yet set a date
for the vote, which by law must be held within 30 days of the
president’s death.  Outside the legislature, hundreds of government supporters
were gathered to show their support for Maduro.  Chavez named Maduro his preferred successor before
traveling to Cuba in December for his fourth cancer surgery,
urging followers to vote for the former union leader who served
as his longtime foreign minister. Members of Chavez’s cabinet
this week have rallied around Maduro, who has vowed to continue
with Chavez’s legacy of heavy state control over the economy.  “We will carry on and stick together as a people,” Maduro
said today in a 32-minute eulogy during Chavez’s funeral in
Caracas. “We will continue protecting the poor, continue
feeding those in need, continue educating our children, continue
building our great homeland, continue fomenting peace.”  Opposition leader said they would boycott today’s ceremony,
which they denounced as a pro-government campaign event along
with the alleged politicization of Chavez’s funeral.  Court Ruling  Miranda state Governor Henrique Capriles, who lost to
Chavez in an October election by 11 percentage points, objected
to a High Court ruling allowing Maduro to serve as caretaker
while he campaigns.  Article 229 of the constitution prohibits the vice
president and other top officials from running for president
while in office. The court, in its decision, said Maduro ceased
serving as vice president once he is sworn in as “acting
President.”  “While the country was watching Chavez’s funeral, the
court committed fraud,” Capriles said in televised comments
today. “Nicolas, the people didn’t elect you. They didn’t vote
for you, kid.”  Capriles didn’t announce whether he will run again for
president, saying only that he’d make a decision in the coming
hours.  In the event of a head-on race, Maduro would enjoy a 46.4
percent to 34.3 percent advantage over Capriles, according to a
survey taken Jan. 31 to Feb. 20 by Caracas-based polling company
Datanalisis. The poll has a margin of error of 2.4 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  