-- Hagel’s Afghan Visit Rocked by Suicide Bomb Attacks
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-03-09T19:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/hagel-s-afghan-visit-rocked-by-suicide-bomb-attacks.html
U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
began his first international trip as Pentagon chief in Kabul as
suicide bombings today overshadowed preparations for what he
called a “responsible transition” in the Afghan war.  A suicide bomber struck in Kabul outside the Afghan  Defense
Ministry  as Hagel met with U.S. officials at a military base in
the capital. NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force , or
ISAF, confirmed the attack. Another suicide bomber hit a police
checkpoint in Khost in eastern Afghanistan and 18 people were
killed in both assaults, according to the  Associated Press .  “We are in a war zone, so we shouldn’t be surprised when a
bomb goes off,” Hagel told reporters when asked about his
reaction to the explosion in Kabul, after he visited U.S. troops
in Jalalabad.  The Taliban claimed responsibility for the Kabul bombing,
saying it was meant to send a signal to the U.S. defense chief,
according to the AP. “This attack was a message to him,”
Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid said in an e-mailed
statement to reporters, AP reported.  Hagel arrived in Kabul yesterday on his fifth trip to
 Afghanistan  and his first journey abroad since taking office as
defense secretary. “It was never the intention of the U.S. to
stay in Afghanistan indefinitely,” he told reporters traveling
with him on a military plane. The U.S. invaded to help Afghans
“be free from terrorists and a government that was hostile,”
and now it’s time for them to make “their own decisions about
their future,” he said.  Bagram Prison  The U.S. military failed to complete a full transfer of the
Bagram prison to Afghan control today as had been previously
planned. In September, the two sides agreed to let Afghanistan
take full control of the prison, which has been one of President
Hamid Karzai’s demands.  Although Hagel wasn’t scheduled to participate in the
planned ceremony, he was informed of the delay while he was en
route to Kabul, a U.S. defense official told reporters. The
Pentagon was surprised by the delay, which the official said was
because of technical issues. He didn’t elaborate.  Marine Corps General Joseph Dunford, head of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s ISAF, told reporters during a
briefing today “there’s probably a difference of opinion” that
led to the breakdown of the prison transfer. Karzai told his
Parliament March 6 that some prisoners detained at Bagram are
innocent and promised to release them, according to news
organizations including the  New York  Times.  Protecting NATO Forces  “We certainly don’t have anyone in the detention facility
that we think doesn’t deserve to be there, in order to protect
our forces,” Dunford said, according to a pool report of an
interview with television networks. “If there’s a threat to the
force, we will not conduct the transfer.”  Hagel flew today to Bagram outside of Kabul to meet with
officials from the U.S. Special Operations Command and Regional
Command-East and later to Jalalabad, where he awarded Purple
Heart medals to two U.S. soldiers who were wounded in war.
Hagel, a former soldier, received two Purple Heart medals after
being injured during the  Vietnam War .  Hagel also plans to meet with Afghan Defense Minister
Bismillah Khan Mohammadi and U.S. military officials including
Dunford.  In a message to ISAF personnel yesterday, Hagel said they
have “a dangerous and difficult mission” as they move into a
support role for Afghan forces.  At War  “We are still at war, and many of you will continue to
experience the ugly reality of combat and the heat of battle,”
Hagel said. He said the goal of having “Afghans assume full
responsibility for security by the end of 2014 is clear and
achievable.”  The U.S. is preparing to withdraw about half of its 66,000
troops by this time next year, and Obama is weighing how many
U.S. forces will remain starting in 2015.  Obama hasn’t made a decision yet, Hagel said. Last month in
Brussels, Hagel’s predecessor,  Leon Panetta , told his European
counterparts that the U.S. is considering a total NATO force of
about 8,000 to 12,000 troops in Afghanistan after 2014.  Insurgent Threats  As the U.S. and allies determine their future role in the
South Asian nation, questions remain about the competence of
Afghanistan’s civilian government and the capability of its
forces to meet insurgent threats within the country and from
across the border in  Pakistan , said  Seth Jones , an Afghanistan
analyst at the Rand Corporation, a policy research group based
in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Among the unresolved issues, he said, are “how serious is
that threat, how connected is it to the U.S. homeland security
and interest in the region.”  Hagel will focus largely on carrying out the strategy
already laid down by Obama, which is based on withdrawing most
U.S. forces, continuing some counterterrorism operations against
remnants of al-Qaeda and assisting Afghans, Jones said.  Obama’s Wishes  “The challenge for Secretary Hagel is he’s coming into a
situation where the president has been looking into this issue
for four years and so has Vice President Biden and they have
firm views of the way ahead,” Jones said in a phone interview.
“At this point, Hagel will be able to influence a few things on
the margin, but his job is to execute the wishes of the
commander in chief.”  While Hagel as a senator backed the resolution authorizing
the war in Afghanistan in 2001, he has been critical of the
surge under Obama in 2009 that sent additional U.S. troops into
the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  