-- Berlusconi Hospital Stay Prolonged as Milan Trials Delayed
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-09T13:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/berlusconi-hospital-stay-prolonged-as-sex-trial-put-on-hold.html
Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi will spend a second day in hospital with an eye
inflammation his lawyers used as a reason for delaying two of
his trials.  Berlusconi stayed overnight in San Raffaele Hospital and
will remain there “for now,” Piero Longo, an Italian senator
and one of the ex-premier’s lawyers, said by telephone today.
Berlusconi was excused from a court appointment yesterday in a
sex-with-minor trial.  His lawyers requested a hearing scheduled for today in a
different corruption case to be postponed as he can’t attend it,
Longo said. The judges accepted a request by prosecutors to send
a court doctor to the hospital to check on Berlusconi’s
condition, the lawyer also said.  Berlusconi, a convicted tax felon, is fending off three
separate criminal cases in Milan and targeted by a corruption
investigation in Naples as he seeks to maximize his influence in
 Italy ’s next government. The three-time premier, who finished
second in inconclusive parliamentary elections last month, cited
an eye problem a Feb. 21 when he pulled out of a campaign event.  Today, Berlusconi was scheduled to face closing arguments
in his appeal of a tax-fraud conviction, which carried a four-
year prison sentence when it was handed down in October. After
their visit to the clinic, the court-appointed doctors said
there was “no absolute impediment” preventing the former
premier from appearing at the hearing and the judges decided
that the trial can go ahead, Italian newswire ANSA reported.  Latest Conviction  Yesterday prosecutors were scheduled to deliver closing
arguments in the Milan trial that has Berlusconi, 76, accused of
abusing the power of his office and paying for sex with a minor.
He has denied the charges. That appointment has been rescheduled
for March 11, Longo said.  The trials risk derailing a bid at a political comeback by
Berlusconi, the most successful Italian politician of the last
two decades. He was convicted to a year in prison on March 6 in
a Milan wiretapping case, stemming from the publication of
transcripts of bugged phone calls relating to the 2006 battle
for control of  Banca Nazionale del Lavoro SpA . He is free
pending appeal.  Berlusconi’s health isn’t the only potential conflict that
courts will face in coming weeks. The leader of Italy’s People
of Liberty party will be involved in parliamentary wrangling
over the formation of a new government when newly elected
lawmakers convene for the first time on March 15.  Berlusconi’s plan to influence the next government involves
renewing his alliance with Pier Luigi Bersani, the top vote
getter. Bersani, who partnered with People of Liberty from
November 2011 to December to support Prime Minister Mario Monti,
has criticized Berlusconi for his criminal trials and said he
will refuse to revive the alliance.  In Naples, Berlusconi is under investigation on suspicion
of corruption tied to a senator who says he was paid 3 million
euros to switch to Berlusconi’s party in a previous legislature
to help topple the government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi.
Berlusconi has denied the charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 