-- BHP Billiton Plans to Sell 10 Assets After Debt Rises to Record
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-09T01:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/bhp-billiton-plans-to-sell-10-assets-after-debt-rises-to-record.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, is planning to sell about 10 of its
assets amid a rise in debt levels after a two-year metals boom
driven by Chinese demand stuttered.  The Gregory-Crinum coal mine in  Australia ’s Queensland
state is among the assets being considered for sale, spokeswoman
Eleanor Nichols said by phone today. The Australian newspaper
first reported that Chief Financial Officer Graham Kerr told
equity analysts last week the divestment program was focused on
at least 10 BHP assets. The company owns mines, oil and gas
wells, and processing plants.  Global mining companies are selling off businesses after
slumping metal prices triggered more than $60 billion of
writedowns to mineral resources. BHP’s debt has risen to a
record $30.4 billion and Chief Executive Officer Marius Kloppers
last month joined his counterparts at Rio Tinto Group and Anglo
American Plc in stepping down from his role.  “Consistent with our commitment to simplify the portfolio,
we continue to selectively pursue asset divestment opportunities,
with a firm focus on value,” Nichols said in an e-mailed
statement. “Any decision to divest an asset will be announced
to the market.”‬  Copper unit head Andrew Mackenzie will take over from
Kloppers in May. Kloppers gave up his fiscal 2012 bonus after
booking a $2.84 billion charge last August to write down the
value of shale gas assets in the U.S.  Net Debt  BHP has gone from holding $200 million in net cash at the
end of 2010 to net debt of $30.4 billion on Dec. 30, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Minerals demand growth will slow
to 2 percent to 4 percent a year over the next five years, from
15 percent to 20 percent a year formerly, Kloppers said in an
Australian Broadcasting Corp. interview last month.  BHP has already agreed to sell its 80 percent stake in
Canada’s Ekati diamond mine to Harry Winston Diamond Corp. for
about $500 million, and is raising $1.63 billion from selling
its stakes in the Browse petroleum joint venture to Petrochina
Co.  The price of iron ore, BHP’s most profitable business,
averaged 27 percent lower during the six months to Dec. 31, data
from The Steel Index shows. Iron ore may tumble to $110 a metric
ton by the end of the year, as mines in China boost production,
cutting import demand in the world’s largest buyer, Westpac
Banking Corp. said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  