-- Boston Scientific’s Watchman Heart Device Was Safer in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-09T21:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/boston-scientific-s-watchman-heart-device-safer-in-second-study.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ’s Watchman
device, designed to help prevent strokes in patients with an
erratic heartbeat, was safer than previously thought in a second
study requested by U.S. regulators, researchers said.  The company said the results, originally intended to be
presented today at the  American College of Cardiology’s  meeting
in  San Francisco , show the device can be safely used and plans
to request FDA approval. Heart meeting officials canceled the
presentation after Boston Scientific inadvertently distributed
results of the study, known as Prevail, to investors before the
data was slated for presentation at the meeting.  The device is threaded into the heart and used to block off
a reservoir where blood can pool, forming clots that cause
strokes. The procedure itself triggered strokes, clots or major
complications in 2.2 percent of patients within a week, an
acceptable risk in return for helping patients avoid the need
for daily blood thinners, said lead researcher  David Holmes , a
cardiologist at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,  Minnesota .  “This takes care of the safety issues,” and there was
great concern about its safety, Holmes said in an interview
yesterday. “By virtue of the fact that it confirms the
efficacy, I think it’s a real step forward,” he said, declining
to predict how U.S. regulators will rule on the device.  The  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  requested the new
trial in 2009 after refusing to approve the device because the
initial study showed an unacceptably high rate of complications.
The study involved 252 patients treated with the Watchman and
138 who were given the blood thinner warfarin as a comparison.  Earlier Controversy  The company created controversy earlier this week when it
said it would show only limited safety information from the
trial, then reversed the decision. It updated the official
registration for the device on the U.S. government’s clinical
trials website on March 1. The update  changed  the study
description to include a safety review, altered the single main
goal to make it three separate objectives and moved the six-
month time period of the study to two time points at one week
and 18 months.  The size, length and design of the study, not to mention
changing the official record, all raise serious concerns about
whether the Watchman should be used, said  Steven Nissen , chief
of cardiology at the  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio . There were fewer
than 100 patients followed out to 18 months, making any analysis
suspect, he said.  “This study doesn’t stand the sniff test,” he said in an
interview at the meeting. “How much can you know about the
safety with 100 patients?” he asked. “It is extremely
difficult to see how this device could be approved by the FDA
under the circumstances as we currently understand them.”  Efficacy Analysis  A preliminary analysis of how effective the device was
after 18 months yielded mixed results. It failed to show the
Watchman was as good as the blood thinner warfarin at heading
off strokes, clots and death after 18 months, though it was
similar when researchers excluded the first week’s results.  The results of the study were funded by Natick,
Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific. Both Holmes and the  Mayo
Clinic  have a financial interest in the technology, which they
licensed to Atritech Inc.  The  company  plans to submit the findings, plus updated
results from its initial Protect AF trial and other research, to
the U.S. regulators to support Watchman’s approval, said Ken Stein, chief medical officer of the company’s cardiac rhythm
management group.  “We are really optimistic about this,” Stein said in a
telephone interview. “We see it as fitting a huge patient need
and having a huge amount of data to support it. We see it as an
adjacent technology to what has been our core business.”  Market Potential  Boston Scientific officials have estimated the potential
market for the device used to close the left atrial appendage
could reach $500 million within five years. The Watchman
competes against  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s Amplatzer cardiac plug
in  Europe , where both are already approved. St. Jude, based in
 St. Paul , Minnesota, said it started a study of its product this
week that it will use to try to obtain U.S. approval.  The researchers used a controversial new design for the
study, which involves predicting the future rates of strokes and
other complications based on adding the findings from the new
investigation to the results of previously conducted research.
The complex analysis, known as the  Bayesian piecewise
exponential technique , was requested by the FDA, Holmes said.
While the approach hasn’t been used previously in such a high-
profile trial, Holmes said he expects it to become more common.  “People are becoming more comfortable with Bayesian
analysis,” he said. “In the future, I think we will see more
of that.”  New Technique  The technique is designed to find information more quickly
with fewer patients, Holmes said. The approach allowed the
researchers to draw conclusions from the data, even though they
had 18 month information from only 58 patients who received the
device and 30 patients in the control group getting warfarin.  The previous trial showed 8.7 percent of patients in the
study suffered vascular complications within seven days,
including perforating the heart, having the device migrate from
the location where it was implanted, blood buildup around the
heart, bleeding near the groin where the catheter was inserted
and stroke. In the new study, complications were 4.4 percent,
when using the same set of criteria.  The earlier  trial , dubbed Protect AF, found the device
worked as well as warfarin, though patients undergoing the
surgery were significantly more likely to have complications.
Regulators were particularly concerned that physicians new to
the technique would have higher complication rates. The newest
cardiologists had the best results in the Prevail trial.  Boston Scientific acquired the Watchman technology when it
bought closely-held Atritech in 2011 for $100 million, with
another $275 million in potential payments linked to regulatory
and sales-based milestones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  