-- China Allows Some Hong Kong, Taiwan Residents to Trade A Shares
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-09T04:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/china-allows-some-hong-kong-taiwan-residents-to-trade-a-shares.html
China said it will allow  Hong Kong ,
Taiwan and Macau residents living in the mainland to open
domestic trading accounts, the latest move by authorities to
boost  Asia ’s third-largest equity market.  The rule, which takes effect on April 1, will allow them to
open accounts for yuan-denominated stocks, or A shares,
according to a  statement  on the website of China Securities
Depository and Clearing Corp., the nation’s clearing house for
stock transactions. The change, approved by the securities
regulator, is aimed at “facilitating their access to investment
in the A-share market,” according to today’s statement.  China has increased quotas for foreign institutions,
encouraged dividend payments, tightened rules on delisting
companies and cut trading costs as part of efforts to boost a
stock market that has underperformed its Hong Kong peer in the
last three years. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , the country’s
benchmark, fell 1.7 percent this week, paring its advance this
year to 2.2 percent.  A shares were previously off-limits to foreign individual
investors, who were only allowed to trade B shares. These refer
to stocks that trade in U.S. dollars in Shanghai or to Hong Kong
dollar-denominated equities listed in Shenzhen.  In 2002, the securities regulator introduced the Qualified
Foreign Institutional Investor program to allow overseas
investors access to the more heavily traded A shares. China also
approved in 2011 the  Renminbi  Qualified Institutional Investors
program that allows participants to raise  yuan  offshore for
investment in mainland securities.  There are about 450,000 residents from Hong Kong, Macau and
Taiwan in the mainland, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
today, citing data from the national census conducted in 2010.  The country can increase 10-fold the size of the two
investment programs that allow institutions from abroad to buy
securities on domestic markets, China Securities Regulatory
Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing  said Jan. 14.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  