-- China Foreign Minister Says Hacking Articles on Shaky Ground
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-09T07:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/china-foreign-minister-says-hacking-articles-on-shaky-ground.html
Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi 
said articles blaming China’s government and military for
computer hacking are on “shaky ground” and such stories serve
political motives.  China opposes turning cyberspace into a “new
battlefield,” and countries should introduce global rules to
govern conduct, Yang told reporters today at a press conference
during the National People’s Congress in Beijing.  The U.S.-based security firm Mandiant Corp. said in a Feb.
19 report that the Chinese army may be behind a hacking group
that has attacked at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.
Corporations and government agencies are increasingly finding
themselves under attack, leading U.S. President  Barack Obama  to
issue an executive order on Feb. 12 directing the government to
share more cyber-threat data with the private sector.  “There have been quite a few reports about hacker attacks
recently and many of them picked on  China ,” Yang said. “These
articles may have crossed the eyes of many people but actually
they are built on shaky ground.”  Sensational stories that serve political motives won’t be
able to “blacken the names of others,” he said.  The  New York  Times in January reported that its computer
systems were breached by Chinese hackers, a claim China has
denied. The Wall Street Journal outlined similar attacks on its
systems, while Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, said
there have been unsuccessful attempts to infiltrate its network.  ‘New Battlefield’  “We oppose turning cyberspace into a new battlefield or
using the Internet as a new tool to interfere in the internal
affairs of other nations,” Yang said.  Mandiant said it traced the group, labeled Advanced
Persistent Threat 1, to four large  computer networks  in
 Shanghai . Two of the networks serve the Pudong New Area
district, where a secret army unit called 61398 is based, the
report said.  China’s government opposes hacking and has drawn up rules
and laws to strictly forbid hackers, Yang said. China is
committed to building a peaceful, open and co-operative
Internet, he said. The country has also advocated and submitted
specific proposals for a set of international rules governing
the Internet under a United Nations framework, he said.  “What this cyber space needs is not war but rules and
cooperation,” Yang said.  China’s Ministry of Defense said this month that its
website and an affiliated military media site received an
average of 144,000 attacks a month from overseas last year.
Almost two-thirds of those attacks came from the U.S., Chinese
defense ministry spokesman Geng Yansheng said, according to a
statement posted to the ministry’s website March 1.  China regularly censors its Internet and blocks users from
posting information critical of the ruling Communist Party. The
Chinese version of Microsoft Corp.’s Skype videophone and
texting service, with nearly 96 million users, monitors users,
scanning messages for specific words and phrases, according to
research by Jeffrey Knockel, a computer science graduate student
at the University of  New Mexico .  For Related News and Information:  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  