-- CMEA, Former Executive Accused of Sexual Harassment
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-09T21:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/cmea-former-executive-accused-of-sexual-harassment.html
CMEA Capital, a San Francisco-based
venture capital firm that helped finance CNano Technology Ltd.
and Ambrx Inc., was sued by three former executive
administrative assistants who allege they were subjected to
inappropriate sexual and racial comments.  The assistants, Dawn-Shemain Weeks, Margaret Hines and
Shannon Schlagenhauf, said the comments were a “common and
tolerated part of the work environment” at CMEA, according to
the complaint filed in state court in  San Francisco .  Management at the firm was notified of, in particular,
former Chief Operating Officer John Haag’s “severe and
pervasive harassment,” which continued after he left, according
to the complaint.  The firm’s chief executive officer, Jim Watson, identified
Schlagenhauf as an “instigator” after the harassment was
reported, and told her he wasn’t certain she could return to her
job after maternity leave, according to the complaint. After
consulting with the firm’s lawyers, Watson reversed his threat,
according to the complaint.  The lawsuit is based on claims the firm and its partners
violated California’s Fair Employment and Housing Act, and on
claims that the firm’s partners failed to take reasonable steps
to prevent the harassment.  CMEA, in an e-mailed statement today, denied any
wrongdoing.  “CMEA has conducted itself with the utmost integrity and
has made every effort to treat plaintiffs with respect and
professionalism,” according to the statement sent by lawyer
Lara Villarreal Hutner. “The true evidence will show that
CMEA’s appropriate response to their allegations nearly a year
ago resulted in these administrative assistants’ continued
employment without further incident.”  The case is Weeks v. CMEA Development Company LLC,,
CGC-13-528602,  California  Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  