-- Dollar Index in Longest Rise Since June as Jobs Data Show Growth
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-09T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/dollar-index-in-longest-rise-since-june-as-jobs-data-show-growth.html
The  Dollar Index  gained for a fifth
straight week, its longest rally since June, as employers added
more jobs last month than forecast, signaling economic prospects
for the U.S. exceeding other developed nations.  The euro touched its lowest level versus the greenback
since December as European Central Bank policy makers said the
region’s economy may shrink more than estimated and reduced
their inflation forecast. The yen fell to the weakest level
versus the dollar since 2009 as a report showed Japan’s current-
account deficit widened and the incoming central bank chief
endorsed buying longer-maturity bonds. A March 15 report may
show U.S. consumer prices rose at a faster pace in February.  “The employment figure was really good and that reinforced
our theme that the dollar is going to strengthen against other
major currencies,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist
in  New York  at  Credit Agricole  SA, said in a telephone
interview. “Growth rates in the U.S., while not perfect, are
better than the U.K.,  Europe .”  The dollar rose 2.6 percent this week to 96 per yen in New
York, touching the highest level since Aug. 12, 2009. It gained
0.1 percent to $1.3005 per euro, the fifth straight advance. The
17-nation currency appreciated 2.5 percent to 124.86 yen.  Dollar Measure  The Dollar Index, Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s
benchmark that tracks the greenback against the currencies of
six major U.S. trading partners, reached its highest level since
Aug. 3. It added 0.5 percent to 82.715. The weekly gains streak
was the longest since the five days ended June 1.  Equities and the Dollar Index, which moved in opposite
directions a year ago, showed the least divergence since 2008
last month. Against the MSCI World Index of stocks, the U.S.
currency’s 60-day correlation moved to -0.34 in February, the
least negative reading since 2008, from -0.90 in December 2011.  The dollar is “holding its own at a time when equities are
doing quite well and risk appetite is firming,”  Richard Franulovich , senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.
in New York, said in telephone interview. “It’s a potentially
momentous correlation shift, whereby the dollar is now a growth
currency.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  increased  their
bets that the euro will decline against the dollar, figures from
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.
The difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the euro
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
26,116 on March 5, compared with net shorts of 9,394 a week
earlier.  Peso Rises  Mexico ’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
interest rate yesterday for the first time since 2009 as
inflation remains within the target range and growth slows.  The peso strengthened 1 percent to 12.6279 per dollar,
snapping two weeks of depreciation.  The yen weakened yesterday as the Ministry of Finance said
the deficit in the current account, the widest measure of trade,
increased to 364.8 billion yen ($3.8 billion) in January, up
from 264.1 billion yen a month ago.  Japan’s currency has slumped 9.6 percent versus the dollar
this year as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pushed the central bank
to add to stimulus to beat deflation. Haruhiko Kuroda, Abe’s
pick to become the next  Bank of Japan  governor, told lawmakers
this week the scale of the BOJ’s asset purchases was
insufficient to achieve its target of 2 percent inflation.  Yen Direction  “We’re going to go toward 100 here,”  Fabian Eliasson ,
vice president of corporate foreign-exchange sales at Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview,
of the yen against the dollar.  The ECB predicted on March 7 the 17-nation economy will
shrink 0.5 percent this year, more than the 0.3 percent
contraction forecast three months ago. The central bank also cut
its 2014 inflation projection to 1.3 percent from 1.4 percent.  More than one ECB policy maker was in favor of cutting
 interest rates  on March 6, said Ulo Kaasik, Deputy Governor of
the Estonian central bank.  The euro has fallen 0.4 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The yen weakened 1.3 percent and
the dollar strengthened 2.7 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product is forecast to expand 1.8
percent in 2013 and 2.7 percent next year, compared with a 0.1
percent contraction and a 1.1 percent increase for euro-area
countries, and 1 percent and 1.6 percent growth in the U.K.,
according to estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
 Japan ’s economy may increase 1.2 percent and 1.3 percent.  Jobs Data  U.S. employment rose 236,000 last month after a revised
119,000 gain in January that was smaller than first estimated,
Labor Department figures showed yesterday. The median forecast
of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected an advance of
165,000. The jobless rate dropped from 7.9 percent.  The  consumer price index  may have increased 0.5 percent in
February after it was unchanged the month before, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve policy makers at their Jan. 30 meeting
debated curtailing bond-buying, known as QE, which is seen as
debasing the dollar, a move Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has opposed
as he seeks to drive down  unemployment  to 6.5 percent.  “We expect that the Fed will start tapering off QE at the
end of this year,” Credit Agricole’s Harajli said. The U.S.
“payroll figure is just a confirmation of that, whereas other
central banks are starting to sound even more dovish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  