-- Egypt Protesters Torch Soccer Headquarters Over Riot Ruling
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-03-09T17:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/egypt-court-upholds-death-sentences-for-port-said-soccer-riot.html
Protesters in Cairo set fire to the
headquarters of Egypt’s soccer federation and a police social
club after a court acquitted most of the police officers charged
over rioting by sports fans in Port Said. Clashes elsewhere in
the capital left two dead.  Today’s blazes were shown on state-run Nile News after the
Port Said court, sitting in Cairo for security reasons, allowed
seven officers to go free. Fans of Cairo’s Al Ahly soccer team
blame security forces and the soccer association for the
February 2012 riot that killed more than 70 of the club’s
supporters at a game in Port Said.  One protester died from tear-gas inhalation and another
from gunshot wounds in clashes in Cairo’s Tahrir Square, Mohamed
Sultan, head of the national ambulance service, said by phone
from Cairo. Nineteen were injured, he said.  “The entire building has been torched,” Azmy Megahed, a
spokesman for the Egyptian Football Association, said in an
interview on Nile News. “Some people got 15 years. Others got
the death sentence. What more do they want?”  Two officers were sentenced to 15-year terms, the state-run
Middle East News Agency said. The court also upheld a January
ruling that sentenced to death by hanging 21 fans of Port Said’s
Al Masry Club. The case became a rallying point for youth that
are dissatisfied with the reluctance of President Mohamed
Mursi’s Islamist government to reform the police force. Graffiti
popped up around Cairo in the days ahead of the ruling declaring
“the Interior Ministry’s turn” on March 9.  Douse Flames  Helicopters scooped water from the Nile River to try to
douse the flames at the EFA headquarters. Residents of Port
Said, a city at the northern entrance to the Suez Canal, also
organized marches in the city after the ruling, state-run MENA
reported, saying the demonstrations were largely peaceful.
Traffic through the Suez Canal was unaffected by the protests,
Tarek Hassanein, spokesman for the Suez Canal Authority, said by
phone.  Persistent unrest since the the court’s preliminary Jan. 26
ruling has  pushed the spread  on the Egypt’s dollar-denominated
debt over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries to the highest level
in more than six months, rising 116 basis points, or 1.16
percentage point over that period, to 541 yesterday. That
compares with a 21 basis-point advance for the Middle East
average to 410, according to Bloomberg data.  The 1.8 percent decline suffered by the country’s benchmark
 EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  of stocks this year ranks it the 10th worst-
performer in the world among 93 gauges tracked by Bloomberg. The
International Monetary Fund is yet to respond to the
government’s invitation for a visit to finalize a $4.8 billion
loan stalled since November amid the political stand-off between
Mursi’s government and its secular opposition.  Gates Bolted  Last year’s riot started when hundreds of Al Masry fans
attending their team’s match rushed across the field to the
stands for supporters of the visiting Al Ahly club as police
stood idle. More than 70 Al Ahly fans were killed as they tried
to flee, only to find the gates bolted.  Of the 73 people on trial, 28 were acquitted, while the
rest received prison terms from one year to life, Judge Sobhi
Abdel Meguid said in remarks aired on state television.  Port Said has been gripped by clashes between protesters
and police since the preliminary ruling in January. More than 30
people have died in the unrest, prompting President Mohamed Mursi to deploy the military and declare a state of emergency in
the city along with two neighboring ones.  The city’s police turned over the security headquarters to
the military yesterday after days of clashes with protesters
centered around the building, the state-run Al Ahram newspaper
reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  