-- Merck Heart Drug Tredaptive Raises Side Effects in Study
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-03-09T17:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/merck-heart-drug-tredaptive-raises-side-effects-in-study.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s cholesterol drug
Tredaptive, pulled from the market earlier this year, increased
side effects like bleeding and infections and didn’t help
patients, according to results of a clinical trial.  The study of 25,673 patients found Tredaptive failed to
reduce the risk of stroke, death, heart attack or the need for
surgery in people with vascular diseases. The drug combines the
vitamin niacin, which studies suggest can help raise levels of
good cholesterol, with the experimental medicine laropiprant,
added to reduce a face-flushing effect of the vitamin.  The results of the study, called HPS2-THRIVE, could change
the use of niacin, which is often used to supplement
cholesterol-lowering drugs, said the study’s lead investigator.  “Niacin has been used for many years in the belief that it
would help patients and prevent heart attack and stroke, but we
know now that its adverse side effects outweigh the benefits
when used with current treatments,”  Jane Armitage , the study’s
lead investigator and a professor of clinical trials and
epidemiology at the University of Oxford, said in a statement
announcing the results.  The data were presented today at the American College of
Cardiology meeting in  San Francisco . Patients in the trial were
also taking a cholesterol-lowering medication.  Sales Stopped  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, said in December
it wouldn’t seek U.S. approval for Tredaptive and stopped
selling it globally in January. The medicine is approved in 70
countries and was sold in 40. Other results from the same trial
announced in December showed that it didn’t cut the risk of the
vascular events it was meant to prevent.  In the study, 2.5 percent of patients experienced bleeding
while on Tredaptive, versus 1.9 percent of those getting a
placebo. The rate of infections rose to 8 percent for those on
the drug, compared to 6.6 percent on placebo. There were also
higher rates of diabetes, complications from diabetes,
gastrointestinal problems, and rashes or itching.  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , the drugmaker that was split off from  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  at the start of this year, sells an extended-
release form of niacin called Niaspan. The medicine  sold  $911
million in 2012.  Niacin failed to prevent heart attacks and may have boosted
stroke risk in a U.S. government-funded study last year, called
AIM-HIGH, which didn’t include laropiprant. It was criticized
for being too small with 3,414 patients, though the new trial’s
results appear to confirm it, Armitage said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  