-- Merkel’s FDP Partner Says ‘Hands Off ECB’ in Election Vow
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-03-09T14:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/merkel-s-fdp-partner-says-hands-off-ecb-in-election-vow.html
German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler said he’ll fight attempts across Europe to weaken the
euro, pledging that his Free Democratic Party will stand up for
central-bank independence before federal elections on Sept. 22.  Roesler, whose FDP is Chancellor Angela Merkel’s junior
coalition partner, warned in a speech to a party convention in
Berlin of a “new danger” emerging in Europe as governments
resist austerity and policies to boost competitiveness and
instead discuss artificially devaluing the euro. Such moves risk
spurring inflation, hurting those on middle incomes, savers and
retirees, he said today.  “That’s why we’re fighting so hard for a stable
currency,” Roesler said. “That’s why we view attempts to
impose political influence on the independence of the European
Central Bank as lethal. That’s a threat to stable money. That is
why we as Free Democrats say: ‘Hands off our ECB.’”  Six months before federal elections, Roesler is striving to
assert his party’s relevance as polls suggest the FDP will
struggle to retain its seats in parliament. The FDP’s woes are a
problem for Merkel, who needs a coalition partner to win the
majority needed to govern even with her approval ratings at the
highest since taking office in 2005 thanks to her handling of
the sovereign debt crisis.  The euro has gained almost 8 percent since July 2012, when
it dropped to the lowest in more than two years against the
dollar and the weakest since 2000 against the yen. Still, the
17-nation currency has dropped 1.4 percent so far this year. It
bought $1.3005 at the close yesterday.  Investors’ Whims  By championing a stable euro and ECB independence, the FDP
is treading ground already occupied by Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union. Merkel and Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, a CDU member, stressed the need for financial markets
to set a currency’s value after French President Francois Hollande said last month that the euro can’t be allowed to
fluctuate at the whim of investors.  As recently as March 3, French Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg said that ECB President Mario Draghi needed to start
signaling that the euro was “overvalued.” The euro should
weaken to $1.10 to $1.15 to give “oxygen” to the European
economy, Montebourg said in an interview with Europe 1 radio.  The FDP flirted with a euro-skeptic stance through 2011 as
a caucus led by lawmaker Frank Schaeffler campaigned against
euro-area bailouts during the crisis that emerged in Greece in
late 2009. While Schaeffler’s drive was defeated in a referendum
of the party membership, the split further undermined voter
support already tainted by the party’s failure to deliver on
tax-cut pledges and infighting which led to a change of
leadership in 2011.  Opinion Polls  After taking a record 14.6 percent of the vote at the last
election in 2009, FDP support has collapsed to between 4 percent
and 6 percent in the six regular national  opinion polls . The
threshold to win seats in the lower house, the Bundestag, is 5
percent.  “Of course, the past few years have not been easy,”
Roesler, who is also vice chancellor, told his party today,
citing the financial crisis and turmoil in the euro region. All
the same, with the lowest unemployment since reunification and
the highest employment level, “Germany is doing well.”  As he spoke, Roesler was flanked by his party’s Cabinet
ministers and grandees including Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the
foreign minister under CDU Chancellor Helmut Kohl who helped
negotiate German reunification in 1990.  Roesler is ranked last in a list of the 10 most important
German politicians, according to an FG Wahlen poll for ZDF
television released yesterday. Roesler’s predecessor as FDP
leader, Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle, placed ninth on the
list. Merkel was first, followed by Schaeuble.  Chief Whip  Only 14 percent of respondents said they thought Roesler
could bring the party success, while 78 percent said he
wouldn’t. A majority said that Rainer Bruederle, the former
economy minister who is now the FDP’s chief whip, should lead
the party into the election, even if only 25 percent said they
thought he could deliver a “positive result.”  Mannheim-based FG Wahlen polled 1,345 voters on March 5-7.
The margin of error was as much as 3 percentage points.  The FDP is “a party in vertical flight, doing its best to
become redundant,” Carsten Brzeski, senior economist at ING
Group in Brussels, said in an e-mail. “For Angela Merkel, all
of this is not good news. She is caught in a liberal trap,”
forced to try and help her traditional ally without alienating
other potential coalition partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  