-- Fed’s Duke Sees QE Purchases Driving Recovery in Housing Market
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2013-03-09T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/fed-s-duke-sees-qe-purchases-driving-recovery-in-housing-market.html
Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke said the improving housing market shows that the central
bank’s $85 billion in monthly purchases are working to boost the
economy.  “Monetary policy has clearly set the stage for a revival
of the housing market,” Duke said today according to prepared
remarks of a speech in Avon, Colorado. “Record-low interest
rates have sparked interest in homebuying. Monetary policy has
contributed significantly to the recent improvement in the labor
market and thereby begun to ease one of the main sources of weak
housing demand.”  Duke’s remarks follow a Labor Department report today
showing the economy added 236,000 jobs in February and the
jobless  unemployment rate  fell to 7.7 percent, the lowest since
December 2008. Her remarks that the improving housing and labor
markets show the Fed’s asset purchase program is working, add to
those of Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and Vice Chairman Janet
Yellen extolling the program.  Duke backed the central bank’s decisions to begin
purchasing $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed securities in
September and to add $45 billion a month of Treasury purchases
in December.  “The additional impetus to housing from MBS purchases is
appropriate for at least three reasons,” Duke said, citing the
“extraordinary damage” that housing suffered, as well as the
subdued contribution to growth from housing investment, and
tight standards for mortgage credit.  Unique Challenges  Duke said that purchases in the MBS market also posed
unique challenges that the Fed would have to consider over time.  “While the purchase of agency MBS has some special
efficacy in supporting housing markets, the peculiarities of the
MBS market itself present some potential market functioning
issues that bear monitoring,” Duke said. “The MBS market is
not as deep or as liquid as the Treasury market, and the total
size of the market is not growing as quickly.”  Duke said that if the Fed’s large presence began causing
distortions in the MBS market “it is entirely possible that it
might be appropriate at some point to adjust the pace of MBS
purchases” and that “such an adjustment could result in an
increase or decrease in the pace of total asset purchases, or it
could lead to a change in the composition of purchases.”  Benchmark Rate  Policy makers have pushed the Fed’s  benchmark interest rate 
close to zero and expanded Fed assets to a record $ 3.11 trillion 
to spur the expansion and reduce unemployment. The moves have
helped reduce mortgage rates to record lows, boosting demand for
homes.  The average 30-year fixed rate  mortgage  hit a record low
3.31 percent on Nov. 22 and has since risen to 3.52 percent.
 Home prices  rose 6.8 percent in 2012, according to the Case-
Shiller 20-City index.  “I am optimistic that the housing recovery will continue
to take root and expand,” Duke said at the Mortgage Bankers
Association Mid-Winter Housing Finance Conference. “While low
mortgage rates are helping support the recovery, I believe it
will be the pent-up demand of household formation unleashed by
improving economic conditions that will provide real momentum.”  Duke also said the Fed may need to revisit parts of its
plan to unwind its record stimulus by eventually selling its
holdings of mortgage bonds.  ‘Market Functioning’  “We could reach a point where market functioning concerns
begin to outweigh the efficacy of such purchases,” said Duke.
“Or we might conclude that sales of MBS in volumes sufficient
to meet the parameters of the exit strategy principles might
create significant market disruptions. In either case, I think
we should consider alternatives, such as holding the securities
for longer or allowing them to roll off more gradually.”  Duke devoted much of her speech to analyzing the causes of
tight mortgage credit. She cited lenders operating at capacity
in part because of refinancing applications, uncertainty about
yet-to-be-finalized mortgage rules from regulators, and “lender
fears about the economy and the trajectory of house prices.”  “Economic improvement will cause household formation to
increase, but if credit is hard to get, these will be rental
rather than owner-occupied households,” she said.  Duke, 60, was a director at the Richmond Fed from 1998 to
2000. She was appointed a Fed governor by President George W. Bush and took office in August 2008. Her term as Fed governor
expired in January, 2012. Duke can remain in office until a
successor is appointed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Del Giudice in Denver at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  