-- Michael P. Duffy, JPMorgan Card Unit Executive, Dies at 54
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-03-11T15:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/michael-p-duffy-jpmorgan-chase-card-unit-executive-dies-at-54.html
Michael P. Duffy, who helped make
 JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. one of the largest U.S. processors of
credit-card and electronic payments as head of its Dallas-based
Chase Paymentech unit, has died. He was 54.  He died March 7 at a hospital in  Dallas  after battling
cancer and other illnesses, according to  Paul Hartwick , a
spokesman for the New York-based bank.  Duffy “was a brilliant leader, pioneer in the payment
industry and fierce competitor,”  Gordon Smith , chief executive
officer of consumer and community banking at JPMorgan, said
March 8 in a message to employees. “His passion and tenacity
was exemplified in so many aspects of his life, from his battles
against personal illness to how he led his team and established
Paymentech as a global industry leader.”  With 25 years in the payments industry, Duffy was early in
recognizing the potential growth for processing online
transactions, according to a biography provided by JPMorgan. He
established for the bank exclusive processing agreements with
PayPal and BillMeLater, now owned by  San Jose , California-based
EBay Inc.  “He was very much an innovator and was at the forefront of
early e-commerce in the mid-1990s,” Rick Oglesby, an industry
analyst at Aite Group LLC in  Boston , said in an interview.  Competitive Ranking  Chase Paymentech  processed 29.5 billion online transactions
worth $655.2 billion, or half the industry's total last year, 
according to JPMorgan. The bank ranks No. 3 in the U.S. among 
payments processors after Bank of America Corp. and First
Data Corp., and ranks No. 4 globally, according to the Nilson
Report, a Carpinteria, California-based industry newsletter.  Beyond JPMorgan, Duffy provided leadership on security
issues concerning electronic commerce. For three years he served
on the board of the  Merchant Risk Council , a Seattle-based trade
group.  “Mike was a giant in the industry,” Tom Donlea, managing
director of the council, said in an interview. “He chose his
words carefully and when he weighed in, everybody paid
attention.”  Michael Patrick Duffy, a Dallas native, was born on Feb.
26, 1959, according to a notice on the  website  of
Sparkman/Hillcrest Funeral Home in Dallas. He earned a
bachelor’s degree in economics from the  State University of New
York  at  Albany  and a master’s in business administration from
the University of St. Thomas in Houston.  Career Path  Early in his career Duffy held leadership roles with
Equifax Credit Information Services and Equifax Credit Bureau
Marketing, according to the bio provided by JPMorgan. He joined
Litle & Co., a credit-card processor for “card-not-present
transactions,” becoming chief financial officer. That company
was acquired by Paymentech in 1995, where he rose to chief
operating officer and then president and CEO.  JPMorgan, through a predecessor, Bank One, formed a joint
venture with Paymentech in 1997, and in 2008 the payments
processor became a unit of the bank, according to its  website .  Dan Charron, who worked with Duffy for 13 years and assumed
some of his duties while he was ill, will become acting head of
Paymentech, Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  