-- Ligety of U.S. Wins Fourth World Cup Giant Slalom Ski Title
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-09T16:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/ligety-of-u-s-wins-fourth-world-cup-giant-slalom-skiing-title.html
Ted Ligety of the U.S. won his
fourth World Cup skiing giant slalom season title by taking
today’s race in Slovenia.  Ligety’s combined time of 2 minutes, 35.43 seconds over
two runs in Kranjska Gora was 0.45 seconds faster than Austrian
Marcel Hirscher.  France ’s Alexis Pinturault was third, 0.77
seconds behind.  Ligety’s fifth giant slalom win of the season gave him an
unbeatable 125-point lead over Hirscher in the standings with
one race remaining. The 28-year-old was World Cup champion in
2008, 2009 and 2010.  “It’s a big weight off my back,” Ligety said in comments
distributed by the U.S. Ski Team after his fifth career win in
Kranjska Gora. “I had an awesome season in giant slalom but
Hirscher was with me the whole season. It makes it tough going
for the title. It was a head game when he was so close all
along.  Hirscher extended his lead over  Norway ’s Aksel Lund Svindal, who was sixth today, to 69 points in the overall World
Cup standings.  Austria’s Anna Fenninger won today’s women’s giant slalom
in  Germany  ahead of overall World Cup champion Tina Maze of
Slovenia.  Fenninger, 23, led after the first run in Ofterschwang and
finished with a time of 2:29.39. Maze, who has also clinched the
giant slalom title, was 0.44 seconds back, with Germany’s
Viktoria Rebensburg a further 0.52 seconds behind in third.  It’s the second giant slalom win of the season for
Fenninger, while Maze has finished in the top-three in all eight
races in the discipline this campaign.  The men will race a slalom in Kranjska Gora tomorrow, while
the women run the same event in Ofterschwang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 