-- Italy’s Rating Cut by Fitch as Election Threatens Gridlock
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-03-09T10:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/italy-s-rating-cut-by-fitch-as-vote-results-threatens-gridlock.html
Italy ’s credit rating was cut one
level by  Fitch Ratings  as an inconclusive election in February
produced political paralysis that threatens the country’s
ability to respond to a recession and the  European debt crisis .  The rating company lowered Italy’s government bond rating
to BBB+ from A- with a negative outlook, according to a
statement released late yesterday. That’s three levels above
junk and one higher than  Spain , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The increased political uncertainty and non-conducive
backdrop for further structural reform measures constitute a
further adverse shock to the real economy amidst the deep
recession,” Fitch said. “The ongoing recession in Italy is one
of the deepest in  Europe .”  Outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti  helped calm the
European debt crisis by taming Italy’s budget deficit and
implementing reforms aimed at shoring up the country’s finances.
Under Monti and prior to the election, Italy’s 10-year bond
yield had fallen by almost half from a euro-era record 7.5
percent in November 2011. Monti’s departure coupled with the
divided parliament produced by last month’s vote fueled concern
Italy may reignite debt crisis contagion.  “Fitch’s decision was not surprising,” Finance Minister
 Vittorio Grilli  said today in a speech at a conference in
Cernobbio, Italy. The downgrade “is based on a combination of
economic and political uncertainty.”  Dwindling Impact  Italian 10-year bonds were little changed yesterday at 4.6
percent before the cut, which triggered a decline in bond
futures.  Investors are paying less attention to the views of ratings
companies and relying more on their own analysis. Yields on
sovereign securities moved in the opposite direction from what
ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32 upgrades, downgrades and
changes in credit outlook last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg published in December.  Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by  Standard & Poor’s . That’s
worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more
than 300 changes since 1974.  Fitch also cited risks of “sustained deterioration in
fiscal funding conditions with adverse implications for
financial conditions for the private sector and public debt
dynamics.”  Ratings Impact  Italy’s long-term debt is rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors
and BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “In recent years, the impact of rating agencies hasn’t
been very strong because they often acknowledged a situation
already discounted by markets more than looking forward,”
Grilli said today. “Markets expect the next government to go
ahead with reforms” and the Rome-based Treasury will strive to
shield Italy from any financial turmoil at the next auctions of
 government bonds , he said.  The downgrade “raises the risk from a market’s perspective
of moves by Moody’s,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income
strategist at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG. “Moody’s is the
one to watch -- at Baa2, there is only 1-notch left within
investment grade.”  Italian government bonds returned 20 percent last year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. That’s almost four
times the 5.9 percent return on Spanish debt and dwarfs the 4.5
percent return on German bunds, the indexes show.  Debt Needs  Italy, bearer of the euro’s second-biggest debt relative to
gross domestic product, needs to sell more than 30 billion euros
of bonds and bills a month.  The Feb. 24-25 vote produced a split parliament, and sent
the country’s 10-year bond yield up 41 basis points the day
after the election, the biggest increase in 14 months.
Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani and his allies failed
to win a majority in the Senate, leaving former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  and comic-turned-politician Beppe Grillo with
blocking minorities.  The political deadlock rattled markets as investors were
betting on a government strong enough to tackle the country’s
fourth recession since 2001, while maintaining fiscal rigor.  The political uncertainty produced by the vote “is part of
a normal democratic process,” the  Finance Ministry  said in a
statement last night. “We reaffirm the confidence that Italy
will find the political solutions and will therefore continue
the undergoing reform process.”  Limited Effect  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said this week that the effect
of Italy’s vote on financial markets was limited as Monti’s
economic reforms will survive the political impasse. “After
some excitement after the elections, markets have now reverted
back more or less to where they were before,” Draghi told
reporters in  Frankfurt  on March 7. “Much of the fiscal
adjustment Italy went through will continue going on automatic
pilot.”  The euro region’s third-biggest economy shrank 2.4 percent
last year as the country’s budget deficit narrowed to match the
European Union limit of 3 percent.  Italy will probably contract again this year and
unemployment will continue rising to reach 12 percent next year,
European Commission forecasts released on Feb. 2 showed.  Fitch said yesterday it expects Italy’s GDP to fall 1.8
percent this year as public debt peaks at almost 130 percent, up
from 127 percent in 2012.  -- With assistance from Sonia Sirletti in Cernobbio. Editors:
Dan Liefgreen,  Andrew Davis   To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  