-- Job Gains From Health to Film Show Resilience to U.S. Budget Axe
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-03-09T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/job-gains-from-health-to-film-show-resilience-to-u-s-budget-axe.html
American industries from film-making
and construction to accounting and health care powered broad-
based job gains in February, a show of confidence among
employers in the face of  federal budget  cuts and tax increases.  Private payrolls grew by 246,000 last month, the most since
November, bringing the average gain over the past six months to
more than 200,000, Labor Department data showed yesterday. The
 unemployment rate  fell to 7.7 percent, a four-year low. The
report also showed the scope of industries expanding employment
was consistently higher over the past five months than at any
time in almost two years.  “The breadth of the increase in jobs is very good,” said
 Robert Stein , a senior economist at First Trust Portfolios LP in
Wheaton,  Illinois , who forecast a 217,000 private payroll gain.
“We have more jobs, we have more hours, wages are going up.”  The advances indicate the job market has the staying power
needed to weather coming government spending cuts, called
sequestration, of about $85 billion this year. The non-partisan
 Congressional Budget Office  estimates that the automatic
reductions could subtract 0.6 percentage point from gross
domestic product in 2013, costing the economy 750,000 jobs.  “We can absorb a fair amount of the shock” from the
expenditure reductions and tax increases, said Bruce Kasman,
chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York .  He sees payroll growth temporarily slowing to an average
150,000 per month as the fiscal squeeze takes hold, before it
picks up again later in the year. A drop in state and local
government employment meant total payrolls rose 236,000 last
month.  Unemployment Falls  Stocks, the dollar and Treasury yields all rose yesterday
after the report, which showed private employment growth
exceeded the median forecast of 170,000 in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The jobless rate fell from 7.9 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5 percent.
Treasuries declined, pushing up the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note to 2.04 percent from 2 percent late on March 7. The
dollar extended gains versus the Japanese yen to the highest
level since 2009.  The improvement in the labor market last month shows the
 Federal Reserve ’s efforts to boost the economy “are beginning
to have their intended effect,” Scott Anderson, chief economist
at Bank of the West in  San Francisco , said in an e-mail to
clients.  Central bank officials have said they will keep their
benchmark lending rate near zero as long as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no more than
2.5 percent. They also said during a January meeting they would
keep buying $40 billion per month in mortgage bonds and $45
billion in Treasuries to spur further economic growth.  Fed’s Bullard  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said this week that the central bank probably will press on with
its asset purchases as contained inflation expectations give it
time to continue the so-called quantitative easing.  “I think it’s going to be a while on the QE program,”
Bullard, a voting member of the policy making  Federal Open
Market Committee  this year, said in a “Bloomberg Surveillance”
television interview yesterday. He spoke before the employment
data were released.  Both the service and the production sides of the economy
have gained momentum at the start of 2013. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing index , tracking the
largest part of the economy, unexpectedly climbed last month to
the highest level in a year. The ISM’s  factory gauge , which
covers about 12 percent of the economy, has climbed for three
consecutive months. In February, it reached the highest level in
almost two years.  Service Providers  Employment at private service-providers jumped by 179,000
last month, yesterday’s Labor Department report showed.
Professional and business service payrolls, which include law,
accounting and architectural firms, rose 73,000, the most in a
year.  Deloitte LLP is among companies looking beyond the
government cutbacks. The firm will boost its staff by 18,000
this year, Chief Executive Officer Joe Echevarria said during a
Feb. 27 interview on “ Bloomberg Surveillance .” The accounting
firm is hiring to support long-term growth even with the
political uncertainty from Washington, he said.  The 21,000  gain in employment  at motion picture and sound
recording studios last month was the biggest since record-
keeping began for the category in 1990, according to the Labor
Department figures.  Housing Market  Driven by a healing housing market, hiring in the
 construction industry  jumped in February by the most in almost
six years. Payrolls also climbed at retailers and health care
providers.  Employment at goods-producers is humming along as well.
Factories added 14,000 workers following a 12,000 increase in
January. February’s was the biggest gain since July.  Strength among automakers, paced by car and truck sales
running near the best rate in five years, may lead to additional
manufacturing hiring in coming months. Chrysler Group LLC,
majority owned by Fiat SpA, will invest about $374 million and
add 1,250 positions at Indiana factories to boost output of
eight- and nine-speed transmissions. Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  disclosed the investment in February.  Labor Department data show payrolls at  motor vehicle  and
parts makers reached 788,100 in February, matching July as the
highest level since November 2008.  Sustained Gains  A  diffusion index  measuring the breadth of industries
expanding payrolls exceeded 60 in February for a fifth month,
the longest such stretch in almost two years, according to Labor
Department data. A reading greater than 50 shows more industries
are hiring than cutting jobs.  Taken together, the broad-based labor market gains in the
U.S. have enhanced job-finding prospects of college seniors, who
are now searching for post-graduation employment. Most of those
on track to graduate from the Georgia Institute of Technology in
Atlanta have job offers two months before May, when they leave,
said Jasmine Lawrence, a computer science major who hired by
Microsoft Corp., where she had an internship last summer.  “It is a great time for engineers right now,” said 21-
year-old Lawrence, who had four offers, including one from
Google Inc. and Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. “Lots of companies
want to hire tech students.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in  Washington  at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  