-- Kenyatta Provisionally Wins Kenyan Election Pending Audit
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-09T10:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/kenyatta-provisionally-wins-kenyan-election-pending-final-audit.html
Uhuru Kenyatta, who is facing
charges of crimes against humanity, provisionally won  Kenya ’s
presidential race, as his main opponent said he’ll go to court
to challenge the outcome.  Kenyatta, 51, had 50.03 percent of the total votes cast,
while outgoing Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , 68, tallied 43.28
percent with ballots from all 291 constituencies counted,
according to data from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries
Commission. The IEBC delayed the official announcement of
results, which had been scheduled for 11 a.m. in the capital,
Nairobi, without providing a reason.  Odinga “does not believe that the result the IEBC
announced reflected the will of the people,” Salim Lone, his
adviser, said in an e-mailed response to questions today. “He
will challenge the IEBC verdict in court.”  Accusations by Odinga that he was robbed of victory in the
last presidential election in December 2007 sparked two months
of clashes that left more than 1,100 people dead and another
350,000 homeless. The unrest curbed growth in East  Africa ’s
largest economy to 1.5 percent in 2008 from 7 percent a year
earlier and disrupted key trade routes for landlocked neighbors
including  Uganda  and  Rwanda .  Foreign Investment  Economic growth has attracted greater outside interest in
the Nairobi Securities Exchange. Foreign investors traded almost
half of all shares in 2012 compared with about 10 percent five
years earlier. Kenya is a regional hub for companies including
Google Inc.,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , and  Visa Inc. (V)   The Nairobi Securities Exchange’s  All Share Index (NSEASI)  advanced
for an eighth day yesterday, extending its advance to 18 percent
so far this year, the second-best performance in sub-Saharan
Africa, after  Ghana . The shilling gained for a second day,
advancing less than 0.1 percent to 86.20 per dollar.  The U.S. Embassy in Nairobi said today there may be a
“strong public reaction” to the election outcome and advised
its citizens to avoid common gathering places and protest sites
including the city’s central business district, stadiums, large
parks and slum areas.  Kenyatta is accused by the  International Criminal Court  of
crimes against humanity for his role in organizing clashes after
the 2007 election, a charge he denies. The Hague-based court on
March 7 postponed the starting date of his trial by three months
to July 9, and yesterday delayed the trial of running mate
 William Ruto ’s case until May 28. Ruto is facing similar charges
of organizing attacks.  Runoff Criteria  A candidate needs 50 percent plus a single vote, and a
quarter of support from 24 of 47 counties, to avoid a runoff.
Kenyatta has about 4,100 votes more than needed, while the IEBC
has yet to say whether Kenyatta met the second requirement. A
runoff would pit Kenyatta, the son of the country’s first
president, against Odinga, son of its first vice president.  Odinga’s Orange Democratic Movement rejects the IEBC’s
results because according to tallies by the party’s officials,
170,000 votes in at least 120 constituencies were unaccounted
for, Secretary-General Anyang’ Nyong’o told reporters today.  Kenyatta and Odinga promised to boost investment in
expanding infrastructure and bolstering agricultural output to
help expand the country’s $34 billion economy and create a
million new jobs annually. The  International Monetary Fund  says
Kenya’s economy may expand as much as 6 percent if peace
prevails, compared with an estimated 5 percent in 2012.  Kenyatta is the son of Kenya’s first post-independence
president, Jomo Kenyatta, and his given name, Uhuru, means
freedom in the Swahili language. His family owns land holdings,
Brookside Dairy Ltd., which also has units in Tanzania and
Uganda, and has stakes in the K24 television station, Commercial
Bank of Africa Ltd. and other companies, according to Forbes
magazine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  