-- Kenya’s Kenyatta, Facing ICC Charges, Wins Presidential Vote
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-09T16:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/kenya-s-kenyatta-facing-icc-charges-wins-presidential-election.html
Uhuru Kenyatta, who is preparing for
trial at the International Criminal Court, won Kenya’s
presidential election as his main rival rejected the result and
said he would go to court to have it overturned.  The son of Kenya’s first post-independence president, Jomo Kenyatta, took 50.07 percent of ballots in the March 4 vote,
Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Chairman Issack
Hassan said today in the capital, Nairobi. Outgoing Prime
Minister Raila Odinga, whose dispute of the results of elections
in 2007 triggered two months of ethnic clashes, got 43.3 percent
in a process he said was “tainted.”  “We will therefore shortly move to court to challenge the
outcome,” Odinga told reporters, while urging his supporters to
abide by the rule of law. “Any violence now could destroy this
nation forever. It will not serve anyone’s interest.”  By electing Kenyatta, 51, Kenya becomes the second nation
to have a sitting president facing indictment by the ICC.
Sudan’s Umar al-Bashir has refused to cooperate with the court
in The Hague and a warrant has been issued for his arrest on
charges of genocide and war crimes in the western region of
Darfur.  “It will make international relations and investment
complicated, and raise concerns by the West who rely on Kenya as
an ally in the war on terror,” Shilan Shah, Africa economist at
London-based research company Capital Economics, said in a phone
interview before the results were announced.  ICC Charges  Kenyatta and Vice President-elect William Ruto, 46, are
accused by the ICC of masterminding clashes after the last
election, in 2007, that left more than 1,100 people dead and
forced another 350,000 to flee their homes. Kenyatta and Ruto
deny the charges and have said they can fight the ICC case and
still perform their presidential duties.  The U.K. and European Union have policies that limit
contact with ICC indictees to essential matters, while U.S.
Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Johnnie Carson,
in a media conference call last month, warned Kenyan voters that
“choices have consequences.”  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry today congratulated
“all those elected to office” without naming Kenyatta and
urged all parties and their supporters to address any disputes
peacefully. Similar statements from the EU and the U.K. also
didn’t identify the president-elect by name.  Diplomatic Missions  For the United Nations, the U.K. and the U.S., their
diplomatic missions in Nairobi are a major presence for each in
Africa. Kenyan troops are part of a UN-backed peacekeeping
mission in Somalia, where they’re helping the government drive
out al-Qaeda-linked militants.  Kenya will continue to “recognize and respect our
international obligations and we will continue to cooperate with
all nations and international institutions,” Kenyatta said in
his acceptance speech. “We also expect that the international
community will respect our sovereignty and the democratic will
of the people of Kenya.” Turnout in the election was a record
86 percent, according to the commission.  Odinga, 68, who has been defeated twice before, claimed he
was cheated of the win in the last election by President Mwai Kibaki, sparking two months of clashes. The violence led to an
8.5 percent decline in the Kenyan shilling against the dollar
and slowed economic growth by two-thirds to 1.5 percent in 2008.  Tampering, Expulsions  In this election, Odinga said the process was marred by
tampering with the voter register and the fact that his
political party agents had been expelled from the national
tallying center so they couldn’t verify results. Ballots
exceeded the number of registered voters in some places, he
said. Kenyatta avoided a runoff election by securing more than
50 percent plus one vote.  Kenya is the regional hub for companies including  General
Electric Co. (GE) ,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Nestle SA (NESN)  and its stock exchange
is attracting increasing interest from outside investors.
Foreign participation accounted for about half of all share
trading last year from 10 percent five years earlier.  Kenya’s economy may expand by as much as 6 percent this
year, from an estimated 5 percent in 2012, provided that no
serious violence follows the elections, according to the
International Monetary Fund. The shilling closed unchanged
yesterday at 86.25 per dollar, while the Nairobi All Share Index
extended gains for an eighth session, bringing its advance since
Feb. 26 to 6.6 percent. The bourse is sub-Saharan Africa’s
second-best performer this year, after Ghana.  Giving Assurance  “If you look at the Kenyan shilling and the stock market,
it has performed very well even as the early results showed
Kenyatta winning, which is an indication of what the business
community thinks if Kenyatta wins,” Dismas Mokua, vice
president at Sadiki East Africa, a political-risk advisory
group, said by phone today. “At all times he has said he will
cooperate with the ICC and that gives people assurance.”  The ICC this week granted a request by Kenyatta to delay
the start date of his trial by three months to July 9 and Ruto’s
by one month to May 28.  Kenyatta, the former finance minister, pledged in his
campaign to boost economic growth to between 7 percent and 10
percent a year by 2015 to help create a million jobs annually.
He has plans to ensure a crude pipeline is built from oil-rich,
neighboring South Sudan to Kenya’s coast, where a refinery will
be constructed.  He also promised to lay down a railway from the port of
Mombasa to Malaba at the Ugandan border to boost the shipment of
goods by rail to 50 percent of the total from the current 5
percent, and more than double the amount of paved roads to
24,000 kilometers (14,900 miles) during his five-year term.  Investments  The Kenyatta family’s holdings include land as well as
Brookside Dairy Ltd., which also has units in Tanzania and
Uganda, and stakes in other companies including K24 television
and Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., according to Forbes
magazine.  Kenyatta lost his bid for the presidency in 2002 to Kibaki,
who is stepping down after two terms in office. His given name,
Uhuru, means freedom in the Swahili language. He is married with
three children.  Kenyatta’s supporters have depicted the ICC charges against
him as an attempt by the West to intervene in Kenya’s internal
affairs, Gerrishon Ikiara, associate director at the Institute
of Diplomacy and International Studies at the University of
Nairobi, said by phone today.  “Kenyatta has said he will cooperate from the beginning
and use the legal channels and he’s no comparison to Bashir on
that front,” said Ikiara. “Kenyatta has been a minister for
finance and he knows the importance of the international
community so I don’t think he can antagonize the community.”  The presidential inauguration is scheduled for March 26,
depending on the outcome of any court challenge brought by
Odinga or other parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  