-- Kenyatta Is Elected Kenyan President in Vote Challenged by Rival
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-09T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/kenyatta-is-elected-kenyan-president-in-vote-challenged-by-rival.html
Uhuru Kenyatta, who is preparing
for trial at the  International Criminal Court , won Kenya’s
presidential election as the runner-up said he would challenge
the “tainted” vote in court.  The son of Kenya’s first post-independence president, Jomo Kenyatta, took 50.07 percent of the ballots cast on March 4,
beating the 50 percent plus one vote needed to avoid a runoff,
the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission said
yesterday. Outgoing Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , whose dispute
of election results in 2007 triggered two months of ethnic
clashes that left more than 1,100 people dead, got 43.3 percent.  “In 2007, Odinga said he wouldn’t go the courts because he
didn’t trust them and that’s when people took to the streets,”
Dismas Mokua, deputy president of Sadiki East  Africa , a risk
advisory group, said by phone yesterday from Nairobi. “Odinga’s
challenge is good news this time because it’s going to be
business as usual knowing this case will go through the motions
of the  Supreme Court  and the outcome will be respected.”  Kenya adopted a constitution in 2010 that called for
reforms in the judiciary and led to the appointment of an
independent chief justice, after televised interviews of
candidates by a vetting board, and the firing of corrupt judges.
Odinga said he has faith in the independence of the judiciary
and urged his supporters to abide by the rule of law.  By electing Kenyatta, 51,  Kenya  became the second nation to
have a sitting president facing indictment by the ICC.  Sudan ’s
Umar al-Bashir has refused to cooperate with the court in The
Hague and a warrant has been issued for his arrest on charges of
genocide and war crimes in the western region of Darfur.  ‘No Comparison’  “Kenyatta has said he will cooperate from the beginning
and use the legal channels and he’s no comparison to Bashir on
that front,” said Gerrishon Ikiara, associate director at the
Institute of Diplomacy and International Studies at the
University of Nairobi.  “Kenyatta has been a minister for
finance and he knows the importance of the international
community so I don’t think he can antagonize” them.  Kenya is the regional hub for companies including  General
Electric Co. (GE) ,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and its stock
exchange is attracting increasing interest from outside
investors. Foreign participation accounted for about half of all
share trading last year from 10 percent five years earlier.  Kenya’s economy may expand by as much as 6 percent this
year, from an estimated 5 percent in 2012, provided that no
serious violence follows the elections, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . The shilling closed unchanged at
86.25 per dollar on March 8, while the Nairobi All Share Index
extended gains for an eighth session, bringing its advance this
year to 18 percent and ranking the bourse as sub-Saharan
Africa’s second-best performer this year, after  Ghana .  Giving Assurance  “If you look at the Kenyan shilling and the stock market,
it has performed very well even as the early results showed
Kenyatta winning, which is an indication of what the business
community thinks if Kenyatta wins,” Mokua said. “At all times
he has said he will cooperate with the ICC and that gives people
assurance.”  Kenyatta and Vice President-elect  William Ruto , 46, are
accused by the ICC of masterminding clashes after the 2007 vote
forced 350,000 people to flee their homes and curbed growth in
East Africa’s largest economy to 1.5 percent in 2008 from 7
percent a year earlier. Kenyatta and Ruto deny the charges and
have said they can fight the ICC case and still perform their
presidential duties.  ‘Complicated’ Relations  Their victory will make international relations and
investment “complicated and raise concerns by the West who rely
on Kenya as an ally in the war on terror,” said Shilan Shah,
Africa economist at  Capital Economics , a London-based research
company.  The U.K. and European Union have policies that limit
contact with ICC indictees to essential matters, while U.S.
Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Johnnie Carson,
in a media conference call last month, warned Kenyan voters that
“choices have consequences.”  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  yesterday congratulated
“all those elected to office” without naming Kenyatta and
urged all parties and their supporters to address any disputes
peacefully. Similar statements from the EU and the U.K. also
didn’t identify the president-elect by name.  For the  United Nations , the U.K. and the U.S., their
diplomatic missions in Nairobi are a major presence for each in
Africa. Kenyan troops are part of a UN-backed peacekeeping
mission in  Somalia , where they’re helping the government drive
out al-Qaeda-linked militants.  International Obligations  Kenya will continue to “recognize and respect our
international obligations and we will continue to cooperate with
all nations and international institutions,” Kenyatta said in
his acceptance speech. “We also expect that the international
community will respect our sovereignty and the democratic will
of the people of Kenya.”  Turnout in the election was a record 86 percent of 14.3
million registered voters, according to the commission.  Kenyatta, the former finance minister, pledged in his
campaign to boost economic growth to between 7 percent and 10
percent a year by 2015 to help create a million jobs annually.
He has plans to ensure a crude pipeline is built from oil-rich,
neighboring  South Sudan  to Kenya’s coast, where a refinery will
be constructed.  He also promised to lay down a railway from the port of
 Mombasa  to Malaba at the Ugandan border to boost the shipment of
goods by rail to 50 percent of the total from the current 5
percent, and more than double the amount of paved roads to
24,000 kilometers (14,900 miles) during his five-year term.  Tampering, Expulsions  Odinga, 68, who has been defeated twice before, claimed he
was cheated of the win in the last election by President Mwai Kibaki. In this vote, Odinga said the process was marred by
tampering with the voter register and the fact that his party
agents had been expelled from the national tallying center so
they couldn’t verify results. Ballots exceeded the number of
registered voters in some places, he said.  “We will therefore shortly move to court to challenge the
outcome,” Odinga told reporters, while urging his supporters to
abide by the rule of law. “Any violence now could destroy this
nation forever. It will not serve anyone’s interest.”  Opinion polls published before the election put support
among voters at 44 percent each for Kenyatta and Odinga.  The Kenyatta family’s holdings include land as well as
Brookside Dairy Ltd., which also has units in Tanzania and
 Uganda , and stakes in other companies including K24 television
and Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., according to Forbes
magazine.  Kenyatta lost his bid for the presidency in 2002 to Kibaki,
who is stepping down after two terms in office. His given name,
Uhuru, means freedom in the Swahili language. He is married with
three children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  