-- Nomura Sues Monte Paschi in London Court Over Derivatives Case
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-03-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/nomura-sues-monte-paschi-in-london-court-over-derivatives-case.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  filed a claim
in London against  Banca Monte Paschi di Siena SpA  the same day
 Italy ’s third-biggest bank lodged a suit against it in an
Italian court in a dispute about derivatives.  Nomura filed a claim March 1, a court filing shows, on the
same day Monte Paschi made separate suits in Florence seeking
damages over two derivative contracts dubbed Alexandria and
Santorini, arranged respectively by Nomura and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Nomura is seeking a declaration from the British court that
its derivatives contracts with Monte Paschi are valid, said a
person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the legal proceedings are under way. Rob
Davies, a spokesman for Nomura in  London , declined to comment.  The Italian lender is seeking 700 million euros ($910
million) in damages from Nomura and Paschi’s former managers,
and 500 million euros from Deutsche Bank and former managers,
Ansa newswire reported March 7, citing Chief Executive Officer
Fabrizio Viola.  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, is being probed by
regulators and prosecutors over allegations the lender used the
two  derivatives  and a third one labeled Nota Italia to hide
losses, adding to the cost of its rescue. In the case of the
Santorini trade, never fully disclosed to investors, the bank
made a money-losing bet on Italian government bonds, Bloomberg
News reported on Jan. 17.  The lender has said Alexandria and Santorini masked earlier
losses and the fair value of a third trade, Nota Italia, wasn’t
reflected accurately during the life of the deal, erasing 730
million euros of assets in 2012.  Prosecutors are probing ex-executives for alleged market
manipulation, false accounting and obstruction of regulatory
activity during the 2007 takeover of Banca Antonveneta SpA as
well as for fraud linked to derivatives, according to people
with knowledge of the situation have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  