-- TPG to Buy Ingham, Australia’s Biggest Poultry Producer
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-03-09T11:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/tpg-said-to-secured-funds-to-buy-australian-poultry-firm.html
TPG Capital, a global private equity
firm, has agreed to buy Ingham Enterprise Pty Ltd., Bob Ingham,
chairman of Australia’s biggest poultry producer, said today.  TPG has lined up commitments for A$775 million ($793.3
million) from at least seven banks to finance the acquisition,
according to five people familiar with the negotiations. The
loan will comprise A$625 million in term debt and A$150 million
in revolving facilities, the people said.  The banks include  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Macquarie Group Ltd., National
Australian Bank Ltd.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Bank of America Merrill
Lynch and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , the people said. The deal
meeting will be held in Melbourne tomorrow, according to the
people.  “I am extremely proud of the business and its achievements
to date, and it is exciting to see the business embarking on its
next stage of growth under the ownership of TPG,” Ingham, the
sole shareholder, said in a statement, which didn’t provide the
terms of the sale or financial details. The company’s day-to-day
operations will continue under the direction of Chief Executive
Officer Kevin McBain and his team, according to the statement.  TPG will pay less than A$900 million for Ingham, outbidding
rivals including Blackstone, Wall Street Journal reported on
March 8, citing unidentified people.  The Sydney-based company put itself up for sale in July,
before asking banks to submit proposals last month for an
initial public offering aiming to raise A$1 billion, according
to people with knowledge of the matter.  The poultry producer had annual revenue of A$2.2 billion in
fiscal 2012, according to its  website . It employs more than
8,000 staff across  Australia  and New Zealand and produces fresh
and processed chicken and turkey products, as well as animal
feed, it says on the website.  Inghams was set up by Walter Ingham, Bob Ingham’s
grandfather, with a rooster and six hens in 1918, according to
the website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  