-- Treasury Yields Increase Most in a Year as U.S. Payrolls Swell
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-03-09T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/treasury-yields-increase-most-in-a-year-as-u-s-payrolls-swell.html
Treasury 10-year note yields had
their biggest weekly gain in a year as U.S. employers added more
jobs than forecast and services industries climbed, signaling
the  Federal Reserve ’s stimulus efforts may be gaining traction.  The benchmark  yields  rose to an 11-month high as Labor
Department data yesterday showed the unemployment  rate  slid to
7.7 percent, the lowest since December 2008. Fed Bank of St.
Louis President  James Bullard  said the central bank will
probably keep buying bonds under quantitative easing amid
contained inflation expectations. Stocks climbed. The Treasury
will auction $66 billion of notes and bonds next week.  “The rise in rates is a sign that the economy is getting
stronger,” said Richard Schlanger, who manages $20 billion in
fixed-income securities as vice president at Pioneer Investments
in  Boston . “The Fed still has the power of the press. They’re
still the 800-pound gorilla that will continue to buy in the
long end.”  The 10-year note yield jumped 20 basis points, or 0.20
percentage point, to 2.04 percent this week in  New York  trading,
the biggest increase since the five days ended March 16, 2012,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 2.08
percent, the highest since April 5, 2012, after falling for the
previous two weeks and sinking 11 basis points in February.  The price of the 2 percent note due in February 2023
dropped 1 26/32, or $18.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 5/8.  Thirty-year bond  yields increased 19 basis points to 3.24
percent and touched 3.28 percent. The gap between yields on two-
and 30-year securities widened to 2.99 percentage points, the
most since April 4, 2012.  Less Expensive  U.S. government securities were at the least expensive
level in three weeks, a gauge showed. The 10-year term premium,
a model that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth
and inflation, reached minus 0.57 percent yesterday, the least
costly since Feb. 13. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The
average over the past year is negative 0.78 percent.  Treasuries dropped for a fifth day yesterday, the longest
losing streak for 10-year notes since August, as the government
said U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased by 236,000 jobs last month,
after a revised 119,000 gain in January that was smaller than
first estimated. Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast
165,000. They projected the jobless rate would hold steady at
7.9 percent.  A gauge of  service  industries, which account for about 90
percent of the nation’s economy, rose to the highest in a year.
The  Institute for Supply Management ’s nonmanufacturing index
increased to 56 in February, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
March 5. The report followed ISM data March 1 that showed the
fastest pace of manufacturing since June 2011.  ‘Doing Better’  “It’s clear and unambiguous -- the economy’s doing better,”
 William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said  yesterday. The firm is one of 21 primary
dealers that trade with the U.S. central bank. ‘The Fed’s policy
actions are clearly having some impact.”  Stocks climbed, with the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
reaching a record high yesterday.  The Fed has been buying $85 billion of bonds each month
since the start of the year, $45 billion in Treasuries and $40
billion of mortgage debt, in an effort to hold down borrowing
costs and encourage economic growth. It has also kept its
benchmark  interest-rate  target for overnight lending between
banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to support
the economy.  ‘Look Around’  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
yesterday’s employment data won’t prompt the Fed to alter its
stimulus measures.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Fed Vice Chairman  Janet
Yellen  and New York Fed President  William Dudley  “have made it
obvious that even if unemployment gets to 6.5 percent, they are
going to look around,” Pacific Investment Management Co.
founder Gross said yesterday in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “They are going to look at the
participation rate, they are going to look at the work rate,
they are going to look at productivity -- those things in
combination. And if they give themselves an out, if, and here’s
the critical point, if inflation is still well contained.”  Policy makers reiterated after their January meeting the
interest rate will stay low as long as unemployment is above 6.5
percent and inflation is projected at no more than 2.5 percent.
Bernanke reiterated last week the Fed will keep buying bonds
until there’s “substantial improvement” in the labor market.  Inflation Outlook  Bullard said the inflation outlook gives the central bank
more time for stimulus. The Fed’s mandate from Congress is to
aim for both maximum employment and stable prices.  “I think it’s going to be a while on the QE program,”
Bullard, a voting member of the policy-making Federal Open
Market Committee this year, said in a television interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Keene and  Mike McKee . “We’ve
got a lot of room to maneuver here.”  Consumer prices rose 1.8 percent in February from a year
earlier, the Labor Department in  Washington  is likely to report
March 15, according to economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The Treasury will sell $32 billion in three-year notes on
March 12, $21 billion of 10-year securities March 13 and $13
billion of 30-year bonds on March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  