-- Report Sparks Debate Over Edison’s Role in Reactor Woes
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-03-09T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/report-sparks-debate-over-edison-s-role-in-reactor-woes.html
A report on the causes of equipment
failure at  Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre nuclear-power plant
in California has fueled debate over what the utility knew about
flaws in the gear and when it learned about them.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission yesterday released a
redacted version of the report produced by Tokyo-based
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , the supplier of steam
generators that failed, forcing a shutdown of the plant a year
ago. The environmental group Friends of the Earth and two
Democratic lawmakers said it showed Rosemead, California-based
Edison knew about design issues and failed to correct them.  Edison “would never, and did not, install steam generators
that it believed would impact public safety or impair
reliability,” Pete Dietrich, senior vice president of Southern
California Edison Co., the subsidiary that operates the
facility, said in an e-mailed statement.  The company idled two reactors at the San Onofre plant
between  Los Angeles  and  San Diego  in January 2012, after
discovering unusual wear on steam-generator tubes. The event has
renewed a debate on U.S. nuclear-reactor safety ahead of next
week’s second anniversary of meltdowns at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant. Edison is seeking the NRC’s permission to re-start
one of the San Onofre units at limited power. The agency hasn’t
issued a decision.  “In releasing this report, we are just sharing the
information of the lessons learned from the situation with
everyone else in the industry,” Patrick Boyle, a spokesman for
Mitsubishi Nuclear Energy Systems, a unit of Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries, said in a statement. “We are convinced we know what
happened and why, and how the problem can be avoided in the
future.”  Faulty Modeling  Southern  California  Edison said the problems were the fault
of Mitsubishi. An NRC inspection team found in July that faulty
computer modeling by Mitsubishi led engineers to incorrectly
measure the steam dryness, Edison said.  Mitsubishi “repeatedly reassured” the utility of the
design’s efficacy, according to the Edison statement.  Friends of the Earth, an environmental group, saw reason to
blame Edison in the report, which it termed a “bombshell.”  “Edison clearly knew about design problems with the San
Onofre replacement steam generators yet failed to take
corrective action,” Damon Moglen, energy and climate director
for Washington-based Friends of the Earth, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It is inconceivable that the NRC would now give
approval to restart these damaged reactors without the thorough,
public review of a license amendment proceeding.”  Re-Start Date  While the NRC has made no decision to re-start the
reactors, it is investigating documents provided by Edison for
accuracy and thoroughness, agency Chairman  Allison Macfarlane 
said in a Feb. 8 letter to Senator  Barbara Boxer  of California.  Boxer and Representative  Edward Markey  of  Massachusetts ,
both Democrats, have said the San Onofre plant should remain
shuttered until regulators determine it’s safe and complete an
investigation into whether Edison complied with its obligations.
The 2,200-megawatt San Onofre plant was closed after inspectors
found unusual wear on tubes that carry radioactive water at its
Unit 2 and Unit 3 reactors.  An unredacted version of the report shows that Edison and
Mitsubishi rejected safety modifications to the steam generators
to avoid a license amendment and safety review for the plant,
the lawmakers said in a joint statement. Along with the report,
Mitsubishi also released a redacted supplemental technical
report.  “The documents released today show that Southern
California Edison and Mitsubishi cut safety corners to avoid a
new NRC licensing process,” Markey said in a statement.  Macfarlane told a House Energy and Commerce Committee panel
on Feb. 28 that the agency won’t allow any licensed facilities
to operate unless it can assure they can do so safely.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  