-- U.K.’s Ruling Conservatives May Lose 2015 Election, Poll Shows
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-03-09T14:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/u-k-s-ruling-conservatives-may-lose-2015-election-poll-shows.html
Supporters of U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s Conservatives believe the party’s on course to
lose the next election to Labour and the Liberal Democrats,
according to a survey carried out by website Conservative Home.  About 7 percent of Conservative supporters  surveyed  predict
Cameron will win a majority in 2015, compared with 23 percent a
year ago. The poll comes after the party placed third in a
special local election on Feb. 28. Thirty-four percent of those
polled predicted the next government will be a coalition between
Labour and the Liberal Democrats, while 31 percent forecast a
Labour majority.  Britain’s economy  shrank  0.3 percent in the final quarter
of 2012, leaving it on the brink of a triple-dip recession. The
opposition  Labour Party  says the lack of growth is the result of
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s program of spending
cuts to narrow the  budget deficit . Moody’s Investors Service cut
the U.K.’s top credit rating to Aa1 from Aaa last month, citing
the weak growth outlook and challenges to fiscal consolidation.  To win a majority in 2015 the Conservatives need to take
both Labour and Liberal Democrats seats.  A Conservative minority was predicted by 11 percent of
those surveyed, while 8 percent said a coalition between the
Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats was the most likely
outcome.  Conservative Home is owned by Michael Ashcroft, an upper-
house lawmaker and reflects Tory grassroots thinking. The poll
of 1,844 supporters was carried out on March 4, the website’s
founder Tim Montgomerie wrote in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  