-- Western Australia Liberals Win State Election in Blow to Gillard
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-03-10T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/western-australia-liberals-re-elected-in-blow-to-gillard-s-labor.html
Colin Barnett, Liberal party
premier of Western  Australia  state, won state elections with an
increased majority amid a mining boom and waning popularity for
Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s Labor party.  The Liberals are forecast to win 33 seats in the 59-member
legislative assembly after an 8.8 percentage point voter swing
in the party’s favor in the March 10 election, the Australian
Broadcasting Corp.  said , based on 75 percent of the vote being
counted. Labor will win 19 seats after a 2.3 percentage point
swing against it.  Labor is in opposition in the four biggest of the nation’s
six states and trails in national polls ahead of the Sept. 14
federal election. In Western Australia, Gillard’s tax to snare
mining profits has alienated voters in the state that produces a
third of the world’s traded iron ore.  “The federal Labor brand is tarnished at the moment and I
think that does rub off on the state branches,” Zareh Ghazarian,
a lecturer in politics at Monash University, said by phone from
 Melbourne . The strength of the state economy and the lack of any
major scandals were also decisive in the result, he said. “All
the stars have aligned to make this government get more votes.”  The difficulties of federal Labor had dragged down the
Western Australian party, Stephen Smith, the country’s defense
minister and holder of one of the state’s three federal seats,
was  cited  as saying by the West Australian newspaper. The
federal election in September will go down to the wire, he said.  Opinion Polls  Gillard’s ruling Labor party trails the Liberal-National
opposition by 10 percentage points at the federal level,
according to a Newspoll survey published in the Australian
newspaper Feb. 26.  “At the moment, I don’t think Labor has the trust of the
West Australian people,” Geoff Gallop, who served as Labor
premier of Western Australia from 2001 to 2006, said on Sky News
television yesterday. “The Labor party does have major issues
structurally.”  Western Australia, more than three times the size of  Texas ,
is enjoying a decade-long boom, comparable with its 1890s gold
rush, on Asian demand for its resource riches. The state has an
investment pipeline of A$141 billion ($144 billion), more than
half of Australia’s total, according to estimates from the
Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics.  Work is progressing on  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s A$52 billion Gorgon
liquefied natural gas project and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s expansions
to iron ore operations. The state is also home to mining
magnates such as  Gina Rinehart , Australia’s richest person, and
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  founder Andrew Forrest.  Resources Industry  Reflecting the strength of the resources industry, final
demand in the state surged 14.2 percent from a year earlier in
the fourth quarter, Australian Bureau of Statistics data
released March 6 shows. Western Australians have the highest
average earnings of any state and an unemployment rate of 4
percent, against the national average of 5.4 percent.  Labor’s links with the trade union movement are now
alienating it from the wider public as union membership declines,
Mark Latham, who led the party into the country’s 2004 national
election, said on Sky News television yesterday.  “The ship’s going down,” Latham said. “Modern trade
unionism has got about 10 percent of the voting public now. If
you want to be a party of 10 percent of the voting public you’re
not a mass party, you’re an interest group and you’ll get an
interest group result.”  The result in Western Australia will be enough for Barnett
to govern without the support of the National party, which has
backed him since the 2008 state election resulted in a hung
parliament. While the Liberals and Nationals have operated as a
coalition at the federal level since the 1940s, they don’t
always ally in state politics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  