-- Wigan Upsets Everton to Advance to First F.A. Cup Semifinal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-09T19:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-09/wigan-upsets-everton-3-0-to-advance-to-first-f-a-cup-semifinal.html
Wigan upset Everton 3-0 to reach the
semifinals of English soccer’s F.A. Cup for the first time, as
 Manchester City  routed Barnsley 5-0.  Maynor Figueroa, Callum McManaman and Jordi Gomez scored in
a three-minute span of the first half at Goodison Park in
Liverpool to send Wigan to the last four at Wembley Stadium on
April 13 or 14.  “The performance was outstanding,” Wigan manager  Roberto
Martinez  said in an interview with ITV. “For us to go to
Wembley is an historic moment.”  Carlos Tevez  scored a hat trick as 2011 champion Manchester
City advanced past the quarterfinals for just the second time in
32 years. City has outscored its opponents 13-0 over its first
four matches.  Wigan is 17th in the Premier League, just above the
relegation zone, while Everton is sixth. The Latics won their
fourth straight F.A. Cup away match in advancing.  Figueroa opened the scoring in the 30th minute when he
headed in Gomez’s corner to the back post. The lead was doubled
a minute later as McManaman picked up an errant pass from  Phil Neville  and went in to send a shot past goalkeeper Jan Mucha,
who was starting in place of the injured  Tim Howard .  Wigan’s goal surge concluded in the 33rd minute when Gomez
took a pass from Arouna Kone and drilled a shot past Mucha.  Wigan lost to Leeds in its only other quarterfinal
appearance in 1987. Everton, which had a goal from Kevin
Mirallas disallowed for offside in the 75th minute, was trying
to reach the last four for the third time since 2009.  At Etihad Stadium in Manchester, Barnsley of the second-
tier Championship was no match for reigning Premier League
titleholder City.  Tevez opened the scoring in the 11th minute by putting in
the rebound after Barnsley goalkeeper Luke Steele blocked  David Silva ’s shot into the post. Aleksandar Kolarov doubled the lead
in the 27th minute off a pass from Tevez, who added his second
goal just four minutes later.  Tevez completed his hat trick in the 50th minute off a pass
from Samir Nasri and Silva closed the scoring midway through the
second half.  Blackburn visits Millwall in tomorrow’s first quarterfinal,
followed by record 11-time winner  Manchester United  hosting
defending champion Chelsea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 