-- 
‘X-Men: First Class’ Is Top Film With $56 Million in Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-06-06T23:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/-x-men-first-class-captures-weekend-box-office-with-56-million-in-sales.html
“X-Men: First Class,”  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
fifth film about the mutants with super powers, was the top film
this past weekend with $55.1 million in sales, the lowest since
the original “X-Men” in 2000.  “The Hangover: Part II,”  Warner Bros .’ raunchy, R-rated
comedy, fell to second with $31.4 million in its second weekend,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “X-Men: First Class” is the second prequel in the series.
News Corp.’s Fox replaced  Hugh Jackman  and other stars with a
younger cast, following a recent trend that includes Paramount’s
“ Star Trek ” in 2009 and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s next “Spider-Man.” “X-
Men Origins: Wolverine,” featuring Jackman, took in $85.1
million its first weekend in 2009.  “The last two films in the series were not very well-liked
by fans, and so some people possibly dropped out of seeing this
one,” said Gitesh Pandya, editor of BoxOfficeGuru.com. “But
this is a much better film, so I think the word-of-mouth going
forward will be quite good.”  The film, the only new one to enter wide release over the
weekend, was forecast by researcher Box Office Mojo to take in
as much as $69 million. The first four movies in the series
generated $1.54 billion in worldwide ticket sales, averaging
$384.1 million each. The original “X-Men” opened with $54.5
million in 2000.  $200 Million Mark  “X-Men: First Class” explains how key characters came
together as teens and young adults during the Cold War era.
James McAvoy stands in for  Patrick Stewart  as Charles Xavier,
and  Michael Fassbender  is the steel-bending Magneto, replacing
Ian McKellen.  Jennifer Lawrence , Kevin Bacon and January Jones
co-star.  “The Hangover: Part II,” a follow-up to the 2009 hit, led
the box office to a Memorial Day weekend record with sales of
$137.4 for the Friday-through-Monday period. The movie has
generated sales of $185.8 million in two weeks of release.  “It’s well on its way to breaking the $200 million mark
very soon and probably finishing somewhere close to where the
first one ended up” Pandya said. The original film grossed
$467.5 million.  The R-rated film follows a similar plot to the original.
The main characters wake up in a Bangkok hotel room after wild
partying, with little memory of what transpired the night
before. As in the previous film, the friends are played by
Bradley Cooper, Zach Galifianakis and  Ed Helms .  ‘Kung Fu Panda’  The animated 3-D feature “Kung Fu Panda 2” dropped to
third from second, with $23.9 million in receipts for  Viacom
Inc. (VIA/B) ’s  Paramount Pictures . In it, Dragon Warrior Po, played by
 Jack Black , battles a new villain, Shen, while discovering
secrets about his past. The movie also features the voices of
 Angelina Jolie  as Po’s ally, Tigress, and  Gary Oldman  playing
Shen. Paramount is distributing the movie for  DreamWorks
Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)   “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,” the fourth
film in the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  series, fell to fourth from third
with sales of $18 million. The movie has taken in $190.2 million
in the U.S. and  Canada  since it opened on May 20.  In “On Stranger Tides,” Johnny Depp’s Captain Jack
Sparrow is enlisted in a search for the Fountain of Youth.
Penelope Cruz co-stars.  The comedy “Bridesmaids,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal
Pictures, was fifth, taking in $12 million. The film, produced
by Judd Apatow and starring  Kristen Wiig , has had sales of
$107.2 million in four weeks of release.  ‘Super 8’  New releases next weekend include director J.J. Abrams’s
“Super 8” and the children’s comedy “Judy Moody and the Not
Bummer Summer.” Woody Allen’s “Midnight in Paris,” which
opened the Cannes Film Festival in April, also expands to as
many as 1,000 theaters from 147 this past weekend.  Sales of the weekend’s top 12 films rose 26 percent to
$153.7 million from a year earlier, according to Hollywood.com.
Sales for the year to date remain 7 percent lower than last year
at this time. Attendance is off 8.5 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for June
3 to June 4 and estimates for yesterday. Percentage change
column represents three-day sales versus the previous week.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  