-- 
Abramovich, Pinault Watch as Kapoor’s Apparition Spooks Venice

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-06-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/abramovich-pinault-watch-as-kapoor-spooks-venice-biennale-martin-gayford.html
The 54th is not the best of  Venice
Biennales , nor the worst. It must be the biggest ever.  While new nations are represented -- including Andorra,
 India ,  Iraq  and  Saudi Arabia  -- overall the impression is of
homogeneity not diversity.  True, there is sometimes a local accent. For example, the
 Saudi Pavilion  shows “The Black Arch” by the sisters Raja and
Shadia Alem, a striking work that fuses lights, mirrors, moving
projection and music in a modern fashion and with a nod to
Islamic art of the past.  The big point, more obvious with every Biennale, is that
modern art -- which only a few decades ago was a largely Western
fad -- is now a pan-global language.  Another theme is the alliance between contemporary art and
modern merchant princes. Roman Abramovich’s black mega-yacht was
in town, docked near the Biennale gardens and surrounded by a
security fence. The billionaire French businessman  Francois Pinault , now de facto the modern art Doge of Venice, gave the
grandest and most stylish party (in the cloisters of San Giorgio
Maggiore).  Pinault’s two substantial museums, at the  Palazzo Grassi 
and  Punta della Dogana , are nonetheless slightly outshined by
the  Fondazione Prada , which opened a Venetian headquarters at
the 18th century Ca’Corner della Regina.  The roster of artists at these venues often overlaps. To my
eye, the Prada display edges ahead for visual flair. It contains
a witty juxtaposition between a Jeff Koons ceramic featuring
pig, woman and penguin -- “Fait d’Hiver’’ (1988) -- and an
array of antique porcelain.  Turquoise Minimalism  “Turquoise Enamel” (1967), a single blue-green minimalist
sculpture by  Donald Judd  almost filling a small room at the
Fondazione Prada looks glorious. A large room of Judds at the
Dogana makes little impact.  Still, the Dogana exhibition, “In Praise of Doubt” (until
Dec. 31) has its moments, notably Ed Kienholz’s “Roxy’s,” a
detailed recreation of the interior of a 1940s Las Vegas
Bordello. This pioneering piece must have seemed way, way out
when it was first exhibited in the 1960s.  Four decades later, art-as-architectural environment is
another leitmotiv of this Biennale. Mike Nelson’s perfect
facsimile of a moldering Turkish khan within the  British
Pavilion  created a sensation (and long waits for those standing
in line to be admitted).  Standing in line is also required to climb the Starn
brothers’ “ Big Bambu ” (until June 18), a 50-foot (15 meter)
haphazard structure of bamboo poles lashed together like the
nest of some gigantic bird.  Growing Sculpture  A team of rock climbers works on site, so that it is
constantly growing, a visual metaphor for the random, organic
way in which human affairs work (if they do work).  The Austrian Erwin Wurm’s squeezed “Narrow House” (2010),
beside the Academia Bridge, is based on the dinky Alpine
dwelling in which the artist grew up, though it is only as wide
as a corridor. There’s a metaphor there too, for the
constrictions of conventional life.  Anish Kapoor, in contrast, exhibits a work with almost no
physical substance, “Ascension” (2003), in the church of San
Giorgio Maggiore. The work consists of vapor, which when all
goes well, is shaped by fans and a massive suction nozzle in the
dome into a diaphanous, spiraling column. The artist calls it
“an apparition.”  The menacing winged figure that looms over the exhibition
at the Arsenale is a different kind of apparition, dreamed up by
the South African  Nicholas Hlobo . His work -- stitched from such
materials as tire-rubber and leather -- is also on show in “The
World Belongs to You” (until Dec. 31) at the Palazzo Grassi and
in Victor Pinchuk Foundation’s Future Generation Art Prize at
the Palazzo Papadopoli (until Aug. 7).  Hlobo is someone to watch out for, though his ominous
creation, part Wagnerian dragon, part pterodactyl, only mildly
overshadows the sparkle and buzz of the Biennale.  The Biennale continues through Nov. 27. Information:
 http://www.labiennale.org ; the Biennale awards are on
 http://www.labiennale.org/en/art/news/54-awards.html   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  Venice  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 