-- 
Adviser Fees Drive Takeovers Like Cadbury, Says U.K.’s Cable

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-06-06T11:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/adviser-fees-drive-takeovers-like-cadbury-s-says-u-k-s-cable.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
attacked a corporate culture that he said leads to takeovers
driven by the desire of advisers to earn fees rather than by
real prospects of increasing company value.  Last year’s takeover of Cadbury Plc by  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  is
an example of the kind of deal that makes Cable believe there
should be a change, he told a conference of the  GMB union  in
Brighton on  England ’s south coast.  The Takeover Panel started a review of Britain’s takeover
code after the buyout provoked criticism from politicians, who
said the outcome of the hostile bid was overly influenced by
short-term investors seeking profit.  “We are seeing too many company takeovers which reduce or
destroy value and are driven by the fat fees earned by the
lawyers and banks who facilitate them,” Cable said. “I have
made it clear -- post Cadbury -- that there have to be changes
and I am pleased that the Takeover Panel has come up with modest
but useful changes to reduce unnecessary takeovers.”  One of the rule changes would require potential buyers to
make a firm offer within four weeks of announcing an approach,
in order to curb so-called virtual offers. The changes being
proposed are intended to protect shareholders of companies that
are targets of takeover bids.  Private Equity   Amid calls from delegates to curb private-equity companies
that the union said are eroding pay and conditions, Cable
pointed to moves the government had already made to raise
capital-gains tax to reduce the firms’ advantages. “There was a
lot of, frankly, tax-dodging,” he said.  The business secretary was heckled by conference delegates
as he set out government plans to cut regulation. A banner in
the hall read: “Stop Attacking Workers’ Rights.”  As Cable warned that  strike action  would increase pressure
on the government to tighten union laws, though the case for
doing so at the moment is “not compelling,” the heckling grew
so loud that GMB President Mary Turner had to appeal for calm.  “You may not like what you’re hearing any more than I do,
but please listen to what’s being said,” she told delegates.  GMB General Secretary Paul Kenny said he thought Cable’s
remarks about strike laws were “ill-judged.”  “He showed a remarkable lack of understanding about the
impact of public-spending cuts on workers and communities and
didn’t seem to know of the pay freeze in local government,”
Kenny said. “Delegates were outraged at one or two answers.”  “We don’t have any current proposals to amend strike
laws,” Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman Steve Field
told reporters in  London  today. “It’s something we will keep
under review and if the position were to change and we saw a
wave of irresponsible strikes then that is something we would
want to look at very carefully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Brighton, England, at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 