-- 
Aegis Group, GlaxoSmithKline, Lloyds: U.K., Irish Equity Preview

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-06T06:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/aegis-group-glaxosmithkline-lloyds-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
that may have unusual share-price changes in U.K. and Irish
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from
the last market close.  Futures on the FTSE 100 Index expiring in June dropped 0.2
percent to 5,837. The FTSE 100 rose 7.09, or 0.1 percent, to
5,855.01 on June 3. The FTSE All-Share Index gained 0.1 percent
to 3,058.58, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index declined 0.8 percent to
2,940.5.  Aegis Group Plc (AGS)  : The London-based media services
company said it has held talks with Ipsos SA about its market-
research unit, Synovate. The company confirmed a Sunday
Telegraph report that it plans to sell its 500 million-pound
($821 million) market-research unit. The stock increased 0.4
percent to 141.2 pence.  Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc: The Dublin-based airline
said it “can’t be certain” that it will able to operate its
schedule from June 7 because industrial action by some pilots is
possible. The stock gained 0.4 percent to 81 euro cents.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  : The mining company may sell a
stake in an iron ore mine in  Brazil , the Independent on Sunday
reported, without saying where it got the information. The stock
fell 0.3 percent to 2,940 pence.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  : PAI Partners SAS, Cinven Ltd. and
Bridgepoint Capital Ltd. may bid for the medical-devices unit of
AstraZeneca’s Astra Tech business, the Sunday Telegraph
reported, without saying where it got the information. The stock
increased 0.1 percent to 3,129 pence.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  : The U.K.’s second-biggest insurer by
market value will appoint John McFarlane as chairman to replace
Colin Sharman, the Sunday Telegraph reported, without saying
where it got the information. The stock advanced 0.3 percent to
429.3 pence.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  : The London-based lender filed a
list of margin assets it is disputing with the trustee
liquidating the remnants of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
North American business. Barclays bought the Lehman brokerage.
The bank sent the list of assets to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck before a June 6 court hearing, according to a filing. The
shares dropped 0.1 percent to 265.5 pence.  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  : The U.K.’s second-largest
department-store owner may buy all or part of Jane Norman
Holdings Ltd., the  Daily Telegraph  reported, without saying
where it got the information. The stock retreated 0.4 percent to
71.3 pence.  DS Smith Plc (SMDS)  : The London-based paper company
hired investment bank Lazard Ltd. to handle the sale of Spicers,
its office supplies unit, the Sunday Times reported, without
saying where it got the information. The sale would be worth 150
million pounds, according to the newspaper. The stock advanced
0.3 percent to 213.2 pence.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  : The London-based drugmaker’s
combination of two experimental drugs for advanced melanoma
helped almost all patients in its first human study, leading it
to launch the therapy directly into large trials needed for U.S.
approval. The stock rose 1.1 percent to 1,295.5 pence.  HMV Group Plc (HMV)  : The U.K.’s biggest DVD and music
retailer is set to agree on a two-year refinancing deal valued
at about 210 million pounds with its banks, the Sunday Times
reported, without saying where it got the information. The
shares sank 4.7 percent to 8.2 pence.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  : Thousands of British clients
of HSBC Holdings Plc who kept money in  Switzerland  may have
their finances investigated by HM Revenue & Customs, the Sunday
Times reported, without saying where it got the information. The
stock increased less than 0.1 percent to 627.3 pence.  Independent News & Media Plc (INM)  : Shareholder Denis O’Brien called on the company to make a statement on the
position of Chairman Brian Hillery, who will step down in the
coming months, according to the Sunday Business Post.  Separately, the company said there are no obligations
arising for it to make an announcement on Chairman Brian
Hillery’s position. The shares declined 0.7 percent to 57.2 euro
cents.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  : Sainsbury’s Finance, a joint
venture between J Sainsbury and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , will
team with Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Insurance to
offer car insurance, the retailer said in an e-mailed statement.
The stock advanced 0.3 percent to 339.7 pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY LN): The sales of branches
of Lloyds and Northern Rock Plc will raise 4.4 billion pounds,
the Sunday Telegraph reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Separately, the bank, which is part-owned by the U.K.
government, will continue to cut costs in a bid to improve
profitability, Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio said
in an interview with the Financial Times. The shares climbed 0.5
percent to 48.74 pence.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  :  Europe ’s oldest
independent bourse plans to push its listing offering for
smaller U.S. companies once it completes its takeover of TMX
Group Inc., the Sunday Telegraph reported, without saying where
it got the information. The shares increased 0.1 percent to 972
pence.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  : Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Hester  is looking to attract sovereign wealth
funds in the  Middle East  ahead of the government’s sale of the
U.K. bank, the Sunday Times reported. The stock slipped 0.5
percent to 41.5 pence.  Southern Cross  Healthcare Plc (SCHE LN): The U.K.’s largest
care-home operator plans to raise 100 million pounds of new
equity, close 200 care homes and change its name, the Sunday
Times reported, without saying where it got the information.  Separately, managers at Southern Cross, which said this
week it is in financial difficulties, made about 35 million
pounds on shares in the care-home provider in 2007, the
Financial Times said. The shares surged 5.6 percent to 6.3
pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  