-- 
Arava Completes First Solar-Power Project, Plans 40 More

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-05T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/arava-completes-first-solar-power-project-plans-another-40.html
     June 5 (Bloomberg ) --  Arava Power Co. , an Israeli
renewable-energy developer, completed its first solar power
project and would like to develop 40 more in the sunny country,
co-founder David Rosenblatt said.  The 5-megawatt plant at Kibbutz Ketura, which was scheduled
to be inaugurated today and begin producing power in the third
quarter, will be the first to be paid Israel’s subsidized feed-
in tariff of 1.52 shekels (45 U.S. cents) a kilowatt-hour,
Rosenblatt said in a telephone interview.  Arava, which is 36 percent owned by German power-equipment
maker  Siemens AG (SIE) , expects the 100 million-shekel project will
earn about 12.5 million shekels annually over the 20-year period
of an agreement to sell its power to Israel Electricity Corp.,
Rosenblatt said. The facility was built with an 80 million-
shekel loan from Bank Hapoalim Ltd.  Israel has granted 118 conditional licenses for solar parks
to generate about 180 megawatts of electricity, according to the
 Public Utility Authority . The country has 39 megawatts of
installed solar capacity that is connected to the transmission
grid and aims to generate 5 percent of its energy from renewable
sources by 2014.  “With the right government policy, we will be able to
provide more than 400 megawatts of power, and the net equity
will be well over $2 billion,” Rosenblatt said by phone from
the U.S. “We are actively engaged with the treasury, the
finance minister, the infrastructure minister, the regulator and
other parties to hopefully influence them to understand that
solar for  Israel  is particularly compelling.”  Sunday Energy Ltd., another Israel-based solar company, in
May announced plans to raise 40 million shekels in a Tel Aviv
initial public offering. Rosenblatt said Arava hasn’t made a
decision on whether to do an IPO.  Arava has said it has the most licensing applications filed
with the regulator than any other company.  The Ketura project’s percentage return on investment should
be "in the mid-teens," Rosenblatt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  