-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Wheat Rallying 20% on Parched Fields

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-06-05T23:17:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/asia-commodity-day-ahead-wheat-rallying-20-on-parched-fields.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  Other Markets:  Last  % Chg % YTD
U.S. Dollar Index    73.736   -0.8  -6.7
Crude Oil           $100.22   -0.2  +9.7
Gold              $1,542.40   +0.6  +8.5
MSCI World Index   1,320.11   -0.4  +3.1
*T TOP STORY:  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES  Wheat Rallying 20% as Parched Fields Wilt From China to Kansas  The worst droughts in decades are wilting wheat fields from
China to the U.S. to the U.K., overwhelming  Russia ’s return to
grain markets and driving prices to the highest levels since
2008.  Funds Boost Bullish Commodity Bets on Global Growth Prospects  Funds boosted bets on rising commodity prices to the
highest in four weeks, led by copper, amid signs that the global
economic recovery will remain resilient and boost demand for raw
materials.  Hochschild Expects to Meet Output Goal, Pending Labor Talks (3)  Hochschild Mining Plc, a producer of silver in Peru and
 Argentina , said it doesn’t expect full-year output to be cut by
a 15-day strike at its San Jose mine, where wage talks with
workers are continuing.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Gains, Halting Slide, on Signs of Rising Demand in  China   Copper rose for the first time in a week on signs of
increased demand from China, the world’s largest metals consumer.  MINING:  GE Leads Call for Action on U.S. Supplies of Rare-Earth Minerals  General Electric Co. led companies in urging Congress to
spur U.S. production of rare earths, needed for  wind turbines ,
 aircraft engines , medical devices and cell phones, and to reduce
dependence on supplies from China.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Advances on Bets Fed Will Keep Rates Low as Economy Slows  Gold futures rose the most in a week on speculation that
the Federal Reserve will keep  interest rates  low to stimulate
the  U.S. economy , boosting the appeal of the precious metal as
an alternative to the slumping dollar.  Economist Gartman ‘Nervous’ on Gold, Cuts Investment by Half (2)  Dennis Gartman , the economist and editor of the Gartman
Letter who correctly forecast 2008’s commodities slump, cut his
gold position by half today and said yesterday’s drop makes him
“nervous” that it may keep falling.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Drops on Signs of Slowing Demand; Wheat, Soybeans Advance  Corn futures fell for the first time in three days after
export sales dropped in the U.S., the world’s top shipper, while
higher unemployment eroded prospects for domestic demand. Wheat
and soybeans rose.  Cocoa Falls as Supply Concerns Ease; Cotton, Orange Juice Drop  Cocoa declined to the lowest price in almost five months in
New York after an industry group increased its estimate for a
global surplus. Cotton and orange juice also dropped.  Sugar Climbs as  Brazil ’s Crop May Miss Estimates; Coffee Gains  Sugar rose to a seven-week high in  New York  on speculation
that supplies will be limited from Brazil, the world’s biggest
producer. Coffee prices jumped.  French Drought Making Livestock Feed Scarce, Lemaire Says  Livestock producers in  France  are having trouble finding
enough grain to feed their animals as plants wither in the worst
drought in a half century, according to Bruno Lemaire, the
country’s agriculture minister.  SHIPPING:  Owners Cut Ship Glut, Lift Prices With Speed Cuts, Broker Says  Owners of capesize vessels used to haul  iron ore  and coal
have cut sailing speeds by 20 percent since September 2008 to
prop up rates depressed by overcapacity, shipbroker Lorentzen &
Stemoco A.S. said.  Baltic Dry Index Is Unchanged From Two-Month High on Coal Demand  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of global commodity
shipping costs, was unchanged from a two-month high as
strengthening coal demand helped constrain the supply of some
vessel types.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Economy: Payrolls Rise 54,000; Jobless Rate Climbs (1)  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months and the
U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent in May,
reinforcing signs that a slowdown in the world’s largest economy
is persisting into the second quarter.  Gross Says More Quantitative Easing Unlikely:  Tom Keene  (2)  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, said the  Federal Reserve  is
unlikely to do a third round of quantitative easing even with
the economy adding fewer jobs than forecast.  Greece  to Get Next Aid Payment as EU Readies Second Bailout (1)  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
agreed to pay the next installment to Greece under last year’s
110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout, paving the way for an
upgraded aid package that includes a “voluntary” role for
investors.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Drop After Jobs Data; Euro Gains on Greece Discussions  Stocks fell, dragging the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to
its longest streak of weekly losses since 2004, as slowing job
growth added to signs the economy is weakening. The euro rose as
European officials worked toward a second Greek bailout.  VIX Decreases Amid Stock Retreat as Jobs Data Cause ‘No Panic’  The benchmark index for U.S. stock options and the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell, breaking their pattern of moving in
opposite directions, as lower-than-estimated job growth failed
to spur traders to pay more for insurance against equity losses.  Oil Falls as U.S. Jobless Rate Climbs to Highest Level This Year  Crude oil  fell, capping the biggest weekly decline in a
month, as the U.S. jobless rate climbed to the highest level
this year, adding to concern that a slower economic recovery
will curb oil demand.  Obama Said to Delay Mid-Session Budget Review to Late Summer (1)  President  Barack Obama  is delaying the annual mid-year
White House review of economic and deficit forecasts as his
administration continues negotiations with Congress on a long-
term debt-reduction plan, an administration official said.  SPORTS:  Kissinger Says FIFA Needs ‘Modernization’ to Protect Soccer (1)  Henry Kissinger  said soccer’s governing body needs to
“modernize” to protect the world’s most-popular sport amid
allegations of corruption against some of its top leaders.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  