-- 
Warhol’s $9 Million Blondie, Hirst’s Rock Gift Boost Sales

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-06-06T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/latin-american-art-boom-entices-galleries-rich-collectors-to-london-fair.html
Andy Warhol ’s portrait of Blondie
singer Debbie Harry, and Damien Hirst spot paintings owned by
Eurythmics star Dave Stewart, were today added to this month’s
auction test of the contemporary-art market’s recovery.  The fruits of the rockers’ friendships with artists, to be
offered by Sotheby’s in London on June 29, may fetch as much as
$11.3 million. Harry, quoted in an e-mailed release by the New
York-based auction house, said her portrait -- estimated at as
much as $9 million -- came about after she met Warhol on
Broadway in the late 1970s and they got to know each other.  “New York was a small community,” Harry is quoted by
Cheyenne Westphal,  Sotheby’s (BID)  European head of contemporary art.
“We chatted about everything. I got invited to the Factory and
knew others that worked for Andy.”  Contemporary prices have been recovering after values of
artists such as Hirst and  Jeff Koons  halved in 2009 during the
financial crisis. Warhol has been seen as a safe haven for
investment-minded collectors. He has become the most heavily
traded contemporary artist at auction, accounting for 17 percent
of all sales in 2010, according to a report by the London-based
research company  ArtTactic  published in April.  Harry posed for one of the Pop artist’s trademark celebrity
portraits. The Sotheby’s item is one of four he made of her,
each 42 inches (1 meter) wide. With a formal estimate of 3.5
million pounds ($5.75 million) to 5.5 million pounds, the 1980
silkscreen is offered by a private European collector. Its sale
follows the release of Blondie’s CD “ Panic of Girls .”  Dockland Drunks  Songwriter and producer Stewart will be offering seven
works in the auction. He met Hirst at the opening of a group
exhibition in  London ’s Docklands in the early 1990s.  “They were giving away Beck’s beer, and so we both got
really drunk,’’ Stewart said in an interview in the U.K.’s
Independent newspaper in 1994. “He was incredibly
confrontational. Funny. Exciting. By the end we were under the
table -- had about 12 bottles each.’’  The 1994 spot painting “Dantrolene (Being God for Dave)’’
was gifted to Stewart by Hirst, who wrote a dedication on the
back of the canvas. This is estimated to fetch between 600,000
pounds and 800,000 pounds. “Acridine,’’ dating from 1992 and
bought directly from the artist, is valued at 400,000 pounds to
600,000 pounds. Both canvases measure more than 5 feet wide.  Fewer works by Hirst, the U.K.’s wealthiest artist, now
appear at auction than during the boom. Individual prices for
some works have returned to the levels of three years ago. In
February, Christie’s International sold a 6-foot-wide 1994 spot
painting for 881,250 pounds. A slightly larger example, dating
from 1992, reached 825,250 pounds at Phillips de Pury & Co. in
London in June 2008.  Stewart is also selling works by Gilbert & George, Angus
Fairhurst and Andres Serrano, valued at between 12,000 pounds
and 200,000 pounds.  Latin American Art  London gets its turn to catch up on the boom in Latin
American art as more than 50 dealers exhibit at an international
fair starting today.  The U.K. is getting its second edition of  Pinta , which aims
to entice rich collectors. The event started in the U.S. in 2007
and has an equivalent  New York  show in November. The dealers
plan to build on the momentum created last month in  Sao Paulo  by
the 7th edition of  SP-Arte , Brazil’s biggest contemporary art
fair, and by the record total of $21.7 million achieved at
Sotheby’s May 25 auction of Latin American art in New York.  Brazilian Growth  Latin America  is seen by many investment-minded collectors
as one of the key growth areas in the contemporary-art market,
said dealers. In 2008-2009, as demand and prices for other works
in the U.S. and  Europe  slumped, the Brazilian auction market
increased 38 percent, according to ArtTactic.  “Sao Paulo was very busy with lots of sales taking place,
mainly with Brazilian galleries,” said Ana Varella, head of art
advisory and development at the recently created $24 million
 Brazil  Golden Art (BGA) Fund, who is flying over from the Venice
Biennale to be at the London fair.  The event will combine established names such the Cuban
abstract painter  Carmen Herrera , with emerging artists such as
the Brazilian  Felipe Barbosa , who uses soccer balls as his
medium.  London’s  Stephen Friedman Gallery , New York’s  Tanya
Bonakdar Gallery  and  Galeria Fortes Vilaca  from Sao Paulo have
combined to show a conceptual piece by the Brazilian artist
 Rivane Neuenschwander . “Prosopopeia” is a series of games made
from edible and organic materials that allow words to be formed
and re-arranged.  The New York gallerist  Josee Bienvenu  will be showing the
Guatemalan artist  Dario Escobar .  Pinta is at Earls Court Exhibition Centre, Brompton Hall,
Warwick Road, London SW5 9TA, through June 9. Information:
 http://www.pintaart.com/   (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 