-- 
Australia’s La Nina-Triggered Flood Bill to Reach A$12 Billion, Swan Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-06-05T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/australia-s-la-nina-triggered-flood-bill-to-reach-13-billion-swan-says.html
Australia ’s bill from floods that
devastated the nation’s northeast earlier this year climbed 33
percent to A$12 billion ($13 billion), with resources and
agriculture the hardest hit, the government said.  “Lost commodity production is likely to be around A$9
billion and damage to crops more than A$2 billion,” Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We’ve seen
economic data that clearly reflects the destruction.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called the January floods,
triggered by a La Nina weather event, the nation’s most
expensive natural disaster. She’s attempting to introduce a
carbon tax on polluters to curb greenhouse gas emissions,
believed by some scientists to be responsible for exacerbating
weather events.  Queensland is feeling the brunt of the economic impact of
the floods, with state treasurer Andrew Fraser yesterday saying
its coffers will be reduced by A$6.8 billion, up from a previous
estimate of A$5.8 billion. Australia’s economy shrank in the
first quarter by the most in 20 years after flooded coal mines,
railways and farmland hurt exports.  “The increase was largely due to new estimates from
councils who now estimate that they will require more than A$2.7
billion in funds to undertake repairs -- A$900 million more than
their initial forecast,” Fraser said in a  statement .  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens has held
 interest rates  at 4.75 percent for the past five meetings to
help Queensland recover.  ‘Soft Spots’  “There are of course other soft spots in our economy,”
Swan said. “We’re still seeing lingering effects from the
global financial crisis and the impact of a high dollar on
sectors like manufacturing, tourism and education.”  Australia’s dollar reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest
since it was freely floated in 1983. The nation’s services
industry contracted in May as a record-high currency and
consumer caution hurt companies excluded from the resources boom,
a June 3 Commonwealth Bank of Australia and the Australian
Industry Group survey showed.  Queensland produces 80 percent of steel-making coal exports
from Australia, the world’s biggest supplier, and grows more
than 30 percent of the country’s fruit and vegetables.  “The January floods and Cyclone Yasi led to 37 lives lost,
and thousands more Queenslanders with shattered homes and
livelihoods,” Fraser said. “There has also been enormous
damage to infrastructure and significant costs incurred in
managing the response and recovery process.”  Climate Debate  While the weather impact of the  La Nina event  has
dissipated, its effect on the  climate change  debate continues.
The government, which steered Australia through the global
financial crisis, is losing popularity over plans to impose a
tax on mining companies’ profits and charge polluters in order
to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.  Rallies supporting the carbon tax took place in cities
around Australia yesterday, according to the  World Wildlife Fund .
The gatherings attracted about 45,000 people nationwide, the
fund’s Perth-based spokesman, Cortlan Bennett, said in a phone
interview.  More than A$266 billion of assets in coastal areas are at
risk from rising sea levels expected from climate change,
Australia’s Minister for Climate Change and Energy Efficiency
 Greg Combet  said in a separate statement yesterday.  Coastal assets at risk from inundation and erosion include
between 5,800 and 8,600 commercial buildings, between 3,700 and
6,200 light industrial buildings and between 27,000 kilometers
(16,780 miles) and 35,000 kilometers of roads and rail, Combet
said.  “Putting a price on carbon will allow the market to find
the cheapest and most efficient ways to cut pollution, rather
than having the government tell individual companies or sectors
what to do,” Swan said yesterday. “Dirty energy will become
more expensive and clean energy cheaper under a carbon price,
creating the jobs of the future and helping to protect our
environment and our economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  