-- 
BMW Tops Toyota in Japan as Quake Hits Lexus

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-06-05T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/bmw-beats-toyota-in-japan-as-quake-disrupts-lexus-output-cars.html
The record March 11 earthquake in
Japan had an unexpected side effect for  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  dealer Jun Kubota: His showroom in central Tokyo had its best
April in at least three years.  Kubota wasn’t alone. Across the country, as Japanese
carmakers reeled from output disruptions following the quake,
BMW deliveries surged 56 percent in April, while sales of  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus brand fell 45 percent. Sales of all  imported
foreign brands  rose 21 percent even as the overall auto market
shrank 47 percent.  “Customers have told me some Lexus models won’t arrive
until November,” said Kubota, sales manager at the BMW
dealership in Tokyo’s Aoyama district. “So we’re hearing some
people say, ‘You know, I’ve always wanted to try a BMW.’”  A shortage of cars built in  Japan  will increase the market
share of imports, which made up 180,255 units, or just 4
percent, of local passenger-car sales last year, said Nicholas
Speeks, president of Mercedes-Benz Japan Co. Damage to parts
makers from the disaster forced domestic automakers to produce
at half of planned levels, causing delivery delays of as long as
a year for some models.  ``Imported foreign brands are offering sales campaigns, while
domestic automakers are advertising less due to lack of 
inventories'' this year, said Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at 
consulting company Carnorama in Tokyo.  BMW 5-Series  Sales at the  Aoyama Square showroom  rose about 30 percent
in both April and May from a year earlier, helped by buyers of
5-series sedans who originally set out to buy Lexus GS or IS
models, Kubota said.  Luxury brands including BMW, Audi and Mercedes-Benz have
traditionally dominated Japan’s import car sales, making up
about half the market. General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co. and
Chrysler Group LLC, the three largest U.S. automakers, sold a
combined 7,500 cars in Japan last year, accounting for less than
1 percent of the overall market. Japan’s auto market, the
world’s third-largest, totaled 4.96 million units in 2010.  Toyota, which sells a third of all passenger cars in Japan,
said last month its new Prius alpha wagon may not reach dealers
until next April. Toyota’s plants will run at 90 percent of
normal production levels this month, the company said June 1,
after operating at 50 percent in April and May. Toyota expects
global production to normalize by November or December.  Four Month Wait  As a result, the wait time for all models is about four
months on average, compared with one month prior to the
earthquake, said Yasuhiko Sato, general manager of Toyota’s
Japan sales planning division.  “We sincerely regret keeping our customers waiting,”
Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  said at the company’s earnings
presentation on May 11.  Nissan declined to give delivery times for its models,
citing daily fluctuations. The company’s local sales decline is
smaller than those of competitors partly because it builds the
March compact in  Thailand  and imports it to Japan.  Honda is concerned customers whose car-inspection
certificates are expiring will replace their old cars with
imports if they can’t wait for delayed domestic models, Chief
Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike said.  “We’re already seeing this happening,” Ike said.  Audi  At an Audi dealership in Shibaura in central Tokyo, a Lexus
GS owner looking to buy a new car switched to an Audi A5 coupe
this month because of the long wait time for the Japanese brand,
said Masayoshi Hamura, the manager at the dealership. Three
other visitors expressed an interest in switching for the same
reason, he said.  The introduction of eight new and revamped models since
September last year accounts for more of Audi’s recent sales
gains than customers switching from domestic brands, Hamura
said.  While many luxury cars are too expensive to compete
directly with domestic models, Audi’s A3 and A4 are roughly in
the same price ranges as Toyota’s Corolla and Mark X,
respectively, he said.  “If people start to realize the fun of driving and owning
an import car instead of just focusing on gas mileage and price,
we’re hopeful this may spur a change in Japanese car-buying
trends,” said Hiroshi Okita, president of Audi’s Japan unit.  Toyota’s Prius gasoline-electric hybrid car was Japan’s
best-selling model last year, helped by government incentives
encouraging purchases of fuel-efficient models.  Biased  Japanese car buyers are also biased toward domestic
products, which are perceived to be the best, said Gerry
Dorizas, head of Volkswagen’s Japan unit.  Other factors also keep imports at a disadvantage, said
Ivan Hodac, secretary general of the  European Automobile
Manufacturers Association.  In particular, minicars are favored
by Japan’s tax system, he said.  The vehicles, which have engines smaller than 0.66 liters,
made up a third of domestic passenger-car sales last year.
Suzuki Motor Corp.’s  WagonR , Japan’s best-selling minicar,
starts at 1.07 million yen ($13,300).  Japan-only specifications for emissions and electronics
also burden import brands, causing in one case a delay of nine
months for a new model introduction last year, Mercedes-Benz’s
Speeks said.  Such barriers make it less attractive for European
carmakers to agree to a free-trade agreement being discussed
between the European Union and Japan, unless they are lowered,
Hodac said.  “This market is extremely difficult to penetrate,” he
said.  For BMW dealer Kubota, the aftermath of the earthquake has
led to a noticeable increase in showroom traffic.  “It may be inappropriate to say, but this is an
opportunity for us,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  