-- 
Bonds Slump Most in 15 Months on Deficit Setback: India Credit

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-06-05T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/bonds-slump-most-in-15-months-as-budget-deficit-goal-withers-india-credit.html
India’s corporate  bond market  is
signaling that the government will fail to meet its target of
cutting the budget deficit to a four-year low.  The yield on Steel Authority of India Ltd.’s 8.8 percent
securities due in October 2016 surged 22 basis points, or 0.22
percentage point, last week to 9.79 percent as the state-owned
company deferred its stock sale. The rates on the notes of Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. and Indian Oil Corp., other companies in which
the government plans to reduce stakes, touched the highest level
in 16 months on growing concerns they won’t be able to sell
shares this year.  Corporate bonds are bearing the brunt of investor concerns
that the government will fail to raise $9 billion from asset
sales by March 31 to cut the budget gap to 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product. Sovereign notes, which ended the longest
stretch of declines in 14 months last week, slid 1.4 percent
this quarter, according to Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. Yields
on 10-year bonds of 8.3 percent are more than double the U.S.
rate and the highest among the so-called BRIC countries.  “There is no appetite at the moment for share sales as
market sentiment is very poor,” Killol Pandya, who manages the
equivalent of $300 million as the Mumbai-based head of fixed
income at Daiwa Mutual Fund, said in an interview on June 2.
“The government will definitely miss the disinvestment target
and that’s bad for the fiscal deficit.”  Revenue, Expenses  India ’s benchmark Sensitive Index of shares has slid 10.4
percent this year, the worst performance in Asia after  Vietnam ,
posing a challenge to fresh equity sales. Steel Authority is
“waiting for the market to stabilize,” Chairman C.S. Verma
said in an interview on June 1, when the plan was shelved. The
government aimed to sell a 5 percent stake in the nation’s
second-biggest producer, boosting state revenue by about $672
million, based on closing prices on June 3.  The government’s budget, which assumed a 38 percent drop in
energy subsidies, has come under pressure from rising oil
prices,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao told
reporters last month. This year’s  budget-deficit  target is
“difficult to achieve,” Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of
the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, told reporters
in Mumbai on June 2.  Growth Slows  India’s 10-year bonds completed their first weekly rally
since April on June 3 after official data on May 31 showed the
economy expanded 7.8 percent in the three months to March, the
least since the quarter ended December 2009. The yield on the
government’s 7.8 percent bonds due in April 2021 dropped 19
basis points last week to 8.27 percent, according to the central
bank’s trading system.  “The delay in the disinvestment process will certainly not
give confidence to deficit hawks,” Ritesh Jain, the Mumbai-
based head of investments at Canara Robeco Asset Management Ltd.
that oversees $2.2 billion said in an interview on June 3.
“Slowing GDP growth will also reduce tax collections. It’s a
double whammy with expenditure expected to go up and revenue
collections coming down.”  The 10-year bond yield will rise to between 8.5 percent and
8.8 percent by September if  oil prices  remain at about $100 a
barrel in  New York , he said.  Corporate Yields  The difference between India’s notes due in a decade and
similar-maturity U.S. bonds has widened to 533 basis points from
463 at the end of last year. Rupee debt returned 0.9 percent
this year, the second-worst performance among 10 Asian local-
currency debt markets outside  Japan  tracked by HSBC Holdings
Plc.  In the corporate bond market, the difference in yields
between India’s top-rated three-year rupee company debt and
similar-maturity  government bonds  has more than doubled to 205
basis points, from 83 a year earlier.  D.H. Pai Panandiker, president of RPG Foundation, an
economic policy group in  New Delhi , said the government still
has time to carry out its share sales.  “It is too early to assume that share sale target will be
missed, we are only in the first quarter,” he said. “I expect
 market sentiment  to improve from September.”  The yield on the 8.54 percent notes of ONGC Videsh Ltd., a
unit of the explorer, rose 42 basis points to 9.62 percent this
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rate reached 9.63 percent on May 31, the highest level
since the securities were issued in January 2010. The yield on
Indian Oil’s 11 percent bond due in September 2018 has climbed
30 basis points since March 31 to 9.76 percent. The rate touched
9.94 percent on May 27, the highest since October 2009.  Sentiment  “If the funds are not going to be mobilized through the
equity route, then the companies’ debt burden will increase,”
Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd.,
said in an interview on June 3. “Bond yields of these companies
are simply reflecting sentiment from deferment of the share
sales.”  The rupee has dropped 0.25 percent this year, the worst
performance among  Asia ’s most-traded currencies after the  Thai
baht , as global funds sold $86 million more Indian shares. The
currency traded at 44.90 per dollar at the end of last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned  State
Bank  of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, increased 20 basis points this year to 181, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “I am very worried about the fiscal position,”  Ramya Suryanarayanan , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in
 Singapore , said in an interview on June 3. “When growth is
slowing and the equity markets are not doing well, selling
shares of state firms is a challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net .
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  