-- 
Cameron Urges U.K. Businesses to Curtail Marketing to Children

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-06-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/cameron-urges-u-k-businesses-to-curtail-marketing-to-children.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  urged
British businesses to reduce the amount of marketing they aim at
children, as well as their exposure to sexual images on posters,
television and the internet.  The government will today publish a report by Reg Bailey of
the  Mothers’ Union  on the commercialization and sexualization of
childhood, which recommends age restrictions on music videos,
requiring retailers to cover up the front pages of magazines and
newspapers with sexual images, restricting what kinds of
advertising can be displayed near schools and playgrounds, and
banning firms from employing under-16s as “brand ambassadors.”  Cameron has urged businesses to display more “social
responsibility.” At the same time, he has said he wants
government to regulate less. In a letter to Bailey released by
the prime minister’s office, Cameron said he wanted companies to
implement the report without waiting for changes to the law.
He’ll meet retailers, advertisers and others in October to hear
about their progress.  “As you say, we should not to try and wrap children up in
cotton wool or simply throw our hands up and accept the world as
it is,” Cameron wrote to Bailey. “Instead, we should look to
put ‘the brakes on an unthinking drift towards ever greater
commercialization and sexualization.’”  Bailey’s report also recommends tighter rules on what
broadcasters can air before 9 p.m. and a code of practice for
retailers about age-appropriate clothing, something that
Cameron, who has two young daughters, has called for previously.  “Society has become increasingly full of sexualized
imagery,” Bailey said in an e-mailed statement. “This has
created a wallpaper to children’s lives. Parents feel there is
‘no escape’ and no ‘clear space’ where children can be
children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 