-- 
Vietnam Says Chinese Boat Harassed Survey Ship; China Disputes

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-09T19:30:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/china-reassures-its-neighbors-after-clashes-over-claims-in-south-china-sea.html
A Chinese vessel harassed a survey
ship operated by  Vietnam  Oil & Gas Group in the South China Sea
yesterday, Vietnam said, escalating tensions between the
neighbors after a similar incident two weeks ago.  A Chinese fishing boat rammed the survey cables of the
PetroVietnam ship yesterday morning in a “premeditated”
incident, Vietnam Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokeswoman Nguyen Phuong Nga told reporters. She said the ship was conducting a
seismic survey in Block 136-03, an  area  more than 1,000
kilometers (622 miles) from China’s Hainan island.  “These acts are tailored in a very systematic way by the
Chinese side with the aim to turn undisputed areas into disputed
areas,” Nga said. Calgary-based  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  said in
April it planned to conduct a “ major seismic program ” this
year in the area where the incident occurred.  The confrontation took place four days after Chinese
Defense Minister Liang Guanglie sought to assure his country’s
neighbors at a regional forum in  Singapore  that China poses no
threat. Vietnam and the  Philippines  have proceeded with oil and
gas exploration in disputed waters, rejecting China’s claims.  Hong Lei, China’s foreign ministry spokesman said that a
confrontation had taken place, and that armed Vietnamese vessels
had chased away Chinese fishermen, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported today.  A Chinese fishing vessel got tangled with cables of the
“illegally operating” oil-exploration vessel “in the turmoil”
and was dragged for more than an hour before the fishermen cut
themselves free, China’s official news service reported.  ‘Indisputable Sovereignty’  China has “indisputable sovereignty” over the Spratly
islands, which it calls the Nansha islands, and its fisherman
have been visiting the Vanguard Bank, the site of the
exploration, “from generation to generation,” Hong said, as
cited by Xinhua. Hong called on Vietnam to “stop all action that
violates Chinese sovereignty.”  Vietnam said Chinese vessels on May 26 cut cables of the
Binh Minh 02, a PetroVietnam survey ship, and last week formally
protested  China ’s threatening of Vietnamese fishermen near the
disputed Spratly Islands. The moves sparked a demonstration of
several hundred people in Hanoi on June 5 spurred by calls on
 Facebook  and other social media.  The Chinese boat was equipped with “specialized cable-
cutting devices” that got entangled with the survey ship,
forcing other boats to come to its aid, Nga said yesterday at
the regular press briefing. The Binh Minh 02 has been repaired
and is operating with eight escort vessels to ensure “other
vessels operating in the area will not collide” with the ship.  ‘No Legal Grounds’  Vietnam Defense Minister Phung Quang Thanh June 5 rejected
China’s map of the  South China Sea  as a basis for joint
development of oil and gas resources because it has “no legal
grounds.” The Philippines said this week the Chinese-claimed
Reed Bank Basin in the sea was off limits for joint exploration.  The Philippines will assert its “territorial rights” in
the South China Sea “with firmness” and at “every appropriate
opportunity” as a sovereign nation, President  Benigno Aquino ’s
spokesman Edwin Lacierda said in a statement yesterday. It
protested Chinese ships moving into waters near the islands it
claims last month and chasing away a  Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  survey
vessel in March.  Talisman,  Canada ’s third-largest oil company by market
value, will start exploratory drilling about 1,000 kilometers
(625 miles) from Hainan, located off China’s southern coast,
after a seismic program this year, according to a  corporate
presentation  on its website last month.  The company, partnered with Hanoi-based PetroVietnam, has
“legitimate licenses” and plans to push ahead “at a normal
pace,” chief executive officer John Manzoni said in a May 4
interview.  -- Nicholas Heath  in Hanoi and Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok. With
assistance from Michael Forsythe in Beijing. Editors: Josh Fellman, Bill Koenig  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  