-- 
Commodity Bubbles Caused by Speculators Need Intervention, UN Agency Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-05T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/commodity-bubbles-caused-by-speculators-need-intervention-un-agency-says.html
Commodity markets need international
oversight, more transparency and intervention to deflate bubbles
because increasing speculation means prices are no longer driven
by supply and demand, the  United Nations  said.  Increased investment in commodity markets has encouraged
“herding behavior” and creates bubbles, the UN’s Conference on
Trade and Development said in a report published today.
Anticipation of the global economic recovery played a
“disproportionate role” in higher commodity prices, it said.  “Prices can move far from levels justified by the
fundamentals for extended periods, leading to an increasing risk
of price bubbles,” the UN said in the report. “Due to these
distortions, commodity prices do not always provide correct
signals about the relative scarcity of commodities.”  The UN’s Food Price Index neared a record set in February
last month as commodity futures gained. Corn on the Chicago
Board of Trade and silver have more than doubled in the past
year and gold is up 27 percent. Rice is up 32 percent.  The “financialization” of commodity markets that’s
increased since 2004 has led to a lack of “price discovery”
that farmers and miners use to make hedging decisions, according
to the UN report.  Trend Follower  “Market participants make trading decisions based on
factors that are totally unrelated to the respective commodity,
such as portfolio considerations, or they may be following a
trend,” the UN agency said. “The price discovery mechanism is
seriously distorted.”  Providing more timely data on fundamentals, information
about market participants, especially in  Europe , increasing
position limits and banning proprietary trading by financial
institutions that are involved in making hedging decisions for
their clients are ways to solve problems associated with
speculative investments in commodities, the UN said.  Introducing a tax system that slows financial market
activities and more government involvement in trading is needed
to ensure traders are considering supply and demand fundamentals
when investing, it said.  Making decisions that ignore fundamentals such as the
amount of stockpiles available, weather and demand for
agriculture commodities work against assumptions of the so-
called efficient market hypothesis, according to the report.
That theory states that prices will rise or fall based on supply
and demand, according to the UN.  Other Markets  “Contrary to the assumptions of the efficient market
hypothesis, the majority of market participants do not base
their trading decisions purely on the fundamentals of supply and
demand,” the UN agency said. “They also consider aspects which
are related to other markets or to portfolio diversification.”  Herd mentality takes over when traders make investment
decisions based on what others are doing or when they follow
trends that aren’t fundamentally driven, according to the
report. Study organizers who interviewed 22 market participants
reported “widespread herd behavior,” the agency said.  “Physical traders, in particular, emphasized that the
activities of financial players have strong effects on commodity
markets and sometimes impair the functioning of commodity
futures for hedging,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  