-- 
DAX Benchmark Drops; EON, RWE, Deutsche Bank Fall as Bayer Shares Increase

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-06T15:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/daimler-volkswagen-prosiebensat1-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated, extending
five weeks of losses for the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , as utilities
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  declined.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  slid as plans to close Germany’s nuclear
power plants by 2022 moved closer to becoming law. Deutsche Bank
followed European banking shares lower.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
fell after a trade group cut the industry’s profit forecast.  The benchmark DAX Index declined 0.3 percent to 7,084.57 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The measure slipped 0.8
percent last week as Moody’s Investors Service raised Greece’s
default risk to 50 percent and U.S. factory orders fell the most
in almost a year. The broader HDAX Index also dropped 0.3
percent today.  The European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  last
week agreed to pay their next installment to  Greece  under last
year’s bailout, paving the way for an upgraded aid package that
includes a “voluntary” role for investors.  “I expect the euro group to agree to additional financing
to be provided to Greece under strict conditionality,” said
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, after meeting with Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  in Luxembourg on June 3. Juncker and Olli Rehn, EU
Economic and Monetary Commissioner, are scheduled to speak in
Strasbourg,  France , today.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, lost 1.9 percent to
40.12 euros. Banking shares posted the worst performance among
19 industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index,
falling 1.5 percent.  Utilities Drop  Banks in the European Union may have to raise 29 billion
euros ($42 billion) following this year’s stress tests,
according to a survey by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  EON and RWE,  Germany ’s largest utilities, declined 2.2
percent to 18.42 euros and 0.8 percent to 37.88 euros,
respectively. Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet backed plans to
close Germany’s nuclear power plants by 2022 and the main
opposition party signaled its support for the policy, easing the
way for the legislation to pass parliament.  Lufthansa, Europe’s second-biggest airline, slipped 1
percent to 14.54 euros, the lowest price in a month. The
 International Air Transport Association  cut its 2011 industry
profit forecast by 54 percent because of higher  oil prices ,
political protests in the  Middle East  and North Africa, and the
Japan earthquake.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  advanced 1.5 percent to 56.25 euros as a test
showed that an experimental prostate-cancer drug the company had
licensed from Algeta ASA helped improve patient survival.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  