-- 
German E. Coli Sleuths Eye Sprouts as Source of Outbreak

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-06-06T12:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/deaths-linked-to-germany-s-e-coli-outbreak-now-at-22-eu-says.html
German officials said sprouts from an
organic farm near the town of Uelzen played a role in the
country’s lethal E. coli outbreak, returning suspicions to the
region where the infections began last month.  The outbreak has killed 22 people and sickened 2,333,
according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and
Control, and put pressure on hospitals near the hard-hit areas
of Hamburg and Bremen. At least one worker at the farm near
Uelzen has been infected with E. coli and it supplied places
where the bacterium was found, Gert Lindemann, the state
agriculture minister, told reporters in Hanover yesterday.  German officials initially blamed Spanish cucumbers,
causing outrage in the southern European nation. Sprouts may
have been overlooked at first because they’re used in an array
of dishes including salads and sandwiches, and as a garnish,
said  Michael Osterholm , director of the Center for Infectious
Disease Research and Policy at the  University of Minnesota  in
 Minneapolis .  “People don’t think of them as produce,” Osterholm said
in a telephone interview today. Even so, “sprouts should have
just screamed at the investigators” after they were implicated
in earlier outbreaks, he said. E. coli-contaminated radish
sprouts were blamed for sickening about 6,000 people in  Japan  in
1996, according to a 1997 report by the U.S.  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.   Bean and Broccoli  About 18 different sprouts grown by the company, including
bean, broccoli and garlic, are under investigation, Lindemann
said yesterday. The sprouts can’t be solely to blame for the
outbreak, he added.  Pinpointing where and how the germ entered the food chain
will enable authorities to control the outbreak, which the
European Centre for Disease Prevention  said  caused 21 deaths in
Germany and one in  Sweden .  The organic farm, called Gaertnerhof Bienenbuettel, said in
a  statement  it had informed customers and was “shocked and
concerned” by the news. Only water and seeds are used to grow
sprouts and no animal manure is used as fertilizer in the
process, Klaus Verbeck, the owner, said in an interview with
Neuen Osnabruecker Zeitung today. Black-and-white cows graze in
a nearby field. Cattle are the main reservoir for E. coli.  More than a quarter of the people reported to have been
sickened by the new enterohemorrhagic E. coli bacteria developed
a potentially deadly kidney complication known as hemolytic
uremic syndrome.  Definitive Tests  “The source of the outbreak is under investigation, but
contaminated food seems the most likely vehicle of infection,”
the Stockholm-based ECDC said in a statement.  Officials in Lower Saxony warned against eating sprouts,
tomatoes, cucumber as well as salads and said results of more
definitive tests may be released today.  It’s unclear whether the bacteria came from the water the
sprout seeds were grown in or the seedlings themselves, which
came both from within  Germany  and from outside the country,
Lindemann said. The farm has been shut down, he said.  Sprouts were either delivered directly by the farm or
through a distributor to the states of Hamburg, Schleswig-
Holstein, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Lower Saxony and Hesse,
Lindemann said.  Luebeck Restaurant  The German variant of E. coli, known as O104, is a hybrid
of strains that can cause hemolytic uremic syndrome and bloody
diarrhea as well as resistance to about a dozen antibiotics.  Some patients require the use of dialysis to cleanse the
blood. Patients also may need transfusions after the bacteria
dissolves their red blood cells, said Robert Tauxe, deputy
director of food-borne illness at the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  E. coli commonly occur in the human gastrointestinal tract,
where they usually cause no harm.  A restaurant in Luebeck, Germany, being investigated after
17 people became ill with the same strain of E. coli, received
supplies from Hamburg, the owner told ZDF television in an
interview yesterday. Luebeck is about 65 kilometers (40 miles)
northeast of Hamburg, which European Union Health Commissioner
 John Dalli  said last week was the “epicenter” of the outbreak.  Authorities investigated the restaurant as a possible
source of cases in the outbreak, Luebecker Nachrichten reported
last week.  Members of the German Tax Administration Union, a Danish
tour group and a family became ill with enterohemorrhagic E.
coli, after eating steak and salad at the Kartoffelkellar, owner
Joachim Berger told ZDF. A 47-year-old female member of the tax
union has died and two other members have life-threatening
conditions, ZDF said, citing the union.  ‘Tense Situation’  The number of patients sickened by the outbreak has created
a “tense situation” for hospitals in the northern part of the
country, Daniel Bahr, Germany’s health minister, said in an
interview with  Bild am Sonntag  yesterday.  The lack of capacity at hospitals there, particularly in
the hard-hit areas of Hamburg and Bremen, could be offset by
hospitals in other regions, Bahr said in the interview.  The rate of new infections in Hamburg has slowed in the
last two days, Cornelia Pruefer-Storcks, the north German
state’s senator for health, said in an interview with television
station NDR. The information should be assessed with caution and
people should continue to avoid eating lettuce, tomatoes and
cucumbers.  The EU is engaged in “intensive work” to identify the
source of the outbreak after tests failed to confirm an initial
view that cucumbers from  Spain  were to blame, Dalli said at a
June 3 news conference. Further testing by authorities in
Hamburg showed the strain taken from the cucumbers was not the
same found in the stool of patients.  Import Bans  Qatar imposed a temporary ban on the importation of
tomatoes, lettuce and cucumbers from Germany and Spain, the
Qatar  News Agency  reported, citing a decision from the Supreme
Council of Health. Ships carrying fruit and vegetables from
 Europe  must have documents proving they are free of E. coli, the
news agency said.  Spanish fruit and vegetable producers are losing 225
million euros ($329 million) a week because of the outbreak as
demand falls and prices slump, said Jose Maria Pozancos,
director general of trade group FEPEX.  Usually E. coli is transmitted when feces, often from an
animal source, are ingested. In a 2006 California outbreak,
spinach was contaminated with E. coli, killing 3 people and
sickening 200. Cow feces had contaminated the water where the
vegetables were growing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net 
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 