-- 
Deluded Parties Taste Victory Without Deficit Cuts: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-06-05T14:59:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/deluded-parties-taste-victory-without-deficit-cuts-albert-hunt.html
Republicans and Democrats alike need
a significant deficit-reduction package. It is increasingly
elusive. President  Barack Obama  and his congressional allies face 
a sputtering economic recovery that signals an inhospitable
election environment next year, a bad situation getting worse.  They need an infusion of confidence that most analysts say a
serious debt deal would achieve.  Republicans need to reverse the deterioration of their
brand since they won a huge victory in last year’s congressional
elections. Today, they are seen by many voters as the party that
trades in negativity and protects the privileged at the expense
of struggling senior citizens.  Few people believe the Washington politicians won’t raise
the debt ceiling just as it is set to be breached in early
August. That likely will be accompanied by a largely cosmetic
deficit-reduction package.  In conversations with partisans of both parties over the
past week, it is clear each side believes it has the upper hand
in this struggle and feels less inclined to make concessions.  The Republican view goes something like this:  This battle is being fought on our terrain, spending; it’s
a replay of the budget debate that we won earlier this year,
with the only issue how much to cut.  Republican Allies  We have done a good job of appearing open while taking
taxes off the table. We’ve had two good allies. The first is the
anti-government activist  Grover Norquist  who’s keeping the heat
on and may be more influential in this battle than our party’s
leader in the Senate,  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , or House
Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio . Our second friend has been the
White House, which has let us dominate the dialogue. Notice that
Vice President  Joe Biden  boasted of $1 trillion in spending cuts,
without a mention of fresh revenue.  It would be helpful if we Republicans could get even a
slice of Medicare cutbacks to take a little heat off an issue
where the Democrats have hurt us. Any deficit-reduction plan,
however, will minimize the issue.  It doesn’t even hurt if a few of our more radical Tea Party
types complain about any final deal not going far enough. True,
the actual reductions, if focused only on discretionary spending,
will be small; the spending cap and sequestration rules we’re
writing will put teeth in curbing subsequent spending and will
be a politically safer backdoor way to rein in entitlements.
We’re indebted to Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill of
 Missouri , who has proposed spending limits that would result
ultimately in budget levels close to our House-passed budget.  Bully Pulpit  We’re not worried about the president’s bully pulpit. The
dirty little secret is that Obama, ideology notwithstanding, is
likely to cave if the going gets tough; he clearly doesn’t
relish confrontation.  He just backed off his choice for chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, Marine Corps General James Cartwright -- after
offering the guy the job -- when he got heat from the Pentagon.
Then there was last December’s budget accord. Sure, we gave him
temporary stimulus; in return, he backed off his pledge to veto
any extension of President  George W. Bush ’s upper-income tax
cuts and we got a sweeter deal than we hoped for on a more
generous estate tax.  The White House’s threats to campaign next year on ending
the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy are about as credible as
Obama’s threats last year.  Democrats’ Strategy  By contrast, the Democratic view goes something like this:  These Republicans are in denial, focusing on the wrong date:
last Nov. 3, when they captured control of the House. More
relevant is May 24, when a Democrat won a huge upset in an
overwhelmingly Republican New York state congressional district
by campaigning against the plan to privatize Medicare drafted by
their opposing party’s fiscal poster child, House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin .  This is killing them. If anyone doubts that, just look at
the behavior of the usually cool Ryan, who is frantically
accusing his critics of “lying” about his proposal. Then
there’s the letter from 42  House Republicans  imploring Obama to
“stop the political rhetoric” and to “stand above
partisanship.” on Medicare. A year ago, prominent Republicans
were railing about the Medicare “death panels” they said were
put in place by Obama’s health-care law.  The Republicans have forgotten the signs at the Tea Party
rallies in 2009 that told government to “keep its hands off my
Medicare.” No wonder Ryan is getting shrill; he just touched
the third rail.  Retreat on Taxes  Moreover, there’s a chance we Democrats could even force
them to retreat on taxes. By July, the picture will be clear;
Republicans are pushing hard for deeper cuts in education,
scientific research and Medicare, while refusing to even
consider higher taxes on the wealthy and oil companies. Man,
does this poll well for us.  If they don’t yield, we like our chances in a 2012 debate
over the Bush-era tax cuts for the rich. Unlike last year, the
Republicans now have initiated specific spending cuts and
highlighted the deficit issue; we can contrast these postures
with their no-new-revenue line in the sand and ask if they
really want to hold middle-class tax cuts hostage.  What the Republican and Democratic talking points show is
that both sides exaggerate their advantages and underestimate
their vulnerabilities.  Gang of Six  That’s why it would have been better for all -- especially
markets and the economy -- if the Senate’s so-called Gang of Six,
a bipartisan effort to channel mainly the Bowles-Simpson
deficit-reduction plan, which included both entitlement cutbacks
and revenue increases -- had held together. The group fell apart
when the conservative Republican  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  backed
away, claiming they were making little progress.  The Gang of Six used the Bowles-Simpson architecture and
moved a bit to the right --- more spending cutbacks and fewer
revenue increases to placate Republicans -- perhaps too far.
Still, there were indications that group could have won the
support of as many as 22 Senate Republicans for a coherent plan
that was a serious down payment on the long-term deficit.  If such a bipartisan accord can’t be reconstructed, the
current negotiating group led by Biden may offer a minor
palliative. It isn’t likely to do much for the Republicans’
Medicare problem or the Democrats’ confidence quandary or make
much of a dent in the deficit. It will be the politics of the
moment, which, for now, seems to satisfy both parties.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net  