-- 
Detroit Pistons Fire Coach Kuester Four Days After Team Sale Is Completed

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-06-05T20:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/detroit-pistons-fire-coach-kuester-four-days-after-team-sale-is-completed.html
The  Detroit  Pistons fired coach John Kuester four days after Tom Gores completed his purchase of the
National Basketball Association team.  An interim coach hasn’t been appointed, Pistons spokesman
Kevin Grigg said in a telephone interview.  “We do not have a timetable for hiring a successor,” the
team’s President of Basketball OperationsJoe Dumars said in an
e-mailed statement. “We’ll conduct our due diligence privately
and announce a decision when we’ve identified that individual.”  Kuester had a 57-107 record in two years with the Pistons,
including a 30-52 mark this season. Detroit finished fourth in
the five-team Eastern Conference Central division this year and
last in the standings in 2010.  Detroit hasn’t made the playoffs for the past two years,
after making eight straight trips to the postseason prior to
Kuester’s arrival. The team won its third NBA title in 2004.  Gores took ownership a day after the NBA board of governors
unanimously backed the acquisition on May 31. The $420 million
purchase includes the Pistons, the Palace of  Auburn Hills  and
DTE Energy Music Theatre, according to a Detroit Free Press
report in February. Financial terms haven’t been disclosed.  The sale by Karen Davidson ended her family’s 37-year
tenure as owner.  The 46-year-old Gores is a native of Flint,  Michigan , and
graduated from  Michigan State University . He is the founder and
chairman of  Beverly Hills , California-based private equity firm
Platinum Equity, which owns 34 companies in industries including
technology, industrials and automotive supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 