-- 
Glaxo, Merck Support Effort to Boost Vaccine Access

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-06-06T14:09:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/drugmakers-pledge-to-supply-vaccines-at-reduced-prices-to-gavi.html
(Corrects name of vaccine in fifth paragraph.)  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Merck & Co.
agreed to lower prices for vaccines to protect children against
potentially deadly diarrhea, supporting an international effort
to help least-developed nations fight diseases.  The  GAVI Alliance , set up by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates  to give the world’s poorest people better access to life-
saving immunizations, also received commitments from India-based
drugmakers Serum Institute of India Ltd. and  Panacea Biotec Ltd. (PNCB) 
to cut the price of a key pediatric vaccine, it said today.  The agreements will help the alliance prevent an extra 4
million deaths by 2015 by rolling out new vaccines to tackle the
main killers of children: pneumonia and diarrhea. The Geneva-
based group’s donors and partners are meeting in London next
week as they seek $3.7 billion to expand immunization programs
over the next five years.  “Ensuring full funding for GAVI’s goals is essential to
meeting our public health commitment to all children,” said
Julie L. Gerberding, president of Merck Vaccines, in a statement.
“The upcoming GAVI conference, and the commitments highlighted
today by so many, are critical steps toward advancing access to
vaccines in  developing countries .”  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , will offer
RotaTeq, its oral vaccine for rotavirus, to the United Nations
Children’s Fund, a GAVI Alliance partner, at $5 a dose. The
price will drop to $3.50 once the volume bought reaches 30
million doses. Merck will offer its Gardasil cervical cancer
vaccine to the GAVI Alliance at $5 a dose for certain developing
countries, it said.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc, based in London, offered to sell its
rotavirus vaccine at $2.50 per dose, or $5 to fully immunize a
child, a 67 percent reduction in the current lowest available
public price, GAVI said in a separate statement.  Bill Gates  The GAVI Alliance comprises governments of developing and
donor countries, the  World Health Organization , Unicef, the
 World Bank , vaccine makers, research and technical agencies,
civil society, the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  and other
private philanthropists.  “We’re particularly excited about the offers for rotavirus
vaccine because the shock of learning that more than 500,000
children die from a preventable disease that causes severe
diarrhea is what drew us to work in global health in the first
place,” Bill and  Melinda Gates  said in a separate statement.
“With these offers, GAVI will be able to make even greater use
of donor commitments, now and in the future, to significantly
increase the number of children it can protect from deadly yet
preventable diseases.”  Deadly Diarrhea  Rotavirus is the leading cause of severe diarrhea -- the
world’s biggest killer of children after pneumonia.  Bharat Biotech, the Serum Institute and Shantha Biotechnics,
a subsidiary of Paris-based Sanofi, are developing rotavirus
vaccines for GAVI-eligible countries, the alliance said.
Vaccines from these suppliers aren’t expected to be ready for
purchase through Unicef for about four more years. Bharat
Biotech may offer further price reductions and lower the cost of
immunizing a child to $3, according to GAVI.  The Serum Institute reduced prices for the pentavalent
vaccine, which protects against five fatal diseases, to $1.75 a
dose -- the lowest available, GAVI said. Panacea Biotec said it
would cut prices for the same shot by as much as 15 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blanche Gatt in  London  at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  