-- 
Erdogan’s Gun-Toting Candidates May Not Win Over Kurds Rejecting Overtures

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-06T13:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/erdogan-s-gun-toting-candidates-may-not-win-over-kurds-rejecting-overtures.html
Galip Ensarioglu, leader of the
Kurdish tribe sharing his surname, slips his pistol beneath his
desk as he sits down at his election headquarters in Diyarbakir.  The main city of Turkey’s largely Kurdish southeast has
been scarred by violence for decades, as armed militants fight
for autonomy. The owner of Ensarioglu Insaat Taahut Ticaret AS,
a construction company, and former head of the Diyarbakir
chamber of commerce, Ensarioglu is one of the prominent locals
tapped by Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  to win Kurdish
support as he seeks a third term.  Ensarioglu, 44, joins a team that includes the ethnically
Kurdish ministers of finance and agriculture, Mehmet Simsek and
Mehdi Eker. On the campaign trail, though, they’re confronted by
voters who have largely rejected attempts to reach out to Kurds.
That limits Erdogan’s chances of the landslide win in the June
12 vote that he needs to rewrite Turkey’s constitution. And it
raises the risk of violence in a conflict that has already
killed 40,000 and cost $300 billion by government estimates.  Erdogan “had big hopes to win far more seats in the
southeast, that’s not going to happen,” said  Wolfango Piccoli ,
a London-based analyst at the Eurasia Group, which monitors
political risk. “It’s going to affect the ruling party’s
ability to get a big majority.”  ‘Take Flags, Go’  The resurgence of pro-Kurdish parties in the southeast
underscores their disappointment in Erdogan. As a politician who
saw courts ban a series of Islamic-inspired parties he joined in
the 1980s and 1990s, Erdogan said he understood the political
oppression of Kurds. Kurds gave him a chance at elections in
2007, when he swept to victory in eight of 14 southeastern
provinces. Now, many say he hasn’t carried through.  Erdogan’s main rival for Kurdish votes is the Peace and
Democracy Party. It argues that Kurds should be allowed to
govern their region, without seceding from  Turkey .  “Let them take their Turkish flags and go, that’s the
attitude of people here,” said Servet Oner, a party director
for women’s issues.  Like Ensarioglu, Oner, 31, is no stranger to guns. Before
joining politics, she spent more than six years in prison after
being caught training as a guerrilla with the Kurdistan Workers’
Party, or PKK, in the mountains outside Diyarbakir.  The PKK is listed as a terrorist group by Turkey, the U.S.
and the European Union. The Peace and Democracy Party, which has
links with the fighters, swept Diyarbakir and other southeastern
cities in March 2009 local elections, the last nationwide vote.
Its candidates may win as many as 30 seats in parliament, up
from 20 now, Piccoli said. That may shrink Erdogan’s majority
even if his party repeats the 47 percent vote it won four years
ago, as predicted in a  Pollmark survey  last week.  Two-Thirds Majority  Governments can send constitutional changes to a referendum
with 330 votes in the 550-seat parliament, or put them straight
on the statute books with 367 votes. Erdogan, who says a new
charter is his priority after re-election, now has 331 seats.  In most Turkish regions, Erdogan campaigns on his economic
record. Since his  Justice and Development Party  won power in
2002,  per capita output almost tripled , exceeding $10,000 last
year according to the Treasury. The benchmark ISE-100 stock
index has jumped more than sixfold in dollar terms -- almost
twice the gain on the MSCI Emerging Market Index -- and yields
on benchmark lira bonds have dropped to about 9 percent, from
above 50 percent.  The southeast has also gained: Erdogan is spending $15
billion on an irrigation project there. Still, two of every
three unemployed people in Diyarbakir have stopped looking for
work, according to a 2009 Turkish Statistical Institute report.
Per capita output was $2,904, less than half the national
average of $6,684 in 2006, the latest figures given.  ‘Erdogan Cheated You’  In Zilek, about 10 kilometers (6 miles) west of the city of
Batman, the Peace and Democracy Party’s candidate, Leyla Zana,
tells villagers that Kurdish political demands come first.  “We need roads, electricity, and work, but before all this
we need peace,” said Zana, who spent 9 1/2 years in prison for
supporting the PKK. “You want a better life, but Erdogan has
cheated you,” she tells them in Kurdish, a language banned
until 1991, to applause and yodeling. “There’s no justice, and
with no justice there will be no peace.”  Zana’s convoy entered Zilek led by a bus painted yellow,
green and red, the colors of Kurdish nationalism, blasting a
song about the group’s leader, Abdullah Ocalan, who’s serving a
life sentence in a Marmara Sea island prison.  Speaking in Diyarbakir June 1, Erdogan said the Peace and
Democracy Party “gets its strength from the PKK and wants to
divide us.” He vowed roads, hospitals and schools, and said his
government has done more for Kurds than any in Turkey’s history,
such as his acknowledgment of a “Kurdish problem,” and the end
of a state of emergency and language restrictions.  ‘We’re Brothers, Man!’  “Diyarbakir, we’re brothers, man!” Erdogan shouted to the
crowd.  Much of the goodwill the measures earned Erdogan evaporated
after he backed off an initiative to expand rights and pardon
militants, in part because of opposition in other parts of
Turkey. Attacks on the PKK and police raids on Kurdish
politicians haven’t stopped.  There were riots in southeastern cities last month when the
army crossed the Iraqi border to kill 12 PKK fighters. Ocalan
vowed to “turn Turkey into hell” if the government didn’t
negotiate with him, and the PKK claimed responsibility for a May
4 attack on Erdogan’s convoy in the Black Sea town of Kastamonu
that killed a policeman.  “Ocalan and the PKK are thinking this is their
opportunity, because of what’s happening in the  Middle East ,”
said Yilmaz Akinci, a board member of the Southeastern
Journalists’ Association. “Young people are more radical, they
don’t see much hope for living together with Turks.”  Asked whether his Kurdish initiative had been abandoned in
an interview with Kanal D television, Erdogan replied, “No, no,
never,” according to a transcript published by the state news
agency today. He blamed Kurdish politicians from the Peace and
Democracy Party for being “insincere” and said they had no
interest in working with the government toward a solution.  Out of Jail  Ensarioglu, at the party office where he holds court most
nights until around 1 a.m., says he agrees with Erdogan that
Kurds need economic measures and cultural rights. Hundreds of
Kurdish men sit outside drinking tea and smoking. Some have come
to wish the candidate well, some to complain about electricity
or title deeds and municipal services. Many ask for help getting
relatives out of jail.  The government has been “shy” about Kurdish reforms, for
fear of losing votes in other parts of the country, and that
will change after another election win, said Ensarioglu. “It
will be full speed ahead. We’ll change the constitution and
we’ll bring our people’s demands to the top.”  Oner, the former guerrilla and prisoner turned politician,
says she’s not convinced that strategy will work.  “There’s no one left to talk with,” Oner said. “Everyone
who could talk is in jail. Kurds are going to solve this problem
themselves -- sometimes with violence, sometimes with
politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 