-- 
Yen Gains Versus Peers as Signs of Slowing Growth Boost Demand for Safety

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-06T21:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/euro-rises-to-month-high-versus-dollar-on-optimism-eu-will-support-greece.html
The yen rose for a fourth day against
the dollar in the longest winning streak in more than a month
and gained versus the euro as signs of a slowing global economy
and a drop in stocks spurred demand for a refuge.  The euro fell against a majority of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the euro-area
finance ministers, said it’s overvalued. The Dollar Index rose
for the first time in three days as global stocks declined. The
Norwegian krone was one of the biggest losers against the dollar
among major currencies as crude oil fell below $100 a barrel.  “We’ve seen  risk aversion  move back into the fore,” said
 Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex Global
Business Payments, a currency-exchange network. “Equities are
one of the key drivers today. They aren’t down by a whole lot,
but the fact they are extending five weeks of losses is keeping
investors wary of venturing back into higher-yielding assets.”  Japan ’s currency touched a level stronger than 80 versus
the dollar for the first time since May 5 before trading at
80.10 at 5 p.m. in New York, compared with 80.34 on June 3. The
yen advanced 0.6 percent to 116.75 against the euro, from
117.48. The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.4576 after earlier
rising to $1.4658, the highest level since May 5.  John Taylor , founder of the world’s largest currency-hedge
fund, said he’ll buy the dollar as soon as the next few days
because the rally in higher-yielding assets will come to an end
amid sluggish U.S. economic growth.  Shorting the Euro  Taylor, 67, who manages about $8.5 billion, is shorting the
euro and buying the yen because of questions on how  Europe  will
resolve its sovereign-debt crisis. A short is a bet the price of
an asset will fall. FX Concepts will begin betting the dollar
will gain versus the euro, he said.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
tracks the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.3 percent to 73.979. It earlier fell to
73.64, the lowest level since May 5.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.1 percent today
after falling every week since the end of April. The MSCI World
Index declined 0.8 percent.  The yen’s gain helped to pare its decline this year. The
currency is down 4.8 percent versus the currencies of nine other
developed nations as measured by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. It has still beaten the dollar, which dropped 6.1
percent during the same period, making it the worst performer.  ‘Extremely Sensitive’  “Because we are so close to the 80 level in dollar-yen,
and we have bounced off of it a few times, that cross is going
to be extremely sensitive,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London .
“Because of the technical position in dollar-yen, you can see
where people are starting to get a bit nervous about a break
lower.”  The euro extended its decline against the dollar as
Luxembourg Prime Minister Juncker said  European Central Bank 
President Jean-Claude Trichet’s proposal to create a euro-area
 finance ministry  “‘won’t work.” Juncker, speaking to a
European Parliament committee in Strasbourg,  France , said the
euro area has no exchange-rate objective.  “I’m more inclined to think that we should have an
exchange-rate policy,” said Juncker.  The euro is “rather overvalued” against other major
currencies, he told the committee.  Some euro-area “member states see their life made
difficult by the rather overvalued rate at the moment,” Juncker
said.  The shared currency is trading 22 percent above its four-
year low of $1.1877 reached a year ago tomorrow.  ECB Rate  The European Central Bank is expected to leave its 1.25
percent main refinancing rate unchanged at its June 9 meeting,
according to all 52 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. A
separate survey of economists shows they expect the rate to rise
to 1.75 percent by the end of this year.  “A lot of good news is priced into the euro right now,
said Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “Any sort of wobble with respect to
sovereign debt, any kind of disappointment that the ECB gives on
Thursday, there’s more downside than upside for the euro.”  Norway’s krone fell against most of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg as July futures for crude oil,
its largest export, fell as much as 1.7 percent to $98.55 a
barrel in New York.  The krone depreciated 1 percent to 5.3817 per dollar and
slid 0.5 percent against the euro to 7.8437.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  