-- 
Funds Boost Bullish Commodity Bets Amid Improving Global Growth Prospects

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-06-06T13:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/funds-boost-bullish-commodity-bets-amid-improving-global-growth-prospects.html
Funds boosted bets on rising
commodity prices to the highest in four weeks, led by copper,
amid signs that the global economic recovery will remain
resilient and boost demand for  raw materials .  Speculators raised their net-long positions in 18
commodities by 7.3 percent to 1.26 million futures and options
contracts in the week ended May 31, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the highest since May 3. Copper holdings
more than doubled. A measure of bullish agriculture bets also
climbed as adverse global weather curbed crop production.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index rose for a fourth
straight week as Chinese metal inventories plunged and droughts
lingered in the Asian country and Europe, trimming prospects for
wheat and cotton crops. The global recovery “is gaining
strength,” the Group of Eight leaders said on May 27 after a
summit in France. In the U.S., consumer sentiment rose to a
three-month high in May, a private report showed last month.  “We are seeing a reasonable rate of growth in worldwide
economic activity,” said  Michael Cuggino , who helps manage $12
billion at Permanent Portfolio Funds in  San Francisco . “The
supply-demand associated with that growth, combined with a
weaker dollar, probably explains the move into commodities.”  Copper prices have jumped 40 percent in the past year,
while wheat has surged 75 percent and corn has more than doubled
amid increasing demand from  China  and other emerging economies.
Raw materials have also gained as investors boosted holdings as
an alternative to the dollar, which has slumped more than 6
percent this year against a six-currency basket.  $130 Million  Investors poured $130 million into commodity funds in the
week ended June 1, the second straight increase, according to
EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based researcher. The
previous week had inflows of $702.8 million.  Managed-money funds and other large speculators boosted
bullish bets on New York copper prices by 4,604 contracts to
7,304. The jump was the biggest since October 2009. Stockpiles
of the metal monitored by Shanghai Futures Exchange have plunged
51 percent since mid-March.  “Destocking cannot continue indefinitely, and market
participants will have to return to the market at the latest in
the fourth quarter, if not for re-stocking, then at least for
spot purchases,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a report
last week.  Agriculture Bets  Speculators raised their net-long positions in 11 U.S. farm
goods by 4.6 percent to 756,629 contracts as of May 31, the
second straight increase. Holdings of wheat jumped 14 percent,
and bets on a cotton rally gained 12 percent, the most since
August.  “It has basically been a year of the wrong weather at the
wrong time, starting with the Russian droughts and then most
recently excessive rains in the U.S.,” said Nic Johnson, who
helps manage about $24 billion in commodities at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California .
Agriculture “prices could move materially higher because of low
inventories and if we have below-trend yields of crops like
corn,” he said.  Commodity demand may wane after manufacturing slowed from
China to  India  last month, and the  unemployment rate  in the U.S.
unexpectedly climbed.  “We do not think a global slowdown will last for months on
end, but certainly, it very well could persist through the
summer, in which case one should resist getting lulled in on the
long side,”  Edward Meir , a senior analyst at MF Global Holdings
Ltd. in Darien,  Connecticut , said today in a report.  The GSCI index fell 0.3 percent at 9:49 a.m. New York time,
led by agricultural futures. Wheat in  Chicago  dropped as much as
1.9 percent as rain may improve yields in parts of  Europe . Corn
declined 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  