-- 
Gates Outlines Afghanistan Drawdown Terms on Farewell Tour to U.S. Troops

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-06T05:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/gates-in-farewell-is-confident-of-balance-in-afghanistan-withdrawal.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , on a
round of farewells to U.S. troops in Afghanistan, began laying
out parameters for the administration’s decision on how many
military personnel to withdraw over the coming months.  As field commanders described swimming in the Arghandab
River that was controlled by the Taliban just 12 months ago,
Gates said persistence would allow the U.S.-led coalition to
“turn the corner in this conflict” by the end of the year. He
leaves office at the end of this month after 4 ½ years.  “No one wants to give up the gains that have been won at
such a hard cost, and nobody wants to give our allies the excuse
to run for the exits,” Gates told troops of the Army’s 1st
Brigade, 4th Infantry Division at Forward Operating Base Walton
yesterday in Kandahar City, once considered the Taliban’s
heartland. “I have confidence that we’ll strike the right
balance.”  In addition to conditions on the ground, Gates said long-
term considerations should influence how to meet President
Barack Obama’s timeline of beginning to withdraw forces next
month. One issue is how long last year’s increase of 30,000 U.S.
forces should last, he said.  “It’s really not so much about where you start, but what
the next year and a half to two years looks like,” Gates said.
“We have to look at it strategically like that and not just
focus on the front end of this and whatever number gets
announced in July.”  Weary of War  Obama is confronting the drawdown decision as U.S. voters
and leaders in other coalition nations grow weary of the war and
members of the Congress seize on the killing of al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden as a sign the country can wind down its
involvement in  Afghanistan .  “I have every confidence the decision that will be made
will be a responsible one,” Gates told about 150 members of the
“Raider” Brigade in Kandahar, gathered under tan camouflage
nets for relief from temperatures above 100 degrees Fahrenheit.  The brigade, due to rotate back to the U.S. within weeks,
will be replaced by the 2nd Brigade Combat Team, from the same
infantry division.  “What you’ve done here in Arghandab and in the Kandahar
area is absolutely amazing,” Gates told the soldiers. “Over
the last year, essentially you have ejected the Taliban from
their home territory.”  A year ago, when Task Force Raider first arrived, Taliban
fighters would snatch ordinary civilians and hang them as a
warning to others, said Lieutenant Colonel Rodger Lemons.  ‘Better Every Week’  “It continues to get better every week as we get into the
summer,” Lemons said. “In the early spring, you’d see a couple
thousand people out. Now you see 12,000 to 15,000 people on a
Friday through this entire area because they don’t feel they’ll
be intimidated by the Taliban.”  The number of insurgent attacks with roadside bombs or
direct fire has dropped to four or five a week compared with as
many as 50 a week a year ago, Lemons said.  Still, in April, insurgents assassinated Kandahar City’s
police chief, General Khan Mohammed Mujahid, who cooperated
closely with Task Force Raider and the 1st Brigade Combat Team,
commander Colonel Jeffrey Martindale said. He’s lost 16 of his
own soldiers in the past year.  Gates told reporters later at the U.S. Marine Corps’s Camp
Dwyer in neighboring Helmand Province that, while he would
prefer to reduce support personnel before combat troops, the
plan probably will require a combination.  “I would try to maximize my combat capability as long as
this process goes on -- I think that’s a no-brainer,” Gates
said.  Soviet Union   The cut also shouldn’t telegraph to Afghans that the U.S.
and its partners will abandon their country as they did after
the Soviet Union pulled out in 1989, Gates said.  Army General David Petraeus, the top U.S. and NATO
commander in Afghanistan, is developing recommendations with his
successor, Lieutenant General John Allen, for a discussion of
the options in Washington.  Gates has said it’s too soon to see any effect from bin
Laden’s death, though it might ultimately persuade Taliban
leader Mullah Omar to split with al-Qaeda because the alliance
between the groups was based in part on the leaders’ personal
ties.  At Camp Dwyer, U.S. Marine Corps Major General John Toolan
said that, while parts of Helmand Province have been tamed, the
upper Helmand River Valley poses a challenge. He also said he’s
focusing on how to develop the Afghan National Army, the
facilities and equipment it will need to function in the long
term and what skills its soldiers still need.  “The biggest fear for the Afghans is that we’ll leave and
leave them cold without development projects,” Toolan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Kandahar, Afghanistan, via 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  