-- 
German Banks Top French With $23 Billion in Greek Debt, BIS Report Shows

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-06-06T08:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/german-banks-top-french-with-23-billion-in-greek-debt-bis-says.html
German lenders were the biggest
foreign owners of Greek  government bonds  with $22.7 billion in
holdings last year, making them a likely negotiation partner in
burden-sharing deals for the country, data from the  Bank for
International Settlements  showed.  French banks, which led the group of Greek creditors with
 overall claims  amounting to $56.7 billion, trailed their German
peers on sovereign debt with $15 billion, according to the June
report from the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS. The overall figure
for French banks was inflated by $39.6 billion in lending to
companies and households, mainly because of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s
Greek unit,  Emporiki Bank SA. (TEMP)  German lenders have no major units
in the country.  At the end of 2010, Greek government bonds held by banks in
countries reporting to the BIS totaled $54.2 billion, of which
96 percent was owned by European lenders. Germany and France,
which accounted for 69 percent, may be asked to weigh in when
the European Union goes ahead with plans to win Greece creditors
to roll over their debt in a “Vienna-style” program.  “Implementing an approach similar to the Vienna Initiative
would demonstrate private sector involvement has been
explored,” Justin Knight, a European rates strategist at UBS AG
in  London , wrote in a note last week. This may make voters
“more amenable to the idea that public sector funds need to be
deployed going forward,” he said.  Banks’ Holdings  European officials are preparing a new aid package for
Greece that includes a “voluntary” role for investors after
the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  approved the fifth
installment of Greece’s 110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout
last week.  Among the largest disclosed holdings of Greek government
bonds by non-Greek European banks are  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA’s 5 billion
euros,  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s 3.5 billion euros,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s 3 billion
euros, Societe Generale SA’s 2.7 billion euros,  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s
2.4 billion euros and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s 1.6 billion euros,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in a research note published last
month.  “We have long argued that the holdings of Greek government
debt are fairly concentrated,” Barclays Capital analysts, led
by Sherif Hamid, wrote in a note June 3. “The top 30 holders
likely account for roughly two-thirds of the debt, and this
should make it easier to negotiate and achieve a decent success
rate on any restructuring.”  340 Billion Euros  Greece’s total debt is 340 billion euros, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 7.4 billion euros in Greek government
bonds held by FMS Wertmanagement GmbH, which is winding down
assets of  Germany ’s Hypo Real Estate Holdings AG, weren’t
included in the BIS figures because FMS isn’t a bank. Neither
were the European Central Bank’s holdings, estimated at 50
billion euros by Citigroup Inc. Greek banks own about 60 billion
euros of the country’s debt, according to Goldman Sachs.  The breakdown of exposure by debtor category, released in
detail for the first time by the BIS, showed differences among
creditors’ exposure to Greece and other nations.  The new data showed that the structure of debt and the
holdings are different in Portugal and Ireland, the other two
euro-area countries that received emergency loans from the EU
and the IMF.  Overall foreign claims on Ireland, which has about half
Greece’s gross domestic product, were three times as high as
those on Greece, totaling $462.3 billion, according to the BIS.  Ireland, Portugal  Sovereign debt accounted for 4 percent of the Irish total,
compared with 37 percent in Greece. Three-quarters was lending
to companies and households, especially by British banks, whose
claims amounted to $112.4 billion. Irish banks borrowed $85.1
billion internationally, with German banks also being the
biggest lenders.  Portugal’s government owed $34.6 billion mostly to banks in
Spain, Germany and  France , with each of the countries accounting
for about a quarter of the total. Spanish banks provided more
than half of the $124.4 billion in lending to Portuguese
companies and households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  