-- 
Papandreou Is Facing Growing Backlash in Greece as Last EU Bailout Premier

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 
2011-06-06T09:23:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/greece-s-papandreou-is-facing-growing-backlash-as-final-eu-bailout-premier.html
George Papandreou  is the last man
standing among the euro-area leaders who needed a handout after
Jose Socrates’s defeat in Portuguese elections yesterday.  For Papandreou and the investors and taxpayers who will
share the cost of a beefed-up bailout for Greece, questions are
increasing about whether he will complete a term that runs until
2013 and enact the budget reductions and asset sales that his
benefactors demand.  The Greek premier, who has won assurances that
international lenders will make the next payment of last year’s
110 billion-euro ($161 billion) rescue, will aim to quell
growing dissent this week within his Socialist party -- known as
Pasok -- over deeper austerity measures as voters’ patience
wears thin and public protests mount.  “The coming week may well test the seams of Pasok in
parliament and could prove a challenge too much for
Papandreou,” said Jens Bastian, a visiting economist at St.
Antony’s College, Oxford University in  England . “It is a make
or break situation for his leadership of the party and the
government.”  So far, the Minnesota-born Papandreou, 58, has avoided the
fate of Socrates and Ireland’s Brian Cowen, who was ejected Feb.
26. In  Spain , Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has announced he
won’t seek re-election after imposing record-setting austerity
measures to avoid reaching for a lifeline.  Toppling Government  Socrates was defeated yesterday by  Pedro Passos Coelho ,
leader of the  Social Democrats , the party that helped bring down
the government by voting against Socrates’s cost-cutting plan in
March. Cowen was ousted in Ireland by Fine Gael headed by  Enda Kenny , who has been lobbying for more favorable bailout terms
since becoming prime minister.  A year after the rescue that aimed to stop the spread of
the debt crisis,  Greece  is in a third year of recession, shut
out of the financial markets and saddled with the biggest debt
load in the euro’s history. Ireland and  Portugal  followed in
seeking bailouts and Greece now needs a second rescue package to
avoid the euro area’s first sovereign default.  Markets Closed  Under the original rescue, Greece was due to sell 27
billion euros of bonds next year. EU leaders and Papandreou have
acknowledged that a return to markets won’t be possible with
Greece’s 10-year notes yielding 16 percent, more than twice the
level at the time of the bailout. The EU is looking to close
that funding gap through new loans and bondholders’ willingness
to roll over Greek debt, EU officials have said.  Papandreou agreed to 78 billion euros in additional
austerity measures and asset sales through 2015 to secure the 12
billion-euro bailout payment in July and meet conditions for
receiving an additional rescue package. He agreed to make
“significant” cuts in public-sector employment and establish
an agency to manage accelerated asset sales, according to a
statement released in  Athens  on June 3.  “Even if he gets the medium-term economic plan through
parliament, the political turmoil is likely to continue as a
second bailout will also require a parliamentary vote,” said
 Wolfango Piccoli , a London-based analyst at the Eurasia Group,
which monitors political risk. Piccoli said he expected
Papandreou to clinch a vote on the fiscal plan as “a no-vote
would be suicidal for both Greece and the ruling party.”  Bonds Gain  Greek bonds gained June 3 on the prospect of a new aid
plan, with the yield on two-year notes falling 172 basis points
to 22.8 percent, the lowest since April 20. The agreements came
at the end of a week when Greece’s fiscal crisis worsened enough
for Moody’s Investors Service to raise the probability of a
default to 50 percent. Today the yield fell 38 basis points to
22.5 percent.  Even as polls show most Greeks supporting plans to sell
state assets and cut government jobs, they also indicate growing
dissatisfaction with moves that will hurt incomes further.
Papandreou’s lead in polls has dissipated in the past few months
and almost nine in 10 expect conditions to worsen.  Underscoring concerns among European leaders about
political instability, European Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said June 3 that Greece’s political
parties across the spectrum must join together “for the sake of
the country.”  Athens Protests  Demonstrations modeled on the Spanish “Idignants”
protests have drawn crowds to the central Syntagma Square in
Athens each night since May 25. Shouting “thieves, thieves” at
the Parliament building and banging pots and pans, protesters
have set up camp in the square and hold ”popular assemblies”
every evening. One group is collecting signatures for an anti-
government referendum.  At least 50,000 people gathered last night, the police
estimated, the largest turnout to date. That compares with the
1,500 people who responded to a call by the country’s two
biggest unions to rally on June 4.  “The current wave of protests across Greece isn’t like the
familiar anarchic ones,” said Alastair Newton, senior political
analyst at Nomura International Plc in  London . “They look and
feel more like  Argentina  a decade ago. That does not bode well
for the political establishment as a whole.”  Argentina’s then-President Fernando de la Rua quit in
December 2001 amid riots over that country’s financial crisis,
ushering in years of political instability.  Spokesman Jeered  Government spokesman  George Petalotis  condemned on June 2 a
demonstration against Greek and European lawmakers on the island
of Corfu. He himself was jeered and besieged that night by
protesters at a party event at a retirement home in the suburbs
of Athens.  Papandreou, who has 156 seats in the 300-seat Parliament,
has a Cabinet meeting scheduled for today and plans to meet with
party officials and lawmakers to fine-tune the fiscal measures
before they are submitted to parliament. Sixteen of his Pasok
colleagues have sent him a letter requesting a full discussion
of the measures.  The sale of stakes in companies, including  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  and  Public Power Corp SA (PPC) , has
prompted unions to call for a general strike on June 15.  Papandreou “has bought time at the European level, but
must now reach consensus at home,” Bastian said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  