-- 
Groupon Chairman Remarks May Require Company to Make New Filing Before IPO

-- B y   C o r y   J o h n s o n ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-06-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/groupon-chairman-lefkofsky-says-coupon-company-will-be-wildly-profitable-.html
Remarks by Groupon Inc. Chairman Eric Lefkofsky, who said the money-losing daily-coupon provider will
be “wildly profitable,” may force the company to make new
filings before it sells shares to the public.  Lefkofsky, Groupon’s co-founder and biggest shareholder,
made the comments June 3, a day after Chicago-based Groupon
announced plans to raise $750 million in an initial public
offering.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  limits  what
companies planning IPOs can say about their prospects before
listing shares. Groupon may need to file new documents that
disclose Lefkofsky’s comments and either discount or ratify
them, said Noah Hagey, a managing partner at  BraunHagey LLP .  “Where you have somebody with insider knowledge and status
making predictions about how the company is going to perform,
which conflicts or potentially conflicts with what’s in the
registration statement, I think that draws attention,” Hagey
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  While Groupon’s sales surged 14-fold to $644.7 million last
quarter, the company has racked up operating losses of $540.2
million since its founding in 2008. That has left investors such
as Pat Becker Jr., a portfolio manager at Becker Capital
Management Inc., leery of owning the company’s shares.  Earlier Businesses  Lefkofsky made his remarks in response to questions about
the companies he has run or founded, including Starbelly.com,
 InnerWorkings Inc. (INWK)  and  Echo Global Logistics Inc. (ECHO)   “I’m going to be in technology for a long time,”
Lefkofsky said June 3. “I’m going to start a lot of companies.
These are not sham companies. These are great businesses.
InnerWorkings is profitable. Echo is profitable. Groupon is
going to be wildly profitable.”  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in  Washington ,
declined to comment, as did Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for
Groupon.  To reconcile Lefkofsky’s comments with SEC rules, the
company could file regulatory documents that say Groupon may be
“profitable” over the next decade or two, without saying
exactly when, said  Marc Morgenstern , managing partner of  Blue
Mesa Partners , a San Francisco-based investment firm.  “In effect, you have let Pandora out of her box,” said
Morgenstern, who is also a lawyer. “So, so you need to
construct a new box around Pandora.”  Playboy Interview  In 2005, the SEC adopted new rules to update securities-
offering requirements after Google Inc.’s $1.67 billion IPO a
year earlier. Playboy published an interview with Google’s
founders before the offering, raising concern about selective
disclosure. Under the revised rules, executives may speak to the
media, as in Google’s Playboy interview, provided they file a
copy of the remarks with the SEC.  “There was an effort to relax some of these
restrictions,” Hagey said. “These restrictions, in dealing
with new media issues, still present a problem for folks like
Mr. Lefkofsky.”  Groupon Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  barred
employees in a June 2 memo from making comments about the
company.  “For the next 90 days or so, we are in a ‘quiet period’
where we can’t make any forward-looking statements about the
company,” Mason wrote in the memo, obtained by Bloomberg News.
“Anything we say now can be perceived as ‘fluffing the stock’
or something like that. So please don’t say anything like
‘Groupon is awesome’ around anyone you don’t fully trust.”  Track Record  Lefkofsky, in his remarks to Bloomberg, referred to his
record in founding and running businesses. In 2001, he founded
printing-service provider InnerWorkings, which went public in
2006. He also helped found Echo Global Logistics, a shipping-
technology company, in 2005. That company held its IPO in 2009.  Lefkofsky also co-founded Starbelly.com, an online
promotional-merchandise seller, in 1999 and sold it a year later
to Ha-Lo Industries Inc. for $240 million. Ha-Lo filed for
 bankruptcy protection  from creditors in July 2001 after writing
down the acquisition.  Before Starbelly.com, Lefkofsky and his business partner,
Brad Keywell, bought children’s apparel company Brandon Apparel
Group. It later faltered, Lefkofsky  explained in his blog .  “Along with our sales growth came lots of debt which
eventually crippled the company when fashion trends changed in
the late 90’s,” Lefkofsky wrote.  Groupon has surged in the past year as consumers in more
than 500 markets worldwide flock to daily discounts of up to 90
percent at hotels, restaurants and nail salons. Its success has
inspired more than  480 imitators .  “Groupon is a huge business,” Lefkofsky said.  Lefkofsky gave Mason $1 million to start The Point, a
precursor to Groupon that  began in 2007 . It was created to help
would-be activists raise funds and build petition lists by
recruiting friends on the Web. The Point inspired Mason to try a
new site based around the idea of collective buying.  The biggest shareholder of Groupon is Green Media LLC,
which is owned by Lefkofsky and his wife, Elizabeth Kramer
Lefkofsky. Green Media owns 21.6 percent of Class A shares and
41.7 percent of Class B stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cory Johnson in  San Francisco  at 
 cjohnson114@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Colarusso at   larusso@bloomberg.net . 