-- 
IMF Agrees to $3 Billion Egypt Loan for Post-Mubarak Transition

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-06-05T12:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/imf-agrees-to-3-billion-egypt-loan-for-post-mubarak-transition.html
Egypt  and a visiting International
Monetary Fund mission agreed to a $3 billion loan as the North
African country seeks to fund its widening budget deficit after
a popular revolt earlier this year.  The 12-month loan is part of wider international support
pledges for Egypt, where the turmoil that accompanied the
uprising that led to the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  has
hurt revenue from tourism and industrial output.  “Following a revolution and during a challenging period of
political transition, the Egyptian authorities have put in place
a home-grown economic program with the overarching objective of
social justice,” Ratna Sahay, deputy director of the  Middle
East  and Central Asia Department at the IMF and head of an IMF
mission now in the country, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Egypt’s budget deficit may reach 11 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year that ends in June 2012,
compared with an expected 8.6 percent in the current one,
Finance Minister Samir Radwan said on June 1. The economy is
expected to grow 2.6 percent this fiscal year, accelerating to
3.2 percent the following year, he said.  “The fact that we’re being offered international funding
is a positive sign and should decrease the widening of the
fiscal deficit,” Mona Mansour, the co-head of research at CI
Capital, a Cairo-based investment bank, said in a phone
interview. “It shows that they have trust in the Egyptian
economy and in that it will recover.”  Global Help  U.S. President  Barack Obama  in May promised Egypt $1
billion in loan guarantees through the Overseas Private
Investment Corporation and the cancellation of $1 billion in
debt, about a third of what it owes the U.S.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy has said Group of Eight
countries will provide $10 billion in direct aid to Egypt and
Tunisia, the other Arab country where a popular uprising
unseated the president, and that oil exporting countries in the
Gulf such as Kuwait, Qatar and  Saudi Arabia  will kick in another
$10 billion. Institutions such as the  World Bank  and the African
Development Bank could provide more than $20 billion for Egypt
and Tunisia through 2013, a May 27 statement said.  Mubarak resigned on Feb. 11 after three decades in power,
ceding interim authority to a military council which dissolved
parliament and promised parliamentary and presidential elections
later this year. The revolts inspired protests across the
region, including in  Yemen ,  Syria , Bahrain and  Libya .  Radwan is slated to hold a press conference later today in
Cairo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  