-- 
India Plans Biggest Highway Expansion With $12 Billion Projects

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-06-05T18:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/india-plans-biggest-highway-expansion-with-12-billion-projects.html
India  will award 550 billion rupees
($12 billion) of highway construction projects this year, its
biggest expansion, as the nation aims to remove infrastructure
bottlenecks that hinder economic growth.  The 7,300 kilometer (4,536 miles)-project includes new
expressways as well as widening of existing roads through the
year ending March 31, J.N. Singh, finance chief of  National
Highways Authority of India , said in an interview in New Delhi.
The state-run NHAI will pay for the acquisition of land required
for the  road construction , he said on June 2.  The agency plans to raise 120 billion rupees this year by
selling bonds, Singh said, to partly fund the project that
stretches a distance almost equivalent of  London  to Mumbai. NHAI
is accelerating road construction as India aims to spend $1
trillion in the five years to 2017 to improve an infrastructure
ranked  worse  than that in  Sri Lanka  and Botswana by the  World
Economic Forum ’s Global Competitiveness Index.  The nation hasn’t met its target of building roads at a
daily average of 20 kilometers, completing just 12 kilometers a
day since April 2007, according to NHAI website. Acquisition of
land for factories and highways have sparked rioting and stalled
more than $100 billion of projects across India, according to
the Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry.  “The works we award now will get us to the target of 20
kilometers a day in three years,” Singh said. Building one
kilometer of a six-lane highway needs an investment of 130
million rupees, he said.  Caterpillar, Terex  NHAI, responsible for implementing the highway development
program, gets part of its money from a levy on the sale of
gasoline and diesel, toll collection and sale of bonds. It
awarded 12,034 kilometers of road projects in the five years to
March 2011.  Companies that win the contract will build roads and
collect tolls for up to 30 years before transferring them to the
state, Singh said. The nation’s push to upgrade its
infrastructure has prompted heavy equipment makers such as
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Terex Corp. (TEX)  to expand in India, where the
economy expanded at an average pace of more than 8 percent in
the last five years.  “Focus on road sector will directly boost gross domestic
product and indirectly help manufacturing sector," said Kumar
Ramesh, an analyst with  Frost & Sullivan . "The involvement of
private sector has significantly reduced delays in
execution” of projects, he said.  India’s infrastructure is ranked 91 out of 139 nations by
the World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Index. Poor
transport and other inadequate infrastructure could cost 1.1
percentage points of economic growth, or $200 billion in 2017,
McKinsey & Co. said in a report in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 