-- 
Iraq Signs for Gas Fields With Kogas, Turkiye, Kuwait Energy

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-05T10:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/iraq-signs-for-gas-fields-with-kogas-turkiye-kuwait-energy-1-.html
Iraq , eager to supply natural gas to
its overburdened power plants, signed agreements with  Korea Gas
Corp. (036460) , Kuwait Energy Co. and Turkiye Petrolleri AO to develop
two gas fields.  The three companies secured rights to develop the
Mansouriya field in Iraq’s eastern Diyala province, while
Turkiye Petrolleri and Kuwait Energy won a license for the Siba
field in southern Basra province, Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al- Luaibi said. The government awarded rights to both deposits in
October, together with a license to a third field called Akkas.  “Iraq needs to develop these fields in order to provide
for the needs of its electricity stations,” Luaibi said today
during the signing ceremony in  Baghdad  and in the presence of
Turkish Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz . “Iraq also aims to become
a major source for gas in the future,” the Iraqi minister said.  Iraq has the fifth-biggest gas reserves in the  Middle East ,
according to data from BP Plc. While the government relies on
sales of crude oil for most of its revenue, it wants to produce
gas to fuel the nation’s power stations, which have been unable
for several years to meet demand. Production of electricity and
gas, like oil, suffered from decades of war and sanctions, and
Iraq is seeking foreign investment and expertise to boost
output.  20-Year Licenses  Mansouriya, discovered in 1979, holds an estimated 4.5
trillion cubic feet of gas, Luaibi said. The three companies
hold a 20-year license for the field and are obligated to start
producing 320 million cubic feet within six years, he said.  Siba, discovered in 1968, has 1.5 trillion cubic feet of
gas. Turkiye Petrolleri and Korea Gas, known as Kogas, have
development rights there for 20 years and are committed to begin
producing 100 million cubic feet within six years, Luaibi said.  Iraq signed a separate agreement with Kogas on June 1 to
produce gas at Akkas, ending seven months of delays for the
project. The Korean company took over after its original
partner,  KazMunaiGas Exploration Production (RDGZ)  of  Kazakhstan ,
unexpectedly withdrew. Akkas, in western Anbar province in 1998,
holds 5.6 trillion cubic feet of gas and has six wells, Hussain al-Shahristani, the deputy prime minister for energy affairs and
former oil minister, said in May.  The government is also negotiating an agreement with  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  on a $12 billion plan to
develop and capture gas that is being flared off and wasted in
southern Iraq. A final agreement is due to be reached this week,
Deputy Oil Minister Ahmed al-Shamma said on June 1.  Iraq has signed 15 gas and oil licenses since the U.S.-led
invasion overthrew former President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003. The
government has asked companies to begin this month submitting
bids for a new, fourth round of exploration rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  