-- 
Israel Fires on Protesters at Border While Syrian Troops Attack Villagers

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-05T20:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/israel-fires-on-protesters-at-border-while-syrian-troops-attack-villagers.html
Israeli forces fired on a crowd
marking the anniversary of the 1967 Middle East War by trying to
enter from  Syria , where human rights groups said Syrian troops
killed 25 protesters in a village in the country’s north.  A general strike took place for the second day today in the
Syrian city of Hama in mourning for dozens of people killed
there by security forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad last
week, according to the independent Web site Syrian Observatory,
which is monitoring the unrest.  “The city is completely closed and the army has pulled
out, but the people are scared” that the army may attack again,
Mahmoud Merhi, the head of the Arab Organization for Human
Rights, said by telephone from Damascus.  Palestinian refugees and supporters attempted to breach the
Israeli border of the  Golan Heights  from Syria, prompting
Israeli troops to fire. Twenty-three people were killed and 350
injured, according to Syrian state-run television. Israeli
Lieutenant Colonel  Avital Leibovich  told  CNN  that Syria allowed
the protest to reach the border in order to divert attention
from its own internal unrest.  “Allowing the Palestinians to reach the fence with  Israel 
is a useful distraction for Assad, who can’t stop the
demonstrations against his regime,” Mordechai Kedar, a
researcher at Bar Ilan University’s Begin-Sadat Center for
Strategic Studies near  Tel Aviv , said in a telephone interview.  Protests Against Assad  Syrian forces have killed more than 1,100 people and
detained more than 10,000 since protests against Assad began in
mid-March, according to human rights groups. Assad hasn’t
repeated his initial pledges of change in recent weeks as the
crackdown on protesters has escalated.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said today that
security forces would act with “determination” to prevent
“extremist elements in the region” from penetrating the
frontier.  Clashes between protesters and Israeli forces on the
frontiers with Syria, Lebanon, the  Gaza Strip  and  West Bank  left
as many as nine dead on May 15. Palestinian groups called for
rallies today, the anniversary of the war that saw Israel
capture the West Bank, Gaza Strip, the Golan Heights and east
 Jerusalem  from Syria, Egypt and Jordan.  Israeli forces also clashed with some 200 Palestinian
demonstrators at the Kalandia refugee camp in the West Bank,
firing tear gas at stone-throwing protesters, the army said. No
serious injuries were reported there and at other smaller
protests in the West Bank.  The Lebanese army stopped dozens of refugees from
approaching its fence with Israel, the state-run Lebanese
National News Agency reported today.  Tripoli Attacked  In Libya, North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets hit a
military barracks in the capital city Tripoli today, according
to the  Associated Press . British attack helicopters struck
military targets for a second night, intensifying pressure in
the campaign against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces.  U.K. Apache helicopters from the carrier HMS Ocean
destroyed a multiple rocket launcher near Brega, while Royal Air
Force Tornado jets attacked a missile depot in Tripoli,
according to a statement from U.K. military spokesman Major
General Nick Pope. The previous night British and French attack
helicopters had launched their first strikes.  Rebel fighters are now coordinating with NATO and have been
told not to advance beyond certain points, according to a rebel
military spokesman in Misrata, Commander Ibrahim Betalmal.  “No doubt NATO will help a great deal in clearing the way
forward for us,” he said.  Rebels control most of eastern  Libya  as Qaddafi remains in
power in Tripoli. The use of attack helicopters marks an
escalation in the three-month-old conflict between Qaddafi’s
troops and rebels trying to end his four-decade rule.  The helicopters fly at a lower altitude than jet fighters
and are more easily able to pinpoint targets in close-range
combat. They are also more vulnerable to ground fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  