-- 
Netanyahu Accuses Syria of Stoking Border Tension to Hide Domestic Turmoil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-06-06T15:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/israel-fires-on-protesters-at-while-syria-attacks-villagers.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused  Syria  of trying to “heat up the border” by
enabling a violent confrontation between Palestinian
demonstrators and Israeli troops in the Golan Heights.  Israel will make a formal complaint to the United Nations
that may be delivered as early as today in  New York , following
the clash in which Israeli forces fired on a crowd marking the
anniversary of the 1967 Middle East War by trying to cross the
frontier with Syria into Israel, according to Yigal Palmor, a
Foreign Ministry spokesman.  Syrian state television said 23 people were killed. UN
observers are trying to confirm details of the incident,
according to a statement from Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon’s
office. The incident occurred as more than two months of
protests within Syria against the government of President Bashar al-Assad have left more than 1,100 people dead, human rights
groups say.  The Golan confrontation “was no accident,” Netanyahu said
after addressing lawmakers from his Likud Party in  Jerusalem ,
according to an e-mailed statement. “There is an attempt to
heat up the border, to breach our borders. here is an attempt
here to divert international attention away from what is
happening within Syria.”  Clashes between protesters and Israeli forces on the
frontiers with Syria, Lebanon, the Gaza Strip and  West Bank  left
as many as nine dead on May 15, as Palestinians marked the
anniversary of what they call the “Nakba,” Arabic for
catastrophe, referring to their displacement in 1948 as a result
of the creation of the state of Israel.  The Israeli-Syrian frontier has been largely quiet since
the 1973 war, in which Syria tried to recapture the  Golan
Heights . Israel annexed the Golan in 1982 in a move that hasn’t
been internationally recognized.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  