-- 
Israel Fires on Protesters at Golan Border, Killing 20, Syrian TV Reports

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   I n a l   E r s a n
-- 
2011-06-05T17:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/israel-fires-on-protesters-at-golan-border-killing-three-syrian-tv-says.html
Israeli soldiers fired on protesters
trying to breach the country’s frontier fence with  Syria  on the
anniversary of the 1967 Middle East War. At least 20 people were
killed, according to Syrian state television.  Some 277 people were wounded, including 12 in critical
condition, the television said. An Israeli soldier could be
heard telling protesters through a loudspeaker in live Syrian
television coverage: “If you cross the fence you will be
killed.” Israeli soldiers shot at demonstrators’ legs after
firing warning shots, Brigadier General Yoav Mordechai,  Israel ’s
chief military spokesman, said on Channel 2 television.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said today that
security forces would act with “determination” to prevent
“extremist elements in the region” from penetrating the
frontier.  Clashes between protesters and Israeli forces on the
frontiers with Syria, Lebanon, the  Gaza Strip  and West Bank left
as many as nine dead on May 15, as Palestinians marked the
anniversary of what they call the “Nakba,” Arabic for
catastrophe, referring to their displacement in 1948 as a result
of the creation of the state of Israel. Palestinian groups
called for similar rallies today, the anniversary of the war
that saw Israel capture the West Bank, Gaza Strip, the  Golan
Heights  and east  Jerusalem  from Syria, Egypt and Jordan.  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index, after initially dropping in
the hours after the clash began, reversed course and closed up
0.2 percent at 1,230.55 today.  Syrian Protests  The incident occurred as more than two months of protests
within Syria against the government of President Bashar al-Assad
has left more than 1,100 people dead, according to human rights
groups.  “Allowing the Palestinians to reach the fence with Israel
is a useful distraction for Assad, who can’t stop the
demonstrations against his regime,” Mordechai Kedar, a
researcher at Bar Ilan University’s Begin-Sadat Center for
Strategic Studies near  Tel Aviv , said in a telephone interview.  The Israeli-Syrian frontier has been largely quiet since
the 1973 war, in which Syria tried to recapture the Golan
Heights. Israel annexed the Golan in 1982 in a move that has not
been internationally recognized.  The Lebanese army stopped dozens of refugees from
approaching its fence with Israel, the state-run Lebanese
National News Agency reported today.  “The Lebanese government and army stopped demonstrators
from reaching the border, and we didn’t see the same motivation
on the part of the Syrian soldiers,” Mordechai told  Army Radio .  Lebanese Government  Israeli forces also clashed with some 200 Palestinian
demonstrators at the Kalandia refugee camp in the  West Bank ,
firing tear gas at stone-throwing protesters, the army said. No
serious injuries were reported there and at other smaller
protests in the West Bank.  “We are marking 44 years of settlement-colony expansion,”
Palestinian Authority chief negotiator Saeb Erakat said in an e-
mailed statement. “Israel’s illegal and discriminatory policies
have led to the displacement and dispossession of our people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 