-- 
Israel Stocks Gain, Reversing Drop, Amid Syria Border Clashes

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-06-05T15:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/israel-stocks-gain-reversing-drop-amid-syria-border-clashes.html
Israel ’s benchmark stock index
gained, after swinging between gains and losses, as soldiers
fired on protesters trying to breach the country’s frontier
fence with  Syria  on the anniversary of the 1967 Middle East War.  The TA-25 Index advanced for the first time since May 31,
rising 0.2 percent to 1,230.55 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel
Aviv . The measure earlier dropped as much as 0.7 percent. Israel
Chemicals Ltd. rose 2.4 percent.  “The market reaction to the events with Syria was
moderate,” said Uriel Goren, the head of equities sales at Tel
Aviv-based DS Brokerage Ltd. “Trading was low today due to a
lack of foreign investors and ahead of a short trading week.”
Local markets will be closed on June 7 and June 8 for a holiday.  At least six people were killed and dozens wounded,
according to Syrian state television. Israeli soldiers shot at
the legs of demonstrators at the border after firing warning
shots in the air, an Israeli army spokesman said, speaking
anonymously according to regulation. Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said today that security forces would act
with “determination” to prevent “extremist elements in the
region” from penetrating the border.  Yields Rise  Israel Chemicals, which extracts minerals from the  Dead Sea 
to make fertilizer, advanced the most since May 26 to 55.50
shekels.  Israel’s benchmark Mimshal Shiklit government bond due
January 2020 declined, pushing the yield two basis points
higher, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.09 percent. The shekel
gained 0.7 percent to 3.3685, the highest close in almost three
years, on June 3.  Clashes between protesters and Israeli forces on the
borders with Syria, Lebanon, the  Gaza Strip  and West Bank left
as many as nine dead on May 15, as Palestinians marked the
anniversary of what they call the “Nakba,” Arabic for
catastrophe, referring to their displacement in 1948 as a result
of the creation of the state of Israel.  Palestinian groups called for similar rallies today, the
anniversary of the 1967 war that saw Israel capture the  West
Bank , Gaza Strip, the Golan Heights and east  Jerusalem  from
Syria, Egypt and Jordan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  