-- 
Japan, Australia Stock Futures Fall After U.S. Jobs Growth Slows

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-06-05T23:38:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/japanese-australian-stock-futures-decline-after-u-s-jobs-growth-slows.html
Japanese and Australian stock futures
declined as slowing job growth in the U.S. fueled concern the
global economy is weakening.  American depositary receipts of  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s
biggest camera maker, lost 0.6 percent from the closing price in
Tokyo. Those of Nissan Motor Co., a carmaker that earns more
than a third of its sales in  North America , slid 0.5 percent.
ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, sank
1 percent.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 9,455 in Chicago on June 3, compared with 9,530
in Singapore. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,460 in Osaka,
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index slid 0.7 percent today.  “The U.S. job situation is deteriorating,” said  Kenichi
Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities
Co. in  Tokyo . “The slowdown in the  U.S. economy  shows that
there’s a lack of liquidity in the market. That means there’s no
effective way to address the economy.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. In New York, the index retreated 1 percent on
June 3 to the lowest level since March, after the jobless rate
unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent in May, the highest level
this year. A separate report showed payrolls grew at the slowest
pace in eight months, showing employers are losing confidence as
the economy slows.  QE3 Speculation  The report followed lower-than-estimated data on factory
orders and consumer confidence, spurring speculation the Federal
Reserve may consider a third round of quantitative easing, or
“QE3,” to bolster growth.  The dollar depreciated to as low as 80.19 yen today in
Tokyo, compared with 80.69 at the close of stock trading on June
3, cutting the value of overseas income at Japanese companies
when repatriated.  The U.S. job data added to concern that a slower economic
recovery will curb oil demand. Crude oil for July delivery
dropped 0.2 percent to settle at $100.22 a barrel in New York on
June 3.  In  Japan , senior lawmakers of Japan’s ruling party sought
to limit Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s tenure in office amid
internal divisions over his promise to step down at an
unspecified time. Kan pledge he would step down to appease
dissidents in his Democratic Party of Japan and defeat a June 2
parliamentary no-confidence vote.  Following the vote, Kan then suggested he might stay on
until early next year. DPJ lawmakers including ex-premier Yukio
Hatoyama denounced the move, saying Kan lacks the popular
support needed to pass legislation for rebuilding from the March
natural disasters and nuclear crisis.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.4 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 0.8 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.5 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 