-- 
Japan Air Sees ‘Very Long’ Wait for U.S., Europe Sales Rebound After Quake

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-06-05T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/japan-air-sees-very-long-wait-for-u-s-europe-sales-rebound-after-quake.html
Japan  Airlines Co., the nation’s
biggest international carrier, said ticket sales in  Europe  and
the U.S. were lagging behind forecasts and would take a “very
long” time to recover from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  “The recovery of demand from Europe and  North America  has
not met our expectations,” President Masaru Onishi said in an
interview in Singapore yesterday, ahead of the International Air
Transport Association annual general meeting. “We feel it’s
going to be a very long, drawn out and slow recovery.”  JAL and overseas carriers including  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  cut Japan
flights after the March 11 earthquake as concerns about
radiation leaking from a crippled nuclear plant north of  Tokyo 
deterred visitors. Business travel in Japan has rebounded and
local tourists have also resumed making overseas trips following
a drop-off after the disaster, Onishi said.  “We are very optimistic that the next peak season, the
coming summer and especially July and August, will meet our
expectations,” he said. “Japanese outbound tourism demand has
almost fully recovered,” he said citing the Golden Week
holidays in April.  The carrier’s traffic in the holiday period fell less than
it initially expected, with international passenger numbers
dropping 31 percent from a year earlier and domestic travel
declining 25 percent. Passenger numbers have fallen this year as
the carrier cut capacity and shed planes while restructuring
operations in a court-led turnaround that ended in March.  787 Deliveries  The unlisted airline is renovating its fleet by adding 35
on-order Boeing Co.’s 787. The planemaker is due to begin
deliveries of the Dreamliner to first customer All Nippon
Airways Co. in August or September, ending more than three years
of delays.  JAL plans to use the fuel-efficient 787 on long-haul routes
and to add new routes that wouldn’t support a large aircraft
such as Boeing 747. It has announced plans to begin a Tokyo-
Boston service using 787s in April.  “We view this aircraft as the optimum, not only for long-
haul routes, but also for routes where demand is not as high as
it could be, more like medium-level demand,” Onishi said.  The airline is offsetting the cuts in its staffing levels
and fleet during restructuring by bolstering cooperation with
partners. In April, it formed a venture with American Airlines
to operate flights across the Pacific. The earthquake and
subsequent travel slowdown on U.S. routes has made the success
of the venture hard to measure, Onishi said.  JAL plans to seek similar ventures with carriers in Europe
and  Asia , he said. The airline is a member of the Oneworld
alliance, along with American, British Airways,  Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. (293)  and Qantas Airways Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Singapore at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  