-- 
Nadal Overcomes Doubt to Beat Federer for ‘Most Special’ French Open Title

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-05T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/nadal-overcomes-doubt-to-beat-federer-for-most-special-french-open-title.html
At the start of the French Open, even
 Rafael Nadal  didn’t think he could win a sixth title in Paris.  Yesterday, he dispensed with his doubts to beat  Roger Federer , the most successful men’s player in Grand Slam history,
in the final at Roland Garros. The win tied Bjorn Borg’s record
of six trophies on the clay courts of Paris from 1974 to 1981,
and secured Nadal’s No. 1 ranking on the  ATP World Tour .  Nadal came to the tournament after losing twice in the
finals of clay court events to Novak Djokovic, the Serb who
threatened to steal his top ranking. Nadal was forced into his
only five-set match at Roland Garros in the first round by  John Isner , an American ranked 38 spots below him.  “It’s a big personal satisfaction to win this tournament,
especially because I started without playing my best,” Nadal
said in a news conference, the Coupe des Mousquetaires by his
side. “It’s more special, winning like this.”  Nadal said doubts started entering his mind after he lost
to Djokovic in the finals in  Madrid  and Rome last month.
Djokovic also got the better of him in hard-court tournaments in
Miami and Indian Wells the season.  “I came here with less confidence,” said Nadal, who now
leads Federer 17-8 in career meetings after yesterday’s 7-5, 7-6
(7-3), 5-7, 6-1 win. “He was playing fantastic. It was hard.
Losing four finals in a row, it wasn’t easy.”  Major Sweep  Nadal, the Wimbledon and U.S. Open champion, started the
season with a shot at becoming the first man since  Rod Laver  in
1969 to hold all four Grand Slam tennis titles at the same time.
Instead, he left  Melbourne  in tears after a ruptured thigh
muscle hampered his movement in a quarterfinal loss to  Spain ’s
 David Ferrer .  Djokovic won his second Australian Open title and came to
Paris with 37 wins and no losses this season. He would have
taken the top spot from Nadal had he made yesterday’s final, or
if the Spaniard had lost to Federer, who beat Djokovic in the
semifinals to prevent him from tying John McEnroe’s record of 42
consecutive wins to start a season, set in 1984.  Federer was upbeat about the past two weeks, even after
losing to Nadal in the  French Open  final for the fourth time.
The Swiss right-hander yesterday played his first Grand Slam
final since the 2010 Australian Open, where his defeat of
Britain’s  Andy Murray  gave him a record-extending 16th men’s
Grand Slam singles title.  ‘Very Positive’  “I lost some confidence maybe through the French Open and
Wimbledon last year,” Federer, 29, said in a news conference
after the match. He exited both tournaments in the quarterfinals.
“It was important to get to another Grand Slam final, keep on
playing well. I’m feeling better physically than I have in a
long time, so that’s been very positive.”  Nadal, who said he was “too nervous and too anxious”
during his four-hour, first-round meeting with Isner, said he
was finally able to take his good play in practice at  Roland
Garros  into his matches when he beat  Robin Soderling  in straight
sets in the quarterfinals. The Swede is the only man to have
beaten Nadal at Roland Garros, in the fourth round in 2009.  “Before the Soderling match, I wasn’t confident,” Nadal
said. “But I was able to play, focus and started to play my
tennis on clay. I finished the tournament playing very high
level of play for me.”  Federer wasn’t surprised by the outcome, despite Nadal’s
problems early on.  “I felt that, even though people don’t understand how Rafa
was able to win this tournament after the shocking start he had,
I’m not,” Federer said. “He plays better against the better
ones, and that’s what he showed. He’s a great champion, on clay
especially.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 