-- 
Nadal Beats Federer to Collect Record-Tying Sixth French Open Tennis Title

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-05T22:01:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/nadal-beats-federer-to-collect-record-tying-sixth-french-open-tennis-title.html
Rafael Nadal yesterday clinched a
record-tying sixth  French Open  title by beating  Roger Federer ,
allowing the Spaniard to retain his No. 1 ranking.  The left-hander sank to his knees after retaining his crown
by defeating the Swiss 7-5, 7-6 (7-3), 5-7, 6-1 on the red clay
in Paris. His victory ties him with  Sweden ’s Bjorn Borg, who won
six Roland Garros trophies from 1974 to 1981, the highest tally
in tennis’s Open era. Nadal received the Coupe des Mousquetaires
from two-time champion  Jim Courier .  “This is a very, very special moment for me,” Nadal, 25,
said in an interview at the side of the main Court Philippe
Chatrier. “I’ve won against the best player of all time. It’s a
very emotional moment for me.”  Federer last beat Nadal in a Grand Slam final at Wimbledon
in 2007. The win extended Nadal’s head-to-head record against
the right-hander to 17-8.  “He beat me again,” Federer, 29, said at the trophy
ceremony. “Of course I’m sad, but I’m proud with how I’ve
played in the past two weeks.”  Federer made 56 unforced errors, while Nadal had 27. The
Swiss produced 53 winners, 14 more than his opponent.  Federer last won a major at the 2010 Australian Open, where
his defeat of Britain’s  Andy Murray  extended his men’s Grand
Slam singles title record to 16 trophies. Nadal has now beaten
Federer in four French Open finals. Before yesterday, the two
last met in a major final at the 2009 Australian Open, which was
won by Nadal and reduced Federer to tears at the trophy
ceremony.  Run of Wins  The second-ranked Novak Djokovic would have been the new
No. 1, replacing Nadal, if he’d made his first French Open final
or if the Spaniard had lost the final. The Serb won his second
major title in  Melbourne  and went on to defeat Nadal in four
tournament finals. No. 3 seed Federer beat Djokovic in four sets
in the Paris semifinals, preventing him from tying  John McEnroe ’s record of 42 consecutive wins from the start of a
season, set in 1984.  Nadal, the reigning Wimbledon and U.S. Open champion, had
started the season with a shot at becoming the first man since
 Rod Laver  in 1969 to hold all four Grand Slam tennis titles at
the same time. Instead, he exited the Australian Open after a
ruptured thigh muscle hampered his movement in a quarterfinal
loss to  Spain ’s  David Ferrer .  Watched by former French Open champions Courier and Manolo
Santana, Federer started well, occasionally serve-and-volleying
and forcing Nadal into mistakes as he kept him under pressure
with deep ground strokes.  Drop Shot Wide  Struggling to keep his shots inside the lines, it took the
Spaniard 18 minutes before he got himself on the scoreboard with
a service hold in the fourth game. Trailing 5-2, Nadal brought
on the trainer, who cut back some of the tape strapped around
his left foot during the changeover.  After Federer missed a set point on Nadal’s serve at 5-2
with a drop shot that landed just wide, the momentum shifted in
the Spaniard’s favor. The lefthander won the next seven games as
Federer committed a string of errors forced by the Nadal
forehand.  Serving for a two sets to love lead at 5-4, Nadal
squandered his first set point as a forehand hit the net and
landed out.  After an 11-minute rain delay at 5-4, deuce, Nadal blew a
second set point with a backhand into the net. The Spaniard
raced to a 5-2 lead in the tie-break as Federer missed a few
service returns. Nadal clenched his fist as he set up four set
points with a backhand passing shot. His long-time coach and
uncle,  Toni Nadal , then rose from his seat to celebrate as his
nephew took the set with a forehand winner.  Fed Fightback  Nadal had seemed on the way to a straight-sets victory as
he broke for a 4-2 lead in the third set. Federer fought back to
take the set with his 13th forehand winner. The Swiss, who had
made 39 errors in the first two sets, committed only 7 mistakes
in the third and hit 16 winners.  Federer was unable to maintain his level in the fourth set
as he produced his first double fault of the match and handed
Nadal the break for 3-1 with a forehand into the net. The
Spaniard forced a double break for 5-1 as Federer dumped a
backhand into the net. Serving for the title, Nadal won the
match on a Federer forehand that went long.  Earlier yesterday, Bjorn Fratangelo won the boys’ singles
by beating Dominic Thiem of Austria 3-6, 6-3, 8-6 on his first
visit to  Europe . The 17-year-old from Pittsburgh is the first
American since McEnroe in 1977 to win the French title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 