-- 
NATO Helicopters Strike Libyan Targets

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-06-05T13:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/nato-helicopters-strike-libyan-targets-for-second-night-1-.html
British attack helicopters struck
military targets in  Libya  for a second night, intensifying
pressure in the campaign against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
forces.  U.K. Apache helicopters from the carrier HMS Ocean
destroyed a multiple rocket launcher near Brega, while Royal Air
Force Tornado jets attacked a missile depot in Tripoli,
according to a statement from U.K. military spokesman Major
General Nick Pope. The previous night British and French attack
helicopters had launched their first strikes.  “This is a very good development,” said rebel commander
Sardon Sedil in the besieged port city of Misrata yesterday. If
the helicopters strike at Qaddafi’s forces around Misrata, “we
can push all the way to Tripoli,” he said.  Rebels control most of eastern Libya as Qaddafi remains in
power in Tripoli, the capital. NATO heads have repeatedly called
on Qaddafi to give up power, saying May 20 the alliance’s air
campaign had pushed the Libyan leader into hiding. The use of
attack helicopters marks an escalation in the three-month-old
conflict between Qaddafi’s troops and rebels trying to end his
four-decade rule.  The helicopters fly at a lower altitude than jet fighters
and are more easily able to pinpoint targets in close-range
combat. They are also more vulnerable to ground fire.  Military Operations  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague yesterday visited the
city of Benghazi to meet rebel leaders. On his return, he said
it was not clear how much longer operations would continue.  “We don’t know how long it will go on,” Hague told the
 BBC ’s Andrew Marr Show. “We’re not looking at a partitioned
Libya. The pressure is now on the regime. Time is against
them.”  Hague also urged rebel leaders to set out a detailed plan
for a transition to democracy, including showing how
“technocrats” within the current regime could expect to
continue to be employed, something that may increase political
pressure on Qaddafi’s government.  In Kandahar,  Afghanistan , U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told U.S. troops that Qaddafi’s regime was facing
defections.  “Day by day, Qaddafi is seeing the people that are closest
to him walking away,” Gates said. “It’s just a question of
when everybody around him decides to throw in the towel and
throw him under the bus.”  Rebel fighters are now coordinating with  NATO  and have been
told not to advance beyond certain points, according to a rebel
military spokesman in Misrata, Commander Ibrahim Betalmal.  “No doubt NATO will help a great deal in clearing the way
forward for us,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  