-- 
Obama Is Focusing on Tax Incentives, Subsidies to Spur Jobs, Goolsbee Says

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-06-05T16:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/obama-focusing-on-private-sector-to-increase-jobs-goolsbee-says.html
Austan Goolsbee , President  Barack Obama ’s chief economist, said the government is seeking to help
private businesses spur job growth through tax incentives and
investment subsidies.  “We want to leverage the private sector money,” Goolsbee,
chairman of the  Council of Economic Advisers , said in an
interview today on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.
“Corporations have become profitable again,” he said. “What
we need to do now is get the private sector stood up.”  Employers added 54,000 jobs in May, the smallest increase
in eight months, the Labor Department reported in Washington.
The  unemployment rate  rose 0.1 percent to 9.1 percent.  Economists expected the numbers to show employers added
165,000 jobs in May, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Don’t make too much of any one jobs report because
they’re highly variable,” Goolsbee said on ABC’s “This Week.”  He said on CNN that though the country still faces economic
“headwinds,” the president’s plan has helped create more than
2 million private-sector jobs over the past 15 months. The
administration is aiming to make it easier and cheaper to create
private sector jobs through payroll tax cuts and investment
subsidies, Goolsbee said.  Debt Limit  The debate over raising the government’s $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling “is going to be resolved because it has to be,”
he said on ABC.  “It would be extremely dangerous to get right up to the
edge,” Goolsbee said. “You’ve seen some people even saying,
well, it’d be OK if we defaulted for a short period. That’s not
true; we shouldn’t do that. We should resolve this over the next
month.”  Congressional Republicans are insisting on major spending
cuts in exchange for their agreement to raise the debt limit
before an Aug. 2 deadline.  Alice M. Rivlin, the White House budget director under
Democratic President  Bill Clinton , said on CNN the U.S. needs a
long-range plan to reduce spending, including restructuring
Medicare and Medicaid to slow their growth.  “There are different ways of doing that,” she said. House
Republicans have proposed privatizing Medicare.  ‘Very Bad Thing’  She said large short-term spending cuts would endanger the
economic recovery and would be a “very bad thing to do.”  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , who was chief economic adviser to
2008 Republican presidential nominee Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , said on CNN he wasn’t so concerned about near-term
spending cuts.  “I don’t think I’ve ever seen a Congress cut so
aggressively that it endangers the economy,” he said. “I live
for that moment.”  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said on June 2 that it will
put the U.S. government’s Aaa  credit rating  on U.S. Treasury
bonds under review for a downgrade unless there’s progress on
increasing the debt limit by mid-July.  A lower credit rating would immediately raise the cost of
debt on new issuances. In turn, higher interest rates would make
it even more difficult for lawmakers to reduce the annual
federal deficit, which keeps adding to the public debt.  Rivlin said it would be “unacceptable” for the U.S. to
default on its debt. “Moody’s is right to be worried,” she
said.  Interest Rate Increase  If that were to occur, Holtz-Eakin said, “every interest
rate in this economy -- your credit card rates, your auto loans,
your mortgages, your  student loans , everything you touch -- is
going to get more expensive, not just for a day or two,
permanently.  “We will have been labeled a bad borrower,” he said. “It
will cost the nation as a whole.”  Republican presidential candidate  Ron Paul  said the dispute
over raising the debt ceiling is “100 percent gamesmanship.”  “It’s who’s going to get the blame and who’s going to get
the power and who’s going to get the political benefits and who
won’t have to have their budget cut,” said Paul in an interview
on CNN’s “State of the Union” today.  In the end,  House Republicans  will agree to raise the debt
limit, the Texas congressman predicted.  “It will come down to the wire and they’ll pass it because
they will beat the drums of fear,” said Paul. “That’s how we
get things done in Washington.”  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
defended Obama’s efforts to improve the fragile economy and said
that House Republicans need to do more to help the economy
recover further, in an interview on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  “He pulled us from the brink of the financial crisis,”
she said. Republicans, who hold the majority in the House, need
to do more, she added.  “They set the agenda,” Pelosi said. “Every day that
they’re there, another day goes by and there isn’t a jobs agenda
or a jobs bill that has come to the floor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in  Washington  at 
 Kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  