-- 
OPEC Overshadowed by Qaddafi in Most-Hostile Meeting Since 1990 Gulf War

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-06-06T16:32:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/opec-overshadowed-by-qaddafi-in-most-hostile-meeting-since-1990-gulf-war.html
OPEC’s decision on production quotas
this week may be complicated by hostilities in  Libya  as members
meeting in Vienna find themselves supporting opposing camps of a
military conflict for the first time in 21 years.  Not since Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1990 has the
producer group gathered with some nations giving financial and
military support to a movement seeking to topple the government
of a fellow member. While Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  is
trying to quash a rebellion in a country that holds  Africa ’s
largest crude reserves, Qatar, Kuwait and the  United Arab
Emirates  are backing the insurgents.  The conflict underlines the difficulties the 50-year-old
organization, which accounts for about 40 percent of the world’s
oil, may have in deciding production levels. Oil has gained 9.5
percent this year to trade at about $100 a barrel amid signs
that the pace of the global economic recovery may be slowing.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will probably
leave its output target unchanged on June 8, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 30 analysts conducted May 24-31.  “Amid issues surrounding representation of Libya and  oil
prices  correcting towards $100 a barrel, OPEC is likely to sit
on the fence, deferring a decision on quotas for later,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , the head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in London, said in an interview on June 1. “This
does not mean individual countries may not take discretionary
steps to increase output. OPEC has yet to fill the gap in the
market left by Libya.”  Saudi Increase Foreseen  Fighting in the North African country has blocked 1.4
million barrels a day. An OPEC delegate said on June 2 that
producers need to boost supply by at least 500,000 barrels a day
to meet demand. Saudi Arabia, the group’s biggest producer and
de-facto leader, plans to raise output on its own by about 10
percent this month, according to Petroleum Policy Intelligence,
a Winchester, U.K.-based industry researcher.  U.S. crude futures traded below $100 a barrel today on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . They rose as high as $113.93 a
barrel on April 29, the most in 2 1/2 years.  Qaddafi’s representative to this week’s meeting will be
Omran Abu Kraa, a former minister of electricity, according to
two people who knew of the decision and declined to be
identified before an official announcement. His Libyan opponents
are still discussing whether to send a representative, Jalal el-
Gallal, a spokesman for the rebels’ National Transitional
Council, said today by telephone from Benghazi, Libya.  Iran ’s Minister Sacked  Iran, which holds OPEC’s rotating presidency, is sending
the former head of its Physical Education Organization to lead
the negotiations after President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad fired his
oil minister on May 14.  OPEC will need to boost output to 29.9 million barrels a
day to meet average demand this year because of “roaring”
growth in  China , the group said in its most recent monthly
report. That’s 1 million barrels a day more than last month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  International
Energy Agency  said on May 19 that it saw “an urgent need” for
more oil to help bring down high prices threatening economies.  While the group’s 12 members may not reach a formal
agreement to increase quotas this week, “an informal pact to
ramp up production, most likely by OPEC’s Gulf members as well
as  Nigeria , may emerge,” the IEA said in a May report. The
agency, which advises oil-importing nations, said in April that
“revisiting individual production targets may be difficult
now,” amid tensions stoked by the Libyan conflict and a
political crisis in the Persian Gulf state of Bahrain.  ‘Personal Politics’  “Don’t be surprised to see personal politics mixing with
economic reasoning,”  Stephen Schork , editor of The Schork
Report in Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said today in an e-mail.  Venezuelan Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said OPEC is
unlikely to raise quotas. “We have to wait to discuss the
situation in the market,” he said as he arrived today in the
Austrian capital. “We believe at the moment we’re in balance.”  Two European banks took a different view today. The weak
U.S. job market “should increase the pressure on OPEC to raise
production quotas,” Commerzbank AG said in a research note.
Barclays Plc said in a report that an increase in the group’s
output target is “long overdue” to bring it closer to OPEC’s
actual level of production.  Since OPEC last convened on Dec. 11, 2010, a wave of unrest
has ousted rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt  and swept across the
 Middle East , home to more than half of the world’s crude
reserves. Oil rose as much as 35 percent after Feb. 15, when
protests in Libya began squeezing output from Africa’s third-
largest producer to about 200,000 barrels a day.  Special Saudi Blends  Instead of calling for concerted OPEC action to replace
Libyan volumes and calm markets, some Persian Gulf and West
African members have increased output individually since March.
 Saudi Arabia  has developed two blends of crude to match the
quality of missing Libyan oil and is planning to add 1 million
barrels a day with or without an OPEC agreement, Petroleum
Policy Intelligence said on June 1.  “Saudi Arabia appears to have begun to ramp up crude oil
production over the past month in response to the loss of Libyan
supplies and growing demand,” Eurasia Group, a New York-based
analysis firm, said in a May 31 report. “At this point, with
only Saudi Arabia and the other Gulf producers holding
meaningful spare capacity, formal OPEC decisions continue to be
much less important than unilateral Saudi decisions.”  Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi arrived in Vienna today
without making any public comments on the oil market.  Financing the Rebels  Qatar and the U.A.E. are the only Arab nations contributing
aircraft to NATO’s campaign against Qaddafi’s four-decade rule.
 Kuwait  has joined them in financing Libya’s rebels. Qatar is one
of three countries to recognize the Benghazi-based rebel
administration and has also supplied them with light weapons.  In OPEC-member  Algeria , Abdelaziz Belkhadem, the minister
of state and the personal representative of the nation’s
president, denounced what he called “foreign interference” in
Libya, the Xinhua news agency reported on June 4.  “No one wants to do business with the Qaddafis, and at the
same time, OPEC can’t impose recognition of the rebel
government, so most likely Libya will have no representation,”
said Sadad al-Husseini, founder of Husseini Energy Co., a
consulting company based in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.  ‘Sympathy’ for Libya  “The Saudis don’t like Qaddafi,” al-Husseini said.
“Qatar, the U.A.E. and Kuwait are supporting the rebels. Only
Algeria may have sympathy for Libya.”  Iran, OPEC’s second-largest producer, will be represented
by Mohammad Aliabadi, who was appointed as acting oil minister,
the ministry’s news website Shana said today. Ahmadinejad sacked
the oil minister in a cabinet reshuffle and appointed himself as
the ministry’s caretaker. The move was criticized by local
industry experts and described on May 20 as “unlawful” by the
Guardian Council, Iran’s top legal authority.  Iran holds the group’s presidency for the first time since
1975, when Venezuelan terrorist Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, better
known as Carlos the Jackal, kidnapped OPEC officials in the
secretariat building in Vienna and threatened to kill the
Iranian and Saudi oil ministers.  “The meetings are not political -- they are business
meetings to look at the oil market,” said Manouchehr Takin, an
analyst at the Centre for Global Energy Studies in  London . Takin
worked at the OPEC Secretariat while Iran and  Iraq  were at war
from 1980 to 1988.  “During the war, ministers may not have been cordial, but
they were professional,” Takin said. “They may not have talked
to each other during the breaks, but they shook hands at
least.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya at   adaya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 