-- 
Palin Says She Didn’t Mean to Overshadow Romney in Visit to New Hampshire

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-05T15:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/palin-says-she-didn-t-mean-to-overshadow-romney-in-visit-to-new-hampshire.html
Sarah Palin said she didn’t mean to
steal media attention from  Mitt Romney  by appearing in  New
Hampshire  at the same time he formally announced his bid for the
Republican presidential nomination in the state.  “I didn’t mean to step on anyone’s toes,” Palin, the
former governor of Alaska, said on “Fox News Sunday.” Palin
said her bus tour, which began May 29 in Washington, was to
celebrate “Americana.” She said she is still weighing whether
to run for president in 2012.  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, formally opened
his bid for the Republican nomination on June 2 at a New
Hampshire rally as Palin’s bus tour crossed into the early
primary state.  Palin, 47, is a contributor to Fox News. On Fox’s Sunday
talk show she repeated a criticism of the health care law Romney
approved when he was governor of  Massachusetts , which required
residents to get health insurance. Romney has tried to contrast
that state-level approach with a similar federal measure passed
by President Barack Obama last year.  “I don’t like anyone at the local, state or federal level
mandating anything,” Palin said.  Romney joined former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty,
former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia and U.S.
Representative Ron Paul of Texas as declared Republican
presidential candidates.  Former Utah governor Jon Huntsman, who earlier this year
gave up his post as U.S. ambassador to  China  under Obama to
explore challenging him, is weighing a bid, as is Representative
 Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota.  Palin today contrasted her “executive experience” with
that of Republican Bachmann. Palin said she is “still right
there in the middle” on the decision of whether to run for
president and is trying to determine “what the lay of the land
will be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  