-- 
Palin Film to Premiere in Iowa Tells ‘Rocky Story’ Through Alaskan Allies

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/palin-film-iowa-bound-tells-rocky-story-through-alaskan-allies.html
Sarah Palin’s allies and devotees
portray hers as a tale of triumph over corruption and
persecution by the political left and right in a documentary to
premiere later this month in  Iowa .  “The Undefeated,” a feature-length film from director
Stephen K. Bannon, chronicles the former Alaska governor’s rise,
fall and re-emergence as Palin stokes speculation that she might
enter the 2012 presidential race. After its debut in the home of
the nation’s first presidential nominating caucuses,
distributors plan rollouts in  New Hampshire  and  South Carolina ,
two other early-voting states.  “People look at this as a kind of a ‘Rocky’ story,”
Bannon, a former Goldman Sachs banker who has made movies about
the Tea Party movement and  Ronald Reagan , told reporters at a
screening last week. “It’s a true story of American grit and
tenacity.”  The film follows an attention-grabbing “One Nation” Palin
bus tour through the Northeast, a trip that sparked questions
about her 2012 intentions and diverted attention and media
coverage from Republicans already in the race.  The film focuses on Palin’s record as governor, casting her
as a pure-hearted public servant among “corrupt bastards” who
was savaged by the establishment and elite on both sides
threatened by her unconventional ways.  Rebecca Mansour, a top Palin aide working for her political
action committee, approached the filmmaker in December 2010,
Bannon said. Palin’s organization arranged access to allies in
 Alaska  who narrated large parts of the story, and to Palin’s
parents, who supplied photographs and home videos of her as a
child private until now.  Hunted Zebra  The family album contrasts with images and footage
depicting the criticism Palin and members of her family faced
after she made her debut in August 2008 as Arizona Senator  John McCain ’s running mate on the Republican presidential ticket.  A sequence about the controversies Palin confronted when
she returned to Alaska following her failed vice presidential
bid is paired with footage of lions chasing, killing and
feasting on the remains of a zebra in the bush. Another picture
portrays a medieval warrior lying dead with an arrow in his
back.  In a section about an ethics overhaul that Palin pushed as
governor, Bannon cuts to a boxer in a ring for the Rocky
metaphor.  Palin’s Alaska loyalists, including lawyer Tom Van Flein,
former spokeswoman Meg Stapleton and former state Natural
Resources Department officials Tom Irwin and Marty Rutherford,
tell part of the story. Palin narrates parts, with clips from
the audio version of her 2009 book “Going Rogue.” Commentators
including Andrew Breitbart, Mark Levin and Tammy Bruce also give
testimonials.  Media Critics Featured  The film opens with celebrities including actor  Matt Damon ,
comedian Bill Maher and radio’s Howard Stern criticizing Palin,
yet avoids mention of episodes including the so-called
“Troopergate” investigation into whether Palin abused her
powers as governor by firing a commissioner who would not
dismiss her former brother-in-law.  Bannon said he spent $1 million of his own money making the
film and had “total control” of a project intended to dispel
Palin myths such as the caricature of “Caribou Barbie.”  The film challenges elected Republicans including House
Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , House Majority Leader Eric Cantor
of Virginia and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
 Kentucky , pictured as Breitbart speaks of “eunuchs who have run
as men but aren’t men” for allowing Palin to be criticized.  “To hell with the establishment, because the establishment
has put us in this position in the first place,” Breitbart says
near the end of the film. “America now has an alternative, and
Sarah Palin is that alternative.”  Palin’s aides didn’t respond to a request for comment on
the film, though she gave it two thumbs up in a May 31 interview
with Greta Van Susteren on  Fox News , which employs the former
governor as a commentator.  “It blew me away,” Palin told Van Susteren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  