-- 
Palmer’s Fourth Failed IPO Bid Shows Hong Kong Not Swayed by Resourcehouse

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-06-06T07:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/palmer-s-fourth-failed-ipo-bid-shows-hong-kong-not-swayed-by-resourcehouse.html
Australian billionaire  Clive Palmer ’s
much-touted ties with China weren’t enough to convince Hong Kong
investors to put up $3.6 billion for shares in his unprofitable
iron ore and coal company Resourcehouse Ltd.  Resourcehouse dropped its fourth attempt in two years at an
initial public offering in the city on June 4, citing negative
global market conditions. The axing came after the company cut
the price as much as 30 percent the day before.  Palmer, who says he’s been to China more than 50 times and
in 1962 met Pu Yi, the last emperor, marketed the float around
his ties to China and  Asia ’s demand for the raw materials he
plans to mine. Glencore International Plc, the world’s largest
commodities trader that listed in  Hong Kong  last month, had to
scale back investors’ share requests because the offer was
oversubscribed.  “It is a blow to his reputation,” Cameron Peacock, a
market analyst at IG Markets in  Melbourne , said by phone. “He’s
always talking about how strong his relations are with Asia and
China. It is going to leave some people wondering ‘are the
depths of your relationships as strong as you’ve made them out
to be?’”  Hong Kong IPOs have raised at least $8.9 billion so far
this year, up 55 percent on a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The number of basic material companies worldwide conducting
IPOs has risen by 32 percent. They’ve raised $17.3 billion so
far this year, up 77 percent on last year, led by Glencore.
Resourcehouse is the biggest IPO this year to be canceled,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Unprofitable Outlook  Glencore, which has a 34 percent stake in mining company
Xstrata Plc, grew its profit nearly fourfold since 2008 and last
year had net income of $3.8 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It may report 2011 net income of $7.3 billion,
according to Nomura International Plc.  In contrast, Brisbane, Australia-based Resourcehouse, said
in its prospectus that it won’t turn a profit until output at
its coal and  iron ore  projects begins in 2014 or 2015.  “Glencore is a fantastic business and it has been well-
managed and it will do well over the medium to longer term,”
 Gavin Wendt , a senior resource analyst at Mine Life Ltd. in
Sydney, said by phone. “With Resourcehouse, the constant ‘will
they, won’t they?’ and the withdrawing of the issue just does
nothing for their market credibility.”  Price Declines  The pulling of the IPO follows iron ore prices falling 11
percent from their peak in China this year and a plunge on
global stock markets. Commodities prices have fallen 8 percent
from this year’s high on April 8, according to the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials.  Palmer, who ran full-page color ads in Hong Kong’s English-
and Chinese-language papers for the share sale, stressed his
connections when marketing the IPO of the company that he stood
to draw A$1.1 billion ($1.2 billion) in payments from in the
three years before it turned a profit.  Following the failure of the share sale, Export-Import Bank
of  China  approved a credit facility for 85 percent of the total
construction cost for the $8 billion China First coal project in
Queensland, up from 70 percent previously. The renewed
commitment means the bank will now cover $6.8 billion of
construction costs, up from $5.6 billion, Resourcehouse said in
an e-mailed statement today.  The facility includes a further $600 million funding option
in return for equity, the statement said.  Potential Partners  “We also have a number of international companies who wish
to make direct investment into Resourcehouse for equity in the
company, giving us confidence that we will fully fund the
project,” said Palmer, a 57-year-old law school dropout who
made his fortune in real estate.  The company may also renew the IPO when market conditions
improve, Palmer said in a phone interview from Hong Kong
yesterday.  Resourcehouse wants to develop an iron ore mine in  Western
Australia  that will cost at least A$2.7 billion and and the $8
billion  coal mine  in Queensland state. Mineralogy Pty and
Waratah Coal Inc., both owned by Palmer, remain the owners of
the mines and Resourcehouse only has an agreement to extract
specific quantities.  “If they are floating high quality assets then even in
this sort of market there should be takers for the IPO,” Wendt
said. “The whole thing seems to have been conducted with very
poor planning and you just wonder whether Clive wielded too much
power and he was the one making these ad-hoc decisions.”  Production Assets  Resourcehouse’s main assets are the rights to mine 1.4
billion metric tons of coal and 10 billion tons of iron ore. The
two commodities are used to make steel. China’s demand for the
metal may rise by as much as a quarter by 2015 from last year,
according to the China Iron & Steel Association, which
represents producers.  “Of course I wield the power at the company because I own
the company,” Palmer said yesterday. “The assets are nobody’s
but mine. The banks were the ones responsible for the advice to
go to the market at that time. But I don’t hold them responsible
for the IPO’s failure because nobody can predict what happens in
the market from one day till the next.”  Price Cut Considered  BOC International Holdings Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG managed the Resourcehouse
offering.  The company had originally sought to sell 5.7 million
shares at between HK$4.48 to HK$4.93, before cutting the price
to HK$3.45, according to a term sheet. That would have raised
the company $2.5 billion. As late as the afternoon before the
offer was pulled Palmer said he hadn’t made any decisions.  “We still have options and we need to consult our
directors,” he said by phone from Hong Kong before pulling the
deal. Palmer was ranked last month by BRW magazine as
 Australia ’s fifth-richest man with a fortune of A$5.05 billion.  Following the IPO, Resourcehouse’s payments to Palmer’s
closely held companies would have included A$930 million over
the three years to 2014 as well as royalties on iron ore and
coal output.  “It’s absolutely a turnoff for investors because how can
you be sure how those fees are going to be spent? It is
unusual,” Michael McCormick,  fund manager  at Belvedere Share
Managers Pty in Sydney, said by phone.  China Railway Group Ltd. and Metallurgical Corp. of China
Ltd. had both agreed to invest about $200 million in
Resourcehouse. The company said the IPO may be followed by a
A$1.9 billion debt sale to a Chinese company.  Resourcehouse said it wanted at least one Chinese company
to provide or arrange debt to fund about 70 percent of the cost
of building the initial stage of the China First iron ore
project, the company said in the prospectus. Any financing deal
would have needed the approval of Mineralogy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Hong Kong at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  