-- 
Peru Presidential Vote Begins as Polls Indicate Margin Likely to Be Narrow

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-05T17:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/peru-presidential-vote-unpredictable-after-polarized-campaign-roils-market.html
Peruvians began casting their votes
today to elect President  Alan Garcia ’s successor after a
campaign that pit the daughter of a jailed former president
against a one-time army officer promising to assert control over
the nation’s mining wealth.  A poll published on the eve of today’s runoff vote had
Ollanta Humala with a slight lead over Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, while three others showed a statistical tie. Both
candidates, after running populist campaigns before the first
round, vow to maintain policies that have made  Peru  the fastest-
growing economy in  Latin America  in the past decade.  Each has been dogged by their past. Even though Humala
abandoned his support for Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez , stocks swung
wildly last week on speculation backing for Humala was growing.
Fujimori apologized for her father Alberto Fujimori’s crimes and
ruled out a possible pardon for him amid voter concerns her
victory may revive the corruption and authoritarian rule
associated with his 10-year presidency that ended in 2000.  “This has been agonizing for Peru,” said  Michael Shifter ,
who worked in Lima for the  Ford Foundation  in the early 1990s
and is president of Inter American Dialogue in  Washington , a
policy research organization. “There’s a lot of baggage with
Keiko and the problem with Humala is we don’t know who we are
going to get when he takes office.”  Soldiers Killed  Humala had 51.9 percent support while Fujimori had 48.1
percent, according to a poll yesterday of 4,000 people
nationwide by Lima-based Ipsos Apoyo. About 10 percent of Peru’s
20 million voters aren’t completely decided, which could affect
the outcome, Ipsos said.  The poll, which had a margin of error of 1.6 percentage
points, doesn’t include Peruvians living abroad who make up
between 2 percent to 3 percent of the electorate. Three other
polls last week showed Humala with a smaller lead that was
within the margin of error.  Separately, Garcia said today guerrillas killed three
soldiers yesterday on their way to guard a voting station in the
southern jungle on the eve of the election.  Fujimori , who has a MBA from  Columbia University  in  New
York , told supporters at her final campaign rally in  Lima  last
week that she represented “change with responsibility.”
Standing alongside Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, a former finance
minister and investment banker who finished third in the first
round, the 36-year-old mother of two warned that a win by Humala
would “plunge Peru into the abyss.”  Dump Assets  Investors dumped Peruvian assets after  Humala  topped the
field in the first round of voting April 10, with 32 percent of
votes compared with Fujimori’s 24 percent, on concern he would
boost state control of the economy if elected. The Lima General
Index plunged to a six-month low of 17,449.48 on April 14 while
the sol dropped to a 10-month low of 2.834 per dollar on May 2.  “Both camps need to step up to the plate and establish a
serious plan,” said Jaime Valdivia, who helps manage about $1.4
billion of emerging market assets at Bluecrest Capital
Management in New York. “Keiko has more leeway. The market will
give her the benefit of the doubt.”  In the past month, stocks rebounded 8.9 percent, the
second-best performance after  Venezuela ’s stock exchange among
91 primary benchmark equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg, as
Fujimori climbed in the polls. The sol gained 2.3 percent in the
same period, the biggest gain among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Market Volatility  Last week, stocks swung by more than 5 percent in three of
five trading sessions on speculation Humala had climbed back and
the race was a dead heat. The government last month cut its
forecast for economic growth this year to 6.5 percent from 7.5
percent as companies froze spending plans during the campaign.  “Once the elections have passed, the country has to get
back on its normal path,” Humala said in an interview with
America Television today, accompanied by his wife and three
children. “Peru and its economy can’t slow down. Everyone has
to keep working.”  Humala, who lost to Garcia by 5 percentage points in
2006, has intensified his attacks on Fujimori in recent days.
Backed by human rights groups and Nobel Prize-winning novelist
Mario Vargas Llosa, the 48-year-old urged voters to reject a
return to “dictatorship” and accused  Alberto Fujimori  of
running his daughter’s campaign from his jail cell.  Alberto Fujimori  The elder Fujimori is credited with laying the foundations
of the Andean nation’s economic boom by slashing inflation to
3.5 percent from 7,650 percent and luring foreign investment.  His government collapsed after his intelligence chief,
Vladimiro Montesinos, was caught on videotape in 2000 bribing
lawmakers. The former president is serving a 25-year prison
sentence for directing a paramilitary death squad that killed
civilians during a war against the Shining Path, a Maoist
insurgency.  Keiko Fujimori became first lady in 1994 after her parents
separated, and she’s surrounded herself during the campaign by
her father’s aides. Her running mate, Jaime Yoshiyama, was a
government minister during Fujimori’s first term.  Humala, like Chavez, led a failed coup as a paratrooper. In
2000, he directed 50 soldiers to seize and occupy for a week one
of Phoenix-based  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ’s mines to protest
corruption in Fujimori’s government. The former army lieutenant
colonel’s brother, Antauro Humala, is in jail for killing four
policemen during the takeover of a highland town in 2005.  Emulating Lula  In recent weeks, Humala shelved his 198-page campaign
platform to back away from an earlier pledge to rewrite the
constitution and unilaterally raise royalty fees on mining and
gas production. He’s also said he won’t use private pension fund
savings to finance a state retirement plan.  Instead of looking to Chavez, he now says he would emulate
the pro-market policies of former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , and hired two of Lula’s aides as campaign
advisers.  “We understood the message of the first round and have
broadened our following,” Humala told foreign reporters in Lima
on June 3. “What hasn’t changed is our message of economic
growth with social inclusion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Lima at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  