-- 
Polish Central Bank Unifies Message to Spell Nearing End of Rate Increase

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-06-06T08:35:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/polish-central-bank-unifies-to-spell-nearing-end-of-tightening.html
Polish central bankers are uniting to
assure investors they will soon stop raising borrowing costs
after months of disconnect with markets about the future
direction of rates.  The pace of consumer-price increases will peak in two
months and  interest rates  aren’t on “a new trajectory,”
Narodowy Bank Polski Governor  Marek Belka  said on May 21. The
bank’s July inflation forecasts may change its policy bias and
the end of rate increases is in sight, rate-setter  Jerzy Hausner 
said on May 30. Policy makers will start a two-day meeting to
discuss rates tomorrow.  “They do seem to be singing off the same hymn sheet,”
said  David Oxley , an emerging-markets economist at London-based
Capital Economics Ltd. “At the start of the year it was getting
a bit ridiculous, it was just all over the shop. They have
improved quite a bit.”  Investors in the  derivatives market  have reduced
expectations for higher rates in  Poland  since the central bank
surprised economists by raising its benchmark rate by a quarter-
point last month, betting on two more increases this year. The
spread between six-month forward-rate agreements and the three-
month Warsaw interbank-offered rate narrowed to 0.59 percentage
point from 0.66 percentage point on May 11.  Accelerating inflation and wage growth in Poland, the
European Union’s largest eastern member, prompted the central
bank to raise borrowing costs three times since January. The
concentrated effort after the unexpected tightening last month
is helping economists gauge the scope of further increases, said
 Bartosz Pawlowski , BNP Paribas SA’s London-based head of
strategy for Central and Eastern Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa .  ‘Consistent Message’  “We hear this consistent message that this is just
speeding up the tightening rather than hiking more,” Pawlowski
said. “My interpretation is that there’s some sort of a
consensus. They are giving a message that we are probably going
to stop hiking interest rates after the next one or two rate
hikes.”  The central bank may increase its benchmark seven-day rate
by a quarter-point to 4.5 percent this week, according to 17 of
24 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The decision will be
announced on June 8.  It raised the rate by the same amount on May 11 after
inflation advanced to a 2 1/2-year high of 4.5 percent in April,
surprising 24 out of 31 economists, who predicted the bank would
rely the zloty’s strength to combat price gains.  The pace of consumer-price growth, which has exceeded the
bank’s 2.5 percent target for seven months, may drop “close”
to the goal late next year, Belka said on May 21.  Window of Opportunity  The window of opportunity to boost rates will close soon as
the last increase in a tightening cycle traditionally coincides
with the peak in inflation, Pawlowski said.  During the last wave of rate increases, the bank raised its
benchmark to 6 percent in June 2008. Inflation peaked a month
later at 4.8 percent and borrowing costs remained unchanged
until a cut in November. The central bank also finished raising
rates in August 2004, a month after inflation reached its
highest that year at 4.6 percent.  Investors failed to predict the May rate move because they
were “wrong” to assume that an agreement between the
government and central bank to convert the euros Poland receives
from the EU in  currency markets  was a substitute for rate
increases, Belka said.  Motions Fail  The unexpected rate increase followed five months last year
when economists had difficulty in timing the first tightening
since June 2008 before the bank started lifting borrowing costs
on Jan. 19.  Several rate setters who warned that a pickup in growth and
inflation justifies tightening monetary policy “in the near
future” kept rejecting motions to raise rates, according to a
Jan. 20 central bank report. The Monetary Policy Council has
since lined up to temper investors’ expectations of how high
rates have yet to go.  Rates can’t be lifted “too far” because economic growth
is set to slow,  Andrzej Bratkowski , a council member, told the
PAP news service on May 19. The bank adopted a new “tactic” of
speeding up rate increases to limit their scope, Hausner told
PAP on May 23. The  unemployment rate  at a 4-year high limits
wage demands and the need for higher rates, council member
Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said in an interview on May 25.  Yields have risen for short-dated Polish  government bonds 
and dropped on longer dates ones, flattening the yield curve.
The spread between two-year and 10-year bond yields narrowed to
102 basis points, from 109 basis points before the last rate
increase. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The MPC is now presenting a uniform stance and it’s
pretty readable,” Monika Kurtek, chief economist at Bank
Pocztowy in Warsaw. “Speeding the process of tightening means
we may not see many more hikes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  