-- 
Coelho Told by Portuguese President to Hurry Talks on Forming Coalition

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-06-07T08:23:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/portugal-s-social-democrats-defeat-socrates-hand-coelho-coalition-chance.html
Pedro Passos Coelho ,  Portugal ’s
incoming prime minister, was told by President Anibal Cavaco Silva to start talks immediately on forging a coalition to
ensure austerity measures mandated by a 78 billion-euro ($114
billion) bailout stay on track.  The order that Coelho move came in their meeting yesterday
in Lisbon less than 24 hours after the Social Democrat unseated
Socialist Jose Socrates, Jose Manuel Nunes Liberato, a
presidential aide, told reporters.  Starting talks with the People’s Party before all the
results are in underscores officials’ concerns over meeting
deadlines prescribed in the bailout. Leaders of the third-place
finishers meet today in Lisbon and may signal their demands to
join as Coelho’s junior partner.  “There is a majority government and that is a necessary
condition to implement the very difficult structural reforms and
the challenging fiscal consolidation,” Antonio Garcia Pascual,
chief southern European economist at Barclays Capital in  London ,
said yesterday.  Coelho’s Social Democrats and the People’s Party, won a
combined 129 seats in the 230-member parliament with four seats
yet to be decided, according to official results.  While all three major parties committed to the bailout’s
program of spending cuts and asset sales, a new majority taking
over from Socrates’ minority administration gave bonds a boost.
Yields on 10-year notes rose 8 basis points to 9.372 percent in
Lisbon as of 9:16 a.m. today.  Risk Spreads  The risk premium investors demand to hold 10-year
Portuguese notes over German bunds rose 14 basis points to
685, up from 511 when Socrates sought the rescue April 6.  “I count on the new government to implement the program
that was agreed with the EU and the IMF,” European Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters yesterday
in Strasbourg,  France . “I trust that the government will be
formed in due course. It’s essential that the program will be
implemented.”  Cavaco told reporters late yesterday that it would be
“convenient” for Passos Coelho to attend a summit of EU
leaders on June 23. He also said the government may be sworn in
before or on that day, according to a video available on the
presidency’s website.  Prestige, Credibility  The economy is set to shrink this year and unemployment is
12.4 percent even before the government pushes through demands
from the EU and the  International Monetary Fund . The plan is to
reduce the deficit to the EU ceiling of 3 percent of gross
domestic product by 2013 from 5.9 percent in 2011.  “We will only be able to recover prestige and credibility
abroad if we are able to meet the program we agreed to, but also
if we are able to go beyond that to give a perspective of growth
and job creation for the Portuguese economy,” said Coelho, 46.  The aid package calls for spending reductions for 2012 and
2013 amounting to 3.5 percent of GDP, while revenue increases
will represent 1.4 percent of output. The government will freeze
public workers’ salaries through 2013 and cut pensions of more
than 1,500 euros a month, while  tax deductions  will be limited.
Portugal also agreed to reduce workers’ severance payments,
phase out rent control and merge some of its municipalities.  ‘Promising Ourselves’  “We have to do what we have been promising ourselves to do
for the last 20 years,” Antonio Nogueira Leite, a Social
Democrat adviser, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday.  Portugal’s public debt swelled to 93 percent of GDP in 2010
from 68 percent in 2007. The European Commission forecasts the
debt will increase to 101.7 percent this year and 107.4 percent
in 2012. The debt ratio will start declining from 2013, outgoing
Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos says.  “It’s not clear-cut whether debt is sustainable,”
 Barclays Capital ’s Garcia Pascual said. “If they fully deliver
the program, including the structural reforms, they might get
away without restructuring. But it’s by no means easy.”  Asked whether he would rule out the need for a Portuguese
debt restructuring in coming years, Nogueira Leite said “we’re
going to be running a game on a razor’s edge, we know that. If
we manage to have the economy growing at the end of next year
then we do have a chance of repaying our debts orderly as
planned.”  Finance Possibilities  Candidates for the post of finance minister may be Vitor Bento, the chairman of payment-processing company SIBS SA and a
former head of the debt agency, and Joao Duque, a professor of
Finance and president of the Economics and Management Institute
of Lisbon’s Technical University, daily business newspaper
 Diario Economico  reported.  The next legislature will probably open at the end of June,
according to the Portuguese  parliament’s website .  Socrates’ government fell in March after lawmakers rejected
his deficit-cutting proposals intended to avoid a bailout. With
the country’s debt and borrowing costs surging, Portugal
followed Greece and Ireland in seeking a rescue. After the
election defeat, Socrates said he’d quit as Socialist leader.  The Social Democrats won 39 percent of the vote and 105
seats, up from 81, according to official results. The
Socialists, who ruled with a minority since 2009, won 28 percent
and 73 seats, down from 97. The  People’s Party  took 12 percent
and 24 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  