-- 
Egyptian Shares Climb After Capital Gains Tax Clarified; Gulf Stocks Drop

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-05T15:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/qatar-stocks-fall-to-3-month-low-on-msci-concern-egypt-s-gauge-advances.html
Egypt  shares rose the most in a week
on speculation the recent drop was overdone as the exchange said
a government plan to impose capital gains tax applies only to
dividend distributions and not to profit from stocks trading.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded property builder, jumped 2.5 percent.  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI)  advanced the most in a week. The
 EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  gained 1.6 percent, the most since May 29, to
5,445.01 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The measure slumped
2.7 percent on June 2 after the government unveiled the capital
gains tax on dividends and higher corporate tax bracket to curb
the budget deficit. In the  Persian Gulf , the  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index (BGCC200)  declined 0.3 percent.  “The negative effect we saw last week from the capital
gains tax announcement was very short-lived because the market
is still trading at a discount and small investors now see that
their trading profits will not be affected,” said Ashraf Akhnoukh, senior equity sales trader at Cairo-based Commercial
International Brokerage. “There still remains a growth story
here.”  The bourse is studying the capital gains tax plan and will
discuss it with the business community and the markets regulator
before advising the government, the exchange said June 2. The 24
percent decline in Egypt’s shares this year has left the 30
companies on the benchmark index valued at an average 7.7 times
estimated earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with 11.1 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Budget Deficit  Egypt is trying to rein in a widening budget deficit as the
North African country raises subsidy spending and salaries of
state employees to meet public demand for improving  living
standards  after a popular revolt ended 30 years of rule by
former President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  Orascom Construction advanced the most since May 29 to
268.04 Egyptian pounds. Commercial International, the biggest
publicly traded bank by assets, rose 1.4 percent, the most since
May 29, to 30.39 pounds.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  retreated 1 percent, while Kuwait’s index
dropped 0.8 percent. Oman’s gauge declined 0.6 percent and
Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  was little changed.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  lost 0.2 percent and Bahrain’s measure slipped 0.1
percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share Index gained less than
0.1 percent.  Israel ’s TA-25 measure advanced 0.2 percent in  Tel Aviv .
The benchmark Mimshal Shiklit government bond due January 2020
declined, pushing the yield two basis points higher, or 0.02
percentage point, to 5.09 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shanthy Nambiar at 
 snambiar1@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  