-- 
Trade Gap in U.S. Probably Widened in April to 10-Month High

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-09T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/trade-gap-in-u-s-probably-widened-in-april-as-imported-oil-prices-climbed.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  probably
widened in April to a 10-month high as the climbing cost of
foreign oil overshadowed a drop in auto imports, economists said
before a report today.  The gap grew to $48.8 billion from $48.2 billion in March,
according to the median of 75 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Another report may show fewer people filed claims for
jobless benefits last week.  A drop in shipments of vehicles and parts from earthquake-
stricken Japan may have temporarily prevented the flow of goods
into the U.S. from rising even further as  oil prices  climbed to
the highest level since 2008. At the same time, a 9.9 percent
drop in the dollar over the past 12 months will probably help
underpin overseas sales at manufacturers like  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)   “Oil prices are the big factor,” said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida . “But there may also be some supply chain disruptions
from Japan’s earthquake and tsunami, and those both move in
opposite directions. We’ve also seen exports improving in recent
months.”  The Commerce Department’s trade figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from gaps of $42 billion to $52 billion.  The number of applications for unemployment insurance
payments fell to 419,000 last week from 422,000 the prior
period, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
ahead of Labor Department data at 8:30 a.m. Claims would exceed
the 414,000 a week average so far this year, showing firings
have picked up.  Improving Confidence  Also today, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index for last
week is due at 9:45 a.m. New York time. The measure climbed in
the prior two weeks as gasoline prices retreated, snapping a
monthlong slide that sent confidence to a nine-month low.  Rising fuel prices probably accounted for the projected
increase in the  trade gap . Crude-oil futures on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  reached $113.93 a barrel on April 29, the
highest level since September 2008. The price has since dropped,
closing at $102.7 a barrel on May 31, a sign fuel imports cooled
last month.  At the same time, the disaster in Japan may have curtailed
the gain in imports. Supply disruptions caused by the earthquake
and tsunami will cut vehicle production in America and Japanese
exports to the U.S. by a combined 300,000 to 400,000 units in
the second quarter, Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief economist at
Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co. (F) , said during a June 1
conference call with analysts.  Slower Growth  The rise in fuel prices and the disaster in Japan have
taken a toll on the  U.S. economy , recent reports showed.
 Consumer spending  grew less than forecast in April, according to
Commerce Department data. Manufacturing expanded in May at the
slowest pace in more than a year, the  Institute for Supply
Management  said last week.  Employers in May also added the fewest number of workers in
eight months and the jobless rate unexpectedly increased to 9.1
percent, further raising the risk of an economic slowdown, Labor
Department figures showed June 3.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among policy
makers projecting the softening in growth will be temporary.
Bernanke this week said the economy is likely to pick up as fuel
prices moderate and disruptions of parts supplies ease as
factories in  Japan  recover.  Dollar, Exports  The drop in the value of the dollar against a trade-
weighted basket of currencies from the country’s biggest trading
partners may be one reason for optimism. A weaker dollar
benefits American companies by making their products more
attractive to buyers overseas.  “The low dollar means we can export, so we are actually
fundamentally growing globally from the U.S.,” Andrew Liveris,
president and chief executive officer at Dow Chemical, said
during a June 2 conference call. “We see strong growth drivers
in emerging regions.  China  is the locus of growth.”  Dow, based in Midland,  Michigan , also expects “a short-
term boost in Japan as that country rebuilds from its recent
tragic natural disaster,” Liveris said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  