-- 
Palmer Ends Fourth Try at $3.6 Billion Resourcehouse IPO as Investors Balk

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-06-05T06:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/resourcehouse-withdraws-share-sale-in-hong-kong-citing-market-conditions.html
Resourcehouse Ltd., the iron ore
and coal company controlled by Australian billionaire  Clive Palmer , pulled its planned initial public offering in  Hong
Kong  for a fourth time, citing negative market conditions.  “The board of the company has decided not to proceed
with the proposed global offering at this time given global
market conditions and the fact that they continued to decline
during and after the company’s international roadshow,” the
company said in a  statement  posted on its website late
yesterday.  Palmer’s advertising blitz of full page ads in Chinese
and English-language newspapers for the $3.6 billion IPO in
the past week failed to win over investors. The 57-year-old
law school dropout who made his fortune in real estate doesn’t
expect Resourcehouse to turn a profit until production at its
coal and iron ore projects begins in 2014 or 2015.  “The offer was overpriced for the current status of the
company - it is not an income-earning company,”  Gavin Wendt ,
senior resource analyst at Mine Life Ltd., said by phone today.
“For a lot of investors, particularly Asian investors where
he targeted the float, they are used to dealing with companies
that are generating earnings.”  Palmer has now pulled the IPO, which would have valued
Resourcehouse at as much as $7.8 billion based on the share
prices range, four times since first announcing plans in 2009.
He would have retained a 53.67 percent stake in the company if
the over-allotment option wasn’t exercised. The shares were
due to start trading June 10.  Examining Alternatives  Resourcehouse wants to develop an iron ore mine in
 Western Australia  that will cost at least A$2.7 billion
($2.9 billion) and an $8.6 billion  coal mine  in Australia’s
Queensland state. It is now considering how to develop those
projects, it said in the statement. The company may launch the
share sale again when market conditions improve, Palmer said in
a phone interview from Hong Kong today.  “It doesn’t rule out going to the market at some later
date when market conditions are better,” Palmer said. “We
don’t have any debt, we’re in a sound financial condition.
It will delay the coal project by five to six weeks. There are
other funding arrangements we can look to.”  U.S. stocks fell last week, sending the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to its longest streak of losses since 2004,
and commodity prices have fallen 6 percent from an April high
this year, according to the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of 19 raw materials.  Price Cut Considered  Palmer was considering cutting the price of the offering
by as much as 30 percent to $2.5 billion, according to a term
sheet on June 3. The company was considering selling shares at
HK$3.45, down from the original range of HK$4.48 and HK$4.93,
the term sheet showed.  Resourcehouse said in the statement that there was “no
decision made at any time to change or modify the terms of the
global offering.”  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  and Metallurgical Corp. of China
Ltd. had both agreed to invest about $200 million in
Resourcehouse. The company said the IPO may have been followed
by an A$1.9 billion debt sale to a Chinese company.  The number of basic material companies worldwide
conducting IPOs this year has risen by 32 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. There has been $17.3 billion
raised this year, up 77 percent on last year. Commodity trader
Glencore International Plc’s $9.8 billion raising is the
biggest in the sector so far.  Payments to Palmer  BOC International Holdings Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG managed the
Resourcehouse offering. Palmer was ranked as  Australia ’s
fifth-richest man with a fortune of A$5.05 billion according
to BRW magazine’s rich list published last month.  The IPO may have delivered A$1.1 billion to Palmer’s
closely held companies, according to the prospectus for the
share sale. The payments would have included as much as
A$310 million annual for at least three years to Mineralogy Pty.,
owned and chaired by Palmer, to help fund development of an
iron ore mine. That includes A$250 million a year toward the
construction of a port that will be owned by Citic Pacific Ltd.  Once Resourcehouse’s mines start production, Palmer would
have received annual payments of A$25 million in coal
royalties and A$15 million a year in iron ore royalties.
Mineralogy and Waratah Coal Inc., another company owned by
Palmer, remain the owners of the mines and Resourcehouse has
an agreement to extract specific quantities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  