-- 
RHB Capital, Rio Tinto, Waterland: Asia Ex-Japan Equity Preview

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-06-05T22:07:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/rhb-capital-rio-tinto-waterland-asia-ex-japan-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes today in Asian trading, excluding  Japan .
Stock symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the
previous close, unless noted otherwise. Markets in  China ,  Hong
Kong , Taiwan and  South Korea  are closed for a holiday.  Alliance Global Group Inc. (AGI)  : Kingson Sian,
president at the Philippine company that owns Manila’s largest
casino, acquired 1.07 million shares, expanding his holdings to
4 million shares, a stock-exchange filing showed. The stock
decreased 2.7 percent to 10.10 pesos.  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI)  : Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd. and
Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd. bought a net 11.95 million
shares in Ayala Land last month, boosting their combined
holdings in the largest Philippine builder to 30.2 percent, a
stock-exchange filing showed. The stock retreated 0.3 percent to
15.56 pesos.  Mudajaya Group Bhd. (MDJ)  : The Malaysian builder said it
won a 720 million-ringgit ($239 million) deal to design and
construct a power plant in the Southeast Asian nation. The
Selangor-based company was awarded a sub-contract by CMC
Machipex Sdn. for the Manjung No. 4 Power Plant, it said in a
stock exchange filing. Mudajaya rose 0.2 percent to 4.60 ringgit.  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  : The Malaysian lender said it
submitted an application to the country’s central bank to begin
separate merger negotiations with  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  
and  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  , according to an exchange
filing. RHB Capital climbed 0.1 percent to 9.98 ringgit. Malayan
Banking, the nation’s biggest lender by assets, was unchanged at
8.72 ringgit and CIMB Group advanced 0.2 percent to 8.34 ringgit.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO AU): The world’s second-largest mining
company by sales submitted its plans to meet a Zimbabwe
ownership law on May 9 and is “hopeful” the proposal will be
accepted, said Niels Kristensen, managing director of the
company’s operations in the country.  Rio Tinto  fell 0.4 percent
to A$79.76.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  