-- 
Romania Yields Below Higher-Rated Hungary Before Bond Sale

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-06-06T14:29:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/romania-yields-sink-below-higher-rated-hungary-before-bond-sale.html
Romania ’s borrowing costs are
falling to the lowest level since November and widening the
gap below higher-rated Hungary, as spending cuts boost
confidence in the Balkan country’s first international bond
offering in a year.  The yield on Romania’s Eurobonds due 2018 has fallen 59
basis points since February to 5.46 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg at 5:15 p.m. in Bucharest. That’s 36
basis points below similar-maturity investment-grade bonds
from Hungary, Bloomberg data show. At the start of June last
year, junk-rated Romania’s yield was 129 basis points above
Hungary’s.  Romania, the recipient of two international bailouts
since 2009, plans its first Eurobond sale in more than a year
this week as it seeks to avoid drawing on a 5 billion-euro
($7.3 billion) credit provided by the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union. The government should take
advantage of lower borrowing costs on financial markets and
lower its short-term domestic debt stockpile, International
Monetary Fund Mission Chief Jeffrey Franks said by phone from
 Washington  on June 2.  Romania’s “bond issuance should go well and there
continues to be a large appetite from global investors for
central and eastern European paper in either euros or
dollars,” said Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based
economist at Nomura International Plc. “Romania would be wise
to mop up any excess demand and issue in larger size if it can
get away with doing so without a significant increase in
cost.”  Spending Cuts  Investors are returning after Prime Minister Emil Boc cut
spending on government staff spending by 20 percent as part of
a budget plan to narrow the  budget deficit  this year to 4.4
percent of gross domestic product from 6.5 percent in 2010.
The economy grew 1.6 percent in the first three months of
2011, the first quarterly expansion since 2008.  Hungarian bonds, the world’s best performers this year,
fell as much as 4.4 percent in dollar terms in May on concern
the government may fail to implement steps to reduce the
biggest debt burden among the EU’s eastern members.  Romania is seeking to sell between 500 million euros and
1.5 billion euros of bonds with a maturity of at least five
years by the end of this week, depending on market conditions,
Deputy Finance Minister Bogdan Dragoi said in a phone
interview last week. Romania is scheduled to address investors
in  London  today in meetings organized by  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) 
and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, according to Dragoi.  Default Swaps  The offering will probably be priced to yield 250 basis
points above the benchmark mid-swap rate, or 20 basis points
less than Hungary paid a month ago in a sale of bonds due
2019, according to estimates from Nomura and UniCredit SpA.  “The positive sentiment toward the Romanian market is
still there and we see non-resident investors particularly
interested,” said  Gyula Toth , a Vienna-based emerging-market
strategist at Unicredit.  Romania will probably offer about 750 million euros and
end up raising about 1 billion euros, Nomura’s Montalto said.  Romania has the highest speculative-grade ranking from
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch of BB+.  Hungary  is one step higher
at BBB-. Moody’s Investors Service has Romania and Hungary at
Baa3, the lowest investment grade category.  Fitch Credit Rating  Fitch changed today Hungary’s credit outlook to stable
from negative, affirming the country’s ratings for long-term
foreign at ‘BBB-’ and local currency at ‘BBB’.  The cost of insuring against a default by Romania has
dropped 54 basis points in the past three months to 231 basis
points at the end of last week, 23 basis points less than
credit-default swaps for Hungary, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Contracts for Romania were 259 basis points more expensive
than Hungary in January 2009.  “The macroeconomic story of Romania remains relatively
solid with a pretty strong performance in the currency and we
see more and more flows of interest in the local treasuries,”
said  Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in London.  Return to Market  Improved sentiment is helping eastern European
governments return to world capital markets to help bridge
budget deficits. Serbia will select advisers by the end of
this month for its first-ever Eurobond sale, seeking as much
as 700 million euros by October, Deputy Finance Minister Vuk
Djokovic said on June 2. Croatia plans to sell euro-
denominated bonds “before summer,” Finance Minister Martina Dalic said on March 21.  “The situation for Romania to access markets is much
better than a year ago,” Franks at the IMF said. Still, the
government must be “vigilant” in case of a worsening of
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, he said.  The government has sold 27.4 billion lei of domestic
Treasuries this year, beating its target of 24.2 billion lei.
It also raised 939 million euros in three-year bonds on the
domestic market. The ministry must repay more than 2.5 billion
euros of maturing euro-denominated debt in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ,
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  