-- 
Russian Inflation Rate Was Probably Unchanged in May on Food

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-06-05T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/russian-inflation-rate-was-probably-unchanged-in-may-on-food.html
Russia ’s inflation rate was probably
unchanged in May as the impact of last year’s drought on food
prices faded.  The annual inflation rate remained at 9.6 percent for a
second month, according to the median estimate of 11 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Prices probably rose 0.5 percent in a
month after increasing 0.4 percent in April, the survey showed.
The Federal Statistics Service plans to report the figures today
or tomorrow.  Food-price growth slowed after the effects of the country’s
worst drought in 50 years abated. Inflation is "in order," Bank
Rossii Chairman  Sergei Ignatiev  said on May 26, before the
central bank indicated it would leave borrowing costs unchanged
for several months.  "The evident slowdown in food-price growth suggests that
the shocks from internal agriculture prices are wearing out,"
VTB Capital economists Alexey Moiseev, Aleksandra Evtifyeva and
Dmitri Fedotkin said in an e-mailed note on May 31. The central
bank "appears comfortable with inflation."  Food-price growth slowed to 14.1 percent in April from 15.3
percent in the first quarter, according to the statistics
office. Prices for products including potatoes and buckwheat
began rising last year after unseasonably hot weather destroyed
harvests across the country.  The ruble’s gains help limit the growth of consumer prices
in monthly terms, Ignatiev has said. The ruble, which has gained
a record 9.9 percent against the  U.S. dollar  this year, closed
0.4 percent higher at 27.81 per dollar on June 3.  Close to Peak  The central bank expects inflation to slow significantly in
the second half of 2011 and has a full-year target of between 6
percent and 7 percent. Consumer prices rose 4.6 percent this
year through May 23.  "We’re probably very close to the peak,"  Paul Biszko , an
emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto,
said June 3. "Policy makers will be looking ahead to that and
assuming there’s no sharp acceleration from here, it’s going to
give them some room to pause."  The central bank last week raised its overnight deposit
rate to 3.5 percent from 3.25 percent, surprising 11 of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey. It left the key refinancing
and overnight repurchase rates unchanged after a quarter-point
increase in April.  Borrowing costs may remain unchanged "for the nearest
months," with  interest rates  at the level necessary to tackle
inflation and promote economic growth, the bank said. Gross
domestic product expanded an annual 4.1 percent between January
and March.  Only Serious Risk  Lifting a ban on grain exports introduced in response to
last year’s crop shortage is the "only serious, significant risk
factor" for inflation, Ignatiev said last week. The resumption
of exports on July 1 may push domestic prices higher,  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas SA in Moscow, said
on May 30.  Increased government spending and wage increases to public
workers before parliamentary elections at the end of the year
and a presidential vote in early 2012 may also boost inflation,
VTB Capital has said.  There is also concern that Russia’s ban on imports of
vegetables from the European Union, imposed after an E.coli
outbreak, may boost food prices.  "We note the upside risks to inflation associated with the
restrictions on vegetable imports which may neutralize some of
the favorable deflationary effects that are typically observed
in the summer period," Deutsche Bank economist  Yaroslav Lissovolik  said in an e-mailed note on June 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  