-- 
Russia RTS Futures Hold Near One-Week Low on Growth Concerns

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-05T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/russia-rts-futures-hold-near-one-week-low-on-growth-concerns.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures held
close to a one-week low as slowing job growth in the U.S. fueled
speculation that the global economy is weakening.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
rose less than 0.1 percent June 3. Contracts on OAO Rosneft,
Russia’s top oil producer, were little changed, while those on
OAO Lukoil, the second biggest, rose 0.3 percent. Contracts on
OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, fell 0.3 percent.  “The U.S. data extends a recent series of weak reports
from several big economies which, individually, are not overly
negative but collectively they present an emerging picture of
deteriorating global growth,”  Chris Weafer , the chief
strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said in an e-
mail. “Russia does not yet have strong domestic credentials.”  U.S. benchmark equity indexes slumped, dragging the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to its longest streak of weekly losses
since 2004, and the dollar fell against the currencies of its
six major trading partners after U.S. payrolls grew by a less-
than-projected 54,000 last month and the jobless rate
unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent. U.S. economic growth
slipped to a 1.8 percent annual pace in the first three months
of the year from 3.1 percent in the prior quarter, revised
figures from the Commerce Department showed last week.  “Investors consider Russia to be almost a derivative play
on global recovery,” Weafer said on June 3. “Any erosion in
confidence about the strength of that recovery -- as happened
today with the payroll data -- has an immediate impact on
investor confidence towards Russia.”  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,155.51 on June 3 in  New York . Russia’s ruble-denominated Micex
Index dropped 1.5 percent, its biggest loss since May 23, to
1,633,02. The dollar-denominated RTS Index fell 1.3 percent to
1,858.08.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
climbed 0.2 percent. Crude oil for July delivery fell 0.2
percent, or 18 cents, to settle at $100.22 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  on June 3. Prices declined 0.4 percent
last week, the biggest drop since the five days ended May 16.  “General investor aversion to risk amid weakening global
macroeconomic data hampered sentiment for Russia and the
region,” EPFR Global analysts led by Cameron Brandt wrote in a
report on June 3.  Equity Fund Outflows  Investors withdrew $59.6 million from Russia-focused equity
funds in a week to June 1,  Brad Durham , managing director at
mutual fund tracking company EPFR Global, said in a telephone
interview. It was the fourth consecutive week of withdrawals.  Inflows into Russia-focused equity funds this year through
June 1 totaled $3.8 billion, compared with $1.7 billion in the
same period of last year, Durham said.  Investors withdrew a net $120 million from Emerging Europe
Equity Funds in a week to June 1, EPFR Global said in the
report. It was fourth consecutive week of outflows.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 1.3 percent on June 3 and was down
0.5 percent for the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  