-- 
Japan’s DPJ Leaders Seek to Limit Kan’s Tenure as Pressure to Quit Grows

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-06-05T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/setting-date-to-quit-would-make-kan-lame-duck-prime-minister-okada-says.html
Senior lawmakers of  Japan ’s ruling
party sought to limit Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s tenure in
office amid internal divisions over his promise to step down at
an unspecified time.  Kan made the pledge to appease dissidents in his  Democratic
Party  of Japan and defeat a June 2 parliamentary no-confidence
vote, then suggested he might stay on until early next year. DPJ
lawmakers including ex-premier  Yukio Hatoyama  denounced the move,
saying Kan lacks the popular support needed to pass legislation
for rebuilding from the March natural disasters and nuclear
crisis.  DPJ Secretary-General Katsuya Okada, a Kan ally, said
yesterday he would ask him to step down if the time frame is
“distant” from the consensus. The day before, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano said Kan won’t “linger around much
longer.”  “He clearly said he’ll step down after a certain
resolution to the crisis, so the rest is up to the prime
minister,” Okada said yesterday on Fuji Television’s Shin Hodo
2001 program. “Debating resignation dates isn’t in the nation’s
interest.”  Kan will quit by August at the latest,  Kyodo News  reported
late on June 4, without saying where it obtained the information.  “It’s my responsibility” to stay on until completion of a
cold shutdown of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant, Kan said after the vote. Facility owner Tokyo Electric
Power Co. said it aims to stabilize the facility by January.  Obama Meeting Undecided  Edano, speaking on TV Tokyo, said on June 4 that Kan hasn’t
decided whether he will meet U.S. President  Barack Obama  as
scheduled in September.  Asked if Kan aims to stay until January, Edano said the
remark about overseeing the shutdown of the Fukushima reactors
“wasn’t an indication of when he would step down.”  Kan should resign this month, Nobuteru Ishihara, secretary
general of the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , said on NHK
Television yesterday. He needs to step down “as soon as
possible” so that ruling and opposition parties can work on
rebuilding the economy after the March 11 disaster, he said.  Some 53 percent of voters view a coalition between the DPJ
and LDP as the best government once Kan steps down, a poll by
the Asahi newspaper released on June 4 showed. The same
percentage expressed dissatisfaction with the premier’s comments
on his resignation plans. The newspaper did not provide a margin
of error. Kan’s approval rating was little changed at 28 percent,
the paper said.  Political Bickering  Political bickering over Kan’s fate risks prolonging
rebuilding efforts, affecting tens of thousands of victims whose
lives have been disrupted by the March disasters. Kan won
approval for a 4 trillion yen ($50 billion) extra budget to
devote to reconstruction from damages the government estimates
could swell to 25 trillion yen.  Hatoyama on June 4 said he had reached an agreement for Kan
to step down once a second stimulus plan is drafted, a process
he said would probably happen before the end of the month. The
next day, Hatoyama said that if Kan “doesn’t keep his promise,
he’s a swindler.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Tokyo  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at  sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  