-- 
Siemens Record Cash Fuels Concern Loescher May Overpay for Deals: Real M&A

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-05T22:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/siemens-record-cash-fuels-concern-loescher-may-overpay-for-deals-real-m-a.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s  Peter Loescher  may have
to start spending a record cash hoard on acquisitions to combat
three straight years of falling sales while proving to
shareholders that he won’t overpay again.  Europe’s largest engineering company doubled its cash in
three years to 18.5 billion euros ($27 billion), the second-
biggest war chest among industrial companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Siemens has used just 1.5 billion euros
for takeovers since Chief Executive Officer Loescher’s first
deal, the 5.1 billion-euro purchase of Dade Behring Holdings
Inc. in 2007, was criticized as too costly by investors. He was
forced to write down the value of that acquisition last year.  With business volume still more than 21 billion euros short
of Loescher’s annual goal as he tries to outgrow rivals
 Schneider Electric SA (SU)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) , Siemens plans to
expand in emerging markets, industry automation and applications
to improve power use. That means the Munich-based maker of  power
plants , high-speed trains and medical scanners may look at
buying  Itron Inc. (ITRI)  for its so-called smart-grid technologies and
 Spirax-Sarco Engineering Plc (SPX)  to add energy services, said Thomas Rowlands-Rees, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “They are sitting on a pile of cash. It’s appropriate for
them to be evaluating how they put their money to work through
acquisitions,” said  Walter Todd , who helps manage $950 million
at Greenwood Capital in Greenwood, South Carolina. “To the
extent that he does have a bad track record, that means each
transaction will be scrutinized by investors that much more.”  Cash Pile  Alexander Becker, a spokesman for Siemens, declined to
comment. A representative for Spirax-Sarco had no comment.
Sharelynn Moore, a spokeswoman for Itron, didn’t return a phone
call or e-mail seeking comment.  Cash and short-term investments at Siemens climbed 97
percent in the last three years to 18.5 billion euros as of
March. That’s the highest among all of the 97 European companies
in the Stoxx 600 Industrial Goods and Services Index and the
most of any industrial company worldwide after Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Cash
holdings at Siemens reached a record 18.7 billion euros at the
end of December.  “Siemens is a cash flow monster,” said Thorsten Winkelmann, who helps manage 4 billion euros at Allianz Global
Investors in  Frankfurt , including Siemens shares. “The cash
they generate every quarter is adding to the pile. Cash doesn’t
earn as much as money invested, so that does not make them look
good.”  Relative Value  Investors are paying less for each dollar of earnings at
Siemens than for its competitors. The company trades at almost
14 times profit, compared with 15 times at GE, 17 for Schneider,
21 at  Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROK)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ’s multiple of 22,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Siemens is one of the cheapest companies in its
industries,” said Tim Albrecht, who manages 3.9 billion euros
in equities, including Siemens shares, at DWS Investment GmbH in
Frankfurt. “Given Siemens’s acquisition history, people are
worried they’ll repeat past mistakes. I can’t imagine Siemens
doing a large deal at a rich multiple.”  Three weeks after joining as CEO in July 2007, Loescher,
53, announced the $7 billion (5.1 billion euro) acquisition of
Deerfield, Illinois-based Dade Behring, whose products test for
illegal drug use and cancer, in the company’s biggest takeover
since 2001, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock fell the
most in four years the day it was announced. That deal was part
of 11 billion euros spent on health-care takeovers in 2006 and
2007, prompting the company to write down the value of its
health-care diagnostics unit by 1.4 billion euros last year.  ‘Acid Test’  “Their next deal is the acid test for management
strategy,” said Ben Uglow, an analyst with Morgan Stanley in
 London .  Siemens has indicated it will return cash to shareholders
by boosting dividends before overpaying for an acquisition,
DWS’s Albrecht said.  Loescher aims to increase revenue faster than Siemens’s
rivals and in March set a goal to top 100 billion euros in
overall business volume, defined as order intake plus sales,
divided by two. Business volume was about 78.6 billion euros in
the last fiscal year.  Revenue was almost 76 billion euros in the year ended in
September and is projected to drop for a third straight year to
74.1 billion euros, based on analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, as Loescher separates off businesses that bring in
about 9 billion euros in revenue.  Schneider Sales Growth  Schneider, the Rueil-Malmaison, France-based maker of
electrical components, boosted sales by 24 percent in 2010, the
most among Siemens’ rivals, and has spent almost $8 billion on
deals since the start of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Still, Siemens shares have gained 73 percent since the end
of 2008 as the 83-member Bloomberg European Industrials Index
gained 59 percent.  The company plans to fill holes in energy distribution,
industry automation, building technology, and smart grid
applications, Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said on an
April 5 conference call. The company said its focus is on
innovation-driven markets, emerging economies and strengthening
its services business.  “We have our list,” Loescher said on a May 17 conference
call, adding that he knows “exactly where” strategic targets
are and “who they are.”  Siemens’s Acquisitions  Acquisitions may be between 1 billion euros and 5 billion
euros, Kaeser said last month. Siemens’s acquisitions have been
762 million euros on average at a median multiple of 12 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Spirax-Sarco of Cheltenham,  England , may help Siemens get
into energy services, said New Energy Finance’s Rowlands-Rees,
who’s based in London and focuses on energy-efficiency
companies. The maker of pressure controls and steam traps with a
market value of 1.5 billion pounds (1.7 billion euros) generated
39 percent of sales in  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa and 22
percent in the Asia Pacific, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
trades at 10.6 times Ebitda.  “It’s a reasonable size,” said Greenwood’s Todd. “They
have exposure to emerging markets, which is where everybody
wants to be. Geographically that would make the most sense.”  Itron, with a market value of $2 billion, may be “an
interesting smart-grid play” for Siemens, said Rowlands-Rees.
The Liberty Lake, Washington-based company would add utility
meters, communications equipment and electricity-management
software as Siemens targets 7 billion euros in new orders for
smart grids by 2014. Smart grids help regulate power use and
manage fluctuations in supply from renewable energy sources.  Water Meters  Itron is valued at 7 times Ebitda, the cheapest of any U.S.
maker of electronic measuring instruments greater than $500
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “What makes Itron sexy in the long run are their water
meters, which offer great potential in emerging regions of Asia
and Africa where penetration of such products is low,” said
Alexander Funk, who helps manage 500 million euros in Luxembourg
for Oekoworld Lux SA, which specializes in environmentally
friendly investments.  Siemens could also consider buying  Watts Water Technologies
Inc. (WTS) , the $1.2 billion maker of filters and protection valves in
North Andover,  Massachusetts , Oekoworld’s Funk said. The company
is valued at 7.6 times Ebitda. Chief Financial Officer William McCartney declined to comment.  “The enormous cash is burning holes in Siemens’s
pockets,” said Thilo Mueller, who helps to manage 120 million
euros at MB Fund Advisory GmbH in Limburg,  Germany . “They need
to make acquisitions. We are awaiting that. In the long run, no
company can afford to hold that much cash.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 