-- 
Roche, Bristol-Myers Melanoma Treatments Lead to Longer Lives

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-05T16:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/skin-cancer-death-risk-cut-by-roche-drug-as-bristol-treatment-extends-life.html
An experimental drug from  Roche
Holding AG (ROG)  and Daiichi Sankyo Co. boosted survival of patients
with melanoma in a study, a result that may lead to a second new
treatment to fight deadly skin cancer.  The treatment, vemurafenib, slashed death risks by 63
percent in advanced melanoma patients with a gene mutation
carried by half of those with the disease, according to a report
today at the  American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting in
 Chicago . If cleared for sale, vemurafenib -- from Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche, and Daiichi, of  Tokyo  -- would compete
with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Yervoy, approved in March.  Yervoy may reach $1.5 billion in sales by 2015 while
vemurafenib may generate $796 million, analysts have said. These
two drugs may be heralds to a revolution in treating  melanoma ,
which  kills  8,700 Americans a year, and has long challenged
efforts to develop an effective treatment. The new medicines are
followed by at least a dozen more in advanced testing.  “The field of metastatic melanoma treatment is moving
faster these last two years than in all the past several
decades,” said Antoni Ribas, an oncologist at the  University of
California  in  Los Angeles .  The plethora of new drugs will also provide opportunities
to combine treatments that could further improve the prognosis
for patients, with an initial trial combining Yervoy and
vemurafenib slated to start later this year, said Patrick Hwu,
chair of melanoma oncology at  M.D. Anderson Cancer Center  in
Houston, in an interview.  “One drug has an excellent response, but a short duration
of benefit,” Hwu said in an interview. “The other has a
miraculous response in just a few patients. Hopefully by
combining them we can get the best of both worlds.”  Glaxo Drug Combination  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is starting studies needed for approval
of its combination of two novel drugs, after the cocktail helped
almost all of the patients in its first human trial, said Paolo Paoletti, president of London-based company’s oncology unit.  In the vemurafenib trial, 675 patients with advanced
melanoma who had a mutation in a gene called BRAF received
either the experimental drug or chemotherapy. The BRAF gene
mutation drives the disease in about half of patients with
advanced skin cancer.  After six months, 84 percent of the patients taking
vemurafenib were still alive, compared with 64 percent of the
patients who got chemotherapy, according to results that were
also published today in the New England Journal of Medicine.  The difference was so striking that researchers stopped the
trial early before median survival had been calculated. The drug
shrank tumors in 48 percent of patients compared with 5 percent
for those on chemotherapy. Earlier studies suggest tumors
develop resistance to the drug in about seven months.  Yervoy Study  In a second trial presented at the meeting and published in
the journal, led by researchers from  Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center  showed that New York-based Bristol-Myers’ Yervoy
improved survival when given with chemotherapy as an initial
treatment by a median of 2.1 months. The drug has previously
been proven to extend survival in patients who failed previous
therapy.  While not everyone responds to treatment, those who do can
benefit for years, studies show. Almost half of patients taking
Yervoy with the chemotherapy dacarbazine were alive after a
year, compared with one-third given the chemotherapy alone.
Twenty-one percent of patients taking Yervoy survived at least
three years, compared with 12 percent on dacarbazine only.  If the trend toward better survival continues, some
melanoma patients may live as long as their healthy peers, said
Renzo Canetta, vice president of oncology clinical research,
said in an interview.  Side Effects  The new medicines weren’t without side effects. Patients
taking vemurafenib reported joint pain, diarrhea, and headaches.
There was also had a higher incidence of another less serious
type of skin cancer called squamous-cell carcinoma.  Yervoy can cause life-threatening inflammation of the
intestines and other organs. In the Yervoy trial presented
today, researchers reported a lower rate of the most serious
types of these side effects than had been seen previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  