-- 
Slovenian Rejection of Pension Overhaul May Lead to Ratings Cut

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-06-05T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/slovenian-rejection-of-pension-overhaul-may-lead-to-ratings-cut.html
Slovenians’ rejection of a government
pension overhaul that had the support of European Union leaders
adds to concern about public spending and a possible  credit
rating  cut for the richest former Yugoslav republic.  About 72 percent of voters rejected the proposal in a
referendum yesterday to extend the retirement age to 65 year
from an average 60, while about 28 percent backed the move, the
 central electoral commission  said on its website.  Voters were unmoved by leaders including German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , who campaigned
for the overhaul as the aging population strains a budget
already depleted by one of the deepest recessions in the euro
region in 2009. Slovenian Prime Minister Borut Pahor is
struggling to cut public spending amid a slow economic recovery.  “The way this can be interpreted is the people in Slovenia
are against reforms,” Pahor told reporters in Ljubljana last
night. “I don’t want to give the feeling that we want to stay
in power at all costs.”  Merkel’s government said on June 3 that Slovenia’s
initiative to raise the  retirement age  is “a good idea,” while
Van Rompuy said Slovenians will have to implement pension
changes “sooner or later.” The IMF said on May 31 “pension
expenditure poses a challenge to fiscal sustainability.”  ‘Bad Solution’  The result will give the opposition leaders a boost in
their drive to force early elections. The next scheduled
elections are in 2012.  “Voters rejected a bad solution as they believe there is a
better one,” Janez Jansa, the leader of the Slovenian
Democratic Party, the largest opposition group, said after the
vote in Ljubljana. Polls suggest Jansa’s party would win an
early vote.  “The government lost five referendums in a year and local
elections as well so in a normal state this would mean the
resignation of the ruling coalition,” he said  The no vote will deepen the debt burden and hamper the
nascent economic recovery, central bank Governor Marko Kranjec
has said. Credit ratings services, including  Standard & Poor’s 
have warned about the credit score cut if the government fails
to rein in spending.  The Adriatic nation is rated AA at S&P, the third-highest
investment grade on a par with  Spain  and higher than Portugal or
Italy. Slovenia spends 1.3 billion euros ($1.9 billion) a year
to cover the shortfall in the pension system, which is
“unsustainable,” Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic  said.  Budget Target  The nation of 2 million people needs to cut the  budget
deficit  to below 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2013 to
meet European stability rules. The gap will widen to 5.8 percent
of GDP this year from 5.6 percent in 2010, with debt rising to
42.8 percent of GDP from 38 percent, the EU has estimated on May
13.  Its export-driven economy slowed in the first quarter as a
drop in the  construction industry  outweighed gains in exports
and industrial output. GDP economy expanded 2 percent from a
year earlier, compared with 2.1 percent in last quarter of 2010,
the statistics office said May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in  Ljubljana , Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  