-- 
Stevens May Raise Rates Next Quarter, Money Markets Show: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-06T06:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/stevens-may-raise-rates-next-quarter-money-markets-show-australia-credit.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia may
resume lifting the developed world’s highest borrowing costs in
July or August to counter inflation fueled by the biggest surge
in demand since 2009, rates in money markets show.  Yields on July and August interbank cash rate futures
advanced, extending last week’s first gain in a month. A June 1
gross domestic product report showed demand grew 1.3 percent in
the first quarter, more than twice as much as in the prior
period. June contracts show traders are betting RBA Governor
Glenn Stevens will leave the central bank’s target interest rate
at 4.75 percent tomorrow, where it’s been since November.  Household spending accounts for 55 percent of  Australia ’s
economy, and the central bank has sought to restrain consumption
with 175 basis points of rate increases between October 2009 and
November, letting investment in mining drive growth. A June 2
report showing the biggest increase in retail sales in 17 months
signals higher incomes are encouraging consumers to spend more,
spurring the first weekly decline for benchmark 10-year notes
since April 8.  “The question over the timing of the next RBA move has
come down to the propensity to consume,” said Jarrod Kerr,
director of Australia rates strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG
in  Singapore . “The strength of consumption and the surge in
income growth suggests the RBA will deliver another rate rise in
the coming months.”  Soaring Currency  The RBA has expressed concern that higher consumption will
clash with capacity constraints such as skill shortages caused
by mining investment that the government estimates will reach
A$76 billion ($82 billion) next fiscal year.  Twenty-three of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict Stevens will keep rates unchanged tomorrow. Five
forecast an increase to 5 percent.  Australia’s currency has soared 31 percent in the past year
as surging commodity shipments to China and  India  underpin
investors’ expectations that the RBA will raise rates.  The so-called Aussie reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest
since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983, and traded at
$1.0749 at 4:52 p.m. in Sydney.  Unemployment has fallen to a two-year low and consumer
price growth accelerated last quarter to the fastest pace since
2006 as companies including BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
biggest mining company, expand output.  Iron Ore, Coal  “Australia’s terms of trade are likely to rise further in
the June quarter, to be above the level assumed a few months ago
-- and at their highest level in at least 140 years -- boosted
in particular by high prices for  iron ore  and coal,” the RBA
said in its quarterly policy statement on May 6, referring to a
measure of income earned from exports.  The yield on July cash-rate futures rose to 4.83 percent
today in Sydney, while the rate on the August contract climbed
to 4.88 percent. The chances of a July rate increase reached 32
percent from 20 percent on May 27, while the probability of an
advance in August rose to 52 percent from 36 percent.  The current stretch is the fourth time since mid-2007 that
Australia’s central bank has held policy for five-straight
meetings. The RBA raised rates in November 2010 and October
2009, after ending such a pause in October 2008 with a reduction
in the benchmark.  Australia’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first
quarter, the most since 1991, as floods in the northeast slashed
coal exports, a June 1 report showed. Even so, the currency rose
and bonds fell the most in almost four months after the data as
investors focused on final demand, the broadest measure of
spending by government, consumers and businesses, which more
than doubled from 0.6 percent in the final quarter of 2010.  Economy Rebounding  A day later, a government report showed April retail sales
advanced 1.1 percent from a month earlier, the biggest jump
since November 2009 and almost three times more than the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  In the May 6 review, the RBA forecast growth of 4.25
percent this year. Consumer prices will rise 3.25 percent over
the period and core inflation will reach 3 percent, it said.  Expectations for consumer-price gains declined last week
for a fourth week, the longest stretch since December,
government debt markets show. The gap between yields on five-
year inflation-linked notes and similar-maturity bonds that
aren’t indexed shrank to 2.97 percentage points today from 2.98
percentage points on June 3 and 3.01 percentage points on May
27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The so-called breakeven rate shows investor estimates for
annual inflation over the lifetime of the bonds. The RBA aims to
keep inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent on average.  RBA’s Pause  The central bank may also have cause to keep rates
unchanged as global growth shows signs of weakening, including
the economies of some of Australia’s biggest trading partners,
and Europe’s debt crisis deepens.  China ’s manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in nine
months in May, a survey of companies released last week showed.
India’s growth in three months to March 31 was the weakest in
five quarters, and  Japan ’s industrial production rose less than
economists forecast in April. Those three countries accounted
for 51 percent of Australia’s total exports so far this year.  Greece ’s fiscal crisis worsened enough for Moody’s
Investors Service last week to raise the probability of a
default to 50 percent. Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said June 3 that
the European Union will approve a new aid plan for Greece.  U.S. stocks fell last week, sending the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to its longest stretch of losses since 2004,
after Labor Department figures showed payrolls rosed 54,000 in
May, less than the 165,000 median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey, while the jobless rate climbed to 9.1 percent.  Europe  Concerns  “Australian fixed income looks to have been the
beneficiary of heightened European concerns and increased
uncertainty over the U.S. outlook,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of
Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Sydney.  The yield on the Australian government’s benchmark 10-year
note advanced to 5.234 percent on June 3 from 5.230 percent on
May 27, snapping the longest stretch of declines since 2008. The
rate declined 2 basis points to 5.21 percent today. The premium
over similar-maturity Treasuries widened to 222 basis points, or
2.22 percentage point, from this year’s low of 197 on March 3.  A May 31 central bank report showed loans provided by
Australian banks and finance companies stagnated in April.
Australian employers shed 22,100 workers in April, bringing to
26,300 the number of net new jobs created in first four months
of 2011, the weakest for that period since 1999.  Australia’s minimum wage was increased 3.4 percent to
A$589.30 a week, the national workplace relations tribunal said
June 3. The wage price index rose 3.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the government reported May 18.  Queensland’s Exports  Stevens has held rates for five meetings to allow the
economy in Queensland to recover from floods in January that
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called the nation’s most expensive
natural disaster.  Further weighing on consumers, the government said last
month it will end 23 years of spending growth to help ease
inflation pressure and support the return to a  budget surplus .  The gap between yields on corporate notes and sovereign
debt widened one basis point last week to 162, paring this
year’s decline in the spread to 35 basis points, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  In a statement after its May 3 policy decision, the RBA
said it left rates unchanged as households continue to show
caution in spending and borrowing, and are saving more.  Last week’s GDP report showed Australia’s household savings
ratio climbed to 11.5 percent in the three months through March
from 9.7 percent in the previous quarter, the highest level
since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  