-- 
U.K. Factory Production Strengthens as Export Demand Picks Up, EEF Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-06-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/u-k-factory-production-strengthens-as-export-demand-picks-up-eef-says.html
U.K. factory production strengthened
in the second quarter as companies benefited from increasing
export orders, the Engineering Employers Federation said.  A measure of output rose to 28 from 25 in the first three
months of the year, the EEF, a lobby for manufacturers, and BDO
Stoy Hayward LLP said in a report released today in  London . A
gauge of new export orders increased to 28 from 25.  The pound’s drop of about 25 percent on a trade-weighted
basis since the start of 2007 has bolstered manufacturers by
stoking demand for exports. Still, with manufacturing accounting
for just 13 percent of the economy and domestic demand sluggish,
the  Bank of England  will probably leave its key interest rate at
a record low of 0.5 percent this week to support the recovery.  “Our survey continues to show underlying strength in
output and orders,” Lee Hopley, chief economist at the EEF,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Providing buoyant demand from
overseas markets holds firm, we should see growth maintained
through the rest of the year.”  The EEF’s measures of average prices for domestic and
export orders both fell to 16 from 26. A gauge of employment
slipped to 24 from 29.  Two other reports today also suggest the labor-market
outlook remains uncertain. Lloyds TSB’s consumer barometer
showed a measure of  job security  weakened to minus 21 in May
from minus 18 in April. A report by employment website
Reed.co.uk showed a measure of job opportunities fell 4 points
in May to 121, the lowest since January. The gauge is based on
listings on the website’s job board.  The EEF report contrasts with a survey of purchasing
manufacturers published last week by the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply that showed manufacturing grew at the
slowest pace in almost two years in May. A separate survey from
CIPS showed expansion in service businesses such as banks and
airlines slowed.  All 55 economists in a Bloomberg survey see no change in
the bank’s key rate at its June 9 decision. All 35 respondents
in a separate poll say policy makers will also hold their bond-
purchase program at 200 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  