-- 
Humala Claims Victory Over Fujimori With 20,000 Vote Lead in Peru Election

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-06-06T04:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/humala-wins-peru-s-presidential-election-with-53-ipsos-exit-poll-shows.html
Opposition candidate Ollanta Humala
claimed victory in  Peru ’s presidential election as he clung to a
lead of about 20,000 votes over Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori.  “The election results indicate, in the quick count and
official results, that we have won the presidential elections,”
Humala told reporters in Lima before heading to a rally with
supporters. “Nevertheless we will continue to follow the
information until the official proclamation of the results.”  Fujimori had yet to concede defeat after Peru’s electoral
commission showed Humala with 50.1 percent of votes to 49.9
percent. About 78 percent of ballots were counted, most of them
in Lima and urban areas where support for Fujimori was
strongest. A quick count at selected polling stations nationwide
by Ipsos-Apoyo, a Lima-based researcher, favored Humala by 2.8
percentage points.  Fujimori, before the first results were made public six
hours after polls closed, urged her supporters to remain calm.  “If the official results confirm the quick count I will be
the first to accept those results,” she told supporters gathered
in  Lima .  Slow to be counted were ballots cast in rural areas, where
support for Humala is strongest, and votes by Peruvians living
abroad, where Fujimori was winning by more than a two-to-one
margin. Peruvians abroad make up between 2 percent and 3 percent
of the electorate, according to Ipsos-Apoyo.  Both candidates, after running populist campaigns in the
first round, vow to maintain policies that have made Peru’s
economy the fastest-growing in  Latin America  in the past decade.
Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, a former finance minister who supported
Fujimori, said a likely Humala victory won’t spell disaster for
Peru.  No Great Danger  “I don’t see such a great danger. I don’t see a
hecatomb,” Kuczynski said in comments to Lima-based America
Television. “The big, big question of this election is how a
country growing at full speed, without inflation, ended up
voting for a radical.”  Each candidate has been dogged by their past. Even though
Humala abandoned his support for Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez , stocks
swung wildly last week on speculation backing for Humala was
growing. Fujimori apologized for her father Alberto Fujimori’s
crimes and ruled out a possible pardon for him amid voter
concerns her victory may revive the corruption and authoritarian
rule associated with his 10-year presidency that ended in 2000.  “This has been agonizing for Peru,” said  Michael Shifter ,
who worked in Lima for the  Ford Foundation  in the early 1990s
and is president of Inter American Dialogue in  Washington , a
policy research organization. “There’s a lot of baggage with
Keiko and the problem with Humala is we don’t know who we are
going to get when he takes office.”  Market Selloff  Fujimori , who has a MBA from  Columbia University  in  New
York , told supporters at her final campaign rally in Lima last
week that she represented “change with responsibility.”
Standing alongsideKuczynski, a former investment banker who
finished third in the first round, the 36-year-old mother of two
warned that a win by Humala would “plunge Peru into the
abyss.”  Investors dumped Peruvian assets after  Humala  topped the
field in the first round of voting April 10, with 32 percent of
votes compared with Fujimori’s 24 percent, on concern he would
boost state control of the economy if elected. The Lima General
Index plunged to a six-month low of 17,449.48 on April 14 while
the sol dropped to a 10-month low of 2.834 per dollar on May 2.  “Both camps need to step up to the plate and establish a
serious plan,” said Jaime Valdivia, who helps manage about $1.4
billion of emerging market assets at Bluecrest Capital
Management in New York. “Keiko has more leeway. The market will
give her the benefit of the doubt.”  Stocks Rebound  In the past month, stocks rebounded 8.9 percent, the
second-best performance after  Venezuela ’s stock exchange among
91 primary benchmark equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg, as
Fujimori climbed in the polls. The sol gained 2.3 percent in the
same period, the biggest gain among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Last week, stocks swung by more than 5 percent in three of
five trading sessions on speculation Humala had climbed back and
the race was a dead heat. The government last month cut its
forecast for economic growth this year to 6.5 percent from 7.5
percent as companies froze spending plans during the campaign.  Humala, who lost to Garcia by 5 percentage points in 2006,
has intensified his attacks on Fujimori in recent days. Backed
by human rights groups and Nobel Prize-winning novelist Mario Vargas Llosa, the 48-year-old urged voters to reject a return to
“dictatorship” and accused  Alberto Fujimori  of running his
daughter’s campaign from his jail cell.  Alberto Fujimori  The elder Fujimori is credited with laying the foundations
of the Andean nation’s economic boom by slashing inflation to
3.5 percent from 7,650 percent and luring foreign investment.  His government collapsed after his intelligence chief,
Vladimiro Montesinos, was caught on videotape in 2000 bribing
lawmakers. The former president is serving a 25-year prison
sentence for directing a paramilitary death squad that killed
civilians during a war against the Shining Path, a Maoist
insurgency.  Keiko Fujimori became first lady in 1994 after her parents
separated, and she’s surrounded herself during the campaign by
her father’s aides. Her running mate, Jaime Yoshiyama, was a
government minister during Fujimori’s first term.  Humala, like Chavez, led a failed coup as a paratrooper. In
2000, he directed 50 soldiers to seize and occupy for a week one
of Phoenix-based  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ’s mines to protest
corruption in Fujimori’s government. The former army lieutenant
colonel’s brother, Antauro Humala, is in jail for killing four
policemen during the takeover of a highland town in 2005.  Emulating Lula  In recent weeks, Humala shelved his 198-page campaign
platform to back away from an earlier pledge to rewrite the
constitution and unilaterally raise royalty fees on mining and
gas production. He’s also said he won’t use private pension fund
savings to finance a state retirement plan.  Instead of looking to Chavez, he now says he would emulate
the pro-market policies of former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , and hired two of Lula’s aides as campaign
advisers.  “We understood the message of the first round and have
broadened our following,” Humala told foreign reporters in Lima
on June 3. “What hasn’t changed is our message of economic
growth with social inclusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  