-- 
Wheat Rallying 20% as Parched Fields Wilt From China to Kansas

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r ,   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-06T11:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/wheat-fields-wilt-in-drought-as-parched-earth-spreads-from-china-to-kansas.html
The worst droughts in decades are
wilting wheat fields from China to the U.S. to the U.K.,
overwhelming  Russia ’s return to grain markets and driving prices
to the highest levels since 2008.  Parts of China, the biggest grower, had the least rain in a
century, some European regions are the driest in 50 years and
almost half the winter-wheat crop in the U.S., the largest
exporter, is rated poor or worse. Inventory is dropping 8.8
percent, the most in five years, Rabobank International says.
Prices will advance 20 percent to as high as $9.25 a bushel by
Dec. 31, a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts and traders shows.  Wheat as much as doubled in the past year as crops failed,
spurring Ukraine and Russia to curb shipments and increasing the
U.S. share of global sales by the most since 2004. Russia ending
its export ban on July 1 and Ukraine lifting quotas may not be
enough as crops wither elsewhere, fuelling gains in food prices
which the  United Nations  says are already near a record.  “In 32 years, I’ve never seen so many problems in so many
places,” said  Dan Basse , the president of AgResource Co., a
farm researcher in Chicago. “We’re concerned about the world
story now,” said Basse, who has been studying agricultural
markets since 1979 and expects prices as high as $10 this year.  For Paolo Barilla, vice chairman of Parma, Italy-based
Barilla Holding SpA, the largest pasta maker, the yo-yo price
moves are his biggest business worry, he said in an interview
last month. Rising demand means grains will keep costing more,
John Bryant, the chief executive officer of Battle Creek,
Michigan-based Kellogg Co., the largest U.S. maker of breakfast
cereal, said in a conference call last month.  Grain Prices  Higher prices will help U.S. farm income rise 20 percent to
a record $94.7 billion this year, the government estimates. It
also means the most profit ever for Moline, Illinois-based  Deere
& Co. (DE) , the largest maker of agriculture equipment, analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Futures traders anticipate rising wheat prices through
March 2013, according to data from the Chicago Board of Trade.
Speculators almost tripled their bets on gains in the two weeks
ended May 31, figures from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The most widely held option gives the holder
the right to buy wheat at $9 for July.  Wheat fell 2.6 percent to $7.7375 a bushel this year by the
close on June 3, trailing the 11 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities rose 2.8 percent and Treasuries also returned
2.8 percent. Wheat declined 1.2 percent today to $7.6425.  Bloomberg Survey  Prices were last as high as the $9.25 predicted in the
Bloomberg survey in 2008, the middle of a three-year period when
the U.S. State Department estimates more than 60 food riots
erupted worldwide. No one is predicting a return to the record
$13.495 reached in February of that year, and global inventory
will still be 44 percent higher than it was then, according to
U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.  Wheat slumped 7.4 percent in the two days after Russia,
formerly the second-largest exporter behind the U.S., said on
May 28 its ban would end.  The country’s total grain harvest, decimated last year by
the worst drought in a half century, may expand as much as 48
percent to 90 million tons this year, the Agriculture Ministry
estimates. Exports of wheat will more than double to 10 million
tons, the USDA said in May.  “The fundamental of Russian exports has to keep one in a
bearish stance until some new supply or demand issue develops
either in wheat or in corn,” said Lawrence Kane, a market
adviser at Stewart-Peterson Group in  Yates City , Illinois. “My
expectation is that wheat continues in the downtrend.”  Northern Africa  Demand from some of the biggest importing nations may
decline as their harvests improve.  Egypt , the largest buyer,
will purchase 6.9 percent less in the 12 months ending in July
2012 and  Morocco  46 percent less, the USDA estimates.  Rolling four-week grain exports to northern Africa from
 France , now the second-biggest wheat exporter, fell 49 percent
since the end of March, according to data from the port of Rouen,
the main grain hub. The drop suggests no return to the panic
buying in the first months of the year when the nations expanded
stockpiles to damp prices as riots erupted from Egypt to Morocco.  The anticipated decline in import demand won’t stop global
purchases from rising, the USDA forecasts.  China  may double its wheat imports to about 3 million tons
this year, said  Li Qiang , the managing director at Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co., the biggest independent agricultural market
researcher. The crop may slump to 96.5 million tons because of
drought, below the 115.5 million predicted by the USDA, he said.  Corn Seeds  About 80 percent of China’s wheat crop is irrigated,
alleviating damage, Dan Manternach, an economist with Doane
Advisory Services, an agricultural researcher in  St. Louis , said
at the end of May. In areas without irrigation, lack of rain in
the next three weeks may again threaten yields, he said.  “It’s been the driest year in my memory,” said Wang
Peijun, 35, a farmer from the east-central province of Henan,
China’s biggest growing region. “It’s too inconvenient, too
costly to irrigate,” said Wang from Jiaozuo City, who uses the
crop to pay for corn seeds planted after the harvest.  Wheat output in the 27-nation European Union may drop 3.5
percent to 131 million tons this year, according to the median
of seven estimates in a Bloomberg survey of analysts and traders
at the end of May. France had its driest spring in 50 years, and
April in the U.K. was the hottest in 352 years, forecasters in
those countries have said.  “I’ve been farming here for 30 years and it’s the worst
I’ve ever seen,” said Robert Law, 53, who cultivates about
5,000 acres of grain in Hertfordshire,  England . “The drought
has definitely gone on longer than we’ve ever had before.”  French Harvest  The harvest in France, the EU’s largest, will slump 12
percent to a four-year low, according to Agritel, a Paris-based
farm adviser. German wheat output will drop as much as 4 percent,
according to Hamburg-based Alfred C. Toepfer International GmbH,
a grain trader which had previously expected a gain.  Barilla, the pasta maker, sometimes has no choice other
than to raise prices and that is very “disturbing” because
“people will never understand why the price has such a dramatic
increase in a very short time,” Paolo Barilla told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.”  The world is in a “long-term upward trend on cost of
goods,” Kellogg’s Bryant told investors on a conference call a
month ago. “So we would look at 2012 and say, yes, it’s
probably going to be inflationary.”  Deere will report net income of $2.71 billion in its fiscal
year ending in October, from $1.865 billion a year earlier,
according to the mean of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Weather Service  About 44 percent of the U.S. winter-wheat crop was in poor
or very poor condition by May 29, the USDA said. Rainfall in the
previous two months was less than half of normal in much of
Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas, the biggest  producers  of winter
varieties, the National Weather Service estimates.  “On these windy days, there’s just dirt in the air and the
sky is brown,” said David Cleavinger, 53, who farms 3,500 acres
in Wildorado, Texas, and already lost about half of his 1,200
acres of wheat. “Prices are great right now, but you’ve got to
grow a crop. If you don’t produce a crop, it doesn’t matter if
wheat is $40 a bushel.”  Rain is delaying the planting of spring wheat in North
Dakota and  Montana . Plantings may be more than a million acres
below what the USDA estimates, according to Mike O’Dea, a risk
management consultant with INTL FCStone in  Kansas City ,  Missouri .  Forecasters already are cutting their production estimates.
The London-based International Grains Council did so on May 26,
and the USDA will probably have to as well, Rabobank, Standard
Chartered Plc and  Barclays Capital  have said.  “I’m overall still bullish to the wheat market even with
the news out of Russia,” said  Jason Britt , the president of
Central States Commodities Inc. in Kansas City, Missouri, who
predicts a high of $9.75 this year. “There are still enough
problems in many growing areas around the world to keep the
market well supported.”  --William Bi in Beijing, Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington,
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  and Tony Dreibus in  London .
Editors: James Poole, Steve Stroth  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  