-- 
Yemenis Cheer Flight of Wounded President Saleh to Saudi Arabian Hospital

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-06T11:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-05/yemen-s-saleh-treated-in-saudi-hospital-vice-president-takes-over-duties.html
Hundreds of thousands of Yemenis
cheered the departure of wounded President Ali Abdullah Saleh to
Saudi Arabia even as government spokesmen said he would soon
return after receiving medical treatment.  Saleh and other members of his government, including the
parliament speaker, the prime minister and two of his aides,
were being treated in the Saudi capital of  Riyadh  for injuries
they sustained in a June 3 rocket attack on a mosque in the
presidential compound.  The attack followed months of violence between Saleh’s
forces and protesters demanding the president’s resignation
after 33 years in power, inspired by successful revolts against
longtime leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . Fighting has escalated in
the past two weeks as gunmen supporting Sadiq al-Ahmar, leader
of the country’s most influential tribe, battled with security
forces in the capital, Sana’a.  Abdu Janadi, the deputy information minister, said from
Sana’a that Vice President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi was taking over
Saleh’s duties “until the president returns.” Tareq al-Shami,
a ruling-party spokesman, denied reports in local media that a
transition is being planned while Saleh and other top officials
are abroad.  Transfer of Power  Yemen’s Joint Meeting Parties, the main opposition
coalition, will support a transfer of power to Hadi “in line
with the constitution and the  Gulf Cooperation Council  plan,”
the group’s spokesman, Mohammed Qahtan, said in a phone
interview today. If that doesn’t happen, the Joint Meeting
Parties will seek to form a transitional government, he said.  The GCC plan called for Saleh to step down within 30 days
and turn leadership over to Hadi, in exchange for immunity from
prosecution. Violence escalated after Saleh refused to sign it.  Hadi, the vice president, met U.S. Ambassador  Gerald
Feierstein  and discussed how all parties in Yemen could work to
“prevent any acts of aggression against public and private”
institutions, the state-run Saba news agency reported. Saleh has
been a U.S. ally, cooperating with efforts to fight the al-Qaeda
affiliate operating from his country.  Gunfire and explosions continued to be heard overnight in
the northern part of the capital, where Saleh’s forces have been
fighting with those loyal to tribal leader Sadiq al-Ahmar, even
after the two sides agreed to a truce brokered by  Saudi Arabia .  ‘Ready to Fight’  Three people were killed as armed men in plain clothes
fought near the vice-president’s house with soldiers from a
division that has defected to join the protesters, said Khalid
Mohammed, a witness to the clashes.  With most of the government out of the country and Sana’a
embroiled in intermittent inter-tribal gun battles, there is an
urgent need for a transition, said April Longley Alley, a senior
analyst at the  International Crisis Group , a non-governmental
organization that seeks to prevent deadly conflicts.  “The two sides are currently mobilized on the street,
poised ready to fight,” Alley said in a telephone interview.
“The immediate priority is accomplishing a strong cease-fire
and de-escalating the two sides.”  There were conflicting reports about the extent of Saleh’s
injuries. Government officials said he sustained only facial
scratches, and state television aired a phone call from him in
which he said he was “OK.”  Al Arabiya  television reported that
Saleh was undergoing surgery to remove shrapnel from his chest
and that he regained consciousness after the operation.  Facial Burns  Saleh walked from the plane and had signs of burns on his
face and chest, according to a correspondent for Al Arabiya. He
was accompanied by about 35 people and was admitted to a
military hospital, it said. A second plane carrying about two
dozen members of his family arrived later, Al Jazeera said,
without saying where it obtained the information.  The state Saba news agency quoted an unidentified official
denying that Saleh’s family had departed Yemen.  Saleh blamed al-Ahmar’s family for the attack on his
compound, a charge that the tribal leader denied.  Al-Ahmar’s office said in an e-mailed statement that he
agreed to a cease-fire in Sana’a that was requested by two
emissaries sent by Hadi. The statement said al-Ahmar agreed to
withdraw his fighters from government buildings provided the
vice president removes military troops from the region where al-
Ahmar’s house is located.  Fireworks and Songs  Protesters in the northwest Sitteen area of the capital
cheered Saleh’s absence with fireworks, songs and chants. They
issued a statement calling on Yemenis to celebrate “the return
of joy to all corners of Yemen that was robbed” by Saleh. They
urged reconciliation among factions and called for the
establishment of a presidential council to form a government.  Forces loyal to the president countered the celebrations
with violence, killing one person and wounding three others in
the shelling of a protest camp in the city of Taiz, said Fuad
Ali, a witness. The injuries and death occurred when a shell
exploded at a shop, Ali said.  Bushra al-Maktari, a protest organizer, said by telephone
that security and army forces fired at the camp, where tens of
thousands were celebrating Saleh’s departure. Gunfire and blasts
also continued to be heard in the eastern part of the capital
Sana’a.  Al-Jazeera  reported two dead and 10 injured in the
shelling of Taiz, in the country’s south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  