-- Ackermans Offers $610 Million for CFE to Create Dredging Giant
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-09-19T18:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ackermans-offers-610-million-for-cfe-to-create-dredging-giant.html
Ackermans & van Haaren NV , the
investment firm that owns half of Dredging Environmental &
Marine Engineering NV, offered to buy  Cie. d’Entreprises CFE SA 
for 451 million euros ($610 million) to gain full control of the
world’s third-largest dredging company.  Prior to its planned 45 euros-a-share offer for CFE,
Ackermans agreed to sell its 50 percent stake in DEME to CFE in
an all-stock transaction valuing the dredging company at 1.1
billion euros, according to a statement today. Ackermans, based
in Antwerp,  Belgium , also agreed to buy half of  Vinci SA (DG) ’s
holding in CFE for about 138 million euros in cash, increasing
its ownership of CFE to 60.4 percent prior to the mandatory
offer.  The proposed transaction would boost CFE’s value and may
provide investors with a valid alternative for Papendrecht,
Netherlands-based  Royal Boskalis Westminster NV (BOKA) , the world’s
largest dredging company by sales, should CFE investors spurn
Ackermans’s mandatory offer at a premium of 4.3 percent to CFE’s
latest closing price. Belgium’s Jan De Nul Groep, the second-largest dredging company, and Van Oord Groep NV from the
Netherlands are both closely held.  “The fact that Vinci maintains half of its stake proves
that Vinci is convinced of the industrial potential and of the
potential value creation of the new structure,” Ackermans Chief
Executive Officer Luc Bertrand said in the statement. “We hope
that we will also be able to convince all other shareholders to
continue to support CFE.”  The Vinci-approved transaction values DEME at about 1.92
billion euros including debt, or 4.95 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the 12 months
through June. Boskalis trades for 8.66 times Ebitda, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CFE currently derives about half its annual revenue and
more than  80 percent of Ebitda  from its 50 percent stake in
Zwijndrecht, Belgium-based DEME, which was first established in
1991 as the parent company of Dredging International and
Baggerwerken Decloedt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  