-- Addiction to Natural Opioids May Drive Chronic Pain, Study Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-09-19T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/addiction-to-natural-opioids-may-drive-chronic-pain-study-says.html
Chronic pain may be a symptom of
addiction to natural opioids produced in the body, according to
a study in mice.  Scientists caused inflammation in the paws of mice,
allowed it to fade and then blocked the animals’ opioid
receptors so the natural painkillers wouldn’t work. That led to
withdrawal-like behaviors, as well as pain and the neural
activity associated with pain, even 6 months after the injury,
according to  a report on the study  in the journal  Science .  It may be there’s a quiet battle between the  internal
painkillers  and the pain pathways, said study author Brad
Taylor, a pain pharmacologist at the  University of Kentucky . As
the body becomes dependent on its internal analgesics, the pain
pathways become more sensitive. Exploring these pathways may
explain why some people develop chronic pain.  “We thought the injury was producing activation of the
pain pathways for much longer than previously thought,” Taylor
said in a telephone interview. Instead, the body’s own
painkillers were camouflaging the increased pain sensitivity.  In the experiment, mice given an opioid blocker experienced
the shaking and tremors seen in addicts when they stop taking
drugs. What’s more, they saw increased activity in a certain
enzyme, consistent with opioid withdrawal.  Common Disability  Not everyone develops chronic pain after a severe injury,
he said. Only about 10 to 20 percent of patients experience it.
Chronic pain, defined as pain lasting more than 3 months and
beyond a recovery period of injury, is the most-common cause of
long-term disability,  according to the National Institutes of
Health . About 100 million Americans experience it, according to
 a report  from the National Academies.  Stress and depression may play a role, Taylor said.  “Stress means people are more likely to have chronic pain,
the same with depression,” said Taylor. That’s because both
stress and depression disrupt the action of a key receptor that
helped to inhibit suffering in the mice, he said.  Future studies should examine the relationship between the
competing pain signaling systems -- the one that senses pain and
the one that dulls it, Taylor said. Understanding the connection
may point to better therapies for chronic pain conditions, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  