-- Adidas Declines After Cutting Forecast on Russia, Golf
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-09-20T14:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/adidas-cuts-2013-earnings-forecast-as-euro-gains-on-yen-to-real.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, fell the most in more than a year
after cutting its 2013 profit forecast for reasons that include
Russian distribution difficulties and a weak golf market.  The  shares  slid as much as 5.9 percent to 77.71 euros, the
steepest intraday drop since June, 2012.  Adidas reduced the low end of its profit forecast by 7.9
percent late yesterday, also because of the strength of the
euro, which has caused analysts to cut profit estimates in
recent weeks. A switch to a new warehouse in Russia led to
inventory shortages in the country, while the golf season has
started slowly for the maker of TaylorMade clubs. Still, Adidas
said it remains confident in its 2015 goals.  “The magnitude of the cut is disappointing and will weigh
on management’s credibility on profit guidance,” Andreas Inderst, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in a note today.
He maintained an outperform recommendation on the stock, saying
he expects a “healthy recovery” in sales and profitability
from the fourth quarter onwards.  Adidas was down 3 percent at 80.1 euros as of 4:23 p.m.  Net income  this year will be 820 million euros ($1.1
billion) to 850 million euros, Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
Adidas said in a statement. The company had previously forecast
net income of 890 million euros to 920 million euros.  Euro Strength  About 45 percent of the forecast cut was related to
currency movements, 35 percent to Russian distribution and 20
percent to the golf market, Inderst estimated.  Adidas, which makes almost 73 percent of its revenue
outside western Europe, joins European companies such as  Puma SE (PUM) 
and  Prada SpA (1913)  that have also suffered from the strength of the
euro. The currency has gained about 5 percent this year, the
second-best performer of the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Berenberg Bank both
cut their 2013 profit estimates for Adidas by about 3 percent
earlier this week, citing the euro’s strength. Citigroup Inc.
analysts said in a note that consensus estimates for net income
may now fall by 9 percent to 10 percent.  Adidas said it won’t attain its goals in Russia because of
the country’s currency weakness combined with an “unexpected
short-term distribution constraint” as a result of the
transition to a new distribution facility in Chekhov.  Inventory Shortage  Adidas opened the new warehouse earlier this year and
closed its original distribution center early, resulting in a
shortage of inventory, analysts at Barclays Plc said in a note.  Sixty-two million products a year will be sent out from the
facility to  Russia  and Kazakhstan until 2017, according to
Adidas spokesman Lars Mangels. The company couldn’t distribute
the quantity of products it had planned to in the third quarter
though the issue was a “one-off” and is “under control,”
Mangels said. The shoemaker said it expects a resolution of the
matter at the beginning of the fourth quarter.  Adidas also cited weakness in the global golf market
yesterday, saying it will lead to a lower sales and profit
contribution from the  segment  than originally forecast.  The golf season started late in many markets and the amount
of rounds played globally dropped at a double-digit rate on
average, Adidas said Aug. 8. The company has about 40 percent of
the global market for golf, it said at the time.  Declining Participation  Golf participation in the U.S. has been declining since a
2003 peak, according to Mintel. While the recession is partly to
blame, a declining number of rounds per year prior to the
slowdown indicates a loss of interest in the sport itself, the
researcher has said. A lack of money and time are most often
cited as reasons for not playing the game, Mintel said.  “Golf is still a great entertaining corporate environment,
but sports that are taking some of the attention away would be
some of these mass-participation opportunities like cycling,
triathlon, running,” Charlie Dundas, managing director at
sports marketing researcher Repucom, said in a phone interview.  Adidas cut its forecast for operating margins to about 8.5
percent of sales from a previous forecast of 9 percent. It also
further pared its revenue forecast for the year, saying sales
will rise at a “low-single-digit” pace. The company said Aug.
8 it expected sales to rise at a “low- to mid-single-digit
rate,” after previously forecasting “mid-single-digit”
percentage growth, because of unfavorable currency movements.  While Adidas faces “increased headwinds,” Chief Executive
Officer Herbert Hainer said yesterday, “momentum will clearly
return to our business in the fourth quarter and beyond.”  The company has a goal for revenue to reach 17 billion
euros by 2015 compared with 14.9 billion euros last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Jarvis at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  