-- Agilent Technologies to Split Into Two Public Companies
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-09-19T20:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/agilent-technologies-to-split-into-two-public-companies.html
Agilent Technologies (A) , the maker of
scientific-testing equipment spun off from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
more than a decade ago, plans to split into two public
companies.  One company will focus on life sciences, diagnostics and
applied markets, retaining the Agilent name. The other will be
comprised of Agilent’s range of electronic measurement products,
the  Santa Clara , California-based company said in a statement
today. The separation is expected to occur through a tax-free
spinoff of the measurement business to Agilent shareholders.  Agilent, spun out of HP in 1999, has had four major
spinoffs itself since 2005. As Agilent’s life science and
diagnostics business has grown, it has attracted health-care
investors who have had a hard time valuing the company’s
electronic measurement business, said  Ross Muken , an analyst
with International Strategy & Investment Group LLC in New York.
The split should help drive Agilent’s share price higher with a
different group of investors who can focus just on the health-care assets, he said.  “There will be a new shareholder base that can appreciate
each of the assets for what they are, which are extremely high
quality businesses that are well run,” said Muken in a
conference call with clients. “We think this is still, despite
the move, one of the most attractive stocks.”  Agilent rose 3.4 percent to $50.98 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 25 percent this year.  Revenue Split  After the spinoff, Agilent is expected to have $3.9 billion
in revenue in fiscal year 2013 and pay a dividend of at least
the current level, the company said. The electronic measurement
business, which has yet to be named, will have about $2.9
billion in revenue in 2013 and isn’t expected to pay an initial
dividend.  “Agilent’s history is one of reinvention,” said Bill Sullivan, Agilent president and chief executive officer, in a
conference call with analysts. “We are once again making a bold
move to ensure a future of sustainable growth.”  He said each of the businesses is strong enough financial
to compete on its own and he doesn’t expect any major
acquisitions or divestitures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  