-- Air France-KLM Said to Call Board Meeting on Alitalia Takeover
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-09-19T13:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/air-france-klm-said-to-call-board-meeting-on-alitalia-takeover.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF) ’s board will
meet Sept. 23 to decide whether to bid for control of Alitalia
SpA as a lock-up period requiring transactions to be approved by
the Italian company ends, a person familiar with the plan said.  Air France already owns 25 percent of Alitalia bought for
323 million euros ($438 million) in 2009 and has resolved to
decide whether to boost the holding by the year’s end. The
Italian company’s board, which loses its veto over investments
on Oct. 28, will meet Sept. 26 to study plans to raise cash that
might entail a capital increase involving Air France, a second
person said. Both asked not to be named since talks are private.  For Air France-KLM, already  Alitalia ’s biggest shareholder,
taking full control of its Skyteam alliance partner would help
lock in access to one of Europe’s largest aviation markets.
Counting against a purchase are the Italian company’s mounting
losses and Air France’s focus on reviving short-haul operations,
which might make a deal involving a third-party such as Abu
Dhabi-based Etihad Airways PJSC more likely, according to Donal O’Neill, an aviation analyst at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.  “There would be some sense in Air France looking to
increase their holding together with Etihad,” said O’Neill, who
has a “hold” rating on Air France-KLM, Europe’s biggest
airline. “Air France by itself isn’t exactly flush with cash at
the moment and Etihad has aspirations to grow in Europe.”  Asian Links  Air France-KLM spokesman Cedric Leurquin declined to
comment on Alitalia and said he couldn’t immediately confirm the
date of the next board meeting. A representative of Rome-based
Alitalia, where losses quadrupled to 280 million euros in 2012,
declined to comment.  Etihad, the third-biggest Gulf carrier, has been an ally of
Air France since a pact in 2012, and may be a potential Alitalia
investor after taking stakes in European operators including  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1)  and Aer Lingus Group Plc. A tie-up would enhance
 Italy ’s connections with Asia via Abu Dhabi, complementing links
to the west through Air France-KLM bases in Paris and Amsterdam.  Italy’s infrastructure and transport minister, Maurizio Lupi, will also meet with his French counterpart on Sept. 26 to
discuss the situation, he said yesterday at an event in  Rome .  “I’ll meet the French minister and I’ll be clear about the
fact that Alitalia is a strategic asset for our country and that
finding an international partner is essential,” Lupi said.  Alitalia’s board meeting the same day will review feedback
from its banking adviser on plans to raise at least 300 million
euros in fresh financing before the end of the year, with the
amount of new equity involved yet to be determined, one of the
people said.  Air France-KLM’s French division yesterday met with its
central employee committee to discuss plans to end losses in its
short-haul and cargo businesses, laying the groundwork for fresh
measures including a possible 2,800 job cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  