-- AMR Merger Risk Seen Ebbing as US Airways Rallies
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-09-20T20:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/amr-merger-risk-seen-ebbing-as-us-airways-rallies.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  rose to the
highest close since federal antitrust regulators sued to block
the planned merger with AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines (AAMRQ) , a sign of
investor optimism that the deal will occur.  With yesterday’s 1.6 percent gain to $18.97, the shares
rebounded past their price on the day before the U.S.  Justice
Department  lawsuit was filed on Aug. 13. US Airways lost as much
as  18 percent  of its market value in the weeks after the
government’s move.  “The initial picture looked quite dim,” said Rob Pickels,
an analyst at Manning & Napier Advisors Inc., which holds US
Airways shares. “But as people have dug into various precedents
and the case for and against the merger, it’s my sense they are
becoming more optimistic that the deal actually happens.”  Concern that the merger will fail is ebbing as investors
see better odds for a tie-up creating the world’s largest
carrier, according to  Andrew Davis , an analyst at T. Rowe Price
Group Inc., which he said held 13.4 million US Airways shares.
Also boosting US Airways’ stock are the outlook for continued
profits, strong  travel demand  and falling fuel prices, he said.  “People were so shocked that the lawsuit was even filed,”
Davis said in an interview from Pikesville,  Maryland . “Now
they’ve gotten a little more rational and said there are a lot
of scenarios that could lead to them potentially winning the
case outright or reaching a settlement.”  Firms’ Holdings  T. Rowe Price’s holding in US Airways is about 7 percent,
making it the second-largest shareholder, Davis said. The stake
for Fairport, New York-based Manning & Napier is about 1 million
shares, according to the company.  Investors’ conclusion that the deal ultimately will succeed
is “probably the reason the stock has responded favorably,”
Pickels said in an interview.  U.S. regulators stunned investors by opposing the merger,
sending Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways  to its biggest drop in
22 months and dragging down AMR’s shares 45 percent. Since then,
the judge in AMR’s bankruptcy case approved the tie-up as part
of the company’s Chapter 11 exit, contingent on the outcome of
the Justice Department’s suit.  US Airways slipped 0.4 percent to $18.89 at the close in
 New York , joining a retreat among broader stock indexes. The
shares have jumped 17 percent this month, more than tripling the
4.7 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  AMR’s Shares  AMR’s shares  fell 0.8 percent to $3.92 in over-the-counter
trading, after closing yesterday at $3.95, the highest since the
lawsuit was filed. Under the merger plan, AMR stockholders would
get equity in the combined carrier.  US Airways and Fort Worth, Texas-based American are
counting on their tie-up to allow them to compete with United
Continental Holdings Inc. and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  United and
Delta are the world’s two largest carriers, and each was created
through mergers since 2008.  The US Airways-American deal had been targeted to close
this quarter until the government sued. They won a Nov. 25 trial
date on the suit. The Justice Department, which said the
combination would hurt consumers and damp competition, sought a
trial date in March.  Fuel Boost  Airlines have rebounded in recent weeks amid a drop in jet-fuel prices. Jet fuel for immediate delivery in New York Harbor
closed at $2.95, down from $3.18 a gallon on Aug. 28 amid
concern the U.S. would retaliate against Syria over the use of
chemical weapons.  US Airways’ report of planes filling a record percentage of
seats in August and increased revenue from each passenger flown
a mile are bolstering the shares, said  Eric Marshall , president
of Hodges Capital Management Inc. in Dallas, whose assets
include US Airways.  “Movement in the stock is particularly related to those
third-quarter fundamentals as much as a deal being back on,”
Marshall said in an interview. “The stock, on its own merits,
is worth where it’s trading at today.”  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Research Inc. analyst in New York, has
set the odds at 75 percent that a US Airways-American merger
occurs by early 2014. He rates US Airways as outperform, the
equivalent of buy.  Airline Fundamentals  The share movement “is more about US Airways fundamentals
than the merger,” he said in an interview. Keay said in a
report last month that he rated the chances of a settlement at
“less than 50-50.”  Helane Becker , a Cowen & Co. analyst in New York, places
odds of the merger at 60 percent, while  Jamie Baker  of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York is at even odds.  “There’s never really an easy answer,”  Jim Corridore , an
S&P Capital IQ analyst in New York, said of the US Airways
rally. “It’s definitely a more optimistic outlook on prospects
to consummate the merger. And US Airways as a stand-alone
company is undervalued and is doing well.”  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  