-- Man. United May Open Rooney Contract Talks This Season: Roundup
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-09-19T10:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/man-united-may-open-rooney-contract-talks-this-season-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Rooney Contract  Manchester United expects manager  David Moyes  to soothe
striker Wayne Rooney’s grievances with the club and open
contract-extension talks with the striker later this season,  the
Independent  reported.  The 27-year-old, who scored his 200th goal for the Red
Devils in this week’s Champions League win over Bayer
Leverkusen, is still upset over a failed move to Chelsea during
the offseason, the newspaper added.  Mata Interest  Tottenham Hotspur will face competition from Juventus and
Napoli if it tries to sign Chelsea’s  Juan Mata  when the January
transfer window opens, the  Daily Express reported .  The 25-year-old Spanish midfielder has been benched by
Blues manager Jose Mourinho for much of the season, including
last night’s Champions League loss to Basel. A continued lack of
regular starts may affect his chances of playing an important
role for his country at next year’s World Cup, the newspaper
said.  Bale’s Adidas Deal  Gareth Bale, the world’s most expensive player, is close to
signing an extension to his contract with sportswear
manufacturer  Adidas AG (ADS) , the  Daily Mail reported . Adidas wants to
keep the Welshman away from rival  Nike Inc. (NKE) , which has Bale’s
teammate  Cristiano Ronaldo  as its poster boy, the newspaper
added.  Bale joined Real Madrid on Sept. 1 for a reported world-record fee of about 85 million pounds ($137 million) from
Tottenham.  Suarez Return  Liverpool’s  Luis Suarez  may play against Manchester United
in his first match since serving a 10-match ban for biting an
opponent, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The teams meet on Sept. 25 in a League Cup game at Old
Trafford. Suarez was found to have racially abused United
defender Patrice Evra in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  