-- Angola Seeks Tourism Boost From Roller Hockey World Cup
-- B y   M a n u e l   S o q u e   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-09-20T12:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/angola-seeks-tourism-boost-from-roller-hockey-world-cup.html
Angola  is betting on the Roller
Hockey World Cup to bolster employment and tourism in a country
where more than half the population lives in  poverty .  The Southern African nation has spent $89 million building
three pavilions in the capital, Luanda, and in the towns of
Malange and Namibe and a further $17 million for the 41st
staging of the tournament that runs from today to Sept. 28.
Officials say the 16-nation event, the continent’s first, will
boost employment and attract interest from the country’s youth.  “The country will become more known and we’ll have less
people taking part in risky behavior such as crime because
they’ll be entertained and busy with hockey,” Pedro Azevedo
Chipita, deputy coordinator of the organizing committee, said in
a Sept. 16 interview in Luanda. “And we’ll create jobs.”  Currently tourists are rare because of a visa system that
can take months before entry is granted, while 54 percent of the
population lives on less than $1.25 a day, according to the
 United Nations . The Economy Ministry puts the  unemployment rate 
at more than 20 percent.  Tickets cost the equivalent of $2 to $20 and are good for
an entire day’s matches at one location, which could be as many
as three games early in the tournament. Paulo Branco, an
administrator at the ticket sales company, couldn’t say how many
foreigners would visit the country during the competition.  The game, sometimes called quad-hockey in the U.S. for the
four-wheel skates used, is played in about 60 countries and was
a demonstration sport at the 1992 Summer  Olympics  in Barcelona.
 Portugal , which brought the game to Angola during colonial rule,
and  Spain  are the strongest nations with 15 world titles apiece.
 Italy  has four.  Greater Agility  Roller hockey’s old-style skates allow greater agility than
ball hockey, which is usually played on asphalt using in-line
skates. The sticks are more like those used in field hockey than
ice hockey.  “This event will help diversify sports in Angola given the
recently constructed sports infrastructure,” Chipita said.
“You can see there’s roller hockey fever, the city is full of
skaters.”  Luanda’s 11,740-seat pavilion was almost sold out earlier
this week for today’s opening match between the host and South
Africa.  Basketball and soccer are the most popular sports and the
country won the African Basketball Championship this year. It
hosted soccer’s African Cup of Nations in 2010, building new
stadiums in four cities at a cost of $600 million, according to
the government. That event was marred by the killing of two
members of the Togo squad by separatists in the northern region
of Cabinda. About 4,000 police will be on hand for these games,
organizers said.  Coming Fourth  “We hope to achieve fourth place since there are stronger
teams,” said Helio Aragao, a spokesman for the organizing
committee. “If we can place higher, all the better.”  Angola is in group C with Portugal,  Chile  and  South Africa .
France, Germany and Argentina play in group B along with
Uruguay, which replaced  England . It dropped out of the
tournament for financial reasons,  The U.S. competes in group D with  Mozambique , Italy, and
Colombia, while group A comprises Brazil, Switzerland,  Austria 
and Spain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Soque in Luanda at 
 msoque@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  