-- AppDynamics Nears IPO, Taking on CA With App-Tracking Software
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-09-19T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/appdynamics-nears-ipo-taking-on-ca-with-app-tracking-software.html
AppDynamics Inc. founder Jyoti Bansal left  CA Inc. (CA)  five years ago to develop competitive
software for businesses to monitor their applications. Now his
startup is approaching $100 million in annual revenue and is
setting the stage for an initial public offering.  Bansal, 35, built AppDynamics for the age of cloud and
mobile computing, catering to companies that are developing
data-intensive apps. Customers like travel site  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and
cable provider Cablevision Systems Corp. are paying AppDynamics
more than $1 million a year for software to rapidly spot
glitches on servers and databases, according to Bansal.  AppDynamics, founded in 2008, is vying for a bigger slice
of the information technology operations and management software
market, which  Gartner Inc.  says increased 4.8 percent to $18
billion last year. Traditional suppliers to the monitoring
market like CA, Compuware Corp. and BMC Software Inc. aren’t
built for the cloud, Bansal said in an interview.  “The market is primarily dominated by the dinosaur
vendors,” said Bansal, whose company has raised $86.5 million
from investors including Greylock Partners and Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers. “Most of these companies are really
struggling, and the market share is rapidly getting taken over
by companies like us.”  Revenue at AppDynamics surged 165 percent in the first half
of this year from the same period in 2012, and the company will
be generating $100 million in annual sales by mid-2014, Bansal
said.  Finding Glitches  AppDynamics’s software allows businesses to track the
performance of their apps and websites and quickly respond when
a site crashes or if customers in a particular region are
experiencing slow connection speeds.  While 270 of the company’s 300 employees are in the San
Francisco headquarters, AppDynamics is bolstering its
international business to reach more customers in Europe and
Asia. The company said today that it acquired  Nodetime , a
startup in  Germany  whose software helps businesses track mobile
apps.  AppDynamics isn’t the only emerging company chasing the
incumbents. Bansal’s former boss, Lew Cirne, is CEO of New Relic
Inc., which started the same year as AppDynamics. Cirne
previously founded Wily Technology Inc., where Bansal worked
until the company was bought by CA in 2006.  New Relic, another provider of application-monitoring
software, got its start going after small and mid-sized
businesses and is now increasingly winning big deals, said Chris
Cook, operating chief of the San Francisco-based company. Sales
surged 130 percent in the first half of 2013, and customers
include Best Buy Co. and Walt Disney Co., he said.  “Enterprise has been the fastest growing part of our
business,” Cook said.  Market Shift  According to Gartner, International Business Machines
Corp., CA, BMC and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  accounted for almost half
of the IT operations software market last year. Yet all four
“surrendered market share in 2012, while a new generation of
ITOM vendors grew significantly faster than the market,” the
researcher wrote, in a May 21 report.  In addition to competing with CA, Bansal is being forced to
contend with a lawsuit from his previous employer. CA, based in
Islandia, New York, filed a patent infringement suit against
AppDynamics in April, claiming that Bansal was developing
products related to three IT patents. In November, CA sued New
Relic, asserting that it had infringed patents obtained through
the acquisition of Wily.  Bansal said that while the suit will cost the company a few
million dollars in legal fees, he is confident that AppDynamics
will win and hasn’t infringed anything.  ‘Fear Factor’  “CA’s intention is primarily to use lawsuits as a fear
factor in the market,” Bansal said. “It’s unfortunate that CA
has come to that instead of innovating and competing head to
head.”  Jennifer Hallahan, a spokeswoman for CA, said the case is
going forward and that AppDynamics’s software “clearly
infringes the Wily patents.” The company “will take all steps
necessary to ensure that our intellectual property is
protected,” Hallahan said in a statement.  AppDynamics hasn’t decided when it will go public, though
Bansal said the company is in the process of hiring a chief
financial officer and will be big enough for an IPO next year.
He puts AppDynamics in the same category as business technology
companies  Splunk Inc. (SPLK) , ServiceNow Inc. and Palo Alto Networks
Inc., which all went public last year after taking market share
from more established vendors.  “Every business is moving to the cloud,” Bansal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  