-- Colombia to Armenia to Turkey Greet Emerging Rally on Fed
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-09-19T18:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/armenia-debut-to-turkey-sukuk-greet-emerging-rally-on-fed-boost.html
Armenia prepared its first
international bond sale as emerging-market issuers from  Turkey 
to  Colombia  took advantage of plunging yields triggered by the
 Federal Reserve ’s surprise move to keep its stimulus intact.  Armenia will issue dollar bonds today, said a person with
knowledge of the plan, asking not to be identified because the
information is private. Turkey will meet investors next week for
a sale of Shariah-compliant debt, according to the Treasury.
Colombia said it’s selling 10-year dollar notes, while Brazilian
and Mexican state-owned companies BNDES and  Petroleos Mexicanos 
are also marketing debt.  Investor relief at the Fed’s decision sent the extra yield
on emerging-market bonds over Treasuries tumbling 14 basis
points to 320 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index. Rising yields in the run-up to
the Fed meeting had caused emerging-market governments and
companies to cut issuance to the lowest since 2011 this quarter,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is a fantastic opportunity for issuers to get
business done while borrowing is still cheap,” Tim Ash, chief
emerging-market economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London ,
said by e-mail. “It will get much more expensive next year.”  Armenia is offering seven-year bonds at a yield of 6.25
percent, according to the person familiar. The yield on notes
due 2021 with the same Fitch Ratings grade of BB- from
neighboring Georgia dropped 21 basis points in the past two days
to a one-month low of 5.77 percent.  The Fed’s decision yesterday surprised economists surveyed
by Bloomberg, whose median estimate was for a $5 billion
reduction in the central bank’s monthly bond purchases.  Hungary, Saudi  Turkish officials will travel from Doha to  Kuala Lumpur 
next week to drum up support for a sukuk sale, the person with
knowledge of their plans said. The yield on the nation’s sukuk
due 2018 plunged 36 basis points, or 0.36 percentage point,
today to 4.06 percent, the biggest decline since June 25.  Colombian Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in a
Caracol Radio interview that the South American nation will
raise $1 billion to take advantage of the window created by the
Fed’s decision not to curb asset purchases.  There will be “roadshows galore” for the rest of this
year as more governments, including Hungary and Ukraine, are set
to tap the  capital markets , Ash said.  Brazil, Mexico  The Hungarian Development Bank plans a bond sale in the
near future, Janos Nyiri, a spokesman for the state-owned
lender, said by phone today. Hungary’s government may raise
‘slightly’ more than $1 billion in foreign-currency bonds as
soon as October, Istvan Torocskei, chief executive of the debt
agency AKK, said in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg today.  Eurasian Development Bank, the Kazakhstan-based lender
created to promote economic ties between member nations from
 Russia  to  Tajikistan , is offering $500 million of bonds due in
2020, a person with knowledge of the deal said.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  hired banks for what would be
the petrochemicals maker’s first dollar bond since 2010, while
the Abu Dhabi government-owned Al Hilal Bank PJSC will meet
prospective bondholders from Sept. 22, people familiar said.  Brazilian state development bank BNDES plans to sell three-and 10-year bonds as soon as today, according to a person
familiar with the offering. State-owned Petroleos Mexicanos is
planning a sale of  Mexican peso  denominated bonds locally and
abroad, another person familiar with the transaction said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  