-- Harrisburg Judge to Approve $362 Million Recovery Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   C h r i s   Y a s i e j k o   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-09-19T17:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/harrisburg-seeks-approval-for-362-million-recovery-plan.html
Harrisburg, the insolvent capital
of  Pennsylvania , won tentative approval from a judge for a plan
to end the city’s fiscal crisis by settling with creditors owed
about $362.5 million.  “This is a thoughtful, well-conceived and well-calculated
plan,” Commonwealth Court Judge Bonnie Leadbetter said at a
hearing today. “It’s the best chance I think this city has seen
in a long time to get its fiscal house in order.” She said she
will confirm the plan “within a day or two.”  The judge must find that the city’s plan isn’t arbitrary or
capricious, a legal standard that should be easy to meet, said
Mark Kaufman, the attorney for the state receiver who negotiated
the settlement. The receiver, William B. Lynch, forged a plan
that saved the city more money than if it had remained in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Kaufman said.  “Hopefully, this stands as a bellwether of how cities
ought to” restructure their debt, Kaufman said in a phone
interview before today’s hearing. In the past year, the city
council has come to support the plan, he said.  The council on Sept. 16 approved legislation needed to
implement the recovery, including the sale of a waste-to-energy
incinerator, the lease of the parking system, an extension until
2017 of an income-tax increase on residents and changes to two
union contracts, according to Kirk Petroski, the city clerk.  Harrisburg’s crisis stemmed from an overhaul and expansion
of the incinerator, which doesn’t generate enough revenue to
cover the debt. Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, appointed
Lynch under a state law that gave the receiver the authority to
negotiate a settlement -- but not impose taxes or take other
actions needed to implement the deal.  Controller Objects  Most of the bills tied to the receiver’s plan passed
unanimously, over the objections of City Controller Dan Miller,
who urged the council to demand more concessions from creditors
Assured Guaranty Municipal and Dauphin County.  “We could not have gotten a worse deal in bankruptcy than
what we’re getting now,” Miller said in a phone interview
before today’s hearing. “You come out of bankruptcy better than
this.”  Miller, a Democrat, is running for mayor in November after
winning the Republican write-in nomination in the May primary.
He lost the Democratic nomination.  The amount raised by the incinerator sale and the parking
lease wouldn’t fully repay the claims of Harrisburg’s largest
creditors. They might get more money later, according to the
plan. Municipal workers also agreed to make concessions.  After the lease and sale of assets, bond insurer  Assured
Guaranty (AGO)  Municipal and Dauphin County would recover at least
$210 million on claims totaling $298.5 million.  Fuel Tax  Proceeds from a fuel tax, if authorized by the state
legislature, and from future parking revenue would satisfy the
remainder.  The insurer and the county covered debt payments on the
incinerator that the city skipped starting in 2009.  Lynch has been negotiating with all of the Harrisburg
groups since he took over last year, following the resignation
of lawyer David Unkovic. The rescue plan is designed to deal
with a municipal debt burden of about $362.5 million, or roughly
seven times the city’s general-fund budget.  In 2011, the council defied the mayor and state officials
by placing the city of almost 50,000, which has a poverty rate
more than twice the statewide average, under federal bankruptcy
protection. The case was thrown out of bankruptcy court when the
judge concluded that the council didn’t have the necessary
authority from the state to file.  The case is Walker v. Harrisburg Authority, 569-MD-2011,
Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court, Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Yasiejko in Harrisburg at  yasiejko@gmail.com , and:  Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  