-- Mars Has Too Little Methane to Support Life, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-09-19T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/mars-with-too-little-methane-to-support-life-study-finds.html
Methane, which results from the
decay of organic matter, wasn’t detected on Mars, suggesting the
planet probably doesn’t support living microbes, according to
new readings from the  Curiosity rover .  The craft has identified no methane on its sensors, and the
greatest amount of the gas that may exist in the atmosphere is
about 1.3 parts per billion, about six times lower than previous
estimates made by earth-bound telescopes and orbiting
satellites, according to  a paper  released today in the journal
Science.  Earth has about 1,800 parts per billion of methane in the
atmosphere, said Chris Webster, a study author and the director
of the microdevices lab at  NASA ’s  Jet Propulsion Laboratory  in
 Pasadena ,  California . The gas is mostly the result of the decay
of organic matter, and a signal of biology. Higher readings of
methane on Mars taken from Earth and orbiting satellites raised
hopes that microbes might lie beneath the Martian surface,
Webster said.  “There aren’t significant amounts of methane, so that
paints a whole different picture,” Webster said. “We can say
that there isn’t significant microbial activity.”  That doesn’t rule out the possibility that some microbes
don’t produce methane, Webster said. The reading also doesn’t
mean that life forms have never existed on Mars, he said.  “Curiosity established that it was a habitable world about
a billion or less years ago, with water flowing and energy --the
right ingredients for simple life forms,” Webster said.  Earlier Observations  Some previous readings found plumes of  methane , which
appear to have dispersed, with as much as 45 parts per billion,
Webster said. Another report, from an orbiter, said that it
detected 10 parts per billion, plus or minus 5. Some scientists
have criticizing the methods used to make those readings.  “That’s in part because they’re very difficult
observations,” Webster said. The sensor on Curiosity is more
sensitive and doesn’t have to be read through Earth’s dense
atmosphere, he said.  Though Curiosity is measuring in only one place, the
atmosphere on Mars mixes and turns over every few months,
Webster said. So if there were a plume somewhere, it would mix
to form the background atmosphere being analyzed by Curiosity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  