-- Harvard Set to Unveil Delayed Fundraising Campaign
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-09-20T18:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/harvard-university-set-to-unveil-delayed-fundraising-effort.html
(Corrects when USC’s campaign began in eighth paragraph of
story that ran on Sept. 19.)  Harvard University will unveil the
Harvard Campaign, the school’s first major fundraising effort
since 1999, in a ceremony on Saturday.  Harvard President Drew Faust, Microsoft Corp. Chairman and
Co-Founder Bill Gates, and Carlyle Group Co-Chief Executive
Officer and Co-Founder David M. Rubenstein will speak at the
event, according to a letter from Tamara Rogers, vice president
of alumni affairs and development, to the college’s alumni that
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Knowledge generation across the natural and social sciences
and humanities is the first of seven priorities that Faust set
for the campaign. The fundraising effort, called a capital
campaign, also comes as Harvard prepares to resume work on a
science center that stalled after the 2008 financial crisis.  “I look forward to engaging members of the Harvard
community from across the globe as we celebrate the campaign
launch and reaffirm Harvard’s commitment to be at the forefront
of creating knowledge and deploying that knowledge in service to
the world,” Faust said today in a statement.  Surveys of universities show that, on average, they expect
to accelerate fundraising by 40 percent over normal levels
during capital campaign years, said John Lippincott, president
of the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education in
 Washington .  Seven Years  Harvard, which raised $650 million in its most recent
fiscal year, might expect to collect $910 million in a campaign
year, or about $6.3 billion to $6.4 billion in a full seven-year
campaign, he said.  “Harvard may have all kinds of reasons to have a number
that’s higher or lower than that,” Lippincott said in a
telephone interview. “What’s really going to drive their number
is what they’re hoping to accomplish in the campaign.”  The Harvard Crimson  student newspaper has reported that the
campaign goal will be at least $6 billion. In 2011, the
University of Southern  California , based in Los Angeles, set a
goal of raising $6 billion in a multiyear campaign.  Christine Heenan, a spokeswoman for Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Harvard, declined to comment on the goal.
The university’s last major fundraising effort ended in 1999 and
raised $2.65 billion over seven years.  As financial demands increase, universities have generally
waited no more than 10 years between large fundraising efforts,
said Tim Seiler, director of  The Fund Raising School  at Indiana
University. Harvard’s campaign was delayed by uproar surrounding
the 2006 resignation of former president Lawrence Summers and
the recession.  “The financial crisis threw a monkey wrench into many
institutions’ plans,” Seiler said. “It put campaigns on hold;
it stopped them until we had some confidence the economy would
come back.”  Founded in 1636, and with an endowment valued at $30.7
billion, Harvard is the oldest and richest U.S. college.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  