-- Ashland May End Staggered Board as Jana Speeds Changes
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-09-19T20:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ashland-may-end-staggered-board-as-jana-speeds-changes.html
Ashland Inc. (ASH) , the U.S. chemical
maker that’s soared 21 percent since activist Jana Partners LLC
disclosed a stake, said its board voted in favor of ending
staggered three-year terms for directors.  The switch to electing directors annually will require the
support of at least 80 percent of shareholders at the 2014
annual general meeting to be held on Jan. 30, Covington,
Kentucky-based Ashland said today in a regulatory filing.  The phasing out of three-year terms will begin in 2015,
with all directors elected annually from 2017, Ashland said. The
proposed switch comes after Jana disclosed a  7.4 stake  in the
company in April and said it held talks with management about
boosting  shareholder value . It also follows Ashland’s decision
in July to consider divesting units with $2 billion of sales.  “They are signaling that they are open to input from all
their shareholders, including Jana,” James Sheehan, an Atlanta-based analyst at Suntrust Robinson Humphrey, who rates Ashland a
buy, said by phone today. “It’s definitely more shareholder
friendly.”  Ashland’s director nominees are unlikely to face a
challenge because management strategy seems to be aligned with
that of Jana, Sheehan said. In particular, Ashland’s plans to
divest the elastomers unit and consider the sale of the water
treatment business were accelerated by Jana’s investment in the
company, he said.  The plan to eliminate the classified board structure stems
from approval of a shareholder resolution in January, Gary L. Rhodes, an Ashland spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  Ashland fell 0.4 percent to $93 at the close in  New York ,
after earlier touching a record intraday high of $94.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  