-- Asian Bond Risk Declines to Lowest Since May After Fed Decision
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-09-19T01:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/asian-bond-risk-declines-to-lowest-since-may-after-fed-decision.html
The cost of insuring corporate and
sovereign bonds in the Asia-Pacific region against non-payment
fell to levels unseen since May as the Federal Reserve surprised
investors with its decision not to dial back stimulus measures.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  decreased 14.5 basis points to 114.5
basis points as of 8:24 a.m. in Hong Kong, Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices show. The decline is the
biggest one-day drop since November 2011 and puts the gauge on
track for its lowest close since May 30, according to data
provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index slid 5 basis points to
105 as of 8:39 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. prices. The benchmark last closed lower on May 23,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped 5.5 basis points to
78.75 basis points as of 9:40 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to
Citigroup Inc. prices, poised for its lowest close since May 22.  The U.S. central bank unexpectedly refrained from reducing
the pace of its bond-buying program, spurring gains in stocks,
government securities and gold as well as credit. The Fed will
continue to purchase $85 billion of notes a month, saying it
needs more evidence of lasting improvement in the economy.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  