-- Assad Pledges Quick Moves on Chemical Weapons Elimination
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-09-19T09:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/assad-pledges-quick-moves-on-chemical-weapons-elimination.html
Syria  will swiftly make available
information about its chemical weapons and open sensitive
facilities to international inspectors, while “getting rid of”
those munitions within about a year, President Bashar al-Assad
said in a televised interview.  Meeting the disclosure and inspection conditions under the
Chemical Weapons Convention, the international accord banning
such arms, is “no problem, we can do it tomorrow,” Assad said
in an interview with  Fox News  that aired yesterday. While saying
he is now committed to surrendering those weapons, he gave no
ground in his assertions that rebels, not his forces, were
responsible for the Aug. 21 sarin gas attack near Damascus that
the U.S. says killed more than 1,400 people.  Assad said he has set no conditions on cooperating with the
 Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons , the body
based in  The Hague  in the Netherlands that implements the
treaty. Previously, he’d said that Syria’s actions depended on
the U.S. and others not supplying weapons to rebel forces.  “We are committed the full requirements” of the treaty
and any delay in implementation “is not about will, it’s about
techniques,” he said.  Assad faces an early test because under the U.S.-Russia
accord negotiated last week in Geneva by U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry  and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , he must
turn over a full inventory of his country’s chemical weapons
arsenal by Sept. 21. That will then be subject to intrusive
verification by the OPCW.  Complicated Process  Assad said that eliminating the arsenal is a complicated
process that will be done as directed by OPCW experts. He said
he’s been told it may take about a year and cost as much as $1
billion to destroy the chemical weapons without creating
environmental problems.  Assad didn’t explicitly address the U.S.-Russia accord,
which averted American military action in return for Syria
giving up its chemical arsenal. He presented Syria’s promised
actions as occurring under the requirements of the Chemical
Weapons Convention, which Syria joined last week after decades
during which it didn’t acknowledge having chemical arms.  “Whenever we join an agreement as Syria, we always
committed to those agreements,” he said.  The Fox News interview in Damascus was arranged by Dennis Kucinich, an anti-war activist who’d met with Assad on a past
visit to Syria when he was a Democratic congressman from  Ohio .
Kucinich, who works as a contributor to Fox News, was joined by
Fox correspondent Greg Palkot in questioning Assad.  Early Test  The U.S.- Russia  accord, which averted the American military
action against Syria, sets an objective of completing the
destruction or removal of chemical weapons and related equipment
by next June 30.  Earlier yesterday, State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf
had raised the prospect that Syria might miss the first test of
its compliance with the agreement.  While Kerry has said that Syria “must submit” a full
disclosure of its chemical weapons by Sept. 21, Harf said that
the date -- one week after the accord was reached in Geneva --
and others in the accord were more a “time line” than “a hard
and fast deadline.”  What counts is seeing “forward momentum, understanding
that it’s complicated and that these are targets on a
calendar,” she told reporters in Washington.  Russia’s army may send chemical and biological experts to
Syria to assist with the operation, Kommersant reported, citing
an unidentified military official.  Oil Price  With the threat of military action receding, West Texas
Intermediate crude fell Sept. 17 to the lowest level in almost
four weeks before rebounding yesterday. WTI crude for October
delivery rose 0.5 percent to $108.63 a barrel at 9:05 a.m.
London time today after the  Federal Reserve  said it will
maintain monthly bond purchases to stimulate growth.  The unedited, hour-long interview provided Assad with an
extended opportunity to present his view of the civil war in his
nation that has killed more than 100,000 people and uprooted
about 6 million.  He described the rebels as 80 percent to 90 percent
jihadists, in effect dismissing the broad public opposition that
started with peaceful protests, and he said that more than
15,000 government soldiers have died in the 2 1/2 years of
fighting. While saying he is open to peace talks, his view of
how that might proceed differs from that of opposition leaders,
who insist that he must quit as part of any deal.  While not disputing the findings of UN inspectors that the
nerve agent sarin was used in an attack in the Ghouta area near
Damascus, Assad said his forces were not responsible. The U.S.,
U.K.,  France  and many private analysts have said the findings
implicate regime forces. The UN team was barred by its mandate
from placing responsibility.  Assad’s Denial  “We didn’t use any chemical weapons in Ghouta,” he said,
saying such use would have put at risk his troops as well as
tens of thousands of civilians.  Syria yesterday gave Russia what it said was evidence
supporting its case that rebels were responsible. Russian Deputy
Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said during a visit to Damascus
yesterday that Russia is “unhappy” about the findings of the
UN investigation, according to Russian state broadcaster RT.  “We think that report was distorted, it was one-sided, the
basis of information upon which it is built is not sufficient,
and in any case we would need to learn and know more on what
happened beyond and above that incident of Aug. 21,” Ryabkov
told RT.  Lavrov on Sept. 17 called for a further inquiry, saying
Russia has “serious grounds” for thinking that the attack last
month was a rebel “provocation,” as Assad claims.  The conflicting U.S. and Russian views about the attack
underscored the two nations’ conflicting interests as the UN
Security Council attempts to negotiate a resolution mandating
that Syria fulfill the Geneva agreement and give up its chemical
weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in  Washington  at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  