-- Assad on Instagram Vies With Rebel Videos to Seek Support
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-09-19T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/assad-on-instagram-vies-with-rebel-videos-to-seek-support.html
Even in the middle of a civil war,
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has made time to hold hospital
patients’ hands while his blue-jeaned wife helps in soup
kitchens. At least, that’s how  Syria  appears on Assad’s account
with Instagram, the photo-sharing website.  From the narratives of Thucydides and Homer to U.K. Prime
Minister Winston Churchill’s World War II radio orations to
videos of Syrian civilians gasping for breath on  Google Inc.’s (GOOG) 
YouTube, the media have always been tools of statecraft,
stagecraft and war. Now  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and its Instagram
application, Twitter Inc. and 24-hour cable news are leveling
the playing field among nations, boosting the role of public
opinion and accelerating the tempo of war and diplomacy.  Assad, always impeccably attired, appeared in an interview
that aired last night on  Fox News , and he uses Instagram to
appeal to his supporters and counter President  Barack Obama ’s
portrayal of him as a bloodthirsty dictator. Russia’s Foreign
Ministry uses Twitter, newspapers and television to oppose U.S.
action in Syria.  Iran ’s new president, Hassan Rohani, is using
social media, as well as an NBC interview broadcast yesterday,
to portray himself as a moderate successor to the erratic
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  “Governments have always used media” in conflicts, said
Christopher Steinitz, a Middle East analyst at CNA Strategic
Studies, a policy group in Alexandria, Virginia. “Now social
media are amplifying those dynamics. It’s a force multiplier,”
Steinitz said, using military terminology.  ‘New Landscape’  Social media provide “a new landscape for creating and
transforming narratives that governments are just learning to
use,” Steinitz said, and “they do increase the clock speed at
which people have to react. They increase the pressure.”  Nineteenth and 20th-century media still have their roles.
Round-the-clock operations such as Fox News,  CNN  and  MSNBC  in
the U.S., Qatar-based Al Jazeera and  Saudi Arabia ’s  Al Arabiya 
are important outlets. The Obama administration mounted a blitz
of television appearances to make its case for action against
Syria, and Russian President  Vladimir Putin  wrote a New York
Times opinion piece to argue against U.S. intervention,
presenting himself to his own public as a bulwark against U.S.
aggression.  ‘Information War’  “When you see high officials distributing that kind of
thing, it’s an information war,” said Alec Ross, the senior
adviser for innovation under former U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton .  Ross said the Assad regime is making sophisticated use of
media by deploying propagandists; cyber-warriors such as the
Syrian Electronic Army, which has hacked U.S. newspaper websites
including that of the  New York  Times; and public-relations
experts who orchestrate Assad’s TV appearances.  It’s no surprise that “the Assad government and Russian
government have made a concerted effort to get their voices into
the American political dialogue,” Steinitz said.  Assad also needs to appeal to groups at home. He represents
minority groups in Syria, including Christians and Alawites, a
branch of Shiite Islam, who fear they have a lot to lose if
Assad goes.  “Even dictators need popular support or they end up
hanging from lampposts,” Steinitz said. “He needs to show them
he’s out there, fighting for them.”  Assad also uses his family on social media to rally his
backers, said Christopher Swift, an adjunct professor of
national security studies at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington .  Wife, Son  Assad’s Westernized wife Asma appears all over the
Instagram account with tousled hair and wearing T-shirts. Swift
pointed to a Facebook page attributed to Assad’s son Hafez where
the 11-year-old called out the U.S. as cowardly.  The Syrian opposition has used the YouTube service of
 Mountain View , California-based Google to show videos depicting
carnage it blames on Assad’s regime. The U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency  assembled a collection  of the opposition
videos to document the U.S. case that Assad used the nerve agent
sarin in an Aug. 21 attack near Damascus.  Seven years after San Francisco-based Twitter was founded,
terrorist groups such as Somalia’s al-Shabaab and leaders
including Assad and Rohani are using its short messages to speak
to a world increasingly linked to social media through
smartphones, tablets and modems.  Eighty-nine percent of people in the developing world have
mobile phones, and 31 percent are online, according to the
International Telecommunication Union based in Geneva. In the
developed world, there are more mobile phones in use than there
are users, and 77 percent of people are online, the groups says.  Old, New Media  With most “old-media” companies using “new-media”
platforms such as websites, blogs and feeds on Twitter, which
last week announced that it confidentially filed to go public
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the
distinctions between the two have become meaningless, said Ross,
the former Clinton adviser. “Today, they spin in the same
orbit,” he said, and reinforce each other.  So when Assad’s interview with  Charlie Rose  aired last week
on CBS, the Syrian leader’s Twitter feed echoed his comments in
terse blasts for those who couldn’t watch. “#Assad: Opposition
is different from terrorism,” one said.  Another read: “#Assad: An opposition, opposing a
government by beheading, barbecuing heads and eating the hearts
of your victim? Is that opposition?”  Twitter Postings  Hours later, the Obama administration retaliated with the
same old media-new media punches. Obama told network TV
audiences why the U.S. had to pressure Assad, and a barrage of
White House postings on Twitter followed: “Obama: When
dictators commit atrocities-they depend upon the world to look
the other way.”  Ross, who’s writing a book about the future of
globalization, sees an important distinction between new and old
media.  “The formation of views is taking place on social media
before it appears in print,” he said. The Obama White House is
acutely aware of that difference and its importance “and is
emphasizing social media in efforts where persuasion is the
intent,” he said.  Despite the care with which the White House, the Assad
regime, or the Russians design their media strategies, the 24-hour roar of social networks, news websites and cable TV make it
“much more difficult to govern” or to control the storyline,
Ross said.  Billion Users  With more than a billion people using  Menlo Park ,
California-based Facebook and more than 300 million
“tweeting,” Ross said, news consumers are no longer passive
recipients of information as they discuss events in real time
and shape opinion.  “There’s a huge loss of control over narrative and an
inability to command a message from on high in the way that was
possible as recently as six or seven years ago,” Ross said.  In this environment, where media often emphasize the urgent
over the important, the danger for a government preoccupied with
message is losing sight of priorities, said Swift.  “A great example is how we have an agreement with the
Russians on how to deal with chemical weapons in a civil war
when we have no plans to deal with the civil war,” Swift said.
“We’re so obsessed with the immediate term that we forget the
central issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  