-- Australian Rugby Union Investigates O’Connor Airport Incident
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-19T02:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/australian-rugby-union-investigates-o-connor-airport-incident.html
The Australian Rugby Union said
it’s investigating an alleged incident in which Wallabies back
 James O’Connor  was reported to have been escorted out of an
airport terminal by police after being barred from a flight
because he was intoxicated.  O’Connor, 23, wasn’t allowed to board a Sept. 15 flight
from Perth International Airport to Bali after  Australia ’s win
against  Argentina  the previous day and was escorted from the
terminal by Australian Federal Police officers, the Sydney
Morning Herald reported yesterday, citing a police statement.  The ARU said in an e-mailed statement today it had begun an
investigation even though the Sydney-based governing body “had
not received any formal notification, complaints or reports from
police, airline or security officials.”  O’Connor, who’s played 44 Tests for Australia, told the ARU
from Bali that he had been involved in a dispute over seating
arrangements at the gate, which led to him and his girlfriend
being taken back through customs to rebook seats on a later
flight, Sydney’s  Daily Telegraph  reported. O’Connor, who is on
vacation, wasn’t immediately available for comment, a spokesman
for the ARU said.  The incident comes two weeks after O’Connor, who made his
Australia debut in 2008 at age 18, pledged to improve his
behavioral standards following a series of disciplinary issues.  In 2011, he was suspended for a Test match for sleeping
through a World Cup squad announcement and was reprimanded in
June after being photographed in a fast-food restaurant at 4
a.m. three days before the second Test against the British and
Irish Lions. A week later he missed the team bus for a training
session in the leadup to the final game against the Lions.  O’Connor, who’s currently without a Super Rugby club after
being released by the Melbourne Rebels in July, was two days ago
included in a 28-man Wallabies squad for its two-match Rugby
Championship tour of  South Africa  and Argentina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  