-- Baht Rises Most Since 2007 as Bonds Gain After Fed
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-09-19T09:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/baht-rises-most-since-2007-bonds-gain-on-surprise-fed-decision.html
Thailand ’s baht rose the most in
six years, while stocks and government bonds climbed after the
Federal Reserve unexpectedly refrained from cutting monetary
stimulus that has spurred demand for emerging-market assets.  The baht jumped 2.2 percent, the most since January 2007,
to 30.98 per dollar as of 4:40 p.m. in Bangkok, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 30.915 earlier, the
strongest level since July 24. The  SET Index (SET)  rose 3.5 percent to
1,489.06, its highest close since July 24. Yields on 10-year
government bonds fell 20 basis points, the most since June 14,
to 4.03 percent.  “There is a big rebound in reaction to the Fed,” said
Pareena Phuangsiri, a Bangkok-based analyst at  Kasikornbank Pcl. (KBANK) 
“I would say it’s very dovish. But even though the Fed didn’t
taper this time” they will do so eventually, she said.  Stocks rose around the world and emerging-market currencies
strengthened after the Federal Open Market Committee said
yesterday it wants to see more evidence of a recovery in the
world’s largest economy before starting to taper its $85 billion
a month of bond purchases. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast a $5 billion reduction.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said paring stimulus could
still start this year should data confirm the Fed’s “basic
outlook.” The U.S. will release jobless claims and existing
home sales reports today.  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul told
reporters today the central bank is closely monitoring the baht
and would step in if the move was excessive.  Capital Outflows  The baht is still 3.5 percent weaker versus the dollar
since May 22, when Bernanke first signaled that policy makers
could reduce the bond purchases, triggering capital outflows and
a selloff in  emerging markets . More than $50 billion has left
global funds investing in emerging-market bonds and stocks since
May, extending the outflow this year to $11 billion, according
to data from EPFR Global.  The SET tumbled 23 percent from its May 21 high through
Aug. 28, before rebounding 17 percent. The Fed’s decision will
spur inflows from overseas funds, boosting share prices of
banking, telecommunication, property and consumer-related
companies, Maybank Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl, the
nation’s largest brokerage, said in a report today.  Bangkok Bank Pcl, the largest lender, gained 2.9 percent to
a four-month high. Advanced Info Service Pcl, the biggest
mobile-phone operator, climbed 3 percent. Land & Houses Pcl, the
No. 1 property developer, surged 12 percent, the most in two
years.  Global funds bought $432 million more Thai equities than
they sold this month through yesterday and pumped a net $884
million into government bonds, official data show.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, dropped 39 basis
points to 7.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  