-- Bernanke Buys Time for Brazil to India as Rupiah Leads Rally
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-09-19T13:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/bernanke-buys-time-for-brazil-to-india-as-ibovespa-leads-gains.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s surprise
decision to refrain from scaling back monetary stimulus provided
a respite to investors in  emerging markets , where currencies are
in the midst of their worst rout in two years.  “It gives everyone some breathing time,” Denise Simon, an
emerging-market fixed income manager at Lazard Asset Management,
which oversees $147 billion, said by phone from  New York . “It
certainly takes some of the immediate pressure off the more
vulnerable countries. Emerging markets will continue to correct
on the upside as the result.”  The Brazilian real and Turkish lira jumped more than 2
percent and JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s index for  dollar-denominated
bonds  in developing nations posted the biggest rally in almost
three months yesterday, after the Fed said it will keep buying
$85 billion of debt a month. Companies and governments in
 Colombia , Chile,  Turkey ,  Brazil  and Mexico announced plans for
overseas bond sales a day after the Fed kept its stimulus
program intact, driving down yields on emerging-market debt.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  held back from paring monetary
stimulus to support economic growth, soothing investors who had
dumped emerging-market assets since May as higher U.S. interest
rates sparked capital flight. A group of the 20 most traded
 emerging-market currencies  lost 7.4 percent between May and
August, the most in two years.  The decision came at a time when economic data from  China 
to Brazil are showing signs of  improvement  and helps countries
most dependent on foreign financing such as Brazil and  India ,
Simon said.  Rupee, Real  The Indonesian rupiah led gains in Asian currencies today
and Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index advanced the most in
almost two years.  The rupee strengthened 2.6 percent against the dollar at
9:22 a.m. in  London  and Thailand’s baht appreciated 1.1 percent.
The Malaysian ringgit increased 2.7 percent. The Jakarta
Composite Index jumped 4.7 percent and India’s S&P BSE Sensex
Index added 3.4 percent.  The real led the rally in developing-nation currencies
yesterday, gaining 3.2 percent to 2.1860 per dollar and up 9.1
percent in September, poised for the biggest monthly advance
since October 2011.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  climbed 2.6 percent, extending its gain
from a four-year low reached in July to more than 20 percent.
JPMorgan’s bond index advanced 1 percent, bringing its rally
this month to 3 percent.  Colombia, Turkey  Colombia hired Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to
sell overseas dollar securities due in 2024, according to a
regulatory filing. The country may sell the bonds today to yield
about 1.65 percentage points more than U.S. Treasuries,
according to a person familiar with the offering who asked not
to be identified because the terms aren’t set. The benchmark
offering will be at least $500 million, the person said.  Brazil’s development bank, BNDES, plans to sell benchmark
dollar bonds due in three and 10 years, a person said.  Petroleos
Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company, is issuing peso-denominated debt due in 2024, another person said.  Garanti Bankasi AS, Turkey’s largest bank by market value,
may boost the size of a bond sale by 38 percent to 900 million
liras ($461 million). Turkey’s Treasury will hold investor
meetings starting Sept. 23 for a possible sale of Islamic bonds.
Armenia hired banks for a seven-year dollar bond sale, Chile’s
Embotelladora Andina SA plans to meet with investors next week
while the Eurasian Development Bank is also poised to sell,
according to people familiar with the offerings, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private.  External Financing  The yield on the benchmark  U.S. 10-year note  fell 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 2.69 percent yesterday,
making higher yielding emerging market assets more attractive.  “This has created a much better environment for risky
assets,” Paul Denoon, who oversees $25 billion as the head of
emerging-market debt at  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , said in a
phone interview from New York. “It’s important because one of
the concerns for the market is the large external financing
needs for  developing countries . This creates stability.”  Strategists at Citigroup Inc. yesterday advised clients to
buy the Mexican peso and bet  10-year interest-rate swaps  will
fall, saying the Fed’s decision boosts investor risk appetite.  Brazilian state development bank president  Luciano Coutinho 
said he expects currency volatility to increase because the Fed
didn’t start tapering.  Fed Signal  “For us, the sooner it starts and ends, the better,”
Coutinho said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York yesterday. “I would rather see it start today and have
some date to finish because then we will feel the whole impact.
The worst thing is the uncertainty.”  Bernanke first signaled on May 22 that policy makers could
reduce the bond purchases, triggering capital outflows and a
selloff in emerging markets. More than $50 billion has left
global funds investing in emerging-market bonds and stocks since
May, extending the  outflow  this year to $11 billion, according
to data from EPFR Global.  The rand, real, rupee, rupiah and lira, dubbed the
“fragile five” by Morgan Stanley strategists because of their
countries’ reliance on foreign capital for financing needs,
dropped as much as 18 percent in the four months through August.  Debt Sales  The selloff reversed this month as economic data from China
to Brazil improved. China’s  exports  jumped 7.2 percent in August
from a year earlier, beating estimates, the nation’s customs
service said Sept. 8. Brazil’s July retail sales rose almost 10
times faster than economists predicted, as consumers spent more
on food, clothing and appliances.  “People trashed emerging markets,” Pablo Cisilino, a
 money manager  at Stone Harbor Investment Partners LP, which has
about $55 billion in emerging-market debt, said in a phone
interview from New York yesterday. “People were too optimistic
about developed market growth and too pessimistic about emerging
markets. They are revising that now. There’s more room to go.”  The market stability encouraged developing-country
borrowers to come back to the international  debt market  to raise
funds. Companies including  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the biggest Latin
American mobile-phone company, and  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s
state-owned oil producer, raised $16.8 billion in bond sales
this month, compared with $7.5 billion in August, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s central bank announced a $60 billion intervention
program of currency swaps and foreign-exchange credit lines
through the end of the year in a bid to support the real.
 Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan, who took office
this month, unveiled a package of measures that Barclays Plc
estimated may lure $10 billion in capital inflows.  The Fed’s decision yesterday has given the countries some
time to build up their defenses and rebalance their economies,
said Lazard’s Simon.  “It does not solve all the issues in emerging markets,”
said Simon. “But with the rates staying low and dollar
weakness, that’s a positive for emerging-market assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  