-- Bernanke Recouples With World Offering Bond Yield Relief Abroad
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-09-19T11:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/bernanke-recouples-with-world-offering-bond-yield-relief-abroad.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is granting his international counterparts some relief
from the tighter borrowing costs he forced on them this year.  Four months of rising bond yields around the world and
reduced capital flows into emerging markets were thrown into
reverse by the Fed’s surprise decision yesterday not to pare its
$85 billion in monthly asset buying. Yields on the bonds of
Spain, France, Thailand and Turkey were among those to fall in
response, and currencies including those of  India  and  Malaysia 
dropped against the dollar.  Such shifts should prove welcome news for global policy
makers such as  Mario Draghi  and India’s Raghuram Rajan after
summer-time signs the Fed was set to curb monetary stimulus led
investors to whip capital out of emerging markets or enforce
higher  interest rates  on still-sluggish economies. A falling
dollar and the knowledge that so-called tapering is merely
postponed could check any renewal of confidence.  “It helps those central banks concerned about rising
interest rates, as just maybe it will break the upward trend in
bond yields,” said  Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG
in London. “It will also take pressure off emerging markets
although we still know tapering is coming so it may just be a
short-term relief.”  Spanish and Italian bonds rose along with government debt
across Europe, while yields on Thailand’s 10-year bonds fell the
most since June and the rate on Turkey’s two-year note reached a
two-month low. Emerging-market stocks surged, led by the biggest
gain in Turkey’s shares since 2010. The currencies of Malaysia,
Thailand and India all rose more than 2 percent versus the
dollar.  Market Shift  That marked a change from recent performances when
investors fretted that five years of liquidity provisions were
about to start drying up. Bond prices slumped internationally
and emerging-market stocks plunged after May 22 when Bernanke
said for the first time the Fed could withdraw stimulus “in the
next few meetings” so long as the economic outlook showed
“sustainable” improvement. The declines continued even as
economists pared forecasts to show Bernanke and colleagues
removing $5 billion of Treasuries buying from their program
ahead of yesterday’s meeting.  The decision to do nothing means emerging market policy
makers should now “send flowers to Washington,” said  Benoit Anne , head of emerging markets strategy at Societe Generale SA
in London.  The prospect of reduced U.S. stimulus had forced central
banks including those of Brazil, India,  Indonesia  or Turkey to
raise interest rates or intervene in markets as their currencies
plunged. Investors began to anticipate an eventual shift to
higher U.S. interest rates or refocused on economies with large
current-account deficits.  Policy Room  A group of the 20 most-traded emerging market currencies
lost 7.4 percent between May and August, the most in two years
and EPFR Global data showed more than $50 billion leaving global
funds investing in emerging market debt and stocks since May.
The strains led to calls from  Mexico  to China for the Fed to
better communicate its intentions, only for U.S. officials to
respond that their sole focus was their own economy’s needs.  The delay in tapering “gives  emerging markets  more policy
room and reduces the market stress,” said Anne. “They now
don’t have to intervene to defend their currencies and going
forward they can anticipate a sharp deceleration in capital
outflows.”  In Asia, Nomura Holdings Inc. economists said those nations
with  current-account gaps  such as India, Indonesia and Thailand
stood to benefit most from the Fed’s pause and that the
diminished need to intervene should stabilize currency reserves.  ‘Feedback Loops’  “Any lift in asset prices could also create positive
feedback loops on domestic consumption and investment through
financial wealth, collateral and confidence channels,” said the
economists including Singapore-based Rob Subbaraman in a report
to clients today. “In the near term, it does seem like the
stars have become more aligned for Asia’s economies.”  The region’s policy makers also now have extra time to
address domestic economic fragilities. India faces the challenge
of opening more industries to foreign investment; Indonesia
needs to tackle domestic infrastructure weaknesses; Malaysia is
running a persistent  budget deficit ; and  Philippines  has still
to complete its anti-corruption campaign.  “The fact that the money train will continue for a while
means the risk of a hard landing or a balance-of-payments crisis
has been greatly reduced, if not averted,”  Frederic Neumann ,
co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong
Kong , wrote in a note today. “Policy makers in Asia will need
to use this brief window to implement structural reforms to put
Asian growth on a more sustainable path.”  Delay Only  Still,  Erik Nielsen , chief economist at UniCredit SpA, told
Bloomberg Television that emerging markets should still be alert
to an eventual curtailing of U.S. support, especially those with
trade imbalances greater than 3 percent of gross domestic
product such as India and Indonesia.  “It’s just a delay, it’s not a cancellation,” he told
Bloomberg Television’s The Pulse with  Guy Johnson  and Anna Edwards.  Fellow Group of Seven central banks may also have reason to
thank the Fed after the tapering signals led them to adopt new
forms of “forward guidance” to stress they would maintain
stimulus in the hope investors would differentiate their weaker
economies from the U.S.  The  Bank of England  first said in July that recent market
rate increases were “not warranted” before announcing the next
month it doesn’t intend to raise its 0.5 percent benchmark rate
before unemployment drops to 7 percent, something it doesn’t
 expect  for three years.  ECB, Riksbank  European Central Bank President Draghi said in July gains
in euro-area borrowing costs were “unwarranted” and pledged to
keep the region’s key rate at 0.5 percent for an “extended
period.” At Sweden’s Riksbank, there is a bias for a potential
rate cut by the first half of next year.  The trouble was that with the world’s largest economy
showing signs of strength and the Fed poised to act, investors
questioned such commitments and pushed up bond yields,
threatening to make it costlier for consumers and companies to
borrow. In the U.K., for example, 10-year  gilt yields  climbed
above 3 percent this month for the first time since July 2011.
They fell to 2.85 percent today.  “It’s good news because if you think forward guidance was
to stop contagion from the U.S., then this reduces the
pressure,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Fed Influence  In the case of the ECB, there may be some concern that the
euro’s rise to the highest since February could hamper its
expansion, said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global
Insight in London. “Improving exports is important to Europe’s
recovery prospects, so a strengthening euro could hinder exports
and make recovery harder.”  Today’s reverberations still show the  influence  of the Fed
on foreign economies and markets. A report by Citigroup Inc.
economists this month showed the American economy’s size means
its monetary policy often sets the tone for foreign policy
makers, with a 100 basis-point tightening in the U.S.
translating into a rise of as much as 25 basis points over two
quarters in the U.K. and the euro area.  The delay in tapering “helps, although the signal for the
 bond market  on the way up as well as the way down continues to
be from the U.S.,” said Moec, a former Bank of France official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  