-- BHP Says PNG Removing Ok Tedi Protections Raises Sovereign Risk
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-09-19T07:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/bhp-says-png-removing-ok-tedi-protections-raises-sovereign-risk.html
BHP Billiton  Ltd., the world’s
biggest mining company, said Papua New Guinea’s decision to
legislate to make the company liable for environmental damage
caused by the Ok Tedi mine raised the nation’s sovereign risk.  “The removal of protections that were legislated for BHP
Billiton at the time that it gifted its shareholding to PNG
raises squarely the question of sovereign risk for PNG,” the
Melbourne-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.  Mining waste, known as tailings, from the Ok Tedi copper-gold mine caused damage to the Fly River in the 1980s and 1990s.
In 2002, BHP transferred its majority share in the mine to the
PNG Sustainable Development Program Ltd., and in return was
granted legal immunity. The mine has continued to operate.  Prime Minister Peter O’Neill yesterday said the decision to
grant immunity was wrong, according to the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. The parliament also passed legislation to
take control of the mine from the PNG Sustainable Development
Program.  “The arrangements around our exit from Ok Tedi were agreed
with the PNG government in 2001 and unwinding them shows lack of
good faith by the PNG government,” BHP said in the statement.
The company is confident its shareholders aren’t exposed to
potential claims, it said.  Investor’s Eyes  The mine produces about 170,000 metric tons of copper and
500,000 ounces of gold annually from its Mt. Fubilan open-cut
mine, Ok Tedi Mining Ltd. previously said on its website.  The government’s decision to claim ownership of the PNG SDP
and revoke previous agreements made the Pacific nation riskier
in the eyes of investors, said Michael Elliott, sector leader
for EY LLP’s global mining practice.  “While the PNG government and those promoting projects may
see this as an isolated case, many others who are providing the
investment will be factoring it in,” Elliott said. “It’s hard
to see how this doesn’t increase mining risk.”  Companies with mining and energy assets in PNG include
 Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Barrick Gold Corp., Exxon Mobil Corp., Oil
Search Ltd. and Santos Ltd.  “It does show how keen the PNG government is for income,”
Peter Rudd, resources and mining manager at Altitude Private
Wealth in  Melbourne , said by phone. “BHP absolved itself from
all the environmental concerns, or at least incorporated them
into that trust and not part of BHP itself, so you’d think it
would be sufficiently at arm’s length.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  