-- Billionaire Bollore Returns to Brittany With Batteries Plant
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-09-20T16:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/billionaire-bollore-takes-empire-back-to-brittany-with-batteries.html
French billionaire  Vincent Bollore 
is used to getting kudos from investors and analysts. Now he’s
got France’s president angling to share that spotlight.  With French unemployment at a 14-year high, Bollore’s move
to expand production and add jobs at his electric-car battery
factory near Quimper, Brittany, earned him a visit from
President  Francois Hollande , who traveled to France’s western-most province today to speak at the site’s inauguration.  Blue Solutions, headed for an initial public offering in 40
days, is one of the latest developments Bollore’s brought to his
family’s business. Over 30 years, he’s taken a struggling paper-mill and transformed it into  Bollore SA (BOL) , a holding company with
a market value of 10.9 billion euros ($14.7 billion) and
interests in banking, media and shipping. And his rise to the
biggest shareholder at  Havas SA (HAV)  and  Vivendi SA (VIV)  has helped make
him rich -- and made some fellow investors happy.  “We are in the far west of France,” Bollore said in a
Bloomberg Television interview outside the factory, where lines
of electric cars and solar panels are showcased. The plant’s
“name is ‘Pen-Carn,’ which means ’never afraid,’” he said.  After hosting reporters in Quimper to visit the site and
offering a taste of traditional Breton music -- live bagpipes,
drums, and a traditional woodwind instrument known as a bombarde
-- Bollore hopped behind the wheel of a mini-bus equipped with
one of his company’s batteries and set off to escort Hollande.  ‘Aggressive Bets’  Bollore has a net worth of at least $4.4 billion, according
to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. The 61-year-old father of
four has started delegating parts of the family business to his
children in preparation for his retirement in 2022.  Bollore shares fell 0.5 percent to 397.95 euros in Paris.  He made a name spotting cheap stocks and moving in, often
demanding strategy or management changes to boost the shares,
then cashing in. He made about 800 million euros in profit in
the early 2000s on transactions in investment bank Lazard LLC,
construction company  Bouygues SA (EN)  and media company Pathe SA.  Bollore “takes aggressive bets on corporate situations,”
said  Alex DeGroote , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in
London. “Bollore is not only one of the biggest players in
European media, but also one of the main shareholder activists
these days, with a strong track record.”  At Vivendi, shareholders started calling for him to join
the board as early as April last year, when he had just a 1
percent stake. Now at 5 percent, he’s the biggest shareholder in
the group and last week was named deputy chairman as Vivendi
restructures to focus on its media businesses.  Bibles, Cigarettes  With Quimper, Bollore is going home. In June, he said he
poured in 250 millions euros to expand production and create 300
jobs in the northwestern  France  village that’s 15 kilometers
(9.3 miles) from the Atlantic Ocean. The family founded
 Papeteries Bollore  in 1822 near the town, according to its
website, making paper for Bibles and Korans and cigarette paper
that  B.B. King  and Spanish singer Raimundo Amador sang about.  “We’ve developed a lot of businesses since 1822, and we
are still in the heart of Brittany,” Bollore told Bloomberg TV.  He took over in 1981 as the family business was struggling.
He used it as a platform to get into a bit of everything. He
took a stake of  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , Italy’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank, and built electric cars with Ferrari-designer
 Pininfarina SpA. (PINF)  It operates ports in Congo, Nigeria and the
 Ivory Coast  and runs Cameroon’s rail system.  Aegis, Havas  Bollore got into media in 2004. He invested in Aegis Group
Plc -- taken over last year by  Dentsu Inc. (4324)  -- and Havas, the
advertising company that made French water bottler Evian’s
roller-baby commercials. Bollore also has two free newspapers, a
stake in movie producer  Gaumont SA (GAM)  and a cinema in Paris.  Next he is selling 10 percent of Blue Solutions on the
market on Oct. 30. He’s been testing the electric-battery
technology, based on a distinct technology called lithium metal
polymer, with a Paris car-sharing service, and said last week
he’ll collaborate with  Renault SA (RNO)  on a three-seat vehicle using
one of his batteries. He predicts they’ll be in boats, buses,
houses and trams, as well as cars, in the next decade.  Cars with “electromobility” will make up 5 percent to 10
percent of the market by 2020, from well under 1 percent now,
according to Herbert Diess,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s
development chief. And every major carmaker, from Nissan Motor
Co. and partner Renault to  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , showed off electric or
hybrid cars this month at the International Motor Show in
 Frankfurt .  Still, enthusiasm for alternative-drive engines has yet to
translate into significant sales amid consumers’ concerns that
powering systems offer only limited distance before a recharge
is needed and objections to higher prices.  That’s just one more thing that distinguishes Bollore, he
said last week in Paris. “A normal company gets orders first,
then builds factories. We’re building factories first -- we’re
not like other companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Paris at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  