-- Roche CEO Says Drugmaker Isn’t Seeking Financing for Deal
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2013-09-19T20:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/biomarin-surges-on-report-roche-is-seeking-bid-financing.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  isn’t raising
financing for an acquisition, Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan said after a report that the Swiss drugmaker is preparing
a bid for  BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (BMRN)   Schwan, in an interview today at Bloomberg’s New York
offices, declined to comment on “rumors” regarding such a
deal. BioMarin surged about 10 percent in early trading on the
DealReporter report, then pared the gains after his comments.
Roche hasn’t been in the market to seek money, Schwan said.  “We don’t have a need to raise capital,” he said. Roche
had 3.6 billion francs ($3.9 billion) in  cash  and equivalents as
of June 30, according to the Basel, Switzerland-based company’s
first-half earnings report. “Investors ask us what we are going
to do with all that cash.”  DealReporter said Roche is lining up $15 billion in debt
financing for an acquisition of BioMarin, a maker of drugs to
treat rare diseases. Roche may have to pay $95 to $105 a share
for the Novato, California-based company, DealReporter said,
citing people familiar with the situation.  “We don’t comment on rumors,” Debra Charlesworth, a
spokeswoman for BioMarin, said in an e-mail.  The lower end of the range would be a 23 percent premium to
BioMarin’s closing level yesterday of $77.49, and would value
the company at about $13.5 billion.  Scratching Heads  “We are scratching our heads” at valuations in the
biotechnology industry, Schwan said. The Nasdaq Biotechnology
Index gained 54 percent this year through yesterday to a record.
BioMarin increased 58 percent in that period.  “If there was a good strategic opportunity out there, I’d
go after it,” Schwan said. Bidding wars for companies with
products in later stages of testing don’t appeal to Roche, he
said.  A takeover of BioMarin would give Roche a company that drew
$500.7 million in 2012  revenue  from medicines for diseases
including mucopolysaccharidosis VI, or MPS VI, a rare, life-threatening lysosomal storage disorder. BioMarin also has a
slate of experimental treatments for other rare diseases and
cancer, and analysts expect its revenue to grow by at least 20
percent in 2014 and 2015.  ‘Prove It’  BioMarin rose less than 1 percent to $78.39 at the close in
New York. Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs,
climbed 0.8 percent to 239.60 Swiss francs in Zurich.  Roche’s stock has returned 34.7 percent this year including
reinvested dividends,  compared  with a 21.3 percent return by the
Swiss Market Index. It’s analysts’ favorite stock among U.S. and
European big pharma companies, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  In a wide-ranging interview, Schwan said Roche’s
competitive position will only improve as scrutiny of value for
money in medicine increases in the U.S. and Europe.  “You have to prove it,” Schwan said, predicting that
drugmakers without great new science “will literally disappear.
They will be bought up or go bankrupt.”  It makes sense to link price with clinical value of a drug,
Schwan said. He praised the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
for moving more quickly on innovative new drugs than regulators
in Europe.  Bolt-On Deals  Roche will continue to seek “bolt-on” acquisitions that
strengthen its core diagnostics and pharmaceutical businesses,
Schwan said. Opportunity will drive deal sizes, the executive
said, with more deals of less than $1 billion coming and from
“time to time” a bigger acquisition in the range of its $3.4
billion purchase of Ventana Medical Systems Inc. in 2008.  Roche considered a bid for  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN) ,
another maker of medicines for rare diseases, people with
knowledge of the matter said in July. Alexion engaged Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. as an adviser to prepare for a possible bid
from Roche, the people said at the time.  Companies like BioMarin and Alexion develop medicines for
as few as 5,000 to 10,000 patients worldwide, and charge as much
as $400,000 a year per patient.  A bid for BioMarin would contradict Roche’s history of
“financially disciplined” acquisition negotiations, said
Andrew Weiss, an analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich.  If the BioMarin report is true, “this would be a waste of
money” at 40 percent more expensive than Alexion, as measured
by enterprise value to sales, Weiss said. “Orphans are not a
strategic imperative for Roche. They look for things that make
sense and if something happens to be an orphan, so be it.”  Medicines for such small patient populations, known as
orphan drugs, get exclusive marketing rights as an incentive for
their development in the U.S. and Europe, while the small
patient populations mean fewer participants are needed for
clinical trials. They’ve drawn the interest of large
pharmaceutical companies looking to fend off a drop in sales as
patents on blockbuster drugs expire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  