-- BlackBerry Inventory Gains Raise Chance of Writedown
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-09-19T20:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/blackberry-inventory-gains-raise-chance-of-writedown.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BBRY) ’s swelling
inventory of unsold smartphones is approaching the $1 billion
mark, raising the chance the company will make its fourth
writedown in two years when it posts  earnings  next week.  BlackBerry reported a 47 percent gain in the value of its
inventory in the June quarter, bringing the figure to $887
million -- the biggest increase among more than 75 of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The amount may rise
again in the most recent period as sales sputter, said Brian Huen, who tracks the company as a managing partner at Red Sky
Capital Management. BlackBerry announced last month that it was
open to takeover bids, hurting already-sluggish sales because
customers are more skittish about the company’s future, he said.  “Inventory has been growing in the channels,” said Huen,
whose Toronto-based firm manages C$220 million ($213 million) in
assets, including BlackBerry shares. Depending on how much money
BlackBerry has spent producing the phones, “another writedown
is likely,” he said.  Writing off the unsold phones would put a dent in net
income and signal that the BlackBerry 10 operating system isn’t
fueling a turnaround for the Waterloo, Ontario-based company.
The move also would extend a streak of inventory charges, which
were spurred in part by the ill-fated PlayBook tablet. The
company took a pretax expense of $485 million in December 2011,
a second charge of $267 million the following March and a third
writedown of $335 million in June 2012.  The shares rose 1.2 percent to $10.52 at the close in  New
York . The stock has dropped 11 percent this year.  Job Cuts?  The prospect of more writedowns is looming as the company
tries to streamline its workforce, potentially bringing
restructuring expenses as well. The Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday that BlackBerry is looking to eliminate as much as 40
percent of its staff. While company spokesman Adam Emery
declined to comment on the figure, he said “organizational
moves will continue to occur.”  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins was counting on the
new BlackBerry 10 phones -- introduced in January to good
reviews -- to reverse a sales slide, return the company to
profitability and make the brand hip again. Instead, its market
share continues to slide and BlackBerry remains unprofitable.
Corporate customers such as  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are holding off on
upgrading to the new platform, concerned that the company won’t
be around to support the devices, people familiar with the
matter said last month.  Still, BlackBerry continues to introduce new products. In
addition to the Q10, Z10 and Q5 released so far this year,
BlackBerry yesterday introduced the Z30, a model with the
company’s largest screen yet. It goes on sale in the U.K. and
 Middle East  starting next week.  Loss Predicted  BlackBerry will report its fiscal second-quarter results
before trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock
Market opens on Sept. 27. Analysts are projecting sales of $3.03
billion on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That would be up about 5.5 percent from a year earlier but down
1.3 percent from the previous quarter. They estimate that the
company will post a loss of 16 cents a share, excluding one-time
items such as a potential inventory writedown.  While the PlayBook tablet was to blame for previous
charges, the uncertainty surrounding the entire company is
crimping sales this time around, said  Kris Thompson , an analyst
at National Bank Financial in Toronto. The Aug. 12 announcement
that BlackBerry was reviewing its strategic options, including a
possible sale, has cast a pall on the company, he said.  Lowered Estimates  Thompson has lowered his estimate for BlackBerry 10 phone
shipments in the most recent quarter to 3 million from 5
million. He is one of 22 analysts who rate BlackBerry a sell.
That compares with eight buy recommendations, and 14 analysts
with the equivalent of a hold, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Why would you commit to a platform that you don’t know is
going to be around?” he said. “The actual announcement of the
strategic review is what is going to torpedo this company.”  BlackBerry may wait until later in the fiscal year to do a
writedown, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at  BGC Partners (BGCP)  in New
York. Heins also has to consider how a writedown would be
perceived by possible buyers of the company, Gillis said. They
may be less likely to pay a good price if the inventory
situation is bleak, he said.  Hurting Prospects?  “If they want to clean up the books -- take the charge
maybe,” Gillis said in an interview. “But it’s also hurting
your ability to catch a premium.”  BlackBerry may have to settle for a so-called take-under
bid, where the per-share price is below the value of the stock,
he said. The shares have rallied 20 percent since August, making
it harder for a bidder to match that price.  If BlackBerry’s latest numbers look especially bad,
investors may begin to discount the possibility of any kind of
takeover, Gillis said.  “We’re going to see how rough the decay is,” he said.
“If there is a material decay, people might start to factor in,
‘Hey, this may not be a takeover situation anymore.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  