-- Bombardier Says American Nears Jet Order Decision
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-09-19T20:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/bombardier-says-american-nears-decision-on-regional-jet-order.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the third-biggest
aircraft maker, expects  American Airlines  to decide soon on a
regional-jet order it’s negotiating with the bankrupt U.S.
carrier that could include at least 30 aircraft.  American is “going to get an opportunity to reshape their
regional flying to introduce more large regional aircraft,”
Philippe Poutissou, vice president of marketing at Bombardier’s
commercial aircraft unit, said today at a conference in Montreal
sponsored by Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. “They are
looking at what we can offer, and what the competition can
offer. We would hope they make that decision shortly.”  Bombardier’s discussions with American are centered on CRJ
regional jets and not the larger CSeries family, Marc Duchesne,
a spokesman for the Montreal-based planemaker, said today in a
telephone interview. Bombardier’s regional jets can seat up to
100 passengers, while the CSeries, which held its maiden flight
three days ago and is due to enter service in a year, can hold
as many as 160 people.  American’s order will likely be “of a similar order of
magnitude” to recent regional-jet purchases by  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL)  and United Continental Holdings Inc., Poutissou said.  Delta in December agreed to buy 40 jets from Bombardier --
a deal with a catalog value of about $1.85 billion. In April,
United opted to buy 30  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  76-seat regional jets valued
at about $840 million.  American said last month that a pending order for larger
regional jets has been delayed because a U.S. lawsuit seeking to
stop its merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  puts financing for
the deal at risk. Michael Trevino , a spokesman for the Fort-Worth, Texas-based airline, today declined to comment on the
pending aircraft order beyond its August court filing.  Justice Department  An agreement to buy a “substantial” number of planes was
near when the U.S.  Justice Department  sued to block the US
Airways deal on Aug. 13,  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American said in a court
filing that didn’t specify its supplier. Embraer said in July
that it was in talks with American for an order of 76-seat jets.  Bigger, more-fuel efficient regional aircraft are part of
Fort Worth, Texas-based American’s plan to cut operating costs
by shedding models with 50 or fewer seats after exiting
bankruptcy via the US Airways merger. Backstop financing from
the manufacturer and favorable export credit funding are only
available upon leaving court protection, the airline said.  The judge overseeing American’s bankruptcy last week
approved its reorganization plan, contingent on getting U.S.
regulatory approval. U.S. regulators want to block the merger on
grounds it would hurt consumers by damping competition and
resulting in higher fares.  Bombardier’s Class B  shares  closed unchanged at C$4.80 in
Toronto trading today. They’ve risen 28 percent this year,
compared with a 4 percent gain for the S&P/Toronto Stock
Exchange Composite Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  