-- Brazil May Curtail Swaps Program as Real Gains, Mantega Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-09-19T00:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/brazil-may-curtail-swaps-program-as-real-gains-mantega-says.html
Brazil ’s central bank may curtail
its program of swap and credit line auctions after the real
rallied on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to sustain its
monetary stimulus, Finance Minister Guido Mantega said today.  The central bank’s currency intervention is flexible,
Mantega told reporters in Sao Paulo, adding that it’s the bank’s
decision to adjust the program. Mantega spoke after the real
closed up 3.2 percent to 2.1860 per U.S. dollar, its strongest
level since June 18.  “The central bank was acting as a function of the excesses
that were occurring, and its role is to diminish volatility,”
Mantega said. “The swaps program is not rigid. They have $60
billion to use through year-end, but how they’ll use it is
unknown.”  The real’s drop to a nearly five-year low in August
prompted policy makers to announce an intervention strategy. The
program entails carrying out currency swap auctions of $500
million a day on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, as
well as credit line auctions of $1 billion a day on Fridays. The
program is scheduled to run through at least Dec. 31.  A weaker real threatens to hamper the central bank’s
struggle against consumer price increases that have stymied
demand and investments in Latin America’s largest economy.
Inflation near the top of the target range has also prompted the
bank to lift the key rate more than any other major economy in
the world this year.  An exchange rate of 2.4 reais per dollar, a level the
currency surpassed in August, is “an exaggeration,” Mantega
said. Brazil’s currency depreciated 3.8 percent against the
dollar in the three months through yesterday.  ‘Especially Vigilant’  Inflation remains at an “uncomfortable” level and policy
makers must be “especially vigilant” to mitigate the pass-through of a weaker currency on consumer prices, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said earlier this afternoon in a
congressional hearing in Brasilia.  The Fed today said it will continue its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases. Economists had forecast it would dial
down monthly Treasury purchases by $5 billion, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Brazil’s central bank has boosted the  benchmark  rate to 9
percent from 7.25 percent in four straight meetings to damp
 inflation , which in August slowed to 6.09 percent from 6.7
percent in June. The bank targets inflation of 2.5 percent to
6.5 percent.  The national statistics institute will release consumer
price data through mid-September on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  