-- Brazilian Real Volatility Seen Rising as Fed Opts Not to Taper
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-09-19T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/brazilian-real-volatility-seen-rising-as-fed-opts-not-to-taper.html
Volatility in Brazil’s currency
will increase because the  Federal Reserve  opted against tapering
monetary stimulus, said  Luciano Coutinho , president of the
country’s state development bank.  “For us, the sooner it starts and ends, the better,”
Coutinho said in an interview at the Bloomberg’s headquarters in
New York yesterday. “I would rather see it start today and have
some date to finish because then we will feel the whole impact.
The worst thing is the uncertainty.”  The real sank to a 4 1/2-year low in August amid
speculation that U.S. policy makers would curb stimulus that
stoked demand for emerging-market assets. The Fed refrained from
reducing the $85 billion pace of monthly bond buying at the
conclusion of its two-day meeting yesterday, saying it needs to
see more evidence of improvement in the economy.  The Brazilian currency surged 3.2 percent to 2.1860 per
dollar yesterday, the strongest closing level since June 18. The
currency was the best performer among 16 major dollar
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  “We know that the tapering will occur and the currency
will depreciate,” Coutinho said. “This is the volatility that
we don’t want to see.”  Slower Growth  Growth will probably slow in the second half of the year
because of “anxiety” related to the Fed’s policies and
protests against the high cost and poor quality of public
services paralyzed much of  Brazil  in June, he said.  Latin America ’s largest economy expanded 1.5 percent during
the April to June period, or an annualized 6 percent, the
national statistics agency said Aug. 30. That was the most since
the first quarter of 2010. Economists covering Brazil expect
gross domestic product to grow 2.4 percent this year, according
to a central bank survey published Sept. 16.  The slowdown in growth should prevent BNDES, as the state
development bank is known, from cutting down on lending,
according to Coutinho. BNDES lent a record 88 billion reais ($40
billion) during the first six months of 2013, as private banks
restricted credit.  “When the economy starts to grow again and the private
sector again starts to expand credit, we will certainly
retract,” Coutinho said. “We’re preparing ourselves to start
tapering, but we should do it in a careful way, because we must
create incentives for the private sector to fill in the gap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  