-- Brazil May Curtail Swaps Program as Currency Gains, Mantega Says
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-09-19T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/brazil-may-curtail-swaps-program-as-currency-gains-mantega-says.html
Brazil ’s central bank may curtail
its program of swap and credit line auctions after the real
rallied on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to sustain its
stimulus, Finance Minister Guido Mantega said yesterday.  The central bank’s currency intervention is flexible,
Mantega told reporters in Sao Paulo, adding that it’s the bank’s
decision to adjust the program. Mantega spoke after the real
closed up 3.2 percent to 2.1860 per U.S. dollar, its strongest
level since June 18.  “The central bank was acting as a function of the excesses
that were occurring, and its role is to diminish volatility,”
Mantega said. “The swaps program is not rigid. They have $60
billion to use through year-end, but how they’ll use it is
unknown.”  The real’s drop to a nearly five-year low in August
prompted policy makers to announce an intervention strategy on
Aug. 22. The real since then has appreciated 11 percent, the
biggest gain against the dollar among world currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The central bank program entails carrying out currency swap
auctions of $500 million a day on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays
and Thursdays, as well as credit line auctions of $1 billion a
day on Fridays. The program is scheduled to run through at least
Dec. 31.  An exchange rate of 2.4 reais per dollar, a level the
currency surpassed in August, is an exaggeration, Mantega said
yesterday. Brazil’s currency had depreciated 16 percent in the
three months ending Aug. 22.  ‘Clear Signal’  “When Mantega said that 2.40 was ’exaggerated’ I tend to
read that as a clear signal that the government would try to
persuade the central bank to act and try to defend that level
because of inflation problems that a break in this ceiling would
spark,” Daniel Cunha, chief economist at XP Investimentos,
wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.  A weaker real threatens to hamper the central bank’s
struggle against consumer price increases that have stymied
demand and investments in Latin America’s largest economy.
Inflation near the top of the target range has also prompted the
bank to lift the key rate more than any other major economy in
the world this year.  Inflation remains at an “uncomfortable” level and policy
makers must be “especially vigilant” to mitigate the pass-through of a weaker currency on consumer prices, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said yesterday in a congressional
hearing in Brasilia.  He spoke just after the Fed said it would continue its $85
billion of monthly bond purchases. Economists had forecast it
would dial down monthly Treasury purchases by $5 billion,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Brazil’s central bank has boosted the  benchmark  rate to 9
percent from 7.25 percent in four straight meetings to damp
 inflation , which in August slowed to 6.09 percent from 6.7
percent in June. The bank targets inflation of 2.5 percent to
6.5 percent.  The national statistics institute is scheduled to publish
consumer price data through mid-September tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  