-- Brazilian Real Falls From Three-Month High on Mantega’s Comment
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-09-19T13:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/brazilian-real-falls-from-three-month-high-on-mantega-s-comment.html
Brazil’s real retreated from a
three-month high after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said that
the central bank may curtail its intervention in the foreign-exchange market.  The currency declined 0.3 percent to 2.1916 per  U.S. dollar 
at 10:06 a.m. in Sao Paulo. It rallied 3.2 percent yesterday to
2.1860, the strongest closing level since June 18, as the U.S.
Federal Reserve unexpectedly refrained from curbing a stimulus
program that has boosted emerging markets. Swap rates on the
contract due in January 2015 fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 10.04 percent today.  “The government showed it is satisfied with the level of
the real,”  Reginaldo Galhardo , the head of  currency trading  at
Treviso Corretora de Cambio in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview. “Mantega says he doesn’t speak for the central bank,
but he ends up doing so anyway.”  Mantega told reporters in  Sao Paulo  yesterday that the
central bank’s intervention program is flexible and that it’s
the bank’s decision to make changes. The real posted the best
performance among major emerging-market currencies yesterday
after the Fed refrained from reducing the $85 billion pace of
monthly bond buying, saying it needs to see more signs of
economic improvement.  Brazil’s currency has climbed 11 percent since Aug. 22,
when the central bank announced a $60 billion program of
intervention to bolster the currency and rein in inflation. The
bank sold $497 million of currency swaps today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  