-- Brokers Must Disclose Bonuses as Finra Passes Rule
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-09-19T19:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/brokers-must-disclose-bonuses-as-finra-passes-rule.html
Stock brokers who are lured to new
firms with signing bonuses of at least $100,000 will be required
to inform clients under a rule approved by the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Finra’s board of governors passed the proposal today, Wall
Street’s self-regulator said in a statement. Brokers would have
to tell their customers how much they received before persuading
them to bring their accounts to the new firm, the regulator
said. The plan must be reviewed and approved by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, Finra said.  Brokerages from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
Merrill Lynch poach salesmen from one another, offering bonuses
based on how much revenue they produce. The brokers typically
must repay the bonuses if they don’t bring in as much business
as promised, a situation that Finra said may create a conflict
of interest as they strive to reach their targets.  “It will have an impact,” said  Michael King , a recruiter
in New York who helps brokers switch firms. “It’s going to make
brokers think more carefully about how they’re going to broach
it with clients.”  The proposal would require brokers to tell clients of any
recruitment compensation they receive in connection with the
switch, including bonuses, loans and transition assistance.
Customers will be told what the broker received in ranges, such
as $100,000 to $500,000 or $500,000 to $1 million.  Broker Backing  Brokerages mostly backed the plan.  Morgan Stanley  and
 Merrill Lynch , the two biggest, as well as  UBS AG  and  Wells
Fargo & Co ., said in March letters to Finra that the disclosure
would help clients understand their financial advisers’ motives.  Stifel Financial Corp. , with more than 2,000 brokers, said
in a letter that the proposal was anti-competitive and would
discourage brokers from changing jobs even when that would be
better for clients. David Sobel, chairman of the National
Association of Independent Broker/Dealers,  said  the bonuses
don’t pose a conflict and that the rule is inconsistent because
it doesn’t apply to retention payments designed to keep brokers
from defecting.  King said he didn’t think the rule would stop brokers from
switching firms because the signing bonuses often amount to more
than a year’s salary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  