-- Brown Weighs Tighter Gun Controls in Wake of Killings
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-09-19T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/brown-weighs-tighter-gun-controls-in-wake-of-killings.html
Four days after the deadliest mass
killing since an elementary-school massacre gripped the nation
last year,  California  Governor  Jerry Brown  is deliberating
whether to sign measures to tighten  gun control .  The bills on the governor’s desk were passed at the end of
the legislative session last week, before a Sept. 16 shooting
rampage in the Washington Navy Yard killed 12 people.  Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat and a gun owner himself,
hasn’t said what action he’ll take. While he has signed previous
curbs on firearms, he met last week with a state senator who
proposed background checks on ammunition buyers and told him it
would be best to shelve the plan for now.  “He understood that we didn’t want criminals buying
ammunition,” said Dan Reeves, the chief of staff for Senator
Kevin De Leon, a Democrat from  Los Angeles , who took part in the
meeting.“He gets what we are trying to accomplish. But these
registered gun-owners have gone through a background check. Why
should they have to do it again?”  Jim Evans, a spokesman for Brown, declined to comment on
the meeting. The bill was withdrawn.  De Leon’s measure called for ammunition sales to be
reported to the state Justice Department to compare with a
database of people prohibited from owning firearms. It also
would require a background investigation before buying
ammunition, to be renewed every two years, beginning in 2016.  ‘Practical Solution’  “At the request of Governor Jerry Brown, I have agreed to
work with his office during the interim to find a practical
solution to keeping ammunition out of the hands of criminals,”
 De Leon  said in a statement after the bill was put on hold.
“The governor has expressed a resolve to help stem the
continued outbreak of gun violence.”  The bills on Brown’s desk were introduced after a gunman
killed 20 children and six adults in Newtown,  Connecticut , in
December.  The measures would outlaw semi-automatic rifles with
detachable magazines, ban adapters to convert magazines to high
capacity, order safety certification before buying any gun and
require ownership records for all firearms. The governor has
until Oct. 13 to sign or veto the bills.  Prior to summoning De Leon into his office last week, Brown
telephoned Los Angeles Sheriff Lee Baca, Los Angeles Police
Chief Charlie Beck and gun-rights advocates for their thoughts
on the proposal, Reeves said.  “He basically did his own homework,” Reeves said. “On
these gun issues, he definitely talks to people on both sides of
the issue.”  Match Records  Brown told De Leon that a better approach might be to find
a way to exempt existing gun owners from the need for an
additional background investigation, Reeves said. To do so,
though, he said, the state would need to match gun records,
possibly years old, and verify that person is the same one
trying to purchase ammunition.  The governor told De Leon to work with the  Justice
Department  to see if such a system would work and then return
next year with a new bill, according to Reeves.  “He said he’s not going to guarantee that he’d go down
that path with regards to purchase permits,” Reeves said. “He
wants to see a system that he knows will work and doesn’t
inconvenience gun owners. He’s the governor and we need his
signature, so we really didn’t have a lot of options.”  If Brown signs the other bills, they would put California
in line with other states that enacted tougher rules after the
killings at Sandy Hook Elementary School and a movie-theater
attack in a Denver suburb that killed 12 people in July 2012. A
push for tougher federal measures stalled in Congress.  Sweeping Restrictions  Colorado approved the most sweeping restrictions in more
than a decade, limiting ammunition magazines to 15 rounds and
requiring background checks for all gun sales. A backlash led to
the recall of two state senators Sept. 10, the first in that
state’s history.  California passed the nation’s first ban on some semi-automatic rifles in 1989 after a gunman with an AK-47 sprayed an
elementary school in Stockton, killing five children and
wounding 29.  A federal ban passed in 1994 has since expired and efforts
to restore it, led by U.S. Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a
California Democrat, stalled in Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  