-- Bulgarian Premier Faces First No-Confidence Vote on Policies
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-09-19T11:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/bulgarian-premier-faces-first-no-confidence-vote-on-policies.html
Bulgarian Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski faces the first no-confidence vote on his cabinet’s
investment policy as street protests for the past three months
increase pressure on him to resign.  The opposition Gerb party, led by former Premier Boyko Borissov, introduced the motion to the parliament, Borissov told
reporters in Sofia today. The proposal, backed by 96 lawmakers
in the 240-seat assembly, will be voted on next week.  Political leaders are working to maintain public confidence
as voters rallied against what they considered a corrupt
political system in the poorest European Union member.
Oresharski came to power on May 29 after anti-austerity protests
forced out his predecessor and triggered a snap vote.  “The no-confidence vote is unlikely to succeed,” Antonyi
Galabov, a political science professor at the New Bulgarian
University in Sofia, said. “It wasn’t organized as part of a
massive campaign and will result mostly in debates.”  President Rosen Plevneliev has said a new vote may be
needed. Several hundred protesters marched in Sofia on Sept. 16
demanding the Cabinet’s resignation.  Borissov’s Gerb party failed to win an outright majority in
May 12 elections and couldn’t form a cabinet. The country is
lead by a minority government supported by the Socialists and
the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which represents ethnic
Turks.  The two parties control 120 seats in the assembly, one
lawmaker short of an outright majority and rely for support on
the radical nationalist Attack party.  Coalition Support  The Socialists have the support of 21 percent of
Bulgarians, leading an opinion poll of 1,000 people, conducted
by Sova Haris on Aug. 31 to Sept. 9. Gerb trails with 18
percent, according to the survey, which had a margin of error of
3 percent. The Socialists came second in the elections with 27.6
percent after Gerb’s 30.5 percent.  Oresharski has said he wouldn’t resign because doing so
would further destabilize the country.  He reported to parliament today on the Cabinet’s first 100
days in office, saying the administration has “the improved
quality of life” by increasing social spending and reimbursing
overdue value-added tax receipts and payments for public
services to companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  