-- Cadwalader, Akin Gump, Katten, Kirkland: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/cadwalader-akin-gump-katten-kirkland-business-of-law.html
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP
said Bruce Bloomingdale and Jeremiah Wagner, formerly of Mayer
Brown LLP, will join the firm’s global  capital markets  practice
in  London .  Bloomingdale practices in the areas of financial
transactions, cross border securitization and asset backed
lending. Wagner has experience in structured finance,
securitization and derivative transactions as well as regulatory
matters related to the banking and securitization industries.  “The addition of Bruce and Jeremiah and their asset backed
expertise to our U.K. structured finance team builds on the
strength we enjoy in commercial mortgage backed securities,
CDOs, CLOs and other structured and securitized product and
enhances our ability to support clients in the fast re-emerging
European structured finance and credit markets,” Patrick Quinn,
partner and co-chairman of Cadwalader’s capital markets
practice, said in a statement.  Cadwalader has more than 450 lawyers at eight offices in
the U.S., Europe and  Asia .  Akin Gump Adds Real Estate Team in Fort Worth  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP hired Fort Worth, Texas,
real-estate lawyer Marc Epstein from Kelly Hart & Hallman LLP
along with two senior counsel.  Epstein has experience counseling owners, developers,
landlords, tenants and investors on real estate and business
transactions such as sales, acquisitions, financing, leasing,
development, management and construction, the firm said.  “Akin Gump’s strong Texas roots are well known, and it has
an excellent track record in the real estate industry,” Epstein
said in a statement. “At the same time, the firm has built a
terrific national and international platform that allows its
attorneys to address the global needs of its clients.”  Akin Gump has more than 850 attorneys in offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Katten Adds Real Estate Partner McBride in New York  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP said real-estate attorney
Michael S. McBride joined the firm in  New York . McBride was
formerly with Strategic Asset Services of H/2  Capital Partners ,
a commercial real estate credit fund manager, where he was head
of the legal group that served the affiliated group companies.  McBride has experience in commercial real-estate matters
including finance, capital markets, REITs, private funds,
acquisitions and dispositions, distressed property and leasing,
as well as the regulatory framework applicable to commercial
real-estate vehicles and commercial real-estate lending, the
firm said.  “Mike will be a great addition to our real estate team in
New York, and his background and experience in real estate
finance as well as his client perspective will lend itself well
to our growing practice,” Vincent A. F. Sergi, Katten chairman
said in a statement.  Katten has more than 600 attorneys at offices in the U.S.,
London and  Shanghai .  Former Assistant U.S. Attorney Joins DLA Piper in Seattle  DLA Piper  LLP said Aravind Swaminathan, previously an
assistant U.S. Attorney in the Western District of  Washington ,
joined the firm’s litigation practice in  Seattle .  In his prior position, Swaminathan led the cybercrime
outreach program and worked with the Federal Trade Commission
and others on data privacy issues, the firm said. He also worked
in the complex crimes unit in the Western District of
Washington, where he was involved in the prosecution of Ponzi
schemes, tax fraud and computer crimes.  “Aravind is well-known in Seattle’s technology business
community and will be a valuable resource for our clients facing
complex cybersecurity issues,” Steven Yentzer, managing partner
of DLA Piper’s Seattle office, said in a statement. “He will
expand our civil trial capabilities and will also provide
digital compliance guidance to our technology clients in the
Pacific Northwest.”  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries in
the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the  Middle East .  Liner Grode Hires Partner in Patent Litigation Practice  Ryan E. Hatch joined Liner Grode Stein Yankelevitz Sunshine
Regenstreif & Taylor LLP in  Los Angeles  in the patent litigation
practice. He was previously with Latham & Watkins LLP.  Hatch’s practice focuses on patent litigation and
licensing, infringement and invalidity, and trademark
litigation.  Liner Grode has nearly 50 lawyers at offices in Los Angeles
and  San Francisco .  Firm News  Ex-Kirkland Partner Freedman Pleads Guilty to Income Tax Fraud  Former  Kirkland & Ellis LP  senior partner Theodore Freedman
was sentenced to one year and one day in prison in connection
with the filing of false tax forms, the American Lawyer
reported.  Freedman, who pleaded guilty in March to four counts of tax
fraud, misrepresented his income as a partner at the  law firm  by
about $2 million, the U.S. attorneys said. He also claimed more
than $500,000 in expenses for a sole proprietorship that didn’t
exist, the government said.  Freedman was a member of the firm’s restructuring group.
His income for the years 2001 through 2004 was $5.39 million,
compared with the $2.1 million he reported for the period, the
U.S. said in a statement. The tax loss to the government from
Freedman’s fraud was more than $1 million, the U.S. said.  He faced a maximum sentence of 12 years in prison, if
convicted on all charges.  The case is U.S. v. Freedman, 11-cr-00599, U.S. District
Court,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  News  Iran Frees Jailed Women Human Rights Activists Before UN Meeting  Iranian authorities freed at least eight women  human rights 
activists, including lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh, her husband wrote
on his Facebook page.  Sotoudeh was serving a six-year sentence after being
arrested in September 2010 and jailed on charges of harming
national security.  The release comes just days before  Iran ’s new President
Hassan Rohani heads to New York for the  United Nations General
Assembly .  Reza Khandan, Sotoudeh’s husband, wrote on his Facebook
page: “Nasrin came ... they told her you are free.” Khandan
couldn’t be reached for comment.  A spokesman for the International Campaign for Human Rights
in Iran confirmed Sotoudeh’s release. Opposition news site
Kalame reported that seven other activists were also freed.  General Counsel  General Counsel Report Shift in Role, Study Reports  General counsel are stepping away from the legal department
to play a more integrated role as business decision-makers at
their companies, according to a survey of general counsel at 270
corporations.  In a survey by TerraLex, a legal referral network of 150
firms in 100 countries, 50 percent of general counsel
characterized their job function as being “a stakeholder in
business decisions” compared to less than one third who
identified their role as  “managing the legal department.”  Worries over regulation and compliance was ranked as the
greatest concern by 57 percent of the counsel, though a “desire
to create value for the company” was ranked as the chief
concern for 34 of those polled.  “The role of general counsel is a dynamic one, and that is
borne out by the results showing their deep involvement in
everything from mergers to protecting corporate reputations,”
Harry Trueheart, chairman of TerraLex and a senior counsel and
chairman emeritus of Nixon Peabody LLP, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 