-- California Online Health Exchange Said Ready for Oct. 1
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-09-19T21:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/california-online-health-exchange-said-ready-for-oct-1.html
California , the most populous U.S.
state, said the health insurance exchange it’s building as part
of the Affordable Care Act will be ready on Oct. 1.  Delayed testing of computers and other missed milestones
have raised questions about whether exchanges nationwide would
be ready to start enrolling as many as 7 million customers next
month for subsidized private medical plans that are the
centerpiece of the 2010 health law. California, the first U.S.
state to pass a law to set up an  exchange , wasn’t immune.  “To be ready and functional to launch is in itself a
miracle,” Diana Dooley, the chairwoman of the California Health
Benefit Exchange, said today at a board meeting in  Sacramento .  Officials of the exchange, known as Covered California,
said last month they were still testing the website’s technology
and there was a chance consumers may not be able to buy plans on
their own immediately and would instead have to go through
licensed brokers or use the telephone hotline. After testing the
site, exchange officials today said it’s ready.  “The puzzle pieces are coming together, and some of the
final pieces are being put in place,” Anthony Wright, executive
director of Health Access California, a consumer advocacy group,
said in a statement.  Popularly called Obamacare, the health law sets up a system
of state-based online and telephone exchanges that will sell
insurance from private providers to people who don’t have
coverage at their jobs. The law makes government subsidies in
the form of a tax credit available to discount monthly premiums
for people with low- to moderate-incomes.  Potential Customers  California chose  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and a dozen other insurers
to offer plans. About 5.3 million Californians will be eligible
to buy coverage and about half may be eligible for the
subsidies.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office said in June that
computer systems for the nationwide exchange network may not be
ready on time, and training for the people who will assist
consumers was behind schedule. The Congressional Budget Office
also raised questions in June about preparedness, citing delayed
testing.  An exchange computer network must be able to loop in
insurers in real-time while sharing data with the Internal
Revenue Service, state tax offices, Medicaid and Medicare and
other agencies in order to verify customer information.  The Obama administration has repeatedly expressed
confidence that the exchanges will be ready for Oct. 1.  Advertising Campaign  The $1.3 trillion  overhaul  of the U.S. health-care system
forces most Americans to obtain medical coverage from somewhere
starting in 2014, and mandates that the majority of companies
offer their workers a health-plan option. The law also includes
measures that cut drug costs for seniors, cover children with
pre-existing illnesses and let young adults stay on their
parents’ plans.  Covered California earlier this month started a federally
funded $80 million advertising and marketing campaign to teach
people about the program and encourage them to sign up.  The California agency has sponsored 7,300 events at
community centers, schools and churches throughout the state to
explain the law and how to enroll. It also has trained 22,000
county workers across the state to help in screening
applications for eligibility.  Fourteen states and  Washington , D.C., are building their
own exchanges. The other states will become partners with the
federal government or leave the job to the Obama administration.
By law, the markets must open in October to sell coverage that
starts in January.  Republican politicians in states including Indiana, Ohio,
Georgia and  Florida  have tried to discourage participation in
the exchanges, warning consumers that premiums will rise as a
result of the law’s requirement that insurers cover sick people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  