-- Canada Dollar Falls After Hitting 3-Month High on Fed Surprise
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-19T21:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/canada-dollar-touches-three-month-high-on-fed-stimulus-surprise.html
Canada ’s dollar fell from a three-month high as traders bet the currency had moved too far, too
fast after slower U.S. growth prompted the Federal Reserve to
unexpectedly maintain monetary stimulus yesterday.  The currency erased gains versus its U.S. peer after
breaching its 200-day moving average for a second day, a key
test for some traders on whether the run of strength has
momentum. U.S. government debt rallied yesterday as the Fed
maintained its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases, sending
borrowing costs down and widening the interest-rate  gap  between
Canadian and U.S. two-year government debt to the most since
January. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast the Fed
to cut $5 billion from its purchases.  “The Fed move does shift things and it will change our
outlook for the Canadian dollar a little bit higher longer-term
-- it will basically push out our forecast for a lower Canadian
dollar,” Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from Toronto. “But I think the
severity of the move may not be much more than we’ve already
seen.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.4 percentage point
to C$1.0265 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier
touching C$1.0182, the strongest since June 19. One loonie buys
97.41 U.S. cents. The currency’s 200-day moving average was
C$1.0212.  Yield Gap  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  bonds  fell, with yields rising
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.71 percent.
The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 dropped 23 cents
to C$89.87.  Declines in Canada’s  two-year bond yields , generally more
closely linked with short-term interest rate expectations, could
not keep up with the drop in  U.S. yields , widening the interest-rate premium on Canada’s securities to 92 basis points, the most
since Jan. 21.  Canadian two-year  notes  yielded 1.25 percent while their
U.S. peers offered 0.33 percent.  Futures on  crude oil , Canada’s largest export, fell 1.8
percent to $106.28 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks dropped 0.2 percent after touching a record
high yesterday.  ‘Better Levels’  The currency’s failure to stay above the 200-day moving
average today was due to Canadian companies that do business
across the border taking the opportunity “to buy U.S. dollars
at better levels than they’ve seen in three months,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada. (NA)   “The 200-day is something that needs to be sustainably
breached for a day or two, and we need to see a close below the
200-day as it applies as a momentum indicator,” Spitz said by
phone from Toronto.  Canada’s currency fell from a technical level that
suggested a drop was in store. The loonie’s seven-day relative-strength index versus the greenback was at 67.4, down from 82.6
yesterday, above the 70 level some traders consider a sign an
asset has moved too much, too quickly, and is about to change
direction.  “After the moves we’ve seen in the last 24 hours, there’s
always a little bit of a scope for a pause for breath,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, said by phone from  London . “It’s probably a good
opportunity to take a little bit of profit and pause for breath
as markets recalibrate after the Fed surprise.”  Stretch said his forecast for the loonie to fall to C$1.06
per U.S. dollar by year end may need to be revised to reflect a
stronger Canadian currency.  The loonie, has fallen 1.7 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has gained 2.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  