-- Canada Stocks Fall as Gold Miners Slump Following Fed Rally
-- B y   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-09-19T20:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/canadian-stocks-fluctuate-as-materials-slump-following-fed-rally.html
Canadian  stocks  fell from a two-year high, as gold producers and financial stocks slid following
the U.S.  Federal Reserve ’s decision yesterday to unexpectedly
maintain the pace of its bond buying program.  Barrick Gold Corp. dropped 2.7 percent even as precious
metals prices rallied. Manulife Financial Corp. and Sun Life
Financial Inc. lost more than 1.2 percent as the threat of
depressed yields weighed on the insurers’ investment portfolios.
Catamaran Corp. advanced 2.9 percent after Cantor Fitzgerald LP
said the stock’s 9 percent slide yesterday represents a buying
opportunity.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Index fell 4.62 points, or less
than 0.1 percent, to 12,926.78 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, trimming an
earlier decline of as much as 0.3 percent. The drop halted a
four-day rally that left the gauge at its highest level since
July 2011. Trading volume was 7 percent above the 30-day
average.  “People had their fun yesterday, but at some point that
tapering is going to start,” Gareth Watson, vice president of
 investment management  and research at Richardson GMP Ltd., said
in a phone interview from Toronto. His firm oversees C$15
billion ($14.6 billion). “Tapering was just postponed, it
wasn’t canceled.”  The benchmark Canadian equity gauge soared yesterday after
the U.S. Federal Reserve said it will “await more evidence”
for sustained economic recovery before reducing its $85 billion
in monthly bond buying. The central bank stimulus has helped
fuel a global rally in equities.  Insurers Slump  Yields on  government bonds  in the U.S. and  Canada  plunged
yesterday after the Fed suggested short-term borrowing rates
could remain near zero even if U.S. unemployment falls below 6.5
percent. The threat of cuts to the bond purchases had pushed the
yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes to a two-year high.  Financial firms dropped 0.2 percent for a second day of
declines, led lower by  insurers . Manulife fell 2.4 percent to
C$17.16 and Sun Life Financial lost 1.2 percent to C$32.88.
Insurers invest in bonds to back future obligations to
policyholders and low yields can pressure profits.   Materials producers  sank 1.6 percent, following the biggest
rally in six weeks yesterday after gold surged the most in two
years. While the metal continued its advance today, an index of
gold producers slumped 2.7 percent.  Investors are “likely hesitant because they don’t have a
lot of conviction in the longer-term sustainability of higher
 gold prices ,” Watson said.  Gold Miners  Nineteen of 24 members in the S&P/TSX Gold Index retreated
after each advanced at least 1.3 percent yesterday. Barrick
Gold, the world’s largest producer, dropped 2.7 percent to
C$19.94. Novagold Resources Inc. plunged 7 percent to C$2.67.  Catamaran, a provider of pharmacy benefits management,
gained 2.9 percent to C$53.44. Cantor Fitzgerald LP analystJustin Kew called the worst slide since May “overly punitive.”
Walgreen Co., one of the company’s main customers, said late
Sept. 17 it would switch employees into a private insurance
exchange in 2014.  Health-care companies rallied 3.4 percent as a group for
the biggest gain in the S&P/TSX. Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. jumped 3.7 percent to a record C$108.92.   Niko Resources Ltd. (NKO)  jumped 8.7 percent to C$4.12, snapping
a three-day slide as energy companies climbed. The Calgary-based
oil and gas explorer lost 9.1 percent during the losing streak.  “The material sector moved very strongly yesterday, and I
think energy is catching up to that,”Youssef Zohny, portfolio
manager at Richardson GMP in  Vancouver , said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aubrey Pringle in  New York  at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  