-- Canada Natural Gas Discount at Five-Year High as Storage Fills
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-19T20:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/canada-gas-discount-at-five-year-high-as-storage-fills-correct-.html
Canadian natural gas traded at the
widest discount to U.S. prices in almost five years as storage
levels in western  Canada  approached capacity.  Regional gas  storage  reached 469.2 billion cubic feet last
week, or 97 percent of the capacity surveyed by energy
information firm Canadian Enerdata Ltd. A change in short-term
tolls on the country’s largest natural gas pipeline in July
increased demand for storage. A boost to exports from flooding
in Colorado is ending, said  Martin King , an analyst with
FirstEnergy Capital Corp.  Gas shipped from the Alberta AECO hub  closed  yesterday at
$1.85 per million British thermal units less than the U.S.
benchmark natural gas price at  Henry Hub  in  Louisiana . It was
the largest discount since Sept. 25, 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “With storage full and people reluctant to send gas down
the Mainline because of the higher short-term tolls, plus
Colorado production coming back and a lull in demand from the
U.S., prices could be weak for several weeks yet,” King said in
a phone interview from Calgary.  Prices fell in July after pipeline company  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP)  won approval from regulators to raise short-term tolls on
its cross-country natural gas Canadian Mainline System to get
shippers to sign up for long-term contracts.  Many producers responded by putting more gas into storage
rather than shipping it, though the pace of injections is
beginning to slow, said Enerdata President Richard Zarzeczny.  No Room  “I don’t think there’s enough room and they realize they
are going to bump up against capacity and the storage operators
must be putting some kind of limits on the injection rate,”
Zarzeczny said. “The fact that it has nowhere to go is what’s
driving the price down.”  Some extra Canadian gas probably went to  Colorado  as
flooding there starting last week shut down local production,
King said, although that outlet will disappear as Colorado
output returns to normal.  U.S. appetite for natural gas from Canada typically drops
at this time of year as lower temperatures mean less air-conditioner use. American  demand  last year declined by 6.75
billion cubic feet a day, or 10 percent, between July and
September, according to data from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  King said Canadian gas prices could be weak into October,
until winter heating demand picks up.  “Once we get some real space-heating demand, then we kind
of hit the reset button, storage starts coming down and prices
will come back,” he said.  Last year, Canadian storage peaked at 472.5 billion cubic
feet on Oct. 20, compared with the maximum of 482.7 billion,
according to Enerdata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  