-- Capital Group Breaks Silence to Defend Active Management
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-09-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/capital-group-breaks-silence-to-defend-active-management.html
Capital Group Cos., the $1.2
trillion firm that ran the world’s largest stock mutual fund
before being overtaken by low-cost indexing competitors, said
the advantages of active stock picking have been drowned out in
the debate over how individuals should invest.  “The only voice that’s been out there is the passive
voice,” James Rothenberg, chairman of Capital Research &
Management and the company’s top executive, said in an interview
in New York. “We don’t entirely agree that the answer for all
people is indexing. In fact there can be a significant advantage
to active investing.”  The comments are a rarity for the closely held firm that
has issued three press releases in its 82-year history and is
known for shunning the media, and they highlight how much
investor preference has shifted. The firm’s American Funds have
lost $242 billion to withdrawals since the end of 2007, while
Vanguard Group Inc., the largest index-fund provider, has
attracted $607 billion, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Capital
Research & Management is a unit of Capital Group.  Capital Group, based in Los Angeles, in a study released
today, argued that its stock-picking mutual funds outperformed
their benchmark indexes in the majority of almost 30,000 periods
examined over the past 80 years. That included 57 percent of
one-year stretches, 67 percent of 5-year periods and 83 percent
of 20-year ranges.  ETF Competition  “Capital Group has been harmed by their reluctance to
respond to the competition from ETFs,” Daniel Wiener, chief
executive officer of Newton, Massachusetts-based Adviser
Investments, said in an interview. “At some point they have to
take a more aggressive stance.”  Active funds employ managers who select individual
securities they believe will beat a given benchmark, such as the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks. Index funds aim to
match the benchmark by purchasing all the components of the
index. Because they don’t have to pay salaries for active
managers and research costs, they typically have lower fees than
active funds.  John C. Bogle, Vanguard’s founder, has led the charge for
indexing since the 1970s when he began popularizing passive
investing. Bogle has argued that the average active manager,
after fees, fails to beat the market. Active managers who do
outperform, he said, can’t repeat the feat with enough
predictability to merit a long-term investment.  Investors have listened and put $1.16 trillion into U.S.-
registered index mutual funds and ETFs since the end of 2007,
compared with $454 billion deposited with active mutual funds,
according to data from the Investment Company Institute. In that
time, passive assets have grown to 31 percent of the U.S. fund
industry, from 18 percent on Dec. 31, 2007.  Rothenberg’s ‘Frustration’  “The frustration is with the stridency of the point of
view on one side,” Rothenberg said. “We have a body of data
that suggests something different.”  American Funds, the third-biggest mutual-fund family in the
U.S., oversees $993 billion, excluding money-market funds,
Morningstar data show. Vanguard’s mutual funds and ETFs total
$2.1 trillion, with the majority in index-based products.
Boston-based Fidelity Investments manages $1.1 trillion in
mutual funds.  Capital Group’s largest offering, the $123 billion  Growth
Fund of America , has seen its assets drop 31 percent in the five
years ended Aug. 31. During that time the fund returned an
annual average of 6.4 percent, compared with 7.3 percent for the
S&P 500.  Since July 2011, three funds have surpassed Growth Fund of
America in size. All are index funds run by Vanguard.  ‘Hit a Wall’  “After decades of really great success, they hit a wall
and suffered subpar performance in the 2008-2009 period,”
Burton Greenwald, a mutual-fund consultant in Philadelphia, said
in an interview. “They’ve got a lot of mending to do in terms
of their reputation.”  The Capital Group study examined 17 of the company’s mutual
funds that invest in equities or both equities and bonds. It
measured their performance over every one-, three-, five-, 10-,
20- and 30-year period, on a rolling monthly basis, from Dec.
31, 1933, through Dec. 31, 2012.  Rothenberg, 67, said the company has put in place a
succession plan for his retirement, though no date has been set
yet.  Timothy D. Armour, president of Capital Research &
Management, was the “logical” person to take over as chairman
when he steps down, Rothenberg said, and a core of younger
executives had already taken over most decision-making on the
firm’s management committee, the senior-most executive body.  That group, he said, includes Armour; Rob Lovelace,
grandson of founder Jonathan Bell Lovelace; Shaw Wagener and
Darcy Kopcho.  “We’ve already put in place that next generation,”
Rothenberg said. “Increasingly they make the decisions, not
me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  