-- Carbon Trade Seen Losing Globally in Aussie Vote: Energy Markets
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-09-19T05:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/carbon-trade-seen-losing-globally-in-aussie-vote-energy-markets.html
Australia  is at risk of breaching a
global agreement to cut greenhouse gases as power markets signal
Prime Minister  Tony Abbott  will exploit the widest election
victory in nine years to repeal the nation’s carbon system.  Electricity futures prices show the implied costs of
emitting a metric ton of carbon in Australia plunged 18 percent
in the two days following the Sept. 7 election, bringing its
monthly decline to 55 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At their lowest, prices indicated an 80 percent
probability that Abbott will overturn the law that charges the
nation’s polluters for their CO2 emissions, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The failure of Australia, the biggest emitter per capita
among the world’s richest nations, to entrench its carbon price
is emboldening opponents of fledgling emissions markets from
 South Africa  to  California  and dimming prospects for a new
global climate treaty. Negotiators from about 200 countries
are set to meet in Warsaw this year to discuss how to ratify
promises from the U.S. and  China , the world’s largest economies,
to reduce greenhouse gases linked to  climate change .  “People who want a reason not to implement some form of
emissions reduction would be able to point to Australia and say:
they haven’t, why should we?” said Grant Anderson, a Melbourne-based partner specializing in carbon regulations for electricity,
LNG and coal at Allens, a global  law firm . “That’s the whole
thing about international agreements. Once one party decides not
to put forward a stronger commitment that was expected, it’s an
excuse for others.”  Trading Alternatives  Abbott proposes spending A$2.9 billion ($2.75 billion) as
an alternative to carbon trading. While he is “confident” it
can achieve the 5 percent emissions cut Australia promised last
year when it signed an extension of the  Kyoto Protocol , RepuTex
and the Climate Institute are among skeptics. They estimate he
needs at least another A$4 billion to make the 2020 target.  While Australia’s Labor and Greens parties have vowed to
fight Abbott in the upper house, he probably will be able to
negotiate an agreement with independents and minor party
lawmakers in the second half of 2014, according to  Tony Wood ,
the energy program director at the Melbourne-based Grattan
Institute. The prime minister told his staff yesterday to
prepare a repeal bill for the first day of the new parliament.  Abbott’s victory has strengthened the case against a carbon
tax set to start in 2015 in South Africa, Nazrien Kader, head of
Deloitte LLP’s local taxation practice, said in an e-mail. The
country delayed the plan in April after metals companies such as
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa Ltd. and Gold Fields Ltd. objected.  ‘No Support’  “We can only hope that it strongly influences the South
African government’s stance,” Kader said. “A carbon tax has
virtually no support from business.”  The American Energy Alliance, a Washington-based group that
promotes fossil fuels, posted a note on Facebook on Sept. 11
saying “poor energy policies won’t get you re-elected” above a
map of Australia. Senator  David Vitter  of  Louisiana , the top
Republican on the Environment and Public Works Committee, said
in a Sept. 5 statement that U.S. lawmakers should learn from
Australia’s “carbon tax failure.”  Since last year’s summit in Doha, carbon markets have
started in California, the largest U.S. state, and the Chinese
city of Shenzhen. Six other pilot programs are set to begin over
the coming year in  Shanghai , Beijing, Guangdong, and other
manufacturing centers in China, the world’s biggest emitter.  EU Link  Abbott’s victory jeopardizes Australia’s agreement to link
its carbon market starting in 2015 with the world’s largest
emissions-trading system in the European Union. The EU continues
to strive for a robust international carbon market, Isaac Valero-Ladron, spokesman for the EU Climate Action Commissioner,
said when asked about prospects for the EU-Australia link.  The price of EU permits has recovered from a record low of
2.46 euros ($3.33) a metric ton on April 17 on speculation that
Brussels will pass a proposal to reduce its surplus of
allowances. EU permits settled yesterday at 5.53 euros on
 London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The outlook for carbon in Australia remains unpredictable,
with 2014 electricity futures vacillating, said Mike McKensey,
head of carbon trading at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. The
price, as high as $A10 in August, fell as low as A$4.50 in the
days following the election from A$5.50 just before, he said.
The figure has since risen to A$6, he said.  “Whilst the probability of repeal is now higher,
uncertainty remains around both the timing for repeal of the
carbon price mechanism and the detail around what Direct Action
will look like,” he said.  New Senators  Abbott will be bolstered when new senators take their seats
in July 2014, said Kobad Bhavnagri, the head of carbon analysis
for New Energy Finance in Sydney. “The repeal of the scheme is
not a foregone conclusion, as Abbott is likely to encounter
resistance from the current Senate.”  When power futures indicated last month that 2014 carbon
costs would be A$10 last month, New Energy Finance, Westpac and
Deutsche Bank AG forecast some form of pricing was likely to
survive Australia’s election. The price is computed by comparing
contracts that include carbon costs with those that don’t in New
South  Wales , Victoria and Queensland.  Repeal of Australia’s carbon price would discourage cap-and-trade programs worldwide, Frank Jotzo, director at the
Australian National University’s Center for Climate Economics
and Policy in Canberra, said in an interview. The nation, the
biggest emitter per person among developed countries, produces
about 1.5 percent of the world’s  greenhouse gases .  ‘Negative Signal’  “Australia is much more important internationally in these
matters than its share of global emissions might suggest,”
Jotzo said. “For Australia to ditch all of this sends a very
negative signal about market mechanisms. It could be a further
impediment to efficient climate-change policy.’  Australia renewed its pledge last December to cut emissions
under the Kyoto Protocol. Former Prime Minister and Labor Party
leader  Kevin Rudd  ratified the  Kyoto treaty  in 2007.  “The fact that we ratified Kyoto and then went forward in
implementing a carbon price had a positive impact at the
international level,” Elisa de Wit, head of the Australian
climate change practice at law firm Norton Rose Fulbright in
 Melbourne , said in an interview. “So a reversal of that policy
will also have an impact.”
The coalition’s alternative policy, known as Direct Action, will
achieve the 5 percent goal,  Greg Hunt , Abbott’s new environment
minister, wrote in a Sept. 16 e-mail. Abbott plans “sensible,
targeted incentives and not with a great, big tax.”  ‘Obvious Conclusion’  The coalition has said it will commit A$1.55 billion over
the first three years to an emissions-reduction fund. Abbott’s
comment earlier this month that he won’t devote more money to
the program prompted speculation that it will fall short.  If more money is needed to achieve the necessary emissions
cuts, “the obvious conclusion is they don’t reach the 5 percent
target,” de Wit said.  The coalition would need at least A$4 billion of additional
funds to reach the 2020 target, the Climate Institute said last
month. Abbott’s plan at best would achieve a 9 percent increase
in emissions by the end of the decade, according to the Climate
Institute, an independent research organization.  The Climate Change Authority, which advises Australia’s
government, is due to release recommendations next month on the
2020 emissions target. The government has committed to cutting
emissions by at least 5 percent and as much as 25 percent by the
end of the decade, according to the department’s website.  The authority, one of the climate agencies that Abbott has
promised to disband, looks forward to discussing its draft
report  with the coalition, it said in a a Sept. 16 e-mail.  Because Direct Action doesn’t set a cap on emissions, any
reductions could be offset or exceeded by other polluters, said
Anderson of the law firm Allens.  “Even if Direct Action were to make substantial inroads in
terms of buying emissions reductions, in the absence of a cap on
overall emissions, I can’t see Australia meeting its target,”
said Anderson of the law firm Allens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  