-- Carney Jobs Forecast Haunted by BOE’s Past Errors: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-09-19T09:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/carney-jobs-forecast-haunted-by-boe-s-past-errors-u-k-credit.html
Mark Carney  is being haunted by the
 Bank of England ’s forecasting history as he tries to convince
investors that the next rise in  interest rates  is at least three
years away.  As the newly installed central bank chief defends his view
of gradually falling unemployment and benign inflation in the
face of resurgent economy, his task is being made harder by a
legacy of errors in BOE predictons for growth and prices.  Those misfirings have left investors with more reason to
doubt the policy parameters set by the BOE, which Carney took
over in July. With the recovery building momentum, suspicion the
 unemployment rate  will fall faster than the BOE projects, or
that inflation will prove more aggressive, has led investors to
increase bets officials will raise the benchmark rate earlier
than Carney has indicated and driven 10-year gilt yields to the
highest since 2011.  “The Bank of England’s forecasts are lacking credibility
when the market is looking at developments in the labor
market,” said Philip Rush, U.K. economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London . “The market is taking a materially
different view and doesn’t feel much pressure to change that on
the basis of the bank’s own forecast record.”  Investors are pricing in an increase in interest rates as
early as 2015 even as the U.K. central bank says it will leave
the benchmark at 0.5 percent at least until unemployment falls
to 7 percent from 7.7 percent so long as inflation remains in
check. Its economists don’t see the jobless  threshold  being
breached until late-2016.  Rate Bets  The 10-year  gilt yield , which rose to 3 percent yesterday
after minutes showed Bank of England officials saw no need for
additional monetary stimulus, retreated in London today after
Federal Reserve policy makers unexpectedly refrained from paring
their $85 billion of monthly bond purchases.  The yield was down 14 basis points at 2.87 percent as of
10:40 a.m., leaving the  spread  over similar-maturity German
bunds at 96 basis points. The implied rate on short-sterling
futures contracts maturing in December 2014 fell to 0.87 percent
today from 1 percent yesterday. The rate is up from 0.68 percent
on Aug. 1.  On  inflation , which the BOE is charged with keeping at 2
percent in the medium term, the bank’s November projections for
the fourth quarter of the following year fell short in each of
the past eight years by an average of almost a percentage point.
In November 2009, it predicted consumer-price growth a year
later would be 1.6 percent. It turned out to be 3.4 percent.  Above Target  Inflation hasn’t been below the bank’s target since
November 2009 and even when it reached 5.2 percent in September
2011, then Governor  Mervyn King  was predicting its return to 2
percent within two years. It stood at 2.7 percent last month.  As for  growth , the BOE overestimated it each November in
six of the past eight years. The error has been most pronounced
since the financial crisis, with the BOE misjudging gross
domestic product by more than 4 percentage points on average in
2008 and 2009 and by 1.6 points in the following three years.  “If every forecast they had published was accurate, their
view on unemployment would have more credibility,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Corp. in
London. The fact they’ve been poor forecasters will “dampen the
impact” of the so-called forward guidance, he said.  Unemployment has often fallen faster in two years than the
BOE anticipates it will in three, said  George Buckley , chief
U.K. economist at Deutsche Bank AG.  Market Skepticism  Investors are also signaling they believe economic growth
will outpace the 0.6 percent quarterly rate the bank projects
and that productivity may prove weaker than the bank estimates.
Both suggest companies will find themselves having to hire.  “All of those things are reasons markets are skeptical
about the speed at which unemployment falls,” said Buckley.  Another issue is the so-called inflation knockout. Central
bankers say they will rethink their guidance if they decide
medium-term inflation is likely to breach 2.5 percent or price
expectations are no longer well-anchored.  “The Monetary Policy Committee, like most others, has had
a poor forecasting record of inflation and been repeatedly
surprised on the upside,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. and formerly at the Bank of England. “So
you can see why markets will be sceptical inflation will be
close to the target in two years.”  IMF Errors  The BOE is not alone in misreading the outlook as the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. plunged the global
economy into recession. In late 2008 as the crisis raged, the
 International Monetary Fund  predicted the U.K. economy would
contract by little more than 0.1 percent the following year. It
shrank by 5.2 percent.  The central bank is alert to its past weaknesses. In May,
it said it will continually review its forecasting framework
after an independent review conducted last year by former
Federal Reserve official  David Stockton  concluded its
forecasting capabilities had deteriorated in the previous five
years, resulting in “large” errors. The report also said the
BOE was “marginally worse” than outside forecasters.  Carney told lawmakers last week that differences in opinion
over the economic outlook are “natural,” while contending his
guidance is reinforcing recovery and the likelihood is that
unemployment will be slow to decline. The bank’s forecasting
capability has improved, he added.  Other central banks too are struggling to bring investors
into line with its thinking. The Fed, the  European Central Bank 
and Sweden’s Riksbank have adopted or augmented forward guidance
strategies in the last year, only for bond yields to climb as
growth strengthened.  “The only reason guidance can be powerful is if you
believe central bank forecasts are better than anyone else’s,”
said  Jim O’Neill , former chief economist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. “But they’re just human, no better at economic forecasting
than anyone else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  