-- McCain Tells Pravda Corrupt Putin Regime Coddles Tyrants
-- B y   B r a d   C o o k   a n d   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2013-09-19T14:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/mccain-tells-pravda-putin-s-regime-of-corruption-coddles-tyrants.html
U.S. Senator John McCain told
Russians they deserve a better leader than President Vladimir Putin, saying they should demand their “inalienable rights to
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.”  To stay in power, Putin and his associates imprison
opponents, rig elections, control the media and “terrorize and
even assassinate journalists who try to expose their
corruption,” the 2008 Republican presidential candidate said in
an opinion  article  published today in Russian and English on
Pravda.ru.  Putin rules “by corruption, repression and violence,”
McCain said. “When I criticize your government, it is not
because I am anti-Russian. It is because I believe you deserve a
government that believes in you and answers to you.”  McCain’s knowledge of “our country” is insufficient,
though he’s welcome to express his views on Russian television,
Putin said at his annual Valdai Club discussion group.  Putin, in power for almost 14 years, made a direct appeal
to the American public last week over plans by President  Barack Obama ’s administration to bomb  Syria . Putin said in a  New York
Times (NYT)  opinion article that the U.S. should embrace his proposal
for the Middle Eastern nation to surrender its chemical arms to
avoid air strikes, which, if not backed by the United Nations,
“could throw the entire system of international law and order
out of balance.”  Syria Accord  Syria is embroiled in a 2 1/2-year civil war that has
claimed more than 100,000 lives and uprooted about 6 million
people. The U.S. halted plans to attack Syria after Secretary of
State John Kerry and his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov
reached an accord in Geneva last week that calls on Assad to
produce a full inventory of his country’s chemical weapons
arsenal by Sept. 21, before its eventual destruction.  McCain has supported military action against Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime, which the U.S. blames for a
sarin gas attack near the capital, Damascus, last month that
killed more than 1,400 people.  Russia  and Syria have had close
ties since Assad’s father came to power in a bloodless coup in
1970. Russia maintains its only military base outside the former
Soviet Union at Syria’s Mediterranean port of Tartus.  McCain criticized Putin’s association with regimes shunned
by Western nations.  “How has he strengthened Russia’s international stature?
By allying Russia with some of the world’s most offensive and
threatening tyrannies,” McCain said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brad Cook in St. Petersburg at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net ;
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  