-- Challenger’s $29 Billion Fidante Seeks Global-Focused Boutiques
-- B y   I a i n   M c D o n a l d   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-19T23:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/challenger-s-29-billion-fidante-seeks-global-focused-boutiques.html
Challenger Ltd. (CGF) ’s fund-management
unit,  Fidante Partners , plans to add smaller fund managers
focused on international and alternative assets to tap demand
from  Australia ’s pension funds for foreign investments.  Fidante, which started in 2005 and has A$30 billion ($29
billion) in assets, has stakes in 13 fund-management firms and
wants to invest in one or two more each year, said Cathy Hales,
general manager at Sydney-based Fidante. Global equities and
alternative assets, such as  hedge funds  and infrastructure that
make up A$2 billion of its holdings, will rise as pension funds
seek to broaden their investments, she said.  “There is a limit to how much the Australian equity market
can absorb in terms of the new  cash flow ,” she said in an
interview yesterday. “We can see new cash flow going to some of
these other areas.”  Australia’s pension or superannuation funds had assets of
A$1.6 trillion as at June 30, according to the  Australian
Prudential Regulation Authority . Companies included in
Australia’s All Ordinaries Index were valued at A$1.55 trillion.  Challenger shares have  risen 39 percent  in the past three
months, the biggest gain among stocks in the  gauge  tracking
financial services companies in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  “To purely focus on major equity market or bond market
indices as the benchmark is not necessarily achieving their
members’ goals,” Hales said, referring to pension funds.  Most of the fund-management firms in which it has a stake
were started by Fidante, which provides administration and
distribution services. The size of the holdings in each fund
averages at 40 percent, she said.  Funds under management grew 56 percent in the 12 months
through June and all 13 managers have outperformed their
benchmarks over five years, she said.  Infrastructure Attractive  Fidante added WyeTree Asset Management Ltd., which
specializes in U.S. and European residential mortgage-backed
securities, as a partner in July, according to the company. A
month later, it bought a stake in River and Mercantile Asset
Management LLP, an active long-only global and U.K. equities
manager.  Funds are predominantly from institutional clients and
those from retail investors make up less than a fifth, she said.  Among assets classed as alternatives, Hales said
infrastructure is attractive for institutional clients, which
include pension funds, corporate funds and insurers.  “Private assets like infrastructure assets deliver a clear
investment proposition particularly to superannuation funds,”
she said. “The government sees superannuation as an assistant
in that process. There’ll be continued opportunities
internationally and I think the superannuation funds will be
interested in the diversity that brings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  