-- Cisco Officials Accused of Role in Falun Gong Monitoring
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-09-19T05:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/cisco-officials-accused-of-role-in-falun-gong-monitoring.html
Chinese and U.S. citizens accusing
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  of conspiring with  China ’s government to
monitor and torture members of Falun Gong now argue officials at
the company’s headquarters in  San Jose ,  California , were
directly involved with human rights abuses.  Cisco’s main office helped design the surveillance and
internal security network known as “Golden Shield,” according
to an amended lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court in San
Jose.  The revised complaint “more directly ties San Jose to
making the Golden Shield capable of identifying, tracking,
ideologically converting, capturing and isolating Falun Gong”
and “ties Cisco and its San Jose headquarters more directly
with the related alleged human rights abuses,” the plaintiffs
said in a court filing.  In their suit against the world’s biggest networking
equipment maker, unidentified Chinese and U.S. citizens alleged
that Cisco has collaborated with the Chinese Communist Party to
intercept communications of Falun Gong believers, who were
arrested, detained and tortured because of their religious
beliefs. The claim was originally filed in 2011.  “Cisco continues to believe the entire case is without
merit and will file a motion to dismiss the amended complaint,”
spokeswoman Kristin Carvell said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Generic Routers  The plaintiffs have recycled previous allegations to try to
overcome a Supreme Court decision that the claims can’t be
brought in U.S. courts, Carvell said.  “Cisco’s legal sale of generic network routers does not
support a claim for aiding and abetting police brutality or
international law violations,” Cisco said in a July court
filing.  The plaintiffs describe Falun Gong as a “peaceful
religious practice that is based on the tenets of ’Zhen,’ ’Shan’
and ’Ren’ (truthfulness, compassion and tolerance),” according
to a court filing.  The case is Doe I v. Cisco Systems Inc., 11-cv-02449, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  