-- Co-Op Regulator Deal Cited as Bailout Roadblock by Bondholders
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-09-19T19:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/co-op-regulator-deal-cited-as-bailout-roadblock-by-bondholders.html
The parent of Co-operative Bank
Plc, which is seeking capital after losses, may avoid being
forced to rescue the lender thanks to an accord it struck with
regulators last year, according to bondholders.  Co-Op Group Chief Executive Officer Euan Sutherland said in
a letter to an unidentified bondholder and seen by  Bloomberg
News  that the Financial Services Authority agreed not to
classify the firm as a “mixed financial holding company.” That
would mean Co-Op can’t be forced to inject capital into the
lender, Mark Taber, the organizer of a group of bondholders,
said in a separate letter dated today to the Prudential
Regulation Authority, which along with the Bank of England
replaced the FSA as the banking industry’s regulators this year.  Co-Op Bank must raise 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) to
plug a capital hole after losses incurred following its
acquisition of Britannia Building Society in 2009. The FSA
granted the waiver to the parent before the completion of a
planned purchase to acquire 632 branches owned by Lloyds Banking
Group Plc last year, Sutherland wrote in the letter.  “The Lloyds deal would have made Co-Op even bigger, so why
the waiver?” said Taber in a telephone interview today.
“There’s a huge amount of missing information and inconsistency
here as to what’s going on. It’s pretty inexplicable.”  As a mixed financial company, regulators would have powers
including the authority to direct it to raise new capital, to
reorganize the financial unit and to fire executives.  ‘In Force’  Liam Parker, a spokesman for the  Prudential Regulatory
Authority  declined to immediately comment on the contents of the
page-long letter dated Sept. 18.  “The FSA granted a three-year waiver from CGL being
considered a mixed financial holding company and put the matter
beyond doubt,” Sutherland wrote in the letter. “That waiver
remains in force.”  The lender plans to raise 500 million pounds by exchanging
subordinated debt for equity and another 500 million pounds from
the sale of senior debt issued by the parent company, the bank
said in a company filing June 17.  Co-Op Bank’s 275 million pounds of 9.25 percent debt due in
April 2021 is quoted at 70 pence on the pound, down from 101.9
pence May 9, according to Bloomberg bond prices.  Co-Operative Group was concerned the  banking  business was
taking on too much importance relative to the rest of the group
at the time it was negotiating with the FSA, according to a
person familiar with the situation, who asked not to be
identified because the talks were private.  ‘Deal Breaker’  Co-Op Chairman Len Wardle  told members in a video  last year
“we think the threat of being regarded” by regulators “as a
financial holding company has receded. That for us was a deal
breaker” for the Lloyds deal.  Co-Op Bank is a public limited company owned through Co-Operative Banking Group Ltd., a unit of Co-Operative Group Ltd.
The parent also owns its insurance businesses through the
Banking Group.  The PRA considers control at a parent company to be the
most effective, according to a policy document published by the
 Bank of England  in April. “That is usually where most of the
power to direct and control the group resides,” the document
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  