-- Colombia Growing More Than Expected Allays Call for Rate Cut
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-09-19T17:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/colombia-s-growth-quickens-more-than-forecast-by-all-analysts.html
Colombia’s economic growth
quickened in the second quarter more than forecast by all
analysts, cementing expectations that the central bank will
leave interest rates unchanged this month.  Gross domestic product  expanded 4.2 percent from a year
earlier, up from a revised 2.7 percent in the first quarter, the
national statistics agency said today in Bogota. The gain was
more than  predicted  by the 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
whose median estimate was 3.4 percent. The economy expanded  2.2
percent (COCIPIBQ)  from the previous quarter.  The faster-than-expected expansion reinforces the call of
the majority of the seven-member central bank board who argued
against additional interest rate cuts last month, said Julio Romero, an analyst at Corporacion Financiera Colombiana, or
Corficolombiana. Policy makers have kept borrowing costs on hold
since April to gauge the combined impact of near-record low
interest rates and a $2.6 billion stimulus package aimed at
boosting growth.  “This positive number will certainly strengthen the hand
of the board members who voted to hold interest rates,” said
Romero, who had predicted second-quarter growth of 3.9 percent.
“The bank was clear in its minutes that they would pay a lot of
attention to these figures.”  The central bank cut its policy rate by 2 percentage points
between July 2012 and March, to the lowest among major Latin
American economies in a bid to reverse an economic slowdown.  Policy makers held  borrowing costs  at 3.25 percent last
month, saying they could consider a cut after having more
information on second-quarter GDP growth and U.S. monetary
policy. The bank had forecast second-quarter growth of 3.4
percent.  Swap Rates  One-year interest rate swaps climbed 0.06 percentage point
after the report was published, to 3.42 percent, as traders
pared bets on interest rate cuts.  The expansion was led by a 7.6 percent rise in agricultural
output, and a 6.4 percent increase in construction. Industry
expanded 1.2 percent from a year earlier, after contracting over
the previous four quarters.  Oil and natural gas output rose 7.2 percent, while coal
output fell 5.4 percent and gold fell 10.3 percent.  Five of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg  forecast  a
quarter-point interest rate cut at the central bank’s Sept. 27
policy meeting, while one analyst predicts a half-point cut and
four forecast that the central bank will leave the policy rate
unchanged at 3.25 percent. The survey was taken before today’s
GDP report.  Fed Surprise  The U.S. Federal Reserve unexpectedly announced yesterday
that it will continue its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases,
leading the peso to strengthen 1.3 percent to 1,882.13 at 12:45
p.m. local time. Economists had forecast it would dial down
monthly Treasury purchases by $5 billion, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Colombia’s second-quarter growth compares with a 5.6
percent expansion in  Peru , 4.1 percent in  Chile  and 1.5 percent
in  Mexico .  At least two people on the central bank’s policy committee
last month argued that slow inflation created room for interest
rate cuts to boost growth, according to its  minutes . Finance
Minister Mauricio Cardenas, who chairs the board meetings, said
he argued for a cut.  Consumer prices rose 2.27 percent in August from a year
earlier, from 2.22 percent in July, while one gauge of monthly
“core” consumer prices, which excludes the most volatile
goods, fell for the first time in two years. In February, the
inflation rate dropped to 1.83 percent, its lowest level since
the 1950s. Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus one percentage point.  President Juan Manuel Santos announced in April a 5
trillion-peso ($2.6 billion) stimulus package aimed at
“reactivating” the industrial sector and boosting growth by
0.7 percentage point this year.  GDP will climb 4.05 percent this year and 4.65 percent next
after expanding an average of 4.7 percent over the past decade,
according to analysts polled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  