-- Colombia Plans to Sell Dollar Bonds Abroad After Fed Surprise
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-09-19T12:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/colombia-plans-to-sell-dollar-bonds-abroad-after-fed-surprise.html
Colombia  plans to sell dollar bonds
abroad a day after the  Federal Reserve  kept its stimulus program
intact, driving down yields on emerging-market debt.  Colombia hired Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to
sell securities due in 2024, according to a regulatory filing.
The country may sell the bonds today to yield about 165 basis
points, or 1.65 percentage points, more than U.S. Treasuries,
according to a person familiar with the offering who asked not
to be identified because the terms aren’t set. The benchmark
offering will be at least $500 million, the person said.  Colombia is joining companies and governments in  Turkey ,
 Chile  and Armenia in planning sales a day after the Fed said it
would continue to buy $85 billion of bonds a month. The
unprecedented stimulus program has suppressed  interest rates ,
increasing the appeal of higher yielding emerging-market assets.  Garanti Bankasi AS, Turkey’s largest bank by market value,
may boost the size of a bond sale by 38 percent to 900 million
liras ($461 million). Turkey’s Treasury will hold investor
meetings starting Sept. 23 for a possible sale of Islamic bonds.
Armenia hired banks for a seven-year dollar bond sale, Chile’s
Embotelladora Andina SA plans to meet with investors next week
while the Eurasian Development Bank is also poised to sell,
according to people familiar with the offerings, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private.  Yields on Colombia’s $1 billion of 2023 bonds fell 21 basis
points yesterday, the most since the securities were issued on
Jan. 22. The yield rose eight basis points to 3.98 percent at
8:40 a.m.  New York  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  