-- Commodity Revenue at Top Banks Climbs in Asia as Loans Rise
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-09-19T03:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/commodity-revenue-at-top-banks-climbs-in-asia-as-loans-rise-1-.html
Commodity revenue at the world’s
top 10 investment banks advanced 9 percent in the Asia-Pacific
region in the first half as financing increased for oil and
metals producers in  China , said Coalition.  Revenue rose to $380 million from about $350 million a year
earlier as lending grew more than physical trading and investor-product sales, said Serge De Coster, head of the analytics
company in the Asia-Pacific region. Global revenue from raw
materials fell 21 percent to $2.7 billion, it said.  Banks in Asia are expanding commodity funding as demand for
raw materials increases.  China’s economy , the biggest user of
energy and metals, will grow 7.5 percent in 2013, more than four
times the U.S. rate, economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg
show. The country overtook the U.S. as the largest energy
consumer in 2009 and its share of world copper demand doubled to
40 percent now from 20 percent in 2005, according to the
 International Energy Agency  and Barclays Plc.  “We’ve significantly increased our balance sheet for
commodities financing,” said Stuart Smith, the head of Asian
commodity sales and liability structuring at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in
Singapore. “Banks able to provide this range of services have
seen a growth in the business,” he said by e-mail.  Crude oil rose 18 percent in  New York  this year to $108.59
a barrel, the best performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 commodities. The gauge rose 0.5 percent as the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rallied 15 percent and the
Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 2.9 percent.  Goldman, JPMorgan  Commodity lending is the growth area for the world’s top
banks, Singapore-based De Coster said in an interview Sept. 17.
 Raw materials  represented 6 percent of the $6.2 billion revenue
from their fixed income, currency and commodity units in the
Asia-Pacific region in the first half, said Coalition.  Credit Suisse Group AG has seen a lot of financing demand
in metals and oil and has been in the business in Asia for four
to five years, according to Jared Baker, head of regional
commodities sales in Singapore.  The Coalition Index includes Goldman,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse, Bank of America Corp., Barclays
Plc, Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , UBS AG and BNP
Paribas SA. BNP replaced Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which
was included last year. Companies other than Deutsche Bank and
Credit Suisse declined to comment.  JPMorgan ranked second after  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  as the
biggest lender to commodities companies in the second quarter
globally, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The total for the
industry rose 13 percent to $188.6 billion from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  