-- Consolidated Edison Says CEO Kevin Burke Will Retire
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-09-19T23:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/consolidated-edison-says-ceo-kevin-burke-will-retire-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of company’s name in headline.)  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  President
and Chief Executive Officer Kevin Burke, who has held the roles
since 2005, will retire by end of the year.  Burke, 62, will be replaced by John McAvoy, 53, who heads
Con Edison’s Orange and Rockland utilities unit, the New York-based company said in a statement after the market’s close.
McAvoy has held several management positions at the company
since joining in 1980.  Burke will remain non-executive chairman of the board for a
“transition period,” the company said.  Burke oversaw the response to  Hurricane Sandy , which
knocked out power last year to 1.4 million Con Edison customers,
four times more than the utility’s previous worst storm.
Flooding of the utility’s underground network caused lower
Manhattan to lose power for days.  In August, New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said regulators
had ordered the state’s utilities to improve their storm
response plans after an investigation into power restoration
efforts following a series of hurricanes and tropical storms. In
April, Cuomo had Burke and three other executives return 2012
bonuses while officials investigated the responses to Hurricane
Sandy.  Con Edison’s Orange and Rockland unit is one of two
regulated utility units owned by the company. The other is
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, which serves  New York
City  and Westchester County.  The company’s stock was downgraded by Jefferies Inc. to
hold from buy earlier this month on concerns that the utility
may not be able to reach a settlement with regulators on a
proposed rate increase.  Con Edison’s shares rose .5 percent to $56.61 in after-hours trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  