-- Company Behind Snowden Vetting Did Check on D.C. Shooter
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-09-20T01:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/contractor-behind-snowden-vetting-did-washington-shooter-check.html
The U.S. government contractor that
vetted Edward Snowden, who leaked information about national
surveillance programs, said it also performed a background check
on the Washington Navy Yard shooter.  USIS, a unit of  Falls Church , Virginia-based Altegrity
Inc., owned by Providence Equity Partners LLC, did Aaron Alexis’s background investigation in 2007, Ray Howell, a USIS
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Today we were informed that in
2007, USIS conducted a background check of Aaron Alexis” for
the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, Howell said.  Howell said yesterday that USIS hadn’t vetted Alexis, who
killed 12 people at the Navy Yard on Sept. 16 and then died in a
shootout with police. Alexis had a secret-level clearance that
would have enabled him to get an access card needed to get on
the base.  The company can’t comment further because it’s
contractually prohibited from retaining information gathered
during its background checks for the personnel office, he said.  U.S. lawmakers immediately called for fixes to the
government’s vetting system.  “From Edward Snowden to Aaron Alexis, what’s emerging is a
pattern of failure on the part of this company, and a failure of
this entire system, that risks nothing less than our national
security and the lives of Americans,” Senator  Claire McCaskill ,
a Missouri Democrat, said in a statement.  Nation’s Secrets  “What’s most frightening is that USIS performs a majority
of background checks for our government,” McCaskill said. “We
clearly need a top-to-bottom overhaul of how we vet those who
have access to our country’s secrets and to our secure
facilities. I plan to pursue such an overhaul, and won’t rest
until it’s achieved.”  U.S. Senator  Rob Portman , an  Ohio Republican , said there is
“inadequate oversight of the background check process” that
must be fixed through legislation.  “If this doesn’t make it even more clear that this has to
be fixed, I don’t know what will,” Portman said in an e-mailed
statement.  Patrick McFarland, inspector general of the personnel
office, has said there may have been shortcomings in USIS’s
vetting of Snowden, a former  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) 
employee who worked for the National Security Agency.  Snowden, who leaked information about U.S. electronic
surveillance programs, faces federal charges of theft and
espionage and is in  Russia  under temporary asylum.  Criminal Investigation  During a June congressional hearing on background checks,
which are required for security clearances, McCaskill said USIS
was under criminal investigation.  Merton Miller, associate director for federal investigative
services at the Office of Personnel Management, said that the
agency “has reviewed the 2007 background investigation file for
Aaron Alexis, and the agency believes that the file was complete
and in compliance with all investigative standards.”  Once an investigation is complete, Miller said, it’s
submitted to the “adjudicating agency” -- in Alexis’s case,
the Defense Department -- for review. The personnel office’s
involvement with Alexis’s security clearance ended when it
submitted the case to the Defense Department.  The Pentagon “did not ask OPM for any additional
investigative actions after it received the completed background
investigation,” Miller said.  Inspector General  Susan Ruge, associate counsel to the  Office of Personnel
Management  inspector general, today declined to answer questions
about whether her office was conducting a criminal investigation
of USIS.  Four lawmakers, including Portman and McCaskill, yesterday
asked the personnel office’s inspector general to scrutinize
Alexis’s background investigation.  The personnel office, which conducts most federal
background investigations, paid USIS $253 million for its work
last year. The company is the top provider of background checks
to the government, which has increasingly outsourced the work.  USIS performs about 65 percent of all background
investigations conducted by contractors, and more than half of
all investigations conducted by personnel office, according to
McCaskill’s office.  Almost 5 million people held security clearances as of Oct.
1, 2012, according to a report from the Office of the Director
of National Intelligence. Federal clearances and background
checks by the personnel office cost taxpayers about $1 billion
last year, with the expense expected to rise to $1.2 billion by
2014, according to McCaskill’s office.  ‘Performing Poorly’  The boost in security clearances has led “invariably to
corners being cut and contractors performing poorly,” said Neil
Gordon, an investigator at the Project on Government Oversight,
a Washington-based watchdog group. “This company has a history
of employees getting in trouble for performing falsifying
background checks.”  This incident, compounded with Snowden’s vetting, “is
definitely going to hurt their reputation,” Gordon said of
USIS.  The contractor competes with  CACI International Inc. (CACI)  and
Keypoint Government Solutions Inc., a unit of Veritas Capital, a
New York-based private equity firm.  USIS’s prominence as a background check contractor is due
to its origin as the Federal Investigations Division of Office
of Personnel Management. The unit, originally known as U.S.
Investigations Services Inc., was privatized in 1996 as part of
then-Vice President  Al Gore ’s effort to “reinvent” government
by reducing the size of the civil service, according to a  2011
report  by the  Congressional Research Service .  Save Money  Contracting out security reviews was designed to help save
the government money and secure new work for about 700
investigators who would no longer be needed because of a
declining security clearance workload due to the end of the  Cold
War .  USIS was given a non-competitive, three-year contract for
investigative work with the government personnel office and
granted free access to federal computer databases that weren’t
available to other firms.  The  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , a Washington-based private equity
firm, and New York-based Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe LP
invested in USIS. They agreed in 2007 to sell USIS to
Providence, Rhode Island-based  Providence Equity Partners  for
about $1.5 billion.  Falsifying Records  Ten background-check workers employed by contractors have
been convicted or pleaded guilty to falsifying records since
2006, according to the personnel office’s inspector general.
Eight of them worked for USIS.  In one case, Kayla M. Smith, a former investigative
specialist for USIS, submitted some 1,600 falsified credit
reports, according to the inspector general’s office.  She pleaded guilty in August 2009 to falsifying one out of
three credit checks she performed during an 18-month period,
according to a Justice Department statement.  The investigator who had vetted Smith was convicted in a
separate falsification case, McFarland said at a June 20 Senate
hearing.  On Sept. 16, Alexis, a 34-year-old Navy contractor, entered
the Naval Sea Systems Command headquarters with a valid access
card. He had a secret-level clearance obtained from the Navy in
March 2008.  After leaving the Navy in January 2011, Alexis retained the
clearance even with three arrests, a history of mental illness
and a record of military misconduct. His clearance was good for
10 years and wasn’t subject to a reinvestigation, according to a
defense official who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly and
asked not to be identified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  