-- Croatia’s FX-Loan Plan May Cost Banks 350 Million Kuna a Year
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-09-19T15:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/croatia-s-fx-loan-plan-may-cost-banks-350-million-kuna-a-year.html
Proposed changes to  Croatia ’s law
on consumer lending may cost banks about 350 million kuna ($62
million) a year in a government plan to help households facing
the rising costs of loans denominated in Swiss francs.  Lawmakers in Zagreb debated whether to restrict variable
interest rates in foreign currency loans in which the currency
had appreciated more than 20 percent since the signing date.
There are an estimated 75,000 loans in Swiss francs in Croatia,
totaling 28 billion kuna, according to Banka Magazine.  If the plan is approved, Croatia would follow neighboring
Hungary in forcing banks to share costs with borrowers who have
seen their monthly loan payments jump since the kuna lost more
than 25 percent against the Swiss currency in the global
economic crisis. Foreign banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Intesa
SanPaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , and  Erste Group
Bank AG (EBS)  make up almost 90 percent of the lending market.  The 350 million kuna “is our estimate of the cost, from
the moment the law comes into power,” Zana Pedic, head of the
directorate at the Finance Ministry, said by phone in Zagreb.
“We believe that the burden of foreign currency loans can be
more equally distributed between citizens and the banks.”  The proposed changes may still be amended in a second
reading in parliament, Pedic said.  Croatia’s law proposal follows a July court ruling in
Zagreb against the local units of eight foreign-owned banks for
misleading borrowers holding Swiss-franc loans.  It comes as other countries also struggle to deal with
foreign-exchange loans. In  Hungary , Prime Minister Viktor
Orban’s government has vowed to “eliminate” more than $15.6
billion in mostly Swiss franc loans that have choked household
spending and hindered an economic recovery. The plan has drawn
criticism from some lenders after they lost $1.7 billion during
a 2011 program to tackle the debt.  The Croatian proposal “introduces retroactive elements in
the existing contracts and leads into legal uncertainty,”
Zeljko Ivankovic, an analyst at the Croatian Banks’ Association,
said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  