-- Oil Falls Fourth Time in Five Days as Libya Output Rises
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-09-19T19:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/crude-falls-fourth-time-in-five-days-as-libya-output-increases.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for the fourth time in five days as Libya’s oil output increased
and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said he will provide
international inspectors access to chemical weapons facilities.  Prices dropped 1.6 percent. Libya’s El Feel and Sharara  oil
fields  have reopened and will boost production levels, according
to the Oil Ministry. Crude climbed to a two-year high Aug. 28 on
concern that Syrian tensions would spread and trim  Middle East 
exports. Futures also slid after the biggest rally in three
weeks yesterday as the  Federal Reserve  retained stimulus.  “Libya is certainly weighing on prices,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
Pennsylvania. “With the run-up based on Syria, we had a bit of
a bubble being inflated, and when you cut off those headlines,
all of that bubble is getting deflated.”  WTI for October delivery, which expires tomorrow, slid
$1.68 to settle at $106.39 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the biggest drop since Sept. 10. It surged 2.5 percent
yesterday, the biggest increase since Aug. 27. The volume of all
futures traded was 4.8 percent above the 100-day average at 3:36
p.m. The more active November contract was down $1.42, or 1.3
percent, to $105.86.  Brent for November settlement decreased $1.84, or 1.7
percent, to end the session at $108.76 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 11 percent above
the 100-day average. The European benchmark crude’s premium to
WTI for the same month shrank 42 cents to $2.90, the narrowest
level since Aug. 12.  Libyan Oil  Libya ’s production will rise to 700,000 to 800,000 barrels
a day today, Ibrahim Al Awami, the oil ministry’s director of
measurement, said by phone from Tripoli. The export terminals of
Brega, Zawiya and Mellitah are also operational, he said.  Output from the North African country slumped to about
200,000 barrels a day as oil fields and ports were shut amid
protests, National Oil Corp. Chairman Nuri Berruien said in an
interview Aug. 27. El Feel and Sharara, with a combined capacity
of 440,000 barrels a day, were halted by protesters on Aug. 26.  “The expectation that Libya’s oil production will come
back is one of the primary drivers of the market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There seems to be progress going on in
Syria. Oil is taking some of the Fed premium off the market.”  Libya, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, has a capacity of 1.55 million, according to
Bloomberg data.  ‘Downward Pressure’  “Reports that we’ll see more oil from Libya are putting
pressure on the market,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst
at the Price Futures Group in Chicago. “We should see some
downward pressure because of the easing tension in Syria.”  Meeting the disclosure and inspection conditions under the
Chemical Weapons Convention, the international accord banning
such arms, is “no problem, we can do it tomorrow,” Assad said
in an interview with  Fox News  that aired yesterday.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said today in Valdai,
Russia, that he isn’t “100 percent” certain that Assad will
fulfill his commitment to give up chemical weapons.  Syria borders Iraq and is near  Iran , countries that
together hold almost a fifth of the output capacity from OPEC,
Bloomberg estimates show. The Middle East accounted for 35
percent of global oil production in the first quarter of this
year, according to the  International Energy Agency .  Iranian President  Iranian President Hassan Rohani said in an interview aired
last night on NBC that Iran won’t develop nuclear weapons. The
country, the target of international sanctions over its nuclear
program, was OPEC’s second-largest crude producer as recently as
June 2012, trailing  Saudi Arabia . It’s now in sixth place.  Rohani said he’s exchanged letters with President  Barack Obama  in the last month and has named Mohammad Javad Zarif, a
diplomat known as a moderate, as his foreign minister and chief
nuclear negotiator.  “Given the bearish news out of Libya and the signs that
Rohani may be willing to compromise with the West, I am
surprised we aren’t lower,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. The market is “taking a break” after
yesterday’s big jump, he said.  The Fed unexpectedly refrained from reducing the $85
billion pace of monthly bond buying yesterday. The central bank
began its third round of so-called quantitative easing in
September 2012 with $40 billion in monthly mortgage bond
purchases, and added $45 billion in monthly Treasury purchases
in December.  ‘Step Back’  “The market has taken a general step back after all the
action yesterday,” said Tom Finlon, Jupiter, Florida-based
director of Energy Analytics Group LLC. “You are seeing an
awful lot of investors reassess their positions after what
happened” with the Fed.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 20 percent, down from yesterday’s 21.7, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 586,513
contracts as of 3:36 p.m. It totaled 732,026 contracts
yesterday, 15 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was a record 1.94 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  