-- Democrat Manchin’s Opposition Imperils Obama FERC Nominee
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/democrat-manchin-s-opposition-imperils-obama-ferc-nominee.html
Democratic Senator Joe Manchin said
he’ll vote against President  Barack Obama ’s choice to lead the
U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, throwing the
confirmation of Ron Binz into uncertainty.  “Mr. Binz’s actions prove that he prioritizes renewables
over reliability,” Manchin, of West Virginia, said yesterday in
a statement. “His approach of demonizing coal and gas has
increased electricity costs for consumers.”  Manchin’s opposition means Binz won’t have the full backing
of Democrats on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee that’s considering the nomination. Senator Lisa Murkowski of  Alaska , the panel’s top Republican, and Senator
Dean Heller, a Nevada Republican, have also said they won’t
support Binz’s nomination.  Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who leads the
committee, has not scheduled a vote on Binz, his spokesman,
Keith Chu, said in an e-mail.  Benjamin Cole, spokesman for the American Energy Alliance,
a coalition of organizations that oppose Binz’s nomination, said
Manchin’s lack of support casts doubt on Binz’s confirmation.  If Binz doesn’t have Manchin’s support, he’s unlikely to
win the backing of Republicans such as Senator Rob Portman of
 Ohio , another coal-producing state, Cole said in an interview.  “How does Rob Portman go along with that? I just don’t see
it,” Cole said.  ‘Smart Thinkers’  Richard Caperton, managing director for energy at the
Center for American Progress, a Washington-based policy group
with ties to Democrats, said there are “several Republicans 
that are very smart thinkers” who haven’t weighed in yet on 
Binz’s confirmation.  “If the committee members focus solely on the substance,
then they should approve the Binz nomination,” Caperton said by
phone.  Portman hasn’t indicated how he will vote. Neither has
Senator Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat whose support will
be crucial for Binz to win confirmation. Democrats hold a two-vote majority on the committee.  Binz, 64, is the former chairman of the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission and has been widely supported by clean-energy advocates. His critics, including free-market
organizations and the Colorado Mining Association, have said his
actions as a state regulator illustrate that he favors
renewable-energy sources over coal. They have also criticized
him for saying natural gas is a “dead end” fuel source without
improvements in capturing carbon emissions.  “I’m not comfortable with furthering an anti-carbon agenda
at the expense of consumers, which is why I plan to oppose Mr.
Binz’s nomination,” Heller said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  