-- Deutsche Bank Wins Ruling Overturning $49 Million Award
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-09-20T01:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/deutsche-bank-wins-ruling-overturning-49-million-award.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  won an appeal
overturning a Singapore ruling ordering it to pay former client
Chang Tse Wen $49 million for negligence in advising him on his
investments.  Singapore Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon, writing for a
three-judge panel of the city state’s top court, said in
yesterday’s judgment that the bank can recover $1.79 million it
originally sought from Chang in a 2009 lawsuit.  Chang, a Taiwanese scientist who invented the Xolair asthma
drug, had won the lower court case last year after countersuing
Deutsche Bank over his losses on bets on companies like
Citigroup Inc. The bank didn’t have a duty in advising him on
managing his portfolio, the court said in yesterday’s ruling.  “DB was dealing with a customer who had considerable means
and an evident understanding of what he was doing and why,” the
three-judge panel said. The bank didn’t make misrepresentations
to Chang, it said.  Chang had said he “entrusted” the bank with part of the
$118 million he made from selling his company, Tanox Inc., to
Genentech Inc. in 2007.  The scientist was a “sophisticated man” who ignored the
advice of his banker to diversify his investments, Deutsche
Bank’s lawyer, Ang Cheng Hock, had argued.  Chang’s lawyer Muralidharan Pillai declined to comment.  “Deutsche Bank is pleased with the judgment and that this
matter is now resolved,” said  Michael West , a Hong Kong-based
spokesman at the German lender.  BNP Paribas SA’s wealth management unit last year won
dismissal of a Singapore lawsuit filed by a former client,
claiming the bank was negligent in advising him. The former
client had signed agreements with the bank stating he had
sufficient financial knowledge and wouldn’t rely on it for
advice.  The appeal case is Deutsche Bank AG v Chang Tse Wen,
CA164/2012. Singapore Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  