-- Devonshire PGA Files Bankruptcy With Restructuring Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-09-19T16:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/devonshire-pga-files-bankruptcy-with-restructuring-plan.html
Devonshire PGA Holdings LLC, the
owner of a  Florida   assisted-living facility , sought  bankruptcy
protection  with a restructuring plan that gives lenders
ownership in exchange for debt.  The company, based in  Palm Beach Gardens , Florida, listed
debt of as much as $50 million and assets of less than $50,000
in a Chapter 11 filing today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington,  Delaware . Three affiliates also entered court
protection, including Devonshire at PGA National LLC, which
listed more than $100 million in both assets and debt.  Devonshire intends to implement a consensual restructuring
and will seek an “expeditious exit from Chapter 11
protection,” according to court documents. Residents and
unsecured creditors won’t be affected.  The value of the company’s assets is “substantially less”
than secured debt, so the reorganization plan “presents the
best chance for any recovery for creditors,” the company said
in court papers. Secured lender ELP West Palm LLC supports the
plan and will get all of the reorganized company’s equity.
Mezzanine lender HJSI Devonshire II LLC will get a $3 million
payment under the plan.  Florida Home  The company owns the Devonshire at PGA National in Palm
Beach Garden, a retirement community with 327 independent living
units and an assisted living and skilled nursing facility with
110 units.  Devonshire defaulted on its secured first-lien loan and
owed ELP about $158.4 million in principal and interest as of
Sept. 1, according to court documents. The company owed about
$20.2 million on its defaulted mezzanine loan as of Sept. 11.  HJSI acquired all of Devonshire’s equity, which was pledged
as collateral for the mezzanine loan, in a Sept. 12 foreclosure
sale offering forgiveness of about $17.1 million of the debt,
court papers show.  The case is In re Devonshire PGA Holdings LLC, 13-12460,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  