-- Leading Economic Indicators Index in U.S. Rises 0.7%
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-09-19T14:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/leading-economic-indicators-index-in-u-s-rises-0-7-1-.html
The index of U.S. leading
indicators rose more than forecast in August, a sign the world’s
largest economy is gaining strength.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.7 percent after a revised 0.5
percent gain in July that was less than previously reported, the
New York-based group said today. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a rise of 0.6
percent in August.  Gains in the  job market  and stock prices have boosted
household wealth and are helping counter the effects of fiscal
headwinds that have weighed on the economy. With the recovery
still tenuous, Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday said they
will continue their record $85 billion in bond purchases while
they wait for more evidence of sustained progress.  “It suggests faster growth in the latter part of this
year,” Kenneth Kim, economist at Stone & McCarthy Research
Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey , said before the report.
“Recent gains in the stock market have helped purchases.
Individuals have been taking wealth out of the market to buy
cars.”  Economist Estimates  Estimates of 44 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from increases of 0.2 percent to 0.8 percent.  Another report today showed jobless claims in the U.S. rose
less than forecast last week as two states began working through
a backlog of applications that were caused by computer-system
changeovers.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  climbed by 15,000 to
309,000 in the week ended Sept. 14 from a revised 294,000 in the
prior period, a Labor Department report showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 53 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for an increase to 330,000. A Labor Department
spokesman said it could be a week or two before the state
employment agencies are able to catch up on applications.  “The latest reading points to more pep in the pace of
economic activity in the near term,” Conference Board economist
 Ken Goldstein  said in a statement.  Current Activity  The index of coincident indicators, a gauge of current
economic activity, increased 0.2 percent in August after a 0.1
percent rise in the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production, measures used by the  National Bureau of Economic
Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S. recessions.  At The Kroger Co., customers are spending more on
cosmetics, greeting cards, Starbucks coffee, sushi and other
discretionary items. At the same time, use of  food stamps 
remains high at the Cincinnati, Ohio-based food retailer.
 Consumer confidence  is improving “but at a slow and steady
pace,” President and Chief Operating Officer W. Rodney McMullen
said.  “Overall, customers continue to visit our stores more
frequently, purchase fewer items per trip, and buy more on a
monthly basis,” McMullen said on a Sept. 12 earnings call. “We
would characterize the economy has continued to improve but
fragile.”  Lagging Indicators  The Conference Board’s gauge of lagging indicators
increased 0.3 percent in August after a 0.1 percent decline in
July.  While the economy continues to expand at a “moderate
pace,” Fed policy makers said yesterday, they want “more
evidence that progress will be sustained” before dialing back
their $85 billion monthly asset purchases.  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said at a press conference in Washington after a two-day meeting
of the  Federal Open Market Committee . “The committee has
concern that rapid tightening of financial conditions in recent
months would have the effect of slowing growth.”  Fed officials project U.S. gross domestic product to
increase 2 percent to 2.3 percent this year and 2.9 percent to
3.1 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  