-- Egypt Officer Killed as Police Storm Islamist Stronghold
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-09-19T21:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/egyptian-police-officer-killed-as-islamist-stronghold-stormed.html
A senior Egyptian police officer
was shot dead by gunmen as security forces stormed a district
near Cairo known to be an Islamist stronghold.  The slain officer was the deputy head of Giza province’s
security directorate, the body said today in an e-mailed
statement. Footage on the ON TV  satellite channel  showed the
moment the officer was hit by what appeared to be gunfire from
rooftops in Kerdasah. Men were arrested by security forces, as
trucks and armored vehicles entered the area and troops stormed
houses, state television showed.  Helicopters hovered above the district, about 20 kilometers
(12 miles) south-west of the capital, as troops and police
sealed off road access, the Giza Security Directorate said.
Sixty-eight people have been arrested, the  Interior Ministry 
said. Nine policemen were wounded by a home-made bomb, the
official Middle East  News Agency  reported. Authorities defused
11 bombs, state-run Ahram Gate said.  The operation marked the latest offensive to curb what
officials describe as rising militancy since Islamist President
Mohamed Mursi was pushed from office by the army on July 3
following mass protests against his rule, triggering unrest
that’s resulted in more than 1,000 deaths. On Sept. 16, security
forces stormed the town of Dalga in Minya province, south of
Cairo, clearing barricades set up by supporters of Mursi.  Hideouts ‘Purified’  “An operation started early this morning and security
forces are now combing the area,” police spokesman Hany Abdel
Latif said by telephone today of the Giza offensive. “The
police and army won’t leave the area before all terrorist and
criminal hideouts are purified,” he said.  Security forces are trying to arrest those involved in the
torching of a police station in the area following violence that
erupted after Mursi’s removal, according to the Giza
directorate. They aim to arrest 140 people involved in that
attack that left least 11 policemen dead, it said. Three of the
main suspects in that attack were arrested today, Mena reported.  The presidency cited the security situation last week when
it announced a two-month extension of the state of emergency
imposed in mid-August.  “Security of the nation and its citizens is a red line and
government will not tolerate or go lightly on criminal or
terrorist groups,” Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi was quoted
as saying in a cabinet statement on the events in Kerdasah
today.  Curfew Eased  The military-backed cabinet today eased the curfew imposed
after Mursi’s ouster. It will now run from midnight until 5
a.m., except on Fridays when it will be 7 p.m. to 5 a.m.,
according to the cabinet communication.  The violence is one of the many challenges facing President
Adly Mansour’s military-backed government that is to oversee the
drafting of an amended constitution and new elections by early
next year.  In a separate incident, police temporarily shut several
metro stations in Cairo after two home-made bombs were found,
the Interior Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.  Security forces also arrested Asaad El-Beik, an Islamist
leader in the restive North Sinai province, state-run Ahram Gate
reported.  The military has been waging a battle against what it
describes as terrorists in the Sinai, with officials worried the
violence there could breed an insurgency in other parts of the
country akin to that which plagued  Egypt  during the 1990s under
then-President  Hosni Mubarak .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  