-- Telecom Italia Is Said to Weigh Selling Mobile Towers
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-09-20T15:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/telecom-italia-is-said-to-consider-selling-mobile-phone-towers.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , the phone
company whose debt rating is on the brink of junk, is
considering a sale of its wireless towers, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The carrier is weighing the creation of a company for about
12,000 mobile-phone towers before putting it up for sale, said
the person, asking not to be named because the discussions are
confidential. The assets could be valued at 500 million euros
($676 million) to 1 billion euros, the person said.  Telecom Italia is taking a leaf from the U.S. playbook --
 AT&T Inc. (T)  was the latest carrier to seek buyers for its towers -
- as the industry consolidates. Telecom Italia directors who
gathered yesterday in Milan also discussed a proposal to
reorganize Telecom Italia’s domestic units by creating separate
companies for its consumer and business services, among
proposals Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe is using to
justify a capital increase to shore up finances, the person
said.  “It’s too little too late,” said  Robin Bienenstock , a
London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “They’ve had many
different options to reduce their debt over the past few years
but they have always shied away from doing the big things.”  Shares Fall  Telecom Italia fell 3.4 percent to 57.1 cents at 5:05 p.m.
in Milan. The company has a market value of 10.4 billion euros,
compared with the 28.8 billion euros of adjusted  net debt  it
reported as of June 30.  A Telecom Italia spokesman declined to comment on the
tower-sale plan. Directors are scheduled to meet Oct. 3.  Telecom Italia’s biggest investor group, Telco SpA, is in
talks to resolve a six-year shareholder agreement that can be
dissolved by the end of next week -- or else it will be extended
through 2015 with another exit window in August 2014.  Telco owns a 22.4 percent stake in the carrier.  Telefonica
SA (TEF) , with a 10.4 percent indirect holding, is seeking to iron out
differences in valuation amid talks to buy out partners
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Mediobanca
SpA (MB) , people familiar with the matter have said.  The partners could also decide to extend the exit window by
six months as they continue negotiations, one of them said.  “I’m confident that we will reach an accord finding a
common way for the future of Telecom Italia,” Bernabe said in
an interview at Milan’s Linate Airport after yesterday’s board
meeting, which he called “constructive.”  Narrowing Spread  One option being discussed is for Madrid-based Telefonica
to take part in a Telecom Italia capital increase that won’t be
matched by other Telco investors, people familiar with the
matter have said. However, Telefonica would back a share sale
only if the plan comes along with measures to shore up Telecom
Italia’s finances such as a disposal of its Brazilian unit,  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , in the medium term, the people said.  Moody’s Investors Service in August gave Telecom Italia
three months to strengthen Telecom Italia’s balance sheet or
else the company could be stripped of its Baa3 rating, the
lowest investment grade, said a person with knowledge of the
matter.  Telecom Italia will need a capital increase of about 4
billion euros, another person said, asking not to be identified
because the discussions are confidential.  ‘Too Low’  “Their share price is too low to easily execute a rights
issue and they have few options beyond sale of part or all of
the business to boost the balance sheet -- and the only
practicable part is the very desirable  Brazil ,” said
Bienenstock.  Telecom Italia sold 1 billion euros of seven-year bonds
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The 4.875 percent
notes were priced to yield 330 basis points more than the
benchmark mid-swap rate.  The average spread on investment-grade bonds in Europe over
the swap rate narrowed nine basis points to 79 basis points
yesterday, Bloomberg bond  index  data show.  AT&T’s 10,000 towers could fetch about $5 billion and
possible buyers include  Crown Castle International Corp. (CCI) ,  SBA
Communications Corp. (SBAC)  and  American Tower Corp. (AMT) , a person familiar
with the matter said this month.  American Tower, the biggest operator of cellular towers in
the U.S., agreed also this month to buy the parent company of
Global Tower Partners for $4.8 billion, including debt.  In Europe,  Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE)  last month agreed to
buy 4,227 mobile-phone towers from Telefonica and  TeliaSonera
AB (TLSN) ’s Spanish unit Yoigo for 385 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  