-- Emerging ETF Drop Defies MSCI Gauge Rally on Fed Stimulus
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-09-19T20:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/emerging-etf-drop-defies-msci-gauge-rally-on-fed-stimulus.html
The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index exchange-traded fund fell from a four-month high, defying
a rally in the benchmark for  developing nations , after the gap
to its net asset value swelled to the widest since 2008.  The ETF, which trades under the ticker EEM, dropped 0.5
percent to $43.04 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The exchange-traded
fund surged 4.2 percent yesterday to trade at the widest gap to
its  net asset value  since November 2008. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index added 2.5 percent to 1,025.50 today, after
declining 0.1 percent yesterday.  The Federal Open Market Committee yesterday refrained from
reducing the $85 billion pace of its monthly securities buying,
spurring a rally in global equities. Share prices for the 10
largest diversified emerging-market ETFs on average were 42.6
percent more volatile than their underlying indexes from May 22
to June 24, when comments by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  triggered a selloff that sent emerging-market stocks to
a one-year low, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The EEM jumped like a rocket ship after the Fed
yesterday,”  Dave Lutz , the head of exchange-traded fund trading
and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said by
phone. “You do get a deviation in the EEM relative to the index
or those underlying simply because the EEM is trading in the
U.S. while the underlying companies are closed.”  The net asset value is an exchange-traded fund’s per-share
value and is calculated by dividing the total value of all the
securities in its portfolio, less any liabilities, by the number
of fund shares outstanding.  Excess Volatility  Even without a massive market selloff, ETFs that track
emerging stocks tend to suffer bigger price swings than their
underlying indexes. In the 12 months ended June 24, the ETFs in
the ranking were on average 31.6 percent more volatile than the
benchmark. When prices start to fall at a rapid pace, that
excess volatility tends to increase.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said it wants more
evidence of an economic recovery before paring its bond-buying
program, surprising economists who predicted a reduction in the
plan. The Fed has held the main  interest rate  near zero since
December 2008 and pushed its balance sheet to a record $3.66
trillion through three rounds of stimulus.  More than $50 billion has left global funds investing in
emerging-market bonds and stocks since May, extending the
outflow this year to $11 billion, according to data from EPFR
Global. The measure for stocks in developing nations has
retreated as much as 16 percent since May 22, when the Fed
signaled its asset-buying program could be trimmed if the  U.S.
economy  showed sustained improvement.  “If there was one asset class that was most vulnerable to
a Fed tapering it was emerging markets,”  Quincy Krosby , a
market strategist for  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential
Financial Inc., which oversees more than $1 trillion, said by
phone. “The lack of a taper should be a positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  