-- Emerging Markets Should Prepare for Fed Taper, World Bank Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-09-19T06:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/emerging-markets-should-prepare-for-fed-taper-world-bank-says.html
Emerging nations should prepare for
an eventual reduction in U.S. stimulus even as the  Federal
Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from adjusting policy this week,
 World Bank  Managing Director Sri Mulyani Indrawati said.  “They have to prepare, they don’t have any other choice,”
Sri Mulyani said in an interview in Bali today, where finance
ministers from the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation member
economies are meeting. “They are going to have to continue
adjusting their growth, both in terms of level as well as model
of growth.”  Asian stocks, currencies and bonds rose after the Fed
yesterday held off from reducing the $85 billion pace of monthly
bond buying, saying it needs more evidence of lasting
improvement in the economy. The threat of diminished global
liquidity from cuts in the Fed’s purchases had earlier sparked
the biggest emerging-market currency selloff in five years, with
the Indian rupee and Turkish lira hitting record lows.  Many emerging-market nations will need to adjust to a lower
growth rate and refocus their economies after boosting domestic
sources of expansion in the past three years post-global
recession, Sri Mulyani said.  The countries had built “this domestic growth model that
created the current-account deficit,  budget deficit , which need
to be watched very carefully,” she said. “They need to
rebalance their economic-growth model.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 2.3 percent as of 2:46
p.m. in  Tokyo , set for the highest close since May 22.
Australian 10-year bond yields fell the most in more than six
weeks. The baht gained 2.2 percent, the Malaysian ringgit rose
2.5 percent and the Indian rupee surged 2.6 percent.  New Phase  The largest developing nations for the first time have the
worst market opportunities as optimism for stronger growth
shifts to the U.S. and  Europe , according to a Bloomberg Global
Poll this month.  India  fared the poorest, followed by  Brazil ,
 Russia  and  China , a worldwide poll of investors, analysts and
traders who are Bloomberg subscribers showed.  “The  emerging markets  certainly face this new phase of the
economy,” Sri Mulyani said. “The balance of risks is still on
the positive or upside, and that needs to be watched carefully
by them because even if the tapering off is going to be delayed,
at some point, the policy adjustment is going to come.”  The market fallout in recent months in anticipation of Fed
tapering has given emerging nations an understanding of what
they need to do, she said. Some countries are imposing import
tariffs, while others are better targeting their subsidies or
scaling them back, she said.  Malaysia  and  Indonesia  raised fuel prices this year to
reduce subsidies and ease pressure on their budgets.  Fitch
Ratings  cut Malaysia’s credit outlook to negative in July,
citing rising debt and lack of budgetary reform.  Higher Rates  “Implementation is going to be very important,” Sri
Mulyani said. “Especially now, the markets will see in the next
six months whether the policy announcement will be followed by
the implementation.”  Brazil and Indonesia have embarked on a series of rate
increases to buoy the real and rupiah, while the Indian central
bank took steps to boost the supply of dollars to alleviate
depreciation pressure on its currency.  “Higher borrowing costs are going to come because of the
direction of adjustment on monetary policy in major economies,
and also because of inflation factors,” Sri Mulyani said.
“Especially because of domestic-demand growth that many of the
economies adopted since the global financial crisis. The
adjustment on that is going to be very important for governments,
the private sector.”  Balance-Sheet Risks  Some developing nations have accumulated debt quite rapidly
in the past three years, and that is a “source of
vulnerability” as interest rates rise and growth moderates, she
said. Countries will need to watch for balance-sheet risks at
the level of households, corporates and the government, she said.  The Group of 20 countries repeated their concern this month
that stimulus pullback in developed nations may prove damaging
to global markets. The BRIC countries along with  South Africa 
pledged this month to create a $100 billion pool of currency
reserves to guard against shocks from the withdrawal of stimulus.  “The good side is, with the past three months’ reaction of
the market to this speculation about tapering, at least emerging
markets now know how the market will react,” Sri Mulyani said.
“That provides policy makers good knowledge as well as
understanding about how they should respond.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  