-- Empire State Building REIT Seeks Up to $1.07 Billion IPO
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/empire-state-building-reit-seeks-more-than-1-billion-in-ipo.html
Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) ,
whose properties include Manhattan’s Empire State Building,
filed to raise as much as $1.07 billion as it proceeds with one
of the largest initial public offerings of a U.S. real estate
investment trust.  The company, based in New York, plans to  offer  71.5 million
shares for $13 to $15 each, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday. It expects to list on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol ESRT.  Malkin Holdings LLC, supervisor of the Empire State
Building, is moving ahead with the IPO after battling a group of
dissident investors and rejecting a set of unsolicited offers
for the tower. The REIT, which holds 21 New York-area
properties, may be attractive to investors as it benefits from
tenant demand, tourist visits to the landmark skyscraper and its
holdings in prime Manhattan office locations, said Michael Knott, an analyst with research firm Green Street Advisors Inc.  “It would offer public investors a unique way to play the
New York market,” Knott, based in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
said in an interview before the filing. In addition to revenue
from the Empire State Building’s observatory, the company has
the potential to significantly boost leasing, and has a
concentration in the “up-and-coming” Times Square South
neighborhood, he said.  The IPO is scheduled to price Oct. 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank
of America Corp.  Investor Approval  Malkin Holdings initially filed for a share sale 19 months
ago. The firm, led by Chairman Peter Malkin and his son Anthony Malkin, faced challenges by a minority group within the roughly
2,800 investors who hold stakes in the Empire State Building.
After an emotional campaign marked by charges of
misrepresentation by both sides, the Malkins in May received the
necessary approvals from investors to allow the tower to be
rolled into the REIT.  Bidders for the landmark building have tried to upend the
IPO. On Sept. 9, Joseph Sitt’s Thor Equities LLC offered $1.4
billion for the title to the 102-story tower, according to a
letter from Stephen Meister, an attorney representing the
dissidents. The offer was more than the $1.18 billion value
allocated to the company, Empire State Building Associates LLC,
which owns the skyscraper, Meister said in a letter to the
Malkins’ attorney.  Best Interest  The Malkins said in a separate filing yesterday that the
latest bid would offer “materially less” value to investors
because of debt and other obligations. It won’t entertain any
more alternatives to the IPO, the company said.  The Malkins already said earlier this month that they would
proceed with the plan to go public after reviewing other
proposals and determining that an IPO is in investors’ best
interest. In addition to the unsolicited offer for the tower
from Sitt, the Malkins received one from investor Rubin Schron
and a joint bid by Philip Pilevsky and Joseph Tabak.  Pilevsky, whose group also included unnamed Middle Eastern
investors, said he is no longer pursuing his bid after being
rebuffed by the Malkins. He said his group was willing to raise
its offer of $2.1 billion, which included the value attributed
to a sublease to a company majority-owned by the estate of  Leona
Helmsley .  “They seem to want to do their IPO, and they don’t care
what the bid is,” he said in an interview Sept. 18. “We
dropped the effort. If they would do it, we’d do it in a
minute.”  Lazard Review  Hugh Burns, a spokesman for the Malkins with Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment. The family said in its filing that
it reviews “all matters,” including unsolicited proposals, and
that  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  acted as an independent adviser in determining
to pursue the IPO.  The “Sturm und Drang” between dissidents and the Malkins
may concern investors, as may litigation, said Green Street’s
Knott. A small group of unitholders has appealed an April 30
ruling upholding a provision that would pay unitholders a
nominal $100 a share if they refused to back the REIT after 80
percent voted for it, which they called coercive.  A reversal “could have a material adverse effect on us,
which could take the form of monetary damages or other equitable
relief,” the company said in its prospectus.  REIT Shares  At the top end of the range, the IPO would be the biggest
for a U.S. REIT after  Douglas Emmett Inc. (DEI)  raised almost $1.6
billion in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
comes after a drop in real estate shares in recent months amid
speculation that rising interest rates may curb property demand.
The 138-member Bloomberg REIT Index lost more than 11 percent
through yesterday since peaking in May.  Anthony Malkin, who is to become the REIT’s chairman, chief
executive officer and president, is expected to own Class A
common shares with a value of $413.7 million based on the
midpoint of the projected price range, according to the
prospectus.  Peter Malkin , to be chairman emeritus, would have
shares valued at $84.1 million.  Empire State Realty Trust’s portfolio includes seven
 Manhattan office  properties, among them the Empire State
Building, 1 Grand Central Place, and 250 West 57th St., known as
the Fisk Building. There are five office properties north of the
city, including First  Stamford  Place in Stamford,  Connecticut ,
and 10 Bank St. in  White Plains , New York.  Observatory Revenue  There are six standalone retail properties, including 10
 Union Square  in Manhattan and two retail centers in Westport,
Connecticut. The proposed REIT also has a development site in
Stamford and options to buy two more Manhattan office buildings.  The Empire State Building generated 47.1 percent of the
REIT’s pro-forma revenue of $511.2 million last year. The
observatory, a magnet for  Manhattan  tourists, accounted for
$92.2 million of that. That probably can only be improved
“modestly,” while office revenue should jump as space is
leased after a renovation, Knott said.  The office portion of the tower was 78 percent leased as of
June 30, according to the REIT prospectus. That’s up from 67
percent as of the end of last September.  “The 20 or so floors they have finished renovations on,
they’ve increased the revenues on by almost 110 percent,” Knott
said. “The early results there are encouraging, and speak to
the progress they have made in executing the repositioning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  