-- Eric Schlosser Moves From Big Macs to Nuclear Accidents
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-09-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/eric-schlosser-moves-from-big-macs-to-nuclear-accidents.html
Today the world’s attention is
focused on Damascus,  Syria , and its chemical weapons. Thirty-three years ago events in Damascus,  Arkansas  -- also home to
weapons of mass destruction -- mesmerized the globe.  For almost nine hours starting on Sept. 18, 1980, brave
airmen sought to contain the damage precipitated by a dropped
wrench socket that hit a Titan II missile -- which was tipped
with a W-53 thermonuclear warhead -- in its silo. The socket
pierced the missile’s skin, causing fuel and oxidizer leaks.  The ensuing explosion destroyed the silo, propelling
missile parts and warhead into abbreviated flight. One airman
died from internal wounds while 21 personnel were injured. The
W-53 warhead ended up on a nearby roadside -- passed by
motorists but fortunately never detonated. Close, but no
mushroom cloud.  This freakish event is at the core of Eric Schlosser’s new
book, “ Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the Damascus
Accident and the Illusion of Safety .” “The  United States  has
narrowly avoided a long series of nuclear disasters,” he
writes.  The book makes clear that the U.S. has generally been good
at handling its atomic weapons but has also had a lot of luck.
He reveals declassified studies that disclose hundreds of
mishaps between 1950 and ’67 and beyond. They include a B-61
hydrogen bomb accidentally dropped 7 feet from a parked B-52
bomber at Carswell Air Force Base when a crewman pulled a handle
too hard and a Mark 6 atomic bomb landing in a Mars Bluff, South
Carolina, backyard, creating a 35-foot-deep crater and blowing
out nearby windows and doors.  ‘Normal Accident’  The 1980 Damascus incident unfolded against this
background. The scary thing is that the Titan II explosion “was
a normal accident, set in motion by a trivial event,” in this
case a dropped socket, Schlosser says.  The book alternates between sections describing the
accident with sections on the history of  nuclear weapons  in the
U.S. Schlosser’s excellent eye for detail, which he displayed in
his first book, “ Fast Food Nation ,” is also in evidence here.  He walks the reader -- albeit sometimes in dense prose
filed with PTS teams, RFHCO outfits, SRAM missiles and SIOP
plans --- through the post-World War II rivalries between
civilian agencies and military services for control of the
weapons. There were tensions between civilian technicians and
scientists who pushed for safer devices and the military, who
believed that safety often came at the expense of reliability.  I need to point out one historical misstep. In an
abbreviated discussion of why the atomic bombs were dropped on
 Japan , Schlosser quotes a memo former President  Herbert Hoover 
wrote to President Harry S. Truman that said an invasion could
cost between “500,000 and 1 million American lives.”  But Schlosser doesn’t mention that War Secretary Henry
Stimson asked a general to analyze Hoover’s memo, and was told
that the estimate “was entirely too high.”  Megaton Memory Lane  That incomplete reference aside, Schlosser takes  Baby
Boomers  of the “duck and cover” era down a Megaton Memory Lane
while providing a vivid primer for the Twitter generation on a
world where nuclear weapons were a fact of life to deter a
larger-than-life Soviet Union depicted as bent on world
domination.  Some of the gems from “Command and Control”:  The Air Force Strategic Air Command public-relations
machine allowed former bomber pilot Colonel  Jimmy Stewart  to
film the 1955 “Strategic Air Command” on actual SAC bases
after he met with cigar-chomping legend General Curtis LeMay.  Snowy Terrain  Rhinelander,  Wisconsin , “became one of SAC’s favorite
targets and it was secretly radar bombed hundreds of times
thanks to the snow-covered terrain resembling that of the Soviet
Union.”  The U.S. military at one point possessed 25 different types
of nuclear weapons -- ranging from missiles and warheads to the
one-kiloton Mark 54 Special Atomic Demolition Munition
“backpack bomb.”  As many as 17 states besides Arkansas had underground
launch complexes -- including  Colorado ,  Idaho ,  Kansas ,  Texas ,
 South Dakota  and  Montana .  In a book devoted to scaring the hell out of the reader
with tales of “accidents, miscalculations and mistakes,”
Schlosser ends his epic pop history on a balanced note:  “One crucial fact must be kept in mind: none of the
roughly 70,000 nuclear weapons built by the U.S. since 1945 has
ever detonated inadvertently or without proper authorization”
-- a “remarkable achievement.”  Still, “thousands of missiles are hidden away, literally
out of sight, topped with warheads and ready to go” -- and
“every one of them is an accident waiting to happen.”  “Command and Control” is published by Penguin Press (632
pages, $36.) To buy this book in North America, click  here .  (Tony Capaccio is the Pentagon reporter for  Bloomberg News .
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 