-- Merkel Party Leader Rules Out Coalition Talks With Anti-Euro AfD
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2013-09-19T14:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/merkel-party-leader-rules-out-coalition-talks-with-anti-euro-afd.html
A leading member of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union rejected coalition
talks after Sunday’s elections with the Alternative for  Germany 
party because of its anti-euro stance.  “I rule this out,”  Christine Lieberknecht , the prime
minister of Thuringia state and a member of the CDU’s national
executive committee, said in an interview today in her office in
Erfurt, in central Germany. It is “campaigning with populist
slogans that disqualify it from serving in a coalition,” she
said.  Lieberknecht made her comments on the same day that an INSA
poll for the first time showed the Alternative for Germany,
known by its German acronym, AfD, at the 5 percent threshold
needed to win seats in parliament. Previous polls had the AfD,
which wants  Greece  to leave the euro and opposes bailouts in the
17-nation currency bloc, below this hurdle.  “These are honorable people and I don’t want to deny their
democratic legitimacy,” Lieberknecht said, adding that AfD
members come from all political camps. Yet its “anti-EU policy
and its anti-euro policy are unacceptable,” she said.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc was unchanged at 38
percent and her Free Democratic partner gained two percentage
points to 6 percent, the INSA poll for today’s Bild newspaper
showed.  Social Democratic challenger  Peer Steinbrueck ’s SPD gained
a point to 28 percent, while his Green party allies dropped
three points to 8 percent. The anti-capitalist Left Party, with
which Steinbrueck says he won’t form a coalition, was up a point
to 9 percent. INSA surveyed 2,502 voters on Sept. 10-16. No
margin of error was given.  Merkel is running for a third term in Sept. 22 federal
elections. She currently has the FDP as junior partner and says
she wants to reprise this coalition for another four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Erfurt, Germany at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  