-- Merkel Seeks Mandate to Top Thatcher as Third-Term Risks Loom
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-09-19T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/merkel-seeks-mandate-to-top-thatcher-as-third-term-risks-loom.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is
headed toward risky territory as she completes her second term.  Neither  Margaret Thatcher  nor  Tony Blair  made it through
their third term. Even Helmut Kohl, the chancellor who presided
over German reunification, overcame a party revolt before
winning a third and fourth term.  Following elections in two days, Merkel, who polls show is
 Germany ’s most popular politician, faces the perils of a third
Greek bailout and the potential breakdown in her 550 billion-euro ($745 billion) energy overhaul. There’s also the inevitable
succession fight and sniping over her legacy.  “A third term will be the hardest for Merkel,” Ulrich Sarcinelli, a political scientist at the University of Koblenz-Landau, said by phone. “Questions will arise about who becomes
her heir-apparent and what her  Christian Democratic Union  stands
for as a party. As soon as her approval ratings decline, she
will also come under pressure within her party.”  Polls suggest the Sept. 22 election is Merkel’s to lose,
with Germans trusting her leadership, backing her austerity-first response to  Europe ’s debt crisis and crediting her for
economic gains. At campaign stops across the nation of 80.5
million, Merkel touts  unemployment  that fell to a two-decade low
on her watch, progress toward a balanced budget and the euro’s
advantages for Germany’s export-driven economy.  Merkel, 59, has already made history as Germany’s first
woman chancellor and the first who grew up in the ex-Communist
East. Re-election would give her the chance to beat Thatcher’s
11 years in power and Blair’s 10. Kohl made it through 16 years.  Accidential Politician  Merkel, a Lutheran pastor’s daughter who excelled in
school, was working as a researcher in a state physics lab when
East Germany opened its border to the West on Nov. 9, 1989. Soon
after, she walked into the office of a pro-democracy group to
help set up personal computers. Within months, she was deputy
spokeswoman for East Germany’s first and last freely elected
government, where she came to the attention of CDU envoys. When
East and  West Germany  merged and Kohl won the first post-unity
election, he gave her a cabinet post.  A political outsider, Merkel honed her ambition to succeed
as an eastern woman in a party dominated by West German men. In
one of her boldest moments, she broke with Kohl over a party
financing scandal in 2000. When Thatcher died in April, Merkel
eulogized her as an advocate of freedom for the former Soviet
bloc and an example for women striving for elected office.  Merkel, whose second husband is a fellow scientist, allowed
other personal glimpses during the campaign. At an event in May
sponsored by “Brigitte,” a women’s magazine, she talked about
unwinding “when I stir the pot on the stove” and how “nice
eyes” make men attractive.  Mission Vision  Still missing is a Kohl-like vision for Germany and Europe.
It’s a point criticized by  Peer Steinbrueck , her Social
Democratic challenger and first-term finance minister, who is
running on a platform of higher taxes and social justice.  Lagging in the polls, he says Merkel simply refuses to
spend political capital.  “All her predecessors in this office went for broke at
some point and risked something,” he said at a rally in the
western city of Wuppertal on Sept. 17. He cited  Gerhard Schroeder , whose labor-market overhaul she freely credits with
fixing the economy, and Kohl, who seized the opportunity of
reunification.  “Was there ever a time when Merkel said she won’t just
wait and observe and instead says: ‘I’m putting my
chancellorship on the line,’” Steinbrueck said.  Energy Costs  Those moments may come during a third Merkel term. The
energy overhaul, driven by subsidies for wind and solar power,
has jacked up electricity prices for homes and industry,
signaling a political and economic risk for Merkel.  The energy blueprint came after the Fukushima nuclear
disaster in 2011 prompted her to reverse course and back a
nuclear-free Germany. That aligned her with most voters.  Merkel says changing Germany’s renewable-energy law will be
her first priority if she wins re-election. That still leaves
the task of modernizing the  power grid , a project she calls a
matter of national pride, ingenuity and profit.  Also unfinished is the debt crisis and plans for a European
banking union, where Germany has balked at calls by the European
Commission and  European Central Bank  to set up a centralized
system for winding down banks.  Both Merkel and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
acknowledged during the campaign that  Greece  may need a third
bailout as early as next year.  Longevity Questioned  Bild, Germany’s most-read newspaper, reported in April that
Merkel had told confidants that 10 years is the most a
chancellor can stand, signaling she wouldn’t serve out her term
if re-elected. She denied the report.  Numerous heirs-apparent, such as former Environment
Minister Norbert Roettgen and  Roland Koch , the former state
premier of Hesse state who left politics to become chief
executive officer of builder  Bilfinger SE (GBF) , have dropped out
during Merkel’s 13 years as CDU head, felled by lost power
struggles or scandal.  One possible successor is Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen, a mother of seven who lived in the U.S. during the 1990s
and irked Merkel by saying euro countries should put up gold as
collateral for bailouts. Her father, Ernst Albrecht, was premier
of Lower Saxony state. Others include Defense Minister Thomas de Maiziere, Merkel’s former chief of staff.  Merkel’s Legacy  After eight years in power, Merkel’s legacy includes her
decision, hatched over months and announced almost off-hand in a
radio interview, to stamp out talk of a Greek exit from the euro
and avoid a breakup of the 17-nation currency. She abolished the
draft, expanded day care and, taking up a classic Social
Democratic theme, pushed through minimum-wage rules for
temporary and construction workers.  While the Die Welt newspaper calls her the “Iron
Chancellor,” Merkel is no Thatcher, differing from the “ Iron
Lady ” in her mistrust of financial markets, her pick-and-choose
approach to ties with the U.S. and preference for pragmatism
over ideology. Kohl’s longevity suggests that Germans may prefer
stability over change this year, too.  “Merkel’s weak point is the energy overhaul,” Sarcinelli
said. “That could become the toughest test of a third term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  