-- EU Mission Member Killed in Kosovo Shooting, EULEX Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-09-19T14:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/eu-mission-member-killed-in-kosovo-shooting-eulex-says.html
A member of the European Union’s
law-and-order mission was shot dead in  Kosovo  today after two of
the group’s vehicles came under fire.  Unknown assailants attacked the mission at around 7:30 a.m.
in the Serb-dominated Zvecan municipality as it headed to the
Jarinje border crossing, Irena Gudeljevic, the spokeswoman for
the group, known as EULEX, said by phone.  Police have sealed off the area and are investigating, she
said. The victim was from  Lithuania , according to a statement
from the office of EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton .  “The European Union is determined to continue its
engagement and commitment in Kosovo,” Ashton said. She appealed
to “all parties to redouble their efforts to implement the
agreements reached, to normalize relations and to improve the
lives of the people on the ground.”  Serbian Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  said the “extremist”
act may “endanger peace, stability and security in Kosovo.”
His deputy, Aleksandar Vucic, vowed a “fierce response” to
what he described as an “attack against  Serbia  and its people”
that was an attempt “to ruin everything” Serbia has achieved
on its path to improve its reputation and join the EU.  Serbia agreed in April to improve relations with Kosovo and
encourage Serbs living there to take part in elections and
institutions. The agreement was reached under EU pressure
against Serbia’s refusal to accept Kosovo’s 2008 secession.
Cooperation with Kosovo is vital for Serbia to be able to start
entry talks with the bloc.  The EU sent its rule-of-law mission to Kosovo in 2009, a
year after Kosovo unilaterally declared independence. It has
been recognized by 103 countries, including the U.S. and 23 of
28 EU members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  