-- Europe Stocks Rise to Five-Year High as Fed Resists Taper
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-09-19T16:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/european-stock-index-futures-climb-as-fed-resists-taper.html
European  stocks  rose to the highest
level in more than five years as the Federal Reserve
unexpectedly decided against slowing the pace of its monthly
bond purchases.  UniCredit SpA and Standard Chartered Plc climbed more than
2 percent each as a gauge of lenders advanced. Randgold
Resources Ltd. and Polymetal International Plc jumped at least 7
percent as the price of gold rallied.  Cie. Financiere Richemont
SA (CFR)  and Swatch Group AG added more than 1 percent as a report
showed Swiss watch exports increased last month.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.6 percent to 315.05,
the highest level since June 2008, at the close of trading,
after earlier surging as much as 1.2 percent. The equity
benchmark has risen 6 percent this month,  extending  its 2013
advance to 13 percent, as central banks around the world pledged
to maintain stimulus measures to support the global economy.  “I’m a bit surprised by the Fed’s decision to postpone
tapering,” said Pierre Mouton, who helps oversee $6 billion as
a portfolio manager at Notz, Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “It’s
possible that the Fed is afraid of seeing the housing recovery
jeopardized. Investors were pricing in a taper, hence the upside
reaction in markets today. It is not surprising, as investors
have become addicted to liquidity.”  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600-listed
companies was 35 percent greater than the 30-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The VStoxx Index, a measure of
expected volatility in euro-area stocks, slid 7.1 percent to its
lowest level in a month.  Fed Decision  The Fed yesterday refrained from reducing its $85 billion
of monthly bond purchases, saying it needs to see more
indications that the U.S. economy is improving sustainably.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the decision had
predicted that the central bank would start tapering stimulus
measures this month.  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said at a press conference in  Washington  after European markets
closed. “The committee has concern that rapid tightening of
financial conditions in recent months would have the effect of
slowing growth.”  Bernanke reiterated that a decision on slowing the pace of
asset purchases would depend on economic data, and that the Fed
has no set timetable. The central bank repeated its guidance
that its target interest rate will remain low for at least as
long as unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent, and the outlook for
inflation is no higher than 2.5 percent.  Paring Gains  European shares pared gains after a U.S. report today
showed that manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in
September at the fastest pace since March 2011. The Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic  index  jumped to
22.3 this month from 9.3 in August, while a gauge of the six-month outlook was the strongest in a decade.  “The market doesn’t want any good data from now on,” Ioan Smith, a strategist at KCG Europe Ltd. in  London , said in a
phone interview. “The most difficult part for investors is, how
can the market calibrate data-dependent policy that keeps
changing what it’s dependent on? The Fed keeps moving the goal
posts.”  National benchmark indexes gained in all 18 western
European markets today, except Iceland.  Germany ’s DAX rose 0.7
percent, extending a record. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 1 percent
and  France ’s CAC 40 climbed 0.9 percent.  Banks, Miners  UniCredit,  Italy ’s biggest bank, climbed 2.7 percent to
4.94 euros. Standard Chartered added 3.3 percent to 1,564 pence.
A gauge of European lenders increased 0.8 percent,  extending  its
rally since a June 24 low to 20 percent.  Randgold jumped 8.1 percent to 4,841 pence as gold extended
yesterday’s biggest gain in more than 15 months. Polymetal
surged 7.9 percent to 705.5 pence, the largest advance since
Aug. 16. Fresnillo Plc, which produces gold and silver in
 Mexico , rallied 6.1 percent to 1,069 pence.  A  gauge  of commodity producers posted the third-best
performance of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600.  Richemont, owner of the Cartier brand, climbed 2.1 percent
to 94.60 Swiss francs as a report showed watch exports rose 0.5
percent in August from a year earlier. Swatch, the biggest maker
of Swiss watches, gained 1.7 percent to 596.50 francs.  Scania AB (SCVB)  added 2.8 percent to 143.30 kronor after saying
European demand isn’t showing “seasonal weakness” in the
current quarter. The Swedish truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen
AG also reiterated its worldwide target of delivering 120,000
vehicles a year by 2020.  EADS Rises  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  rose 1.7 percent
to 47.25 euros, the highest price since it sold shares to the
public in 2000. Deutsche Lufthansa AG split an order for 59
wide-body aircraft valued at $19 billion between EADS unit
Airbus SAS and Boeing Co.  K+S AG, a German potash producer, dropped 3.5 percent to
20.67 euros. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. said global
markets for the crop nutrient are “paralyzed” following OAO
Uralkali’s withdrawal from a joint venture in Belarus.  Volkswagen preferred shares dropped 2.1 percent to 177.25
euros after Manager Magazin reported Europe’s largest automaker
may miss profit goals as costs climb and growth slows.  Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch is concerned
that the automaker won’t meet 2015 targets, the German monthly
magazine reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  “The suggestion that Volkswagen isn’t committed to its
targets is false,” the Wolfsburg-based carmaker said in an e-mailed statement. “Volkswagen completely stands behind its
statements about the future development of the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  