-- Euro Poised for Biggest Weekly Advance in Two Months
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-09-20T11:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/euro-near-7-month-high-before-consumer-confidence-pmi.html
The euro headed for its biggest
weekly advance in two months against the dollar before a
regional report that economists said will show  consumer
confidence  improved in September.  The shared currency was about 0.3 percent from the
strongest since 2009 versus the yen amid optimism the 17-nation
bloc is recovering. New Zealand’s dollar rose for a fifth day
after the central bank said last week higher interest rates will
probably be needed. Norway’s krone slid after the Norges Bank
left borrowing costs unchanged yesterday. A gauge of Asian
currencies was set for the biggest weekly gain in a year after
U.S. policy makers this week refrained from cutting stimulus.  “What we have right now is certainly the dollar on the
back foot after the Fed’s decision but over the past few months
the euro has had a little more gumption of its own,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in
 London . “This is in part a perception that the crisis is off
the boil. It’s also a reflection of the very good current
account position of the euro zone.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.3538 at 7:25 a.m.  New York 
time after climbing to $1.3569 yesterday, the highest level
since Feb. 7. The single currency was little changed at 134.57
yen after rising to 134.95 yesterday, the strongest since
November 2009. The yen was little changed at 99.41 per dollar.  The euro has gained 1.85 percent versus the dollar this
week, the most since the period ended July 12.  Recovery Signs  An  index  of household confidence in the euro area climbed
to minus 14.5 in September, the most since July 2011, from minus
15.6 in August, according to a Bloomberg survey before today’s
European Commission report. Markit Economics will say Sept. 23
its gauges of manufacturing and services activity based on a
survey of purchasing managers rose both expanded this month,
separate Bloomberg surveys showed.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi will address
the European Parliament on Sept. 23. He has refrained from
printing euros to buy bonds, contrasting with the Federal
Reserve, which decided to maintain monthly asset purchases at
$85 billion at a two-day meeting ended Sept. 18. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast the U.S. central bank to
reduce monthly Treasury purchases by $5 billion.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George, Minneapolis Fed
President Narayana Kocherlakota, and St. Louis Fed President
James Bullard will separately give speeches today. George
dissented for the sixth Federal Open Market Committee meeting in
a row this week, repeating that the policy risks creating
financial imbalances.  ‘Could Taper’  “I still think there’s a chance that the Fed could taper
in December,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst at IG Markets
Securities Ltd. in  Tokyo . Chairman Ben S. Bernanke “is likely
to set up a path for policy normalization before he departs from
his post. Whether dollar-yen can retest the 100 level depends on
economic data in the U.S.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, was little changed at 1,011.13. The
gauge, which closed at a seven-month low of 1,008.28 on Sept.
18, has fallen 1.2 percent this week.  The euro has risen 4.1 percent in the past six months, the
second-best performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen lost 4.9
percent, while the dollar fell 1.1 percent.  Cutting Estimates  Adidas AG, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
reduced the low end of its profit forecast yesterday, partly
because of the strength of the euro, which has caused analysts
to cut profit estimates in recent weeks.  Germany  will hold federal elections on Sunday. An INSA
opinion poll published yesterday showed both the opposition
Social Democrats and Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led
group will fall short of a majority with their preferred
coalition partners.  The euro may weaken if the anti-euro Alliance for Germany
party reaches the 5 percent threshold of the national vote
needed to win parliamentary seats, according to Thomas Kressin,
head of European foreign exchange at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Munich.  The New Zealand dollar headed for a third weekly gain,
extending its advance since the Reserve Bank said on Sept. 12
that interest-rate increases may be required next year from the
all-time low of 2.5 percent as inflation picks up.  The kiwi rose 0.2 percent to 83.93 U.S cents after climbing
to 84.36 yesterday, the strongest since May 9. It has
strengthened 3.2 percent this week.  Krone Slides  Norway’s krone dropped 1 percent to 7.9671 per euro and
declined 0.9 percent to 5.8855 per dollar.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index (ADXY) , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, climbed
0.7 percent this week to 116.05, the biggest increase since the
period ended Sept. 14, 2012.  Malaysia’s ringgit led the advance as the Fed’s decision
fueled demand for emerging-market assets.  The ringgit strengthened 4 percent this week to 3.1652 per
dollar, The Thai baht appreciated 2.9 percent to 30.966, and the
Indonesian rupiah rallied 0.5 percent to 11,350.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  