-- Ex-Countrywide President Plans Mortgage Bonds at PennyMac
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-09-19T18:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ex-countrywide-president-plans-mortgage-bond-return-at-pennymac.html
PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust (PMT) ,
run by former Countrywide Financial Corp. executives, is
planning its first sale of home-loan securities without
government backing.  The deal is tied to $550.5 million of prime jumbo loans,
representing a pool with “substantial borrower equity in each
mortgaged property,” Kroll Bond Rating Agency said today in a
statement.  The firm, led by former Countrywide President Stanford Kurland, is entering the market as JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
predict sales will continue a slowdown that started last month.
Originations of jumbo loans for securitizations are being
reduced by higher  interest rates  and by investors demanding
higher relative yields on the bonds, Kurland, PennyMac’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said Aug. 8 on a
conference call.  “In the short term, this has resulted in a somewhat
diminished jumbo opportunity,” Kurland, who left Countrywide in
2006, said on the call. “We remain optimistic that there is
considerable opportunity for jumbo loans and private-label
securitization to expand.”  Countrywide, the largest mortgage lender at the time,
ranked as the top issuer of mortgage bonds known as non-agency
securities from 2005 through 2007, when the worst-performing of
the debt that would later create a global financial crisis was
sold, according to Inside MBS & ABS, an industry newsletter.  Investor Lawsuits  The lender, which was bought in 2008 by Bank of America
Corp., created $405 billion of the bonds in those years. Bank of
America now is seeking to settle claims that investors were
misled about the quality of the underlying loans for $8.5
billion under an agreement requiring court approval.  Sales of non-agency securities have been building after
freezing five years ago amid tumbling  home values  and soaring
defaults, following issuance of $1.2 trillion in each of 2005
and 2006. Deals tied to new loans total about $12 billion this
year, up from $3.5 billion in all of last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jumbo home loans are ones larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in high-cost areas. For  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for most types of
borrowers, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  Crimping Opportunities  Banks including  Wells Fargo & Co . and JPMorgan have been
offering jumbo loans at rates less than available on traditional
debt, crimping opportunities for bond creators. JPMorgan analyst
 John Sim  cited competition from “asset-starved banks” in
cutting his 2013 forecast for issuance to “closer to” $15
billion, from $20 billion, in a Sept. 13 report.  Potential reductions in size limits for government mortgage
programs may help boost sales to $50 billion next year, he
wrote.  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit is managing the
transaction for PennyMac, which is based in Calabasas,
 California , where Countrywide also had its headquarters. Kevin Chamberlain, a PennyMac spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
telephone call for comment.  ‘Diversified Group’  While loan-to-value ratios on the underlying  mortgages  in
its deal average 69.7 percent, “a substantial margin of safety
against potential home-price declines,” they are the highest in
any transaction rated by Kroll, which started assigning grades
after the crisis, according to its pre-sale report.  PennyMac bought the mortgages from a “diversified group of
originators,” led by Amerisave Mortgage Corp. and Guaranteed
Rate Inc., Kroll said. The large group “increases exposure to
the underwriting standards and processes of originators with
limited jumbo mortgage loan performance history,” the firm
said.  Clayton Holdings LLC conducted an “independent” review of
the files of all of the debt, and found that “for vast majority
of the loans, there were either no material exceptions to
underwriting guidelines or there were generally adequate
compensating factors for the exceptions found,” Kroll said.  Kroll said it expects to grant AAA ratings to $507.8
million of notes with protection against loan losses of 7.75
percent, credit enhancement created by items such as other bonds
suffering writedowns first. Borrower credit scores average 770,
compared with cut-offs ranging from 620 to 680 for debt known as
subprime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  