-- Ex-House Leader DeLay’s Money Laundering Verdicts Tossed
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-09-19T22:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ex-house-leader-tom-delay-has-money-laundering-conviction-tossed.html
Tom DeLay, the former Republican
congressman from  Texas  and one of the most powerful leaders of
the U.S. House in modern times, won a reversal of his conviction
for money laundering from a state appeals court in Austin.  The evidence against DeLay, who was convicted of
mishandling campaign funds in a 2002 election, was insufficient
to support the guilty verdict, State Appellate Justice Melissa
Godwin said today in a split decision by a three-judge panel of
the Texas criminal appellate court.  “This is an outrageous criminalization of politics and I’m
so glad they wrote the ruling” the way they did, DeLay said
today in the Capitol in Washington.  Delay said he had been praying at a nearby location known
as the “C Street house” used by religious Republican lawmakers
when he received word of the appeals court decision. He added
that he raised and spent more than $12 million on legal fees.  DeLay, 66, from the Houston suburb of  Sugar Land , was
convicted in 2010 of money laundering tied to campaign-finance
laws that require corporate and individual donations to be kept
separate and used only for approved purposes.  DeLay, a former exterminator whose political nickname was
The Hammer, stepped down as house majority leader when he was
indicted in 2005. He dropped his re-election bid and resigned
from Congress after winning his party’s primary in 2006.  The Travis County District Attorney’s office, which
prosecuted DeLay, said in a statement it will ask the full Texas
Court of Criminal Appeals to review the decision.  Corporate Donations  Political opponents accused DeLay of illegally routing
corporate donations to candidates for the Texas Legislature in
an effort to stack the chamber with Republicans who would draw
new boundaries for U.S. congressional districts.  Melanie Sloan , executive director of Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, said in a statement
that “during his time in Congress, no one did more to undermine
federal and state campaign finance laws than Tom DeLay.”  “It is a sad day for all Americans when Tom DeLay -- one
of the most corrupt politicians to ever walk the halls of the
Capitol -- once again slithers away,” Sloan said.  Dick DeGuerin, DeLay’s trial attorney, said in reaction to
the ruling that “someone finally listened to what we’ve been
saying all along. All the transactions were legal, and you can’t
add up a bunch of legal transactions to get an unlawful one.”  DeLay has been working on “conservative grassroots
issues” and lobbying politicians from his office in  Washington 
while his case was on appeal, DeGuerin said in an interview.  In September 2009, the ex-congressman appeared as a
contestant on the ABC reality show “Dancing With the Stars.”  ‘Political Career’  “Even though we won, eight years after we said this wasn’t
a crime, this destroyed Tom’s political career and his future.
How does he ever get his reputation back?” DeGuerin said.  DeLay was sentenced to three years in prison, which the
trial judge reduced to 10 years of community supervision.  On reviewing DeLay’s convictions, the appeals court said
Texas failed to prove the campaign contributions he directed to
specific candidates were illegally obtained, as required under
 money-laundering  statutes.  Jurors were confused by that point during DeLay’s trial,
Godwin said in the ruling, and they twice asked the judge for
clarification on the law. The judge refused to provide further
guidance, she said.  “The jury should not have been placed in the uncomfortable
position of trying to decide what the law is, which is not their
job,” Godwin said in the ruling. The jurors’ questions “point
to the lack of evidence showing that the funds involved in the
transaction were the proceeds of criminal activity.”  The case is DeLay v. Texas, 03-11-00087, Texas Court of
Appeals, Third District (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  