-- Exchanges’ Credit Ratings at Risk Amid Computer Errors
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-09-19T20:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/exchanges-credit-ratings-at-risk-amid-computer-errors-s-p-says.html
Technical malfunctions at stock
exchanges around the world are putting their owners’ credit
ratings in jeopardy, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  Following outages at firms including  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc.
and  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , S&P’s Olga Roman said today in a
report that industry debt ratings could be reduced in the next
few years because of damaged reputations.  The rise of computer trading and increased number of venues
has left the equities market vulnerable to disruption,
increasing pressure on regulators to demand infrastructure
improvements. In August, a computer bug at Nasdaq prompted a
three-hour halt for thousands of U.S. shares.  “The recent preponderance of technical glitches at
exchanges underscore a gradual rise in operational risk for this
industry over the past five to seven years,” Roman wrote in the
report. “The recent series of technical problems suggests that
stock exchanges -- as opposed to futures or derivative exchanges
-- have become more prone to operational risk. They have also
drawn regulatory attention that is likely to result in tougher
regulatory standards and oversight.”  Following Nasdaq’s outage, U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Jo White met with the exchange chief
executive officers in  Washington  to discuss ways to prevent
breakdowns. She told them to collaborate on bolstering their
technology and eliminating single points of failure.  Roman said three reasons explain why there have been more
technical problems for  stock exchanges : increased competition,
changes to the market’s structure and the rise of computer
trading.  More Complexity  U.S. markets became more complicated after the SEC’s
Regulation NMS was implemented in 2007, fragmenting equities
trading across more than 50 venues. Coupled with faster and more
sophisticated use of computers, it has created conditions where
one market’s fault can shut all venues at once.  “While technology is becoming more sophisticated and trade
execution more efficient, this also increases the complexity of
exchange operations,” Roman said in the report. “In our
opinion, faster trade speed and greater interconnectivity are
amplifying the impact of operational glitches when they occur.”  Besides Nasdaq’s shutdown last month, other recent glitches
include  Singapore Exchange ’s April malfunction that delayed
derivatives trading for about three hours and Bats Global
Markets Inc.’s inability to get its own  stock trading  following
the company’s March 2012 initial public offering.  While none of these malfunctions have been enough to
persuade S&P to change its ratings, further errors could prompt
action, Roman said.  “We haven’t lowered any ratings as a result of these
issues so far, but exchanges whose operational risk exceeds
industry averages could see rating actions down the road,” she
said. “With competition heating up, the ability to ensure
seamless operations could go a long way toward determining which
exchanges will come out on top.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  