-- Exxon, BP and BG Decline to Bid for Brazil’s Biggest Field
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-09-19T16:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/exxon-bp-and-bg-decline-to-bid-for-brazil-s-biggest-field.html
Three of the world’s top 20 oil
companies by market value didn’t submit bids for  Brazil ’s
largest oil field amid lower-than-expected interest in the
deposit, the head of the country’s oil regulator said.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  BG Group (BG/)  didn’t register for
the Libra field before yesterday’s deadline, Magda Chambriard,
the head of Brazil’s oil regulator, told reporters in Rio de
Janeiro today. The number of participants was less than half of
the more than 40 companies expected by the regulator, Chambriard
said. At least a dozen companies registered, she said.  While Exxon, BP and BG didn’t bid because of “company-specific reasons,” the trio are still interested in a presence
in Brazil, Chambriard said, without elaborating. The companies
called to inform her of their decisions, she said.  Brazil is auctioning Libra, estimated to hold as much as 12
billion barrels of recoverable crude, under a new model for the
so-called pre-salt region where state-controlled  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR3)  is guaranteed operating control of new projects.
Libra will be auctioned under a profit-sharing model where
Petrobras and its partners will give the government at least
41.65 percent of production after deducting enough output to
cover costs. The government will choose the group that offers
the most so-called profit oil.  ‘Potential Opportunities’  “After reviewing this opportunity, we decided not to
participate in the Libra bid round,” Patrick McGinn, an Exxon
Mobil spokesman, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “We
continually look for new exploration and development
opportunities around the world where we can leverage our
experience and technology, and we look forward to evaluating
potential opportunities in Brazil.”  BP and BG didn’t immediately reply to e-mails seeking
comment. Exxon, BP and BG all won acreage in Brazil’s most
recent auction in May when it sold onshore and offshore licenses
on the coast of northeastern Brazil.  UBS AG expected “low interest” in the auction, analysts
led by Lilyanna Yang said in a Sept. 4 note to clients. It will
take until 2021 to start selling crude from Libra, about two
years longer than ANP estimates, and higher-than-expected levels
of natural gas at the field will increase extraction costs, the
UBS analysts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  