-- FBI’s Comey Says Navy Shooter Didn’t Target Specific Person
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o ,   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-09-19T19:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/fbi-s-comey-says-navy-shooter-didn-t-target-any-specific-person.html
FBI Director James Comey said
evidence suggests that Navy Yard shooter Aaron Alexis carried
out his rampage without targeting a particular person and
there’s no sign that he had accomplices.  The Sept. 16 shootings left 12 people dead, not counting
Alexis, who was killed by security personnel. Comey said that
yesterday he visited the team that is gathering evidence at the
Navy Yard building where the shootings occurred, and that he had
reviewed videos.  “It appears to me that he was wandering the halls and
hunting people to shoot,” Comey told reporters at the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation headquarters in  Washington  today. “He
appears to be moving without particular direction or purpose,”
and didn’t seem to be “looking for a particular person or a
particular group.”  Alexis, a 34-year-old Navy contractor, entered the Naval
Sea Systems Command headquarters with a valid pass and had a
secret clearance even though he had an arrest record, a troubled
military career and a history of mental illness. U.S. Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel acknowledged yesterday that the military
failed to pick up “red flags” in Alexis’s background.  Hagel said authorities would investigate and plug holes in
security at facilities worldwide, and weaknesses in the
clearance procedures that allow access to them.  Motive Sought  Comey, 52, who took office Sept. 4 to serve a 10-year-term
at the FBI, said investigators haven’t determined whether Alexis
said anything during the shootings or whether he had any
grievances about his job.  “We’re attempting to understand as best we can his life up
until the moment of that shooting, which would include whether
there were issues related to work,” the FBI director said.  Alexis entered the Navy building with a Remington 870
shotgun that was sawed off at both ends -- the barrel and the
stock, Comey said. He went to a fourth-floor restroom carrying a
bag, and came out without the bag and carrying the shotgun, the
director said.  Almost immediately, Alexis began shooting people on the
fourth floor, then on the third floor and then he went to the
lobby, where he shot a security guard and took the guard’s
Beretta semi-automatic pistol, Comey said. After Alexis ran out
of ammunition for the shotgun, he began shooting with the
pistol, the director said.  ‘Sustained Exchange’  Security officials cornered Alexis and there was a
“sustained exchange” of gunfire in which he was killed, Comey
said. The director said he couldn’t characterize what wounds
Alexis suffered or how many.  The Department of  Veterans Affairs  said yesterday that
Alexis twice requested emergency treatment for insomnia in the
month before the shooting. That was just a few weeks after he
had summoned police to his  Rhode Island  hotel room complaining
that he was hearing voices and being stalked by unseen harassers
-- prompting a concerned officer to alert the local naval
station.  There’s no evidence any of the incidents set off alarms.
The Navy has found no sign that the police officer’s warning was
communicated up the chain of command, a Navy official said
yesterday, speaking on condition of anonymity about a continuing
investigation. The VA said Alexis told its doctors he wasn’t
having thoughts about harming himself or others.  Shooter’s Possessions  Comey declined to say when Alexis decided to carry out the
shootings, and he didn’t disclose what information investigators
have found among his possessions, including electronics.  “We’re doing a lot of work to understand” that
information, the FBI director said. He also said the FBI’s
behavioral unit would study this case and others to try to find
ways to identify potential mass shooters before they act.  “Are there things, are there flags, are there markers that
would be of use to preventing tragedies like this?” Comey said.
“I don’t know the answer to that at this point.”  As federal  law enforcement  and military officials carried
out sweeping inquiries into the shooting, Republican Senator
 Kelly Ayotte  of  New Hampshire  wrote to Navy Secretary Ray Mabus
today asking why Alexis received an honorable discharge even
though he had a “pattern of misconduct.”  “Had Alexis received a general discharge, future employers
would have been more likely to give his background extra
scrutiny,” Ayotte, a member of the Armed Services Committee,
wrote. “This additional scrutiny may have helped potential
employers identify Alexis’ reported arrests in three states and
better informed their hiring decisions.”  Military Security  Hagel yesterday told reporters at the Pentagon that there
would be separate reviews, by the Defense Department and an
independent panel, of military facility security and the
clearance process.  “Where there are gaps, we will close them; where there are
inadequacies, we will address them; and where there are
failures, we will correct them,” the defense secretary said.  President  Barack Obama  plans to attend a memorial service
on Sept. 22 to honor those killed at the Navy Yard.  Alexis’s mother in  New York  released a statement yesterday
apologizing to the families of her son’s victims, saying she was
heartbroken.  “Aaron is now in a place where he can no longer do harm to
anyone, and for that I am glad,” Cathleen Alexis said in the
statement, according to audio posted by NBC News on its website.  Warning Signs  Warning signs were surfacing as recently as a few weeks
before the rampage in southeast Washington.  Alexis called police to a Newport, Rhode Island, hotel room
early Aug. 7 to report that he believed three people had been
sent “to follow him and keep him awake by talking to him and
sending vibrations into his body,” according to a police
incident report. He told the responding officers he was a naval
contractor and said he thought the people had been sent to
harass him by a stranger with whom he’d argued.  An officer who approved the incident report was concerned
enough about the episode and Alexis’s stated connection to the
Navy to notify the Naval Station Police, he wrote in a
subsequent report. “Based on the Naval Base implications” and
Alexis’s claim that he was “hearing voices,” that officer
wrote, he contacted on-duty Naval Station Police personnel and
faxed a copy of the incident report.  A public affairs officer at Naval Station Newport referred
questions to the FBI. Jacqueline Maguire, an FBI spokeswoman,
said the agency was aware of the police report.  Misconduct Reprimands  Alexis was born in  New York City  and enlisted in the Navy
in 2007. He was granted a secret-level clearance in March 2008,
according to a defense official. While in the Navy, he was
reprimanded at least eight times for misconduct, including
extended, unauthorized absences, according to another defense
official.  He asked to leave the Navy and was honorably discharged in
January 2011, according to a Navy official who asked not to be
identified discussing personnel matters. Alexis kept his
clearance, which was good for 10 years, and wasn’t subject to a
reinvestigation, one of the defense officials said.  At the time of the shooting, Alexis was employed by a
subcontractor of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , on a contract to upgrade
equipment on the Navy Marine Corps Intranet network, according
to a statement by Michael Thacker, a company spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  