-- Fed May Carry Yen to Weakest in Five Years: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-09-19T18:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/fed-may-carry-yen-to-weakest-in-five-years-technical-analysis.html
The yen may fall to a five-year low
versus the  U.S. dollar  as the  Federal Reserve ’s decision not to
trim asset purchases boosts its funding-currency appeal,
according to Bank of America Corp., citing technical indicators.  The yen’s failure to break through key resistance at 97.94
per dollar yesterday confirmed a dollar-yen bull trade that will
see the pair test 106 and then 109.80, which would be the yen’s
weakest level since August 2008, according to  MacNeil Curry ,
head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical strategy
in  New York  at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Japan ’s currency will be used to fund a recovering carry
trade, in which investors borrow in low-interest-rate currencies
to buy higher-yielding assets, Curry said.  “The resumption of the carry trade and the appeal of the
yen as a funding currency are big drivers behind the yen being
weaker than the dollar,” Curry said in a telephone interview.
“It’s bullish that we held resistance and rebounded.”  The yen, the only one of the dollar’s 16 most-traded
counterparts to fall over the past month, decreased 1.3 percent
to 99.22 per dollar in New York. It earlier slipped as much as
1.7 percent, the most since Aug. 1.  The Fed’s decision not to trim the amount of money being
pumped into the  U.S. economy  has prompted investors to seek
higher-yielding assets, pushing the UBS AG V24 Carry Index up
1.2 percent today, the most since August 2011.  The surprise move also convinced Bank of America to change
its view that the dollar would strengthen against Group of 10
and emerging-markets currencies. “However, there is one
exception,” Curry wrote. “Dollar/yen is bullish.”  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index. Resistance refers to an
area on a chart where sell orders may be clustered, and support
is an area where there may be buy orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  