-- Fed Reprieve Widens Asia’s Window for Reform as Growth Slows
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-09-19T08:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/fed-reprieve-widens-asia-s-window-for-reform-as-growth-slows.html
The Federal Reserve’s decision to
postpone its rollback of U.S. stimulus offered Asian policy
makers extra time to address domestic economic fragilities as
the region copes with diminished capital inflows.  “The policy adjustment at the Fed is going to happen” at
some point, World Bank Managing Director Sri Mulyani Indrawati
said in an interview today in Bali, where finance ministers from
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation are meeting. Knowing how
markets will react when that occurs, many emerging markets need
to persist with structural reforms, she said.  The Fed’s move spurred a rally in stocks and currencies
from India to  Indonesia , where officials in recent months have
had to take steps including raising some interest rates to stem
an outflow of capital. The reprieve still leaves India with the
challenge of opening more industries to foreign investment,
Indonesia with domestic infrastructure weaknesses,  Malaysia  with
a persistent budget deficit and the  Philippines  with its anti-corruption campaign unfinished.  “The fact that the money train will continue for a while
means the risk of a hard-landing or a balance of payments crisis
has been greatly reduced, if not averted,”  Frederic Neumann ,
co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong
Kong, wrote in a note today. “Policy makers in Asia will need
to use this brief window to implement structural reforms to put
Asian growth on a more sustainable path.”  Stocks Rally  Rising shares across the region sent the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index up 2.2 percent as of 4:53 p.m. in  Tokyo . Indonesia’s
rupiah rose 1.7 percent against the dollar and the Indian rupee
was up more than 2 percent. The Fed yesterday said it wants more
evidence of an economic recovery before paring its $85 billion-a-month bond buying program, surprising analysts who predicted a
$5 billion cut to purchases of Treasuries.  Emerging markets  must continue reforms while waiting for
the Fed’s policy shift, Indonesian Finance Minister Chatib Basri
said in a separate interview today.  “We cannot prevent the Fed from doing the scale back,” he
said in Bali, Indonesia. “It is absolutely their policy
decision, but if they can communicate in a better way with
emerging markets, with Europe, we would end up with a much
better situation” of less turmoil for developing nations, while
a clear road map or timetable for easing would allow policy
makers to anticipate, the minister said.  Rate Increase  Indonesian growth won’t be less than 5 percent in the next
one to two years, even as Southeast Asia’s biggest economy must
accept slower expansion to narrow the current-account deficit,
Basri said. Smaller growth may come from higher central bank
interest rates, he said.  Bank Indonesia last week unexpectedly raised its benchmark
rate for the fourth time since early June to support a weakening
exchange rate.  India  will decide on its benchmark interest rates
tomorrow, with all economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicting the central bank will keep borrowing costs unchanged.  “It is business as usual for us,” Arvind Mayaram,
economic affairs secretary in India’s finance ministry, told
reporters in New Delhi today when asked about the Fed’s decision.
“We will have to continue with structural reforms and not
overly depend on the Fed. We have to continue deepening our
reforms.”  India’s Response  The rupee sank to an all-time low 68.845 per dollar on Aug.
28, hurt by the possibility of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus
and a current-account deficit that reached a record during the
last fiscal year. The Reserve Bank of India raised two interest
rates in July to curb short-term money flows, and Governor
Raghuram Rajan announced concessional swaps for banks’ foreign-currency deposits after taking office earlier this month.  Infrastructure bottlenecks, electricity shortages, unclear
rules for acquiring land and excessive bureaucracy are among
structural issues holding back companies from investing in India.
While the government has moved to allow more overseas investment
in pension funds, it has struggled to introduce a goods and
services tax that would broaden the revenue base.  “The Fed’s dovish tone does provide some breathing space,
but that’s all it really is,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a
research note. “Recent history suggests that global risk can
turn on a dime. We therefore expect the RBI to begin easing
policy incrementally tomorrow but not be lured into a knee-jerk
overreaction that could cause some nervousness in the foreign-exchange market.”  Unconventional Policy  The Fed’s decision shows how hard it is for a central bank
to unwind an unconventional monetary policy, Bank of  Japan 
policy board member Takahide Kiuchi said today in Hokkaido,
northern Japan.  The BOJ in April embarked on unprecedented easing, ramping
up purchases of Japanese government bonds and risk assets in a
bid to end 15 years of deflation in the world’s third-biggest
economy. By roughly doubling Japan’s monetary base over two
years to the end of 2014, the central bank aims to achieve a 2
percent inflation target.  Some emerging markets might have preferred earlier Fed
tapering.  Luciano Coutinho ,  Brazil ’s state development bank
president, said yesterday he expects currency volatility to
increase.  “For us, the sooner it starts and ends, the better,”
Coutinho said in an interview at the Bloomberg headquarters in
New York. “I would rather see it start today and have some date
to finish because then we will feel the whole impact. The worst
thing is the uncertainty.”  BRIC Collaboration  Brazil and Indonesia have embarked on a series of rate
increases to buoy the real and rupiah. The so-called BRIC
countries, which also include China and  Russia , along with South
Africa pledged this month in St. Petersburg to create a $100
billion pool of currency reserves to guard against shocks from
the withdrawal of stimulus.  “Countries will do what they feel they need to do,”
Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-mail today. “Unfortunately, some economies are large enough that
their policies to address internal concerns invariably affect
others and have spillovers. This is why there has been a general
move towards greater communication among policy makers.”  Smaller economies can prepare for the impact of decisions
by larger countries, and Asian emerging nations have seen
reserves build-up, structural reforms to improve capital markets,
increased intra-Asian trade, and a move toward strengthening
regional consultation, he said.  “We can’t be complacent because the Fed’s priority is their
economy,” even as the U.S. authority has paid more attention to
its impact on emerging markets in the last three years, Bank of
Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said. “We need to take
care of ourselves and try to strengthen our economy in case the
Fed’s action has a strong impact on either inflows or outflows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  