-- Fed Birth Pared Returns as New Century Looms: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-09-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/fed-birth-pared-returns-as-new-century-looms-cutting-research.html
The creation of the Federal Reserve
100 years ago helped develop a new world of investing in which
bond returns fell, and the start of its next century may also
mark a new era in monetary policy making, says Deutsche Bank AG.  Returns on 10-year Treasury notes adjusted for inflation
were about an annualized 4.5 percent in the 100 years before the
Fed and less than 2 percent in the 100 years after the Fed was
born on Dec. 23, 1913, according to the study, released Sept. 12
by strategists including London-based Jim Reid. The return on
equities as measured by the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was
largely the same over the two periods, at about 7 percent.  The Fed has had a “fairly large” influence on prices: The
consumer price index ran 3 percent higher per year under the
central bank than it was in the 100 years before, the authors
said. That means while annual growth has been higher than in the
previous century on a nominal basis, it’s almost 2 percentage
points a year lower, at about 3 percent, when inflation is
accounted for.  “The ‘Fed era’ coincided with the U.S. moving from a
rapidly growing economy to one that was both more mature and the
largest in the world,” the Deutsche report said.  The Fed’s second century may start more actively than
investors are assuming, the strategists said. That’s because it
and other central banks may need to do more to boost nominal
gross domestic product, which at a global level is the weakest
since the 1930s when measured on a five-year moving average.  In the past six years, the world economy has potentially
lost $41 trillion when its performance is compared to the pre-crisis trend, Deutsche said.  With asset markets performing better than economies, policy
makers now may need to rethink how monetary policy is distilled
and suspend quantitative easing programs, the report said. The
biggest six central banks have spent $7.5 trillion since
September 2008.  “Globally the next few years may bring politicians and
central bankers closer together and monetary policy that
directly targets growth over financial assets,” Reid and
colleagues said. “Many global assets have been inflated by QE
and central banks may need to spend the next few years
engineering higher nominal GDP to justify such valuations.”  * * *  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was insolvent and U.S.
authorities had good reason to let it fail, according to a new
 analysis  of its accounts.  While the 2008 collapse of the then-fourth biggest
securities firm helped trigger a financial crisis and recession,
William R. Cline and Joseph E. Gagnon of the Peterson Institute
for International Economics found the bank also lacked
collateral to pledge in return for aid.  The assets it did have were of questionable quality and
scattered across the world, they said in a report released last
week to mark the fifth anniversary of the Sept. 15 bankruptcy
filing. When Lehman filed for bankruptcy its net worth was as
much as a negative $200 billion, they said.  Other institutions saved during the crisis, such as Bear
Stearns Cos. and  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , were
“arguably solvent” and so the Fed could better play its role
as a lender of last resort, Cline and Gagnon found. European
officials including then-French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde were among those to criticize the failure of the U.S. to
save Lehman.  In a Sept. 17 entry on his blog, Brad DeLong, a professor
at the University of California, Berkeley, took issue with the
analysis, calling the bankruptcy a “disaster” that could have
been avoided if policy makers had acted sooner to press Lehman
into finding a buyer.  * * *  A tightening of monetary policy by the Fed isn’t a barrier
to economic growth and employment, if history is any guide.  In six of the last seven periods of higher interest rates
dating back to 1976, economic growth was still strong two years
after rate expectations began to build, according to ABN Amro
Bank NV economists including Peter de Bruin.  Private employment grew an average of 200,000 per month
even though the 10-year Treasury note yield rose by an average
of 160 basis points in the 180 days after each of the rate
increases came to the fore, the Sept. 18 report said. Equities,
commodities, the dollar and gold typically did well, it said.  ABN Amro’s baseline scenario is for history to repeat
itself as the Fed begins tapering its quantitative easing
program. The U.S. economy will accelerate in coming quarters and
there will be gains in equities and the dollar, the economists
said. A difference from the past is that commodities, especially
gold, may face headwinds.  * * *  The media’s importance to financial markets is reflected in
what happens to trading when journalists strike.  A  study  of 52 national newspaper strikes in four countries
between 1989 and 2010 found trading volume fell 12 percent on
stoppage days and the dispersion of stock returns was reduced by
7 percent, said Joel Peress of INSEAD business school in
Fontainebleau,  France .  “These findings demonstrate that the media contribute to
the efficiency of the stock market by improving the
dissemination of information among investors and its
incorporation into stock prices,” Peress said in a paper
published this week by the London-based Centre for Economic
Policy Research.  * * *  The U.S. could create a sovereign wealth fund that would be
worth more than $3 trillion after two decades if it saved a
portion of tax revenue from its recently discovered shale oil
and gas reserves.  That would be about four times Norway’s fund, the world’s
largest, estimate Stephen Jen and Joana Freire of SLJ Macro
Partners LLP in London.  The argument for saving, as  Norway  did with its oil
revenue, rather than spending income from crude, as the U.K.
did, is the potential for greater investment returns. Doing so
supports the wealth of future generations rather than the
lifestyle of the current one, they said.  “Unfortunately, more likely than not, the U.S. will spend
the tax proceeds from this energy bonanza,” Jen and Freire
said.  * * *  German drinkers are unlikely to choke at higher beer prices
at this year’s Oktoberfest, according to UniCredit Group.  Using data going back to 1980, economist Alexander Koch
estimates an elasticity of demand for beer from one year to
another during the festival of 0.3, which suggests price changes
have little effect on demand.  “Beer at the Oktoberfest therefore falls into the category
of Giffen paradoxes, which describes goods where demand
increases at the same time as the price,” he said in a Sept. 17
report.  The annual event begins in Munich tomorrow. The average
price of a “Mass,” or mug, of beer this year is 9.66 euros.
That translates into an increase of 3.6 percent from a year ago,
Koch said.  Combining transportation and food with the price of two
beers, a visitor price index devised by Koch has shown an
average annual increase of 4 percent since 1985, more than
double the 1.9 percent rate of German  consumer price inflation .
Even so, beer consumption rose again last year, he said.  “Obviously, entering the Oktoberfest site and drinking a
Mass makes Germans less price sensitive and reduces their
inflation fears,” Koch said. “That definitely deserves a
celebratory ’Prost!’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  