-- Flanders Said to Get Bids From Vitol, Shell in Carbon Tender
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-09-19T13:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/flanders-said-to-get-bids-from-vitol-shell-in-un-carbon-tender.html
The Belgian region of Flanders
received offers from 18 companies including Vitol Group SA and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to sell it carbon offsets via a purchase
tender, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The companies made 19 separate offers, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the tender
process is confidential. Participants in the tender that closed
Sept. 13 were asked to offer as many as 20 million Certified
Emission Reductions or Emission Reduction Units in four
tranches, according to  documents  published by the Flemish energy
and environment department.  Developed nations need to surrender by March 2015 enough
carbon permits and offsets issued under the Kyoto Protocol to
match their greenhouse-gas emissions from 2008 through 2012.
Under  Belgium ’s plan to meet its target, the regions of
Wallonia, Flanders and the capital Brussels have separate
emissions-cutting goals.  Alcogroup, Electrabel SA and  Electricite de France SA (EDF) ’s
trading unit also participated in the tender, according to the
people.  Fabian Gmuender, a spokesman for Vitol at Cohn & Wolfe in
Geneva, said yesterday by telephone that the company doesn’t
comment on daily market activities. Ross Whittam, a spokesman at
Shell in London, declined to comment when contacted by telephone
today. Olivier Barriot, a deputy head of trading at Alcogroup’s
Alco2 unit, said yesterday by telephone that the company
participated in the tender.  Tender Terms  Sarah De Bruyn, a spokeswoman for Electrabel in Brussels,
and Michele Reid, a spokeswoman for EDF Trading Ltd. in London,
didn’t reply to e-mails and phone calls yesterday asking for
comment. An official at the Flemish energy and environment
department in Brussels said yesterday by telephone that nobody
would be available to comment on the tender before tomorrow.  Flanders is seeking 16 million to 20 million tons of CERs
or ERUs to be delivered in tranches of 4 million to 5 million
tons over a period of 12 months after a seller is selected,
according to the tender documents.  The first two tranches of credits must contain CERs or ERUs
eligible for the first commitment period of the  Kyoto Protocol ,
which ran from 2008 through 2012. The other two tranches must be
valid for the eight years through 2020, according to the papers.  The region won’t accept offsets generated by nuclear
plants, land-use change or forestry, from the destruction of
hydrofluorocarbon-23 gas or nitrous oxide from adipic acid and
nitrous-oxide facilities, from hydro generators with capacity of
more than 20 megawatts and from projects to improve coal-plant
efficiency, according to the tender documents.  “It is unlikely that those selling into the tender will
purchase volume in the open market due to the level of due
diligence that is needed to be submitted for the tender,”
Richard Chatterton, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance
in  London , said by e-mail. “The impact on the market is likely
to be minimal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 Avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  