-- Ford to Spend C$700 Million to Upgrade Ontario Factory
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-09-19T20:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ford-to-invest-c-700-million-at-factory-in-canada.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the top-selling
automaker in  Canada , said it will spend C$700 million ($685
million) to update its last assembly plant in the country to
build cars and trucks from one of its global vehicle platforms.  The Oakville, Ontario, complex will get an upgrade to its
body shop and transition from a to-be-discontinued architecture
now underlying the Ford Edge and Lincoln MKX crossovers produced
there, said Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president of the Americas. He
declined to name the future platform or models that the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company will build in the factory.  Carmakers are paring the number of architectures off which
they build vehicles to trim development costs and boost profit.
The nine global platforms that Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has focused on under his One Ford plan are used for 85
percent of the vehicles Ford builds. The carmaker had 27 vehicle
architectures in 2007.  “This secures the foreseeable future of the Oakville
assembly complex, and that’s a big deal for auto manufacturing
in Canada,” Hinrichs said by telephone.  The investment will maintain 2,800 jobs at Oakville, Ford
said today in a statement. The project will be completed in the
second half of 2014 without any major interruption to vehicle
production at Oakville, Hinrichs said. The factory also
assembles Lincoln MKT and Ford Flex utilities.  “We may take a down week here or there tied to a holiday
period to extend some of the construction periods, but nothing
of any major consequence,” he said. “We’re running this plant
pretty solidly. We need to keep building product.”  Harper Investment  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government will contribute
as much as C$71.6 million to the the Oakville project, according
to a statement. The contribution will be made through a C$250
million Automotive Innovation Fund his administration introduced
in January to preserve the company’s manufacturing base and
blunt the impact of a strengthening Canadian dollar.  Ford in 2011 closed its St. Thomas, Ontario, factory that
made the now-discontinued Ford Crown Victoria and Lincoln Town
Car sedans. The automaker last year agreed to create about 600
jobs in Canada, including a partial third shift at Oakville, in
negotiations with the Canadian Auto Workers union.  “It’s still a high-cost labor environment, given where the
Canadian dollar is,” Hinrichs said. “But with the scale we get
and support we get both from the government and from the union,
we’re able to make a strong business case.”  Export Markets  The Oakville factory exports to more than 80 markets
globally, with Edges being sent to countries including China and
 Brazil , Hinrichs said. Ford will continue to ship vehicles
outside  North America  from the plant, he said.  Ford’s share of the U.S. market rose to 16 percent this
year through August from 15.6 percent a year earlier, leading
gains among major automakers.  Ford rose 0.2 percent to $17.66 at the close in  New York .
The shares have climbed 36 percent this year, outpacing the 21
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Gerrit De Vynck in Oakville, Ontario at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  