-- German Stocks Extends Record on Fed Stimulus Decision
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-19T16:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/german-stocks-rise-to-record-on-fed-stimulus-decision.html
German stocks  rallied for a second
day, with the benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index extending a record, as the
 Federal Reserve  refrained from paring its bond purchases.  SAP AG (SAP) , the largest supplier of business-management
software, advanced after Commerzbank AG upgraded the shares.
 Daimler AG (DAI)  led carmakers higher.  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  climbed 2.8
percent after Barclays Plc advised investors to buy the shares.  The DAX rose 0.7 percent to 8,694.18 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, its highest level since inception. The
gauge is heading for a 2.2 percent increase this week, for a
third week of gains, as the U.S. postponed a plan to attack
Syria and investors watched the election campaign in  Germany .
The broader HDAX Index added 0.6 percent today.  “The Fed was able to deliver a positive surprise to the
 capital markets ,” Roger Peeters, chief executive officer of
Close Brothers Seydler Research AG in Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mail. “The recent expectation in the market has been a moderate
tapering. The wording has left room for interpretation, when the
Fed will finally change its extremely proactive policy, but
obviously the moment has not come yet.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 41 percent higher than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stimulus Stays  The Fed yesterday unexpectedly refrained from reducing its
$85 billion monthly bond buying, saying it needs to see more
indications that the  U.S. economy  is improving sustainably. The
median response of 64 economists in a Bloomberg survey had
signaled the central bank would start tapering stimulus measures
after a two-day policy meeting that ended yesterday.  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said in Washington after European markets closed. “The
committee has concern that rapid tightening of financial
conditions in recent months would have the effect of slowing
growth.”  Investors also turned their focus to German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s bid for re-election on Sept. 22. Merkel has
campaigned on her leadership of the country through the regional
debt crisis and a reduction in unemployment to a record low.
Should her Christian Democratic-led bloc fall short of a
majority with its Free Democrat coalition partner, Merkel may be
forced into a so-called grand coalition with the opposition
Social Democrats.  SAP Outlook  SAP advanced 0.6 percent to 55.60 euros after Commerzbank
raised its recommendation on the stock to add from hold.
Economic recovery in the U.S. and the euro area will drive
growth in license revenue, the bank said.  Daimler gained 2.1 percent to 58.43 euros.  Continental AG (CON) 
increased 1.5 percent to 125.10 euros.  Axel Springer , Europe’s biggest newspaper publisher,
climbed 2.8 percent to 40.52 euros after Barclays Plc upgraded
the shares to overweight, a rating comparable to buy, from equal
weight, which is similar to neutral.  Rheinmetall AG advanced 2.1 percent to 42.54 euros, its
highest price since Feb. 20. Bankhaus Lampe KG upgraded the
armored-vehicle maker to buy from sell, and increased its 12-month estimate for the stock price by 53 percent to 46 euros.  Defense orders “will start to generate appreciable revenue
contributions” from 2014, analyst Gordon Schoenell wrote in a
note.  K+S Falls  K+S AG (SDF) , Europe’s biggest potash distributor, dropped 3.5
percent to 20.67 euros, for its third day of loss.  Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc., North America’s largest fertilizer
producer, said global markets for the crop nutrient have been
paralyzed in the wake of OAO Uralkali’s withdrawal from a joint
venture with Belarus.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  retreated 2.1 percent to 177.25 euros. The
stock reversed earlier gains of as much as 2.4 percent and fell
as much as 3.3 percent as investors weighed a report in Manager
Magazin that said that Europe’s largest carmaker may miss profit
goals as costs climb and sales growth slows. The company denied
the story.  “The suggestion that Volkswagen isn’t committed to its
targets is false,” the Wolfsburg-based carmaker said in an e-mailed statement. “Volkswagen completely stands behind its
statements about the future development of the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  