-- Goldman Becomes Second Biggest Holder in Batista’s OSX
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-09-19T21:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/goldman-builds-5-2-stake-in-batista-s-osx-unit-correct-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. became the
second-largest shareholder in  Eike Batista ’s  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  as
the shipbuilding unit of the former Brazilian billionaire faces
a possible restructuring of $500 million in bonds.  Goldman Sachs acquired OSX shares on Sept. 3 to reach a
5.22 percent stake, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said in a
regulatory filing today. OSX is the worst-performing stock in
Batista’s commodities group this year with a 92 percent slump.  Batista,  Brazil ’s richest person until November, is selling
assets and restructuring his group of publicly traded
commodities and logistics startups after a series of missed
operational and financial targets eroded investor confidence.
Creditors representing about 60 percent of OSX bondholders hired
law firm Bingham McCutchen LLP in preparation for the possible
restructuring of the company’s 2015 bonds, two people briefed on
the arrangements told Bloomberg News on Sept. 9.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
declined to comment on the share purchase in an e-mail sent by
an external public relations representative in Brazil.  “This is a minority investment that does not involve a
change in the composition of corporate control or a change in
the management structure of the company,” the firm said in a
letter accompanying the OSX filing. “Currently, the shareholder
does not target any quantity of the company’s shares.”  OSX fetches 0.06 times book value, making it the cheapest
stock among 264 companies trading in Brazil with a market value
of at least $100 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The entrepreneur created OSX to supply vessels to
sister company  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , which is in
talks with creditors in a bid to avoid bankruptcy protection.  OSX  rose  1.3 percent to 80 centavos in Sao Paulo today, the
highest since Sept. 9. This year’s slump is the steepest in the
Ibovespa small cap  index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  