-- Goldman Sachs Said to Start Hedge Fund for Asia
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-09-19T04:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/goldman-sachs-said-to-start-hedge-fund-for-asia.html
Goldman Sachs Investment Partners,
set up to allow clients to invest with some of the bank’s top
proprietary traders, is raising capital for a new Asian fund,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The fund, named Oryza Capital, started early this month,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. It is overseen by a team led by Hideki Kinuhata in  Tokyo  and Hong Kong-based Ryan Thall, said the
people, who didn’t disclose how much money the fund is seeking
to gather. Kinuhata and Thall didn’t reply to e-mails seeking
comment on the new fund. Connie Ling, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., declined to comment.  Asia’s economic growth that has outperformed the U.S. and
 Europe , and renewed interest in  Japan , where Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe has committed to ending deflation, are attracting
global investors. Inflows into Asia-focused funds took regional
hedge-fund assets to $98.4 billion as of the end of June, the
highest since 2007, according to Chicago-based data provider
Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “Asia is still one of the fastest-growing regions in the
world, albeit at a slower pace, so it’s no surprise that there
is continued interest in notable Asian launches,” Will Tan, a
managing director who focuses on the hedge-fund industry at
Singapore-based recruiting firm Principle Partners Pte, said.
“The past year especially has seen renewed global interest in
Japan resulting in a surge in hiring for Japan-focused
investment professionals.”  Attracting Funds  As co-heads of  Asia  investments at Goldman Sachs Investment
Partners, known as GSIP, Kinuhata and Thall managed more than $1
billion of regional holdings for the global fund, said the
people. They have generated annualized returns in the low teens,
about fourfold that of the global fund since its 2008 inception,
they added.  Asian stocks and Japan-focused funds drew $3.9 billion of
new capital in the second quarter, more than the $3 billion net
inflows to the regional hedge-fund industry, HFR said.  Thall plans to discuss an Asia-focused opportunistic equity
long/short fund with potential investors at a  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
hedge-fund forum in Hong Kong in October, according to a
document seen by Bloomberg News.  The new fund invests in Asia including Australia and Japan,
one of the people added.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has  gained  64 percent in the
past year. Japan’s exports rose the most since 2010 in August
after the yen weakened more than 11 percent against the dollar
this year amid unprecedented stimulus by Abe and the  Bank of
Japan  to rejuvenate the economy.  ‘Intellectual Power’  “More and more intellectual power and international
capital are being focused on Japan,”  Peter Douglas , principal
of Singapore-based GFIA Pte, said. “Five years ago you wouldn’t
have had one leg of this proposition based in Tokyo.”  The fund is consistent with banks’ attempts in recent years
to turn former proprietary trading units into fee-generating
revenue sources, Douglas said.                     Goldman Sachs, the  fifth-largest   U.S. bank  by assets, as
recently as 2009 generated about 10 percent of revenue from
proprietary trading. Goldman Sachs Investment Partners, also
known as GSIP, started investing in early 2008 with traders from
the principal strategies group as the New York-based bank moved
to comply with a provision of the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul
act that curbs banks’ ability to risk capital by betting for
their own accounts.  Global Fund  GSIP began with about $7 billion, the biggest hedge-fund
startup, and was initially funded with some of Goldman Sachs’s
own money, according to fund marketing documents seen by
 Bloomberg News  in 2010. The business now forms part of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, the division that supervises investments
for clients.  “Investor interest in managers with backing from
institutions with size and solid operations remains quite high
in Asia,” said Toshikazu Yamazaki, the senior  fund manager  at
SRF Group Pte in  Singapore , which started an Asia-focused fund-of-hedge-funds in December. “Managers who can generate alpha
seem to be on the rise now,” he said, referring to returns in
excess of those of the benchmarks.  Kinuhata and Thall will continue to run money for the
global fund, in addition to the new Asian pool, one of the
people said.  Thall, who was previously based in Tokyo, was one of 70
Goldman Sachs employees promoted to partner from the beginning
of this year, a designation that gives them a bigger share of a
bonus pool. Kinuhata also made partner, according to a list
internally announced in October 2008.  GSIP also has investments in credit, distressed securities
and hard-to-sell assets globally, in addition to stocks, the
2010 documents showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  