-- Google Said to Mull Anonymous Identifiers Over ‘Cookies’
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-19T22:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/google-said-to-mull-anonymous-identifiers-over-cookies-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, is considering developing a tool
that would make it easier for companies to tailor online
advertisements without using cookies, which track Web-browsing
habits, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The technology is known as an anonymous identifier, said
the person, who asked not to be named because the plans aren’t
public. An anonymous identifier is intended to create a simpler
way for consumers to signal how much they want to be tracked
online, whereas it is sometimes difficult to manage cookies.
Cookies -- small bits of digital data -- are placed on browsers
as users go from website to website, and have been controversial
for stirring up privacy concerns.  Google, which makes most of its money from  online
advertising , is looking for new ways to encourage the use of
paid promotions on the Internet. Some browsers, including a
version of Microsoft Corp.’s Internet Explorer, have a feature
that automatically limits tracking, making it more difficult to
serve ads tailored to users.  “Potentially, it would allow Google to remake a system
that currently has gotten more hostile to its ad business,”
Danny Sullivan, founding editor of Marketing Land, said in an e-mail. “This lets Google promote its own homegrown initiative to
bypass these things.”  “We believe that technological enhancements can improve
users’ security while ensuring the Web remains economically
viable,” Mountain View, California-based Google said in a
statement, without commenting on whether it’s considering
creating an anonymous identifier. “We and others have a number
of concepts in this area, but they’re all at very early
stages.”  Advertising Identifier  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has announced an advertising identifier for its
iPhones, giving users more control over “advertisers’ ability
to use tracking methods,” the company said in its terms for the
sixth version of its mobile software.  USA Today  reported earlier this week that Google is
creating anonymous identifiers that would replace third-party
cookies as the way advertisers track browsing activity for
marketing purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  