-- Google to Keep Waze Separate During U.K. Antitrust Review
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-19T22:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/google-offers-remedies-in-u-k-competition-review-of-waze-deal.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
largest search engine, agreed to hold mapping-application Waze
separate from its own business temporarily until a U.K.
regulator has had time to review the  acquisition .  Google offered under a standstill agreement to keep the
Waze business, brand and sales separate from its own business
during any possible U.K. antitrust review of the deal, according
to a statement  published  on the website of the London-based
Office of Fair Trading yesterday. The regulator is still
determining whether it has jurisdiction over the deal.  Google is undergoing scrutiny from regulators around the
world as it expands its product lineup and moves into new areas
such as mobile technology. The  Mountain View , California-based
company underwent regulatory approval by the U.S. and other
countries for its $12.4 billion acquisition of handset-maker
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., which became part of Google
last year.  “The undertakings are without prejudice to OFT’s ongoing
investigation into the completed acquisition by Google Inc. of
Waze,” the U.K. regulator said in the statement.  The undertakings require “no substantive changes” to key
staff or the organizational structure of either company, the OFT
said. The companies would be required to separately operate and
update their customer and supplier lists, the OFT said.  Niki Fenwick, a Google spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the agreement. Elliott Ball, a spokesman for the regulator,
declined to comment further on the case.  The Waze deal was valued at about $1.1 billion, a person
familiar with the matter said in June. Google didn’t disclose
terms in a blog post announcing the acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  