-- Greek Premier Says He Won’t Allow Extremists to Derail Country
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-09-19T12:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/greek-premier-says-he-won-t-allow-extremists-to-derail-country.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras said he’d fight to keep the country on track in the wake
of protests sparked by the murder of a 34-year-old man by a
supporter of the surging nationalist Golden Dawn party.  “We all know that the country is at a particularly
critical point,” Samaras said in a recorded statement broadcast
on state-run television DT. “It’s not the time for internal
fighting or tensions.”  Samaras spoke after protests overnight in the Athens suburb
of Keratsini following the stabbing of the man that Samaras
identified as Pavlos Fyssas, whom Greek media described as a
rapper. Authorities arrested 34 people and detained another 96
as the rally turned violent. Fyssas was killed in an altercation
with a man who police said is linked to the opposition Golden
Dawn party.  Golden Dawn is the only Greek party to have gained in polls
since entering parliament in May last year. In June 2012, the
party, which has expressed admiration for Adolf Hitler and been
involved in violence against immigrants, got 7 percent of the
vote, tapping into a vein of protest and anger against record
unemployment that has accompanied a recession now in its sixth
year. Its support rose to 13.5 percent, according to latest
Pulse RC poll conducted on Sept. 9-10.  “Descent into violence destroys any chance  Greece  has of
what it deserves: growth, peace and prosperity,” Samaras said.
“This government is determined to not allow the heirs of the
Nazis to poison our society.”  Fatal Stabbing  The fatal stabbing came early on Sept. 18, after police
received a report of a gang of about 50 people armed with clubs
clashing with another group. Fyssas died after being taken to
hospital. Police searched the offices of the local branches of
the party yesterday, according to a statement. Two people have
been detained in addition to the perpetrator of the crime, who
hasn’t been named. Rallies were held in a number of Greek cities
late yesterday.  The murder sparked a new debate in Greece about whether the
party can be banned or characterized as a criminal gang to limit
its activities. Golden Dawn has 18 members in Greece’s 300-seat
parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  