-- Ibovespa Futures Rise as Commodities Gain Boosts Export Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-09-19T12:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ibovespa-futures-rise-as-commodities-gain-boosts-export-outlook.html
Ibovespa  futures  rose, after the
equity gauge rallied the most among major global indexes
yesterday, as higher commodities prices boosted the outlook for
Brazilian raw-material producers.  BB Seguridade Participacoes SA (BBSE3) , the insurance company
controlled by Banco do Brasil SA, may move after it was rated
buy in new coverage at UBS AG. Retailer  Magazine Luiza SA (MGLU3)  may be
active after saying it plans to buy back as much as 2.7 percent
of shares outstanding.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in October climbed 0.3
percent to 55,190 at 9:14 a.m. in  Sao Paulo . The real was little
changed at 2.1855 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 raw materials added 0.6 percent. The Ibovespa rose 2.6
percent yesterday after the Fed said it needs more evidence of
improvement in the economy before starting to reduce the $85
billion pace of monthly bond purchases that have boosted
emerging-market assets.  “Yesterday’s adjustment will probably continue in today’s
session,” Banco Bradesco SA’s economic team, led by Octavio de Barros, wrote in a note to clients. “The Ibovespa will probably
track global markets and trade higher.”  The Ibovespa entered a  bull market  on Sept. 9 after rising
20 percent from this year’s low on July 3 through that day. The
gauge is still down 17 percent in dollar terms this year,
compared with a decline of 3 percent for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 8.97 billion
reais yesterday, compared with a daily average of 7.74 billion
reais this year through Sept. 17, according to data compiled by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  