-- Michigan Cities Gaining After Detroit Breaks Pledge: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/michigan-cities-gaining-after-detroit-breaks-pledge-muni-credit.html
Michigan  municipalities are selling
the most bonds since July, showing investors are warming to the
state’s debt after Detroit’s record bankruptcy led to the
postponement of at least $131 million of deals.  Localities from Michigan are offering $88 million of debt
this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They are selling as
the extra yield buyers demand on Michigan general obligations is
down 30 percent from a record set last month.  This week’s issuers included an economic-development agency
in Michigan’s Wayne County, home of Detroit, which sold $17
million for a retirement community. The bonds didn’t have a
rating, placing them among the riskiest part of the $3.7
trillion municipal market. The sale followed Genesee County’s
$35 million deal, the biggest since  Detroit  sought court
protection on July 18. The county seat is Flint, which also has
a state-appointed emergency manager.  “People have had more of a chance to digest the meaning of
the Detroit story and differentiate it from other deals out
there,” said Bill Ahern, who oversees $80 million of Michigan
funds from  Boston  at Eaton Vance Management. “There’s a short
memory in this market.”  Normality Returns  The rebound following Detroit’s $18 billion bankruptcy is
the latest example of how local signs of distress have failed to
derail municipal borrowing. Demand for Michigan debt waned after
Detroit’s emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, took the unprecedented
step in June of attempting to impose losses on general-obligation holders as part of a plan to fix the city’s finances.  Michigan’s situation mirrors how  California ’s market
stabilized after Stockton, San Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes
sought court protection last year. Relative  borrowing costs  for
localities in the Golden State reached a six-month high after
the filings, and have since fallen to the lowest since 2008.  Investors demand  0.53 percentage point  more to own Michigan
general-obligation bonds instead of benchmark munis, Bloomberg
data show. That’s down from a 2013 high of 0.75 percentage point
on Aug. 20.  The bond sales and narrowing yield spread also validate
Michigan Republican Governor  Rick Snyder ’s stance that bond
buyers would eventually differentiate Detroit’s situation from
other localities in the state. Genesee County and  Battle Creek 
issued debt in the past week after delaying deals in August.  Sara Wurfel, a Snyder spokeswoman, didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment on the issuance rebound.  Payback Plan  Genesee’s postponement paid off for its taxpayers. The
locality put its Aug. 1 water-revenue bond deal on hold “to
achieve a more competitive interest rate,” Jeff Wright, who’s
responsible for the county’s water supply as drain commissioner,
said in a statement. The deal this week will save millions of
dollars relative to what the county would have had to pay in
August, according to the statement.  The obligations, which will help finance land and
facilities to add water supplies from Lake Huron, still came at
a higher-than-average cost. The portion maturing in 10 years was
priced to yield 4.03 percent, compared with 3.87 percent on
benchmark A rated revenue bonds.  The county’s debt has an A+ rating from  Standard & Poor’s 
and was backed by Build America Mutual Assurance Co., which
carries an AA grade, third-highest.  Unrated Risk  In Wayne County, proceeds from the agency’s $17 million
sale will fund construction of housing for seniors, part of a
community to be called “The Rivers of Grosse Pointe.” Unrated
bonds default more than 30 times more frequently than debt that
carries a credit rank, according to a study from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York .  Tax-free securities maturing in December 2043 priced to
yield 8 percent, equivalent to a 13.3 percent taxable interest
rate for individuals in the highest federal income bracket.  “These deals are certainly coming at wider spreads than
you would expect from other states’ bonds,” Ahern said.
“There’s still some taint on them. Over time, that will
continue to dissipate.”  Other localities opted to avoid the market. Muskegon County
sold $39 million of general obligations this month directly to
Capital One Financial Corp. through a private placement.  Tatiana Stead, a spokeswoman for McLean, Virginia-based
Capital One, the lender that gets more than half its revenue
from credit cards, didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment on
the transaction.  Ripple Effect  The county of 170,000 about 200 miles (322 kilometers) west
of Detroit will use the proceeds to fund a new jail and juvenile
transition center, said Heath Kaplan, finance and management
services director. The bonds have an  interest rate  of 4.75
percent and an average life of 13 years, he said.  “Our first plan was to do a negotiated sale,” Kaplan said
in an interview. The county board mandated an interest rate no
higher than 5 percent, and “once we saw the bankruptcy cause a
ripple effect across the market, we had to go back to the
drawing board,” he said.  In the week ahead for the Michigan market, Capac Community
School District and Bad Axe Public Schools plan to offer a
combined $9.3 million of debt, Bloomberg data show.  The past week suggests the schools will find buyers.  “There’s no doubt that the Michigan market is starting to
thaw out,” said Adam Mackey, head of municipal fixed income in
Philadelphia at PNC Capital Advisors, which oversees $6.5
billion in munis. “There was obviously this period after
Detroit where investors were trying to figure out what pledge
they had, and where they stood in Michigan.”  Market Rally  Localities from  Virginia  to  New Mexico  are selling $4.2
billion in long-term debt this week, down from $5.8 billion last
week.  Benchmark 10-year munis yield  2.94 percent , the lowest in a
month, after declining for eight straight trading sessions, the
longest streak since December. The interest rate compares with
 2.69 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 109 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  