-- Microsoft CEO Says Working to Keep PC ‘Device of Choice’
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-09-20T00:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/microsoft-ceo-says-working-to-keep-pc-device-of-choice-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer , who will be retiring within a year, said
the company is still working to make sure that the personal
computer remains relevant as “the device of choice.”  He made his comment as Windows, which dominated computing
for more than two decades, now makes up 25 percent of revenue.
The operating system slipped to become Microsoft’s third-largest
business after Office, which generated 32 percent of sales, and
Server and Tools, which garnered 26 percent for the latest
 fiscal year  through June.  Ballmer’s remarks were being closely watched as he shakes
up the world’s largest software maker amid a shift by consumers
toward smartphones and tablets and away from PCs running
Windows. The CEO overhauled Microsoft’s management and strategy
to accelerate development of hardware and services, agreeing
this month to buy  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s handset unit for $7.2 billion.  “We must do the work to ensure that the PC stays the
device of choice when they’re trying to be productive in life,”
Ballmer said at a meeting for analysts and institutional
shareholders, the first in two years. Ballmer said the company
will have to work hard to keep the industry “north of 300
million” units.  PC shipments will decline 9.7 percent this year to 315.4
million and won’t ever return to the peak levels it reached in
2011, according to researcher IDC. The market will shrink until
2015, it said. The slumping popularity of the devices is coming
as consumers increasingly turn to smartphones and tablets, two
markets where Microsoft and the PC industry have lagged.  Challenging Environment  Windows accounted for 3.7 percent of smartphone operating-system shipments in the second quarter, according to IDC. In the
tablet market, that figure was 4.5 percent, IDC said.
Microsoft’s first-ever computer hardware, the Surface tablet,
sold so poorly the company had to write down $900 million of
unsold inventory. Introduced in October, the handheld device was
aimed at taking on Apple Inc.’s iPad, as well as touchscreen
computers running Google Inc.’s Android software.  “The challenges are fairly obvious and the questions are
about how to execute,” said  Sid Parakh , an analyst at McAdams
Wright Ragen in  Seattle . “They’ve laid out a strategy of being
more of a devices- and services-focused company, and started to
execute on that. Nokia is part of that. Investors can debate
whether that’s the right approach, but regardless, the company
is going to move on.”  Hardware Evolution  Some shareholders have been seeking more of a say in
Microsoft’s strategy and finances. The company said earlier this
week it will raise quarterly dividends by 22 percent to 28 cents
a share, exceeding the average analyst estimate of 26 cents.
Microsoft sought to head off shareholder dissent last month by
reaching a cooperation agreement with ValueAct Holdings LP,
which would let the activist investor claim a board seat
starting next year.  Ballmer told analysts that the company will perform better
in the future by having its business, consumer, software and
device units work together.  “Hardware and software will kind of need to evolve
together,” he said.  There are only a few companies making the investments in
data centers and technology needed to provide future devices and
services that consumers and companies will demand, Ballmer said.
Microsoft won’t be “religious” about having its services work
only with Microsoft hardware, and will continue offering them on
smartphones and tablets from Apple and Google, he said.  Long Microsoft  Microsoft will continue to challenge Google, which has
secured pole position in Internet search and is one of the few
companies with the breadth to take on Microsoft, Ballmer said.
Regulators should look at what he called Google’s “monopoly”
in search, he said.  Microsoft said it’s still seeking a new CEO, and didn’t
offer any updates on the process.  “The board continues on the process that we laid out in
late August,” Chief Financial Officer Amy Hood said at the
conference, which was delayed by a  power failure  at the venue in
Bellevue,  Washington . “We’ll update you when appropriate.”  Hood said she’ll give more detailed information on the
company’s new financial-reporting structure on a Sept. 26
conference call with analysts.  Microsoft  shares  rose 1 percent to $33.64, leaving them up
26 percent this year. The stock rose 7.3 percent the day Ballmer
announced his retirement, then declined 4.6 percent when
Microsoft said it would buy Nokia.  “I’m long Microsoft,” said Ballmer, who  owns  about 4
percent of the company. “I treasure it as an investor, too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  