-- India Opposition Poised for Gains in State Elections, Poll Says
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-09-19T05:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/india-opposition-poised-for-gains-in-state-elections-poll-says.html
India ’s main opposition  Bharatiya
Janata Party  may win three of four states holding elections in
the next few months, an opinion poll showed, indicating a boost
in support ahead of a nationwide vote due by May.  The BJP is set to wrest Rajasthan, the country’s biggest
state by area, from Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s ruling
Congress party, according to the survey released yesterday by
the Times Now television channel and C-voter, a polling firm.
The opposition party will also retain power in Madhya Pradesh
and Chhattisgarh and make gains in New Delhi, it showed.  The poll is the first released since the BJP picked
 Narendra Modi  as its choice for prime minister ahead of a
campaign to end Singh’s rule after a decade in office. His
administration has been plagued by corruption allegations,
rising prices and the slowest economic growth since 2003.  The survey, which did not provide a time frame or a margin
of error, polled about 39,000 people across four states,
according to Times Now and C-voter. A separate survey conducted
by research agency C fore for the  Hindustan Times  predicted
today that Singh’s Congress party may retain power in the
capital for a fourth term.  The state elections will be the last test for the parties
before the national vote next year. In July, a Times Now and C-voter survey found that the BJP’s opposition alliance would top
Singh’s ruling coalition in next year’s election, with neither
winning a majority in the 545-member lower house.  The BJP is banking on Modi’s record of delivering higher-than-average economic growth rates as chief minister of Gujarat
state to propel the party to national power. Singh’s party has
attacked him over his handling of 2002 riots in the state that
killed about 1,000 people, mostly Muslims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  