-- ING Hasn’t Settled Insurer Capital Level as Solvency Ratio Falls
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-09-19T09:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ing-hasn-t-settled-insurer-capital-level-as-solvency-ratio-falls.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the Dutch company
planning an initial public offering for its European insurance
arm next year, said it hasn’t set a final capital target for the
unit and repeated that a spinoff is also possible.  Given that ING hasn’t settled on the ultimate leverage for
the insurer, a capital target has “yet to be finalized under
regulatory, rating and economic constraints,” ING Chief
Executive Officer Jan Hommen said in a presentation today in
 London . The IPO is planned for the second half of 2014.  The division’s solvency ratio has fallen in the past three
months after  France ’s credit rating was downgraded, the company
said. ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services company, wants
to ensure the insurance business is well-capitalized to satisfy
regulators and ratings companies before an IPO or spinoff.  “I know that some of you had been hoping to get all types
of targets,” Hommen told analysts and journalists. “We’re
going hold you off for that for the time being. That will be at
a later day, when we get closer to the IPO.”  The shares  erased an early advance, falling 0.8 percent to
8.91 euros at 11:50 a.m. in Amsterdam trading. ING is still up
26 percent this year.  ING said it’s in the “end phase” of a European Union-imposed restructuring program that followed a rescue by the
Dutch state in 2008 and 2009. ING has until the end of 2018 to
complete the disposal of its insurance unit.  The company has sold 23 billion euros ($31 billion) of
assets in the restructuring and expects 1.5 billion euros in
proceeds from further transactions, which will be used to cut
the insurer’s debt burden.  Declining Solvency  The European insurance operations’ pro-forma solvency
ratio, a measure its ability to absorb losses, fell to 248
percent from 257 percent at the end of June following France’s
downgrade by  Fitch Ratings  in July, according to a presentation
on the company’s website. The downgrade hurt solvency in ING’s
Dutch Nationale-Nederlanden unit by 41 percentage points,
decreasing it to 189 percent, at the lower end of a target
range, ING said.  Insurers in the Netherlands have to calculate liabilities
using an interest-rate curve deriving from a selection of
sovereign bonds of AAA-rated nations. The exclusion of French
government debt has left the curve dominated by low-yielding
German debt, inflating liabilities.  Following the sale of insurance assets in  Asia , including
the South Korean unit it agreed to sell to MBK Partners Ltd.,
and excluding the U.S. unit, ING Insurance will have 3.1 billion
euros in debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  