-- Insurers Agree to Audit Workplace Pension Plans in OFT Deal
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-09-19T10:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/insurers-agree-to-audit-workplace-pension-plans-in-oft-accord.html
U.K. insurers agreed to audit some
pension plans as part of a settlement with regulators reviewing
the 275 billion-pound ($442 billion) market for defined
contribution workplace pensions.  Fees for the pension plans are too high and not always
transparent to consumers, the  Office of Fair Trading  said in a
report today. The  Association of British Insurers  agreed to
conduct an immediate audit of older and high-charging contract
and bundled-trust schemes, containing about 30 billion pounds of
savings, to ensure participants understand the plans.  The OFT wants “to see changes in months rather than
years,” Clive Maxwell, the regulator’s chief executive, said at
a press conference today. “We can’t rely on competition to
provide best value for people.”  The regulator began an investigation into defined
contribution workplace pension plans in January. Currently,
about five million Britons are part of employment pension plans
with that number expected to rise to 9 billion by 2018 when the
U.K. government’s automatic pension enrollment program is
completed, the OFT said.  “We agree with the OFT that it is important to review
charges to ensure they represent good value for money for
today’s employers and savers,” Otto Thoresen, the ABI’s
Director General, said in a statement. “Pension providers have
agreed to an audit of all legacy and higher charging schemes to
ensure any problems can be sorted out.”  ‘Close Scrutiny’  Charges in defined contribution pension plans “are coming
under close scrutiny from several directions,” Zoe Lynch, a
lawyer at Sacker & Partners LLP in  London , said in an e-mail.
“But the widely expected recommendation of a cap on charges has
failed to materialize.”  The U.K. government introduced an automatic workplace
pension initiative in October 2012 to encourage employees to
save money for retirement. With defined contribution pension
plans, the annual contribution is specified, while the future
benefits are not guaranteed.  The National Association of Pension Funds, which represents
U.K. workplace pension plans and their members, said the report
didn’t go far enough to give companies more choices of pension
plans to offer their employees.  “We would have preferred a clear direction that employers
have a choice -- they should either be prepared to provide
governance themselves or use a master trust arrangement,”
Joanne Segars, the group’s CEO, said in a statement. “The
proposal to have governance as part of the provider risks
fudging the issue and leading to potential conflicts of
interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  