-- Iran’s Twitter Feed Deserves a Response
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-19T20:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/iran-s-twitter-feed-deserves-a-response.html
Whoever is crafting the messages
for Iran’s leaders these days is doing a smashing job making it
appear as if the Islamic republic has taken  a dramatic turn 
toward engagement and moderation. Regardless of whether Iran’s
conciliatory  Twitter feed  and  Facebook diplomacy  is genuine, it
deserves a serious response from the U.S. and its allies.  The director of Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization has said
Iran is  very optimistic  about breakthroughs in nuclear
negotiations in coming months. President Hassan Rohani has
exchanged letters with his U.S. counterpart, which  he says  could
be the beginning of something good. Even the normally gruff
supreme leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , is sounding
conciliatory, saying Iran should pursue “heroic leniency” to
resolve the diplomatic conflict over its nuclear program.  The question, of course, is whether this is for real or
whether Iran is playing for time -- and its interlocutors for
fools. Iran is thought to be  less than a year  from having the
ability to process low-enriched uranium into sufficient material
for a nuclear bomb without being detected by international
inspectors. The Iranians could be putting up a front to extend
negotiations through that period and forestall a military strike
on its nuclear facilities by the U.S. or  Israel .  Or, the campaign could be intended to serve its stated
purpose: to resolve  Iran ’s confrontation with the world’s major
powers over its nuclear program, ease sanctions and thus enable
the country to rebuild its economy. Rohani himself has
identified this agenda as his top priority.  Iran’s inner workings are too obscure for anyone to say
with confidence which explanation is correct. Nevertheless,
there are good reasons to lean toward the latter. Rohani and
those around him are pragmatists above all. They understand that
Iran can’t prosper unless it re-enters the global financial
system and is allowed to resume significant oil exports.  At the time of Rohani’s election, there were doubts that he
would have the mandate to determine nuclear policy, but he  told
Ann Curry  of NBC News that he had “full power and complete
authority” to make a nuclear deal. An Iranian president isn’t
likely to make such a comment offhandedly, for fear of setting
off the temperamental Khamenei.  If Iran’s leaders are only faking their moderation, they’ll
have a lot of explaining to do at home when the masks come off.
In repeatedly  stressing  that they wish to distinguish themselves
from the provocative government of former President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , that they have no intention to build a nuclear
bomb, and that they seek engagement with the U.S. and other
powers, Iran’s leaders are building a constituency for those
positions within Iran -- and they know it. That’s another reason
to think they may be sincere.  In determining how to respond, the U.S., fortunately,
doesn’t have to know Iran’s intentions. It only has to know its
own: to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, ideally
without resorting to force.  The broad outlines of a deal accomplishing that are fairly
well understood. The five members of the  United Nations Security
Council  plus  Germany  would acknowledge Iran’s right to enrich
uranium and would lift sanctions. Iran would agree to forgo
enrichment to 20 percent and would honor its full obligations to
the  International Atomic Energy Agency . Those include
inspections of all known nuclear facilities, which would give
the world a window on the Iranian program that would make the
intentions-guessing game far less relevant.  Sequencing has been a problem. The U.S. has been loath to
clearly recognize what Iran calls its “right to enrich,” and
the world powers have offered only piddling sanctions relief.
Iran’s PR campaign appears to be aimed at breaking that impasse.  The least the U.S. and its partners can do is respond by
emphasizing that Iran would be able to enrich uranium, to a
limited extent, in any deal and by setting out a clear schedule
for lifting sanctions. This may be what the Iranians need to
give up the nuclear ambiguity they now maintain: a reasonable
assurance that they won’t be punished forever, no matter what
they do.  Whether President  Barack Obama  meets with Rohani at next
week’s UN General Assembly -- the White House hasn’t ruled out
the possibility -- or the U.S. engages Iran in some other
fashion, Iran’s recent overtures are too intriguing to ignore.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 