-- Iran Won’t Seek Nuclear Weapons, Rohani Says in Interview
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-09-19T06:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/iran-won-t-seek-nuclear-weapons-rohani-says-in-interview.html
Iranian President Hassan Rohani
said in an interview with a U.S. television network that his
country would never seek nuclear weapons.  Reaching out to an American audience from his presidential
compound in Tehran, Rohani said he had “full authority” to
resolve issues surrounding  Iran’s nuclear program . His remark
indicates that he has the backing of Iran’s Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , the ultimate decision maker on affairs
of the state.  Iran has repeatedly pledged that “under no circumstances
would we seek any weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear
weapons, nor will we,” said Rohani, who took office on Aug. 4,
in the interview with Ann Curry of NBC News that aired last
night. “We have never pursued or sought a nuclear bomb, and we
are not going to do so.”  While Rohani reiterated Iran’s longstanding position that
its  uranium enrichment  and related programs are for peaceful
purposes, the U.S. and other members of the  United Nations
Security Council , as well as Israel, say there’s evidence that
the Islamic republic is covertly working to develop the
capability to produce  nuclear weapons .  Rohani is scheduled to make his first appearance at the
 United Nations General Assembly  in New York next week. U.S.
officials are watching whether the new president will take a
different approach to diplomacy from former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who used the UN platform to rail against the West
and Israel.  President  Barack Obama  sent Rohani a “positive and
constructive” letter congratulating him on his election, the
Iranian president said.  Obama Exchange  “It could be subtle and tiny steps for a very important
future,” Rohani said of Obama’s approach. He said the two
exchanged views on a number of issues, which Rohani didn’t
disclose. “I believe the leaders in all countries think in
their national interest and they should not be under the
influence of pressure groups.”  Jay Carney , a White House spokesman, said yesterday that
Obama told Rohani in a letter that the U.S. was open to
resolving the nuclear impasse. There are no current plans for
Obama to meet Rohani at the UN, Carney said.  “It’s fair to say that the president believes there is an
opportunity for diplomacy when it comes to the issues that have
presented challenges to the  United States  and our allies with
regards to Iran,” Carney said. “And we hope that the Iranian
government takes advantage of this opportunity.”  Yesterday, at least 11 Iranian political prisoners,
including eight human-rights activists, were released in a
further sign of relaxation by the government. Half of those
freed had been detained following the disputed 2009 re-election
of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , which sparked mass protests
that were supressed by force, according to the Tehran-based
newspaper Shargh.  In his election campaign, Rohani pledged to free political
prisoners and pursue a more moderate approach to foreign policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  