-- Italy to Meet EU Deficit-to-GDP Limit in 2013, Official Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-09-20T08:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/italy-will-meet-3-deficit-to-gdp-limit-finance-official-says.html
Italy will keep its deficit within
the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product
this year, Finance Undersecretary Pier Paolo Baretta said.  “We’ll do whatever is needed to remain within the 3
percent limit,” Baretta said in a phone interview yesterday.
The government may need to find an additional 1.5 billion euros
($2 billion) of savings to reach the EU requirement because of
the sluggish economy and payments of overdue debts to companies,
he said.  Prime Minister Enrico Letta is under pressure to maintain
the budget discipline required by the EU at the same time as
former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s party is pushing for tax
relief for businesses and consumers.  Letta’s cabinet will meet today in  Rome  to revise its
budget plan and approve updated economic forecasts. The
government in April predicted a 2.9 percent deficit-to-GDP ratio
for this year. Letta’s administration expects debt to be 132.2
percent of GDP next year, according to a draft of the budget
document set to be published tomorrow. A government spokesman
declined to confirm the figures.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at 4.30
percent at 10:02 a.m. in Rome, leaving the difference with
comparable German bunds at 238.6 basis points.  Property Tax  Italy may need an additional 5 billion euros if it decides
to cover a revenue shortfall from the cancellation of the second
installment of a property tax, the elimination of a value-added
tax hike planned for Oct. 1, as well as finance more jobless
benefits and foreign missions, Baretta said. This would be on
top of the 1.5 billion euros needed to cover a potential
deficit-limit breach, Baretta said.  The government should probably consider reviewing its
decision to cancel the installment of the property tax on
primary residences, knows as IMU, in order to avoid increasing
VAT next month, Baretta said. “If we consider the IMU chapter
closed, then the risk of an increase in VAT is there.”  Italy will forecast a 1.7 percent economic contraction this
year and a 1 percent expansion next year, Ansa news agency
reported yesterday, without citing anyone.  In April, the Rome-based Treasury estimated the euro
region’s third-biggest economy will contract 1.3 percent this
year and grow 1.3 percent in 2014, while both the  International
Monetary Fund  and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development expect GDP to contract 1.8 percent this year.  ‘Comforting Signal’  Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said earlier this
month that he expects the Italian economy to emerge from
recession in the second half and expand in 2014. “I think the
fourth quarter will give us a comforting signal,” Baretta said.  “Investors would probably tolerate a small deviation from
the deficit target provided the government had a convincing
strategy of economic reforms and privatization in a context of
political stability,” said  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European
economist at Mizuho International Plc in  London . “Unfortunately
this is not the case at the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  