-- Lithuanian Premier Accuses Russia of ‘Economic War’
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-09-19T18:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/lithuania-premier-bukevicius-accuses-russia-of-economic-war-.html
(Corrects spelling of premier in headline.)  Lithuanian Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius accused  Russia  of waging “economic war,” citing
trade curbs imposed by its eastern neighbor and demands from
Russia’s state-run natural-gas exporter.  Russia forced customs controls on Lithuania, located at
 Poland ’s northern border along the Baltic Sea, while the eastern
European Union state is studying a proposal it received from
 Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  last week, the contents of which aren’t public.  “This could almost be considered a sort of economic war,”
Butkevicius said today on Ziniu radio in Vilnius.  Political leaders in the Baltic nation that broke from the
Soviet Union more than two decades ago are increasingly vocal
about disputes with Russia as they seek energy independence
while trying to maintain trade links. The EU yesterday urged
Russia to stop targeting  Lithuania , which currently holds the EU
presidency, with punitive trade restrictions.  President Dalia Grybauskaite told reporters today that
Gazprom is demanding the government “do things that can’t be
done” and won’t consider reducing prices for the gas it sells
Lithuania as the country’s sole supplier, BNS newswire reported.  Gazprom is acting within a supply contract that is valid
through 2015, a Gazprom official said, declining to be
identified in line with company policy or comment further on the
remarks from Lithuania today.  Energy ministers from the 28-nation EU gather in Vilnius
today and tomorrow to discuss energy security and other issues.
An antitrust probe that the EU is conducting against Gazprom
will probably be debated, according to Lithuania’s Energy
Ministry.  Vilnius Meeting  EU Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger is due to attend
the meeting. During a visit to Vilnius in May, Oettinger said
the EU backs Lithuania’s efforts to get cheaper Russian gas and
develop alternative energy supplies and production.  “It’s not acceptable that in Lithuania energy prices are
20, 30 or 40 percent higher than in neighboring states,” the
commissioner said. The country’s work to build a liquefied
natural-gas terminal on the Baltic Sea coast by the end of 2014
will strengthen its negotiating position with Gazprom, he said.  “I invite the government to speed up construction of the
LNG terminal and try to reduce dependence on Gazprom as fast as
possible,” the president said, according to BNS.  Butkevicius, pledging to coordinate any formal response to
Gazprom with Grybauskaite, said he still hoped Gazprom would
agree to reduce prices before the winter heating season.  “I hope that sober thinking will prevail,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  