-- J.C. Penney Vendor Says Yet to See Chain’s Sales Recover
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/j-c-penney-vendor-schwartz-says-yet-to-see-chain-recover.html
Allen Schwartz, who decided to end
his apparel firm’s exclusive supplier deal with  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) 
after five years, said he’s yet to see a sales rebound at the
department-store chain that lost $1.61 billion in the past year.  “No signs of improvement,” said Schwartz, who is founder,
owner and creative director of Los Angeles-based ABS by Allen
Schwartz. “It’s not going to happen overnight,” he said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Schwartz licensed his Allen B. women’s sportswear and dress
brand to J.C. Penney in an agreement in which his firm designed
and sourced the wares while the retailer handled manufacturing.
The company decided not to renew because J.C. Penney management
was “indecisive” on future plans for the brand even after it
brought back Mike Ullman to replace  Ron Johnson  as Chief
Executive Officer in April, Schwartz said.  “There was just too much back and forth, and them being
inconsistent,” said Schwartz. “Their whole way of operating
wasn’t transparent.”  Schwartz said his items over the past five years appeared
in anywhere from 600 to 900 of J.C. Penney’s locations. He
declined to provide sales figures for his garments in the
retailer’s stores.  Alienated Shoppers  J.C. Penney is trying to revive sales after revenue tumbled
25 percent to $13 billion last year, the worst performance in at
least two decades, after Johnson’s attempt to remake the
retailer alienated shoppers. Since taking over in a second stint
as CEO, Ullman has shored up the retailer’s finances by
borrowing about $3 billion, re-introduced discounts and brought
back merchandise. In the first quarter under his direction, the
sales decline slowed to a drop of 12 percent.  Schwartz negotiated with J.C. Penney for a couple of months
before deciding not to renew the deal, which ends in January, he
said. During that time, the chain pushed to get the license for
less money, according to Schwartz. Ending the relationship
wasn’t because of doubts about J.C. Penney’s future or its
finances, he said.  The Allen B. brand represents a “small fraction” of J.C.
Penney’s women’s apparel business, Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman
for the chain, said in an e-mail yesterday. The clothes are
currently in less than 700 of the company’s 1,100 stores, she
said. Avila declined to comment on negotiations with Schwartz.  Women’s Wear Daily reported earlier that Schwartz had
decided to end the relationship with J.C. Penney.  The retailer’s shares  fell  2.3 percent to $13.14 at the
close in  New York  yesterday. The stock has declined 33 percent
this year, compared to a gain of 21 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  