-- Japan’s Yields Fall to 4-Month Low as Fed Holds Policy, BOJ Buys
-- B y   N o b u y u k i   A k a m a
-- 2013-09-19T06:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/japan-s-yields-fall-to-4-month-low-as-fed-holds-policy-boj-buys.html
Japanese  government bonds  rose,
sending yields to the lowest in four months, as Treasuries
surged following a surprise hold in U.S. monetary policy and as
the  Bank of Japan  bought debt for the sixth time this month.  The BOJ offered to buy 600 billion yen ($6.1 billion) in
JGBs, part of its more than 7 trillion yen in purchases each
month that aims to defeat deflation and spur growth. Pressure
may mount on the BOJ to expand stimulus further, a policy board
member said today. The Federal Reserve yesterday maintained the
pace of its bond buying, spurring the biggest drop in U.S.
Treasury yields in almost two years.  “JGBs are being bid as expectations for higher U.S. yields
have been largely pushed back,” said  Takafumi Yamawaki , the
Tokyo-based chief rates strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., one
of 23 primary dealers obliged to bid at sovereign debt sales.
Demand for 10-year Japanese bonds may peak at current levels
unless there’s a global economic slowdown, he said.  Japan ’s 10-year  yield  slid four basis points to 0.665
percent as of 2:39 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Japan Bond
Trading Co. That was the biggest drop since Sept. 9 and the
lowest level since May 10. The five-year rate declined 2 1/2
basis points, or 0.025 percentage point, to 0.240 percent, also
the least since May 10.  The 20-year JGB yield touched 1.59 percent, the least since
June 3, while the 30-year rate reached 1.73 percent, a level not
seen since Aug. 30.  The Fed maintained its quantitative easing program, known
as QE, under which it buys $45 billion in Treasuries and $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities each month. Median
forecasts of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  projected the
central bank would cut Treasury purchases by $5 billion and
leave MBS buying unchanged.  ‘Forced’ Response  Takahide Kiuchi, the BOJ board member most openly critical
of its monetary policy, said the central bank may come under
pressure to expand easing.  “I can’t deny the possibility that the Bank of Japan will
be influenced by external factors such as market expectations
and will be forced to respond in such a way,” Kiuchi said today
in a speech in Hokkaido, northern Japan.  The BOJ said today it would buy 400 billion yen in JGBs
ranging from five to 10 years in maturity and 200 billion yen in
bonds due in more than 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nobuyuki Akama in  Tokyo  at 
 akam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  