-- Japan Export Gains Offer Growth Momentum as Sales-Tax Rise Looms
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-09-19T06:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/japan-exports-rise-most-since-2010-in-boost-for-abe-growth-drive.html
Japan ’s  exports (JNTBEXPY)  rose the most since
2010 in August, boosting Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s growth
drive even as rising energy costs extended the streak of trade
deficits to the longest since 1980.  Exports rose 14.7 percent from a year earlier, the sixth
straight advance, a Finance Ministry report showed in  Tokyo , in
line with the median estimate of analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . The  trade gap  was 960.3 billion yen ($9.8 billion).  A surge in exports to the U.S., along with a rebound in
shipments to China in the wake of bilateral tensions last year,
are offering momentum to Japan as it prepares for the first
sales-tax increase since 1997. Rising competitiveness from the
yen’s 20 percent drop against the dollar the past year also has
helped manufacturers including  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  as they cope with
higher energy costs with the nation’s nuclear industry
shuttered.  “We are finally seeing a clear recovery in exports, led by
a weak yen and a moderate global recovery,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in
Tokyo. “My biggest concern is the planned sales-tax increase
next year. A recovery in exports will help cushion the impact
but a higher levy could still be a big drag on the economy,
while risks remain in Europe and  emerging markets .”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.8 percent in Tokyo
today, rallying after the U.S. Federal Reserve yesterday
unexpectedly refrained from paring back its monetary stimulus.
The yen was down 0.5 percent at 98.42 per dollar.  Household Assets  With the benchmark stock-market gauge rallying 58 percent
in the past year, Japanese households saw their assets increase
5 percent over the past 12 months, to 1,590 trillion yen, a
separate report showed today. The increased wealth may help
consumers as they gird for a scheduled 3 percentage point bump
in the  sales tax  in April, to 8 percent.  Japan must create an ’Abenomics’ for the tax system that
would review corporate rates and tax regulations. Cutting the
effective  tax rate  and bringing forward the abolition of a
temporary levy for earthquake reconstruction are among the ideas
that will be considered, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga said in an interview today at the prime
minister’s residence in Tokyo.  Abe instructed Finance Minister Taro Aso to include
corporate-tax reductions in a package of measures aimed at
shielding the economy from the sales-levy hit, the Nikkei
newspaper reported today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
earlier this year forecast the administration will enact a 5
trillion yen supplementary budget.  Kuroda Ready  Lower tax rates would give a further boost to companies
seeing profit growth from the yen’s drop. Panasonic President
 Kazuhiro Tsuga  said in a Sept. 5 interview that Japan’s second-largest television maker sees its full-year earnings beating its
forecast, helped by the  exchange rate .  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said earlier this
month that the central bank also could take measures should its
2 percent inflation target become endangered.  Takahide Kiuchi, the board member most openly critical of
the BOJ’s policies, warned in a speech in Hokkaido today that
the central bank could be swayed by market expectations,
prompting additional easing that would do more harm than good.  Along with the planned sales-tax increase, the world’s
third-largest economy is contending with higher energy costs.
The halting this week of Japan’s last operating nuclear reactor
leaves the nation more vulnerable to swings in crude  oil prices ,
which have soared around 18 percent this year.  Fed Support  Energy purchases contributed to a 16 percent gain in total
 imports  in August, today’s trade report showed. Export growth
accelerated from a 12.2 percent pace in July, compared with the
median of 23 forecasts for a 14.5 percent increase. Shipments to
the U.S. jumped 21 percent from a year earlier and those to
China, Japan’s biggest trading partner, surged 16 percent.  The  U.S. economy  expanded 2.5 percent in the April-June
period, faster than in the previous two quarters. In China, data
last week showed industrial output grew at the fastest pace in
17 months in August, with retail sales advancing more than
expected.  Fed policy makers’ decision to hold off on paring its
monthly asset purchases pending more evidence of lasting
improvement in the U.S. economy is good news for Japan, Minami
said. “It will contribute to growth in Japan’s exports,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  