-- Japan Top Cities Post Land-Price Gains for First Time in 5 Years
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2013-09-19T07:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/japan-top-cities-post-land-price-gains-for-first-time-in-5-years.html
Land prices in  Japan ’s three
largest cities rose for the first time in five years, signaling
a return of confidence among homebuyers and investors.  The average price of land in Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya gained
0.1 percent as of July 1, compared with a 1 percent drop a year
earlier, the  Ministry of Land , Infrastructure, Transport and
Tourism said in a  report  released today. The gain was the first
since 2008 when it climbed 1.7 percent. The decline in
nationwide land prices, which have been falling for 22 years,
narrowed to 1.9 percent, the smallest in five years.  Low interest rates and a return of  consumer confidence  that
rose to the highest level in six years after Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s pledge to revive the economy have led to an
increase in property transactions. Real estate deals in Japan
will rise to as much as 4 trillion yen ($41 billion) this year,
the most since 2008, according to  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   “We have started to see signs of recovery,” said Keiji Kimura, chairman of  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , Japan’s biggest
developer, in a statement. “In order to end the asset deflation
and achieve sustainable growth, we must increase the
competitiveness of our major cities and stimulate housing
investments.”  Commercial land values in Japan’s three biggest
metropolitan areas rose 0.6 percent in the year, reversing a
decline of 0.8 percent a year ago, the annual land survey report
showed. Residential land prices in the cities declined 0.1
percent in the year, narrowing from a 0.9 percent drop a year
earlier, according to the report.  Nationwide prices for commercial land fell 2.1 percent,
while land prices for residential properties dropped 1.8
percent, it showed.  Property Deals  Abe has promised to loosen business regulations and
increase government support to help Japan’s industry as part of
the “third arrow” of a three-pronged strategy to end 15 years
of deflation, following fiscal and monetary stimulus. The
policies, dubbed Abenomics, have helped boost property
transactions in the world’s third-largest economy.  Sales of offices, warehouse and retail space rose 85
percent to 2 trillion yen in the first half of 2013, heading for
the biggest increase in five years, according to Chicago-based
broker Jones Lang LaSalle.  The most expensive piece of commercial property remained in
 Tokyo ’s Ginza  shopping district , where land can cost as much as
20.4 million yen per square meter (10.76 square foot). The patch
of land posted a 3.6 percent increase from last year, the report
showed.  Prices for commercial land in Tokyo’s metropolitan area
gained 0.6 percent, while residential land values in the city
fell 0.1 percent.  The Topix Real Estate Index that includes 45 developers
rose 4.1 percent at the close of trading in Tokyo, bringing the
year-to-date advance to 63 percent. The Tokyo Stock Exchange
REIT Index, which consists of 41 real estate investment trusts
that pays investors rental income generated from the properties
they own, gained 2.6 percent, the highest since May 22.  The land price data came out after the market closed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  