-- Japan Loan Streak Pits Deutsche Bank Against Fitch Ratings
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-09-19T00:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/japan-loan-streak-pits-deutsche-bank-against-fitch-ratings-1-.html
Japanese megabanks’ longest streak
of loan growth in four years has been “phenomenal,” according
to Deutsche Bank AG. Not so fast, says Fitch Ratings Ltd.  “Japan hasn’t been in such a bright spot in a long
while,” said Deutsche Bank analyst Yoshinobu Yamada, who has
covered the nation’s lenders for 18 years.  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411)  raised its domestic loan growth forecast by 33
percent to 4 trillion yen ($40 billion) last week.  Central bank figures show  lending  by major banks climbed
for nine months and increased 1.9 percent in August, the most
since May 2009, adding to signs that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
efforts to end deflation and bolster the economy are taking
hold, according to Yamada. Japanese  stocks  are headed for their
best performance in eight years as  Tokyo ’s winning 2020 Olympics
bid further stokes optimism.  Chikako Horiuchi at Fitch isn’t convinced that Abe’s
policies will sustain the credit recovery.  “It’s too early to say that banks’ domestic lending has
turned around,” said the Hong Kong-based analyst. “It will
take at least two years for the impact of Abenomics to be
proven.”  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, who unveiled
unprecedented monetary stimulus in April to achieve 2 percent
inflation, has said lower  interest rates  make it cheaper to
borrow and the central bank’s asset purchases will prompt
lenders to shift from owning  government bonds  to riskier assets
including loans.  Bubble Legacy  Over the past 15 years, falling prices and five recessions
dissuaded companies from borrowing.  Combined outstanding lending at so-called city banks
including  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and Mizuho climbed to 198.4 trillion yen in
August from 194.8 trillion yen a year earlier, the lowest level
since the central bank began compiling the  data  in 1991.  Loans have shrunk from a high of 349.3 trillion yen in
March 1996, when banks were still dishing out credit after the
country’s  asset bubble  burst. Since then, they fell an average 3
percent a year as households and companies pared debts amassed
in the boom era. In the revival since December, monthly gains in
lending from a year earlier averaged 1.3 percent.  That’s not enough for Takehito Yamanaka, an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, who says loans must grow 3 percent for a
year before Abe’s policies can be seen as effective.  Faster Pace  “The pace of lending increase needs to be faster than it
is now,” Tokyo-based Yamanaka said. “It’s important to see
loans growing across a range of industry sectors to confirm an
economic recovery.”  Japanese companies continue to save rather than spend, even
as Abe seeks to encourage business investment with his three-pronged strategy of fiscal spending, monetary easing and
business deregulation.  Machinery orders , an indicator of future corporate
investment, unexpectedly failed to rise in July from a month
earlier, Cabinet Office figures showed Sept. 12.  Capital
spending (JNVNYOYS)  was unchanged in the second quarter after dropping in
the first, the  Finance Ministry  reported this month.  Companies’ cash stockpiles rose 5.1 percent to 148.5
trillion yen in the same period, an amount almost equal to
 Australia ’s economy, the data show. Bank deposits exceeded loans
by 184.2 trillion yen in August, close to a record 189.1
trillion yen in June, according to Bank of Japan statistics.  M&A Financing  The recent rebound in lending is largely attributable to
“ad hoc demand” for funds used in mergers and acquisitions and
financing for utilities that aren’t able to issue bonds, said
Shinichi Tamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at Barclays.  “Abenomics hasn’t changed Japanese companies’ financial
behavior at all,” Tamura said. “There are more companies that
amass cash than those that borrow.”  A stock market rally boosted profit from fee businesses at
the three Tokyo-based megabanks in the fiscal first quarter.
Combined net income at Mitsubishi UFJ,  Sumitomo Mitsui  and
Mizuho surged 63 percent to 791.6 billion yen in the three
months ended June, according to calculations based on their
earnings statements.  The government and the Bank of Japan’s stimulus policies
spurred a 13 percent decline in the yen against the dollar this
year, bolstering exporters’ earnings and helping Japanese stocks
become the best performers among major markets. The benchmark
 Topix Index (TPX)  climbed 39 percent since Dec. 31, fueling investment
trust sales at commercial lenders.  Shares Rise  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s biggest bank, rose 0.5
percent at 9:31 a.m. in Tokyo, extending this year’s advance to
40 percent. Sumitomo Mitsui, the second-largest lender by market
value, climbed 0.6 percent and is up 56 percent in 2013. Mizuho
was unchanged and has gained 39 percent this year.  Banks’ profits have increased “quite substantially, but as
far as I can see, that’s almost entirely driven by the boom in
the Tokyo stock market,” said  David Marshall , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in  Singapore . “It’s not resulting from any
material increase in their core business of lending in Japan.”  Falling interest margins are also a drag on loan income,
Marshall said. Lending profitability has eroded as the central
bank’s  government bond  purchases and competition for borrowers
weigh on  interest rates .  Mitsubishi UFJ’s loan margins, calculated by subtracting
the deposit rate from the lending rate, fell to 1.05 percent in
June from 1.16 percent a year earlier, company figures show. The
equivalent measure for Sumitomo Mitsui slid 10 basis points, or
0.1 percentage point, to 1.4 percent and Mizuho’s dropped six
basis points to 1.07 percent over the same period.  Olympics Boost  Tokyo’s successful bid to host the 2020 Olympics has made
Deutsche Bank’s Yamada more confident about a lending revival.
Brian Waterhouse, an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
Tokyo, is optimistic that the return of the summer games to the
capital will bolster construction and tourism.  Olympics-related expenditures such as those for sports
venues and wages are projected at $3.41 billion, which will be
covered by revenue from the games, according to the Tokyo 2020
Bid Committee’s website. The governments of  Japan  and Tokyo and
private enterprises will shoulder the cost of projects to
develop railways and roads, it said.  “The potential knock-on effect, or domino effect, for the
domestic economy is very large,” Waterhouse said by phone.
“And because banks are so much a part of financing of domestic
 gross domestic product , it will indirectly benefit them.”  Mizuho Loans  Mizuho expects the Olympics will provide a lending
opportunity, especially because the Tokyo Metropolitan
Government is a customer, according to materials presented at an
investor conference on Sept. 10.  The bank, Japan’s third biggest by market value, said its
domestic loan books will increase by 4 trillion yen by March
2016, up from 3 trillion yen previously estimated, thanks to the
games and a pickup in spending by large corporates. Mizuho had
53.7 trillion yen in domestic loans as of March 31.  A lending revival is up to the banks as much as their
customers, said Shinichi Ina, an analyst at UBS AG in Tokyo.  “Banks can’t expand loans if they stay passive, assuming
that demand will increase along with the economic recovery,”
Ina said. “They should broaden their borrower base and take
risks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  