-- JPMorgan to Pay $389 Million Over Regulators’ Card Add-On Claims
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-19T17:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/jpmorgan-to-pay-389-million-over-regulators-card-add-on-claims.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank by assets, is paying $389 million in penalties and
restitution to settle regulators’ claims that it unfairly
charged customers for credit-monitoring products.  The New York-based bank will pay $60 million to the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency and $20 million to the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in penalties for improperly
billing customers for the “add-on products,” the agencies said
in a statement today. JPMorgan has already paid $309 million in
refunds to more than 2.1 million customers, CFPB Director
Richard Cordray said in a statement.  “Put simply, Chase was charging consumers for services
they did not receive,” Cordray said.  An investigation started by the OCC revealed that JPMorgan
enrolled customers in credit-monitoring programs that were sold
as add-ons to credit cards from October 2005 through June 2012,
the consumer bureau said. The bank began charging customers for
the programs before obtaining the necessary written
authorization, the regulators said.  The consumer bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010,
is conducting an industrywide inquiry into various aspects of
the add-on market, including whether credit-card customers were
unknowingly enrolled in products such as credit-monitoring
services and whether banks properly oversaw contractors that
helped sell them. The probe has yielded settlements with
companies including  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , which agreed to
pay $210 million in July 2012.  Bill Wallace, the bank’s head of operations for consumer
and community banking, said in an e-mailed statement that the
company’s Chase Bank unit had stopped new enrollments in the
products in mid-2012.  ‘High Standards’  “Any mistakes like these are regrettable and we are
committed to ensuring our partners and vendors hold themselves
to the same high standards that our customers expect of us,”
Wallace said in the statement.  The bank still faces a CFPB investigation, disclosed last
month in a regulatory filing, over credit card debt sales.  Earlier today, the OCC was involved in two other
settlements with JPMorgan. It was among several regulators in
the $920 million agreement to settle allegations stemming from
the bank’s London Whale losses. The OCC also ordered the bank
repay harmed customers and fix problems with its consumer debt-collections practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  