-- JPMorgan Leads Banks in Commodities Revenue Followed by Goldman
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-09-19T07:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/jpmorgan-leads-banks-in-commodities-revenue-followed-by-goldman.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank by assets, generated the most revenue from commodities
out of the 10 biggest investment banks in the first six months
this year, according to Coalition, an analytics company.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  ranked second and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
was third, Coalition, based in  London , said in a report today.
For all of last year, Goldman had the most revenue from
commodities, followed by JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley. Figures
for individual banks weren’t disclosed.  Commodity prices dropped 5.5 percent in the first half as
Chinese growth slowed and supply surpluses emerged. JPMorgan
said in July that it plans to get out of the business of owning
and trading physical commodities.  Revenue from raw materials fell 20 percent in the first
half to $2.7 billion and dropped 24 percent for all of last
year, to $6 billion, Coalition said. Last year’s total was less
than half the level in 2008, when oil climbed to a record.
Spokesmen for JPMorgan, Goldman and Morgan Stanley declined to
comment about their commodity rankings.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said
this year that he’s open to different structures in his bank’s
commodities unit. The firm held talks last year with Qatar’s
sovereign-wealth fund about selling a stake in the business.  Goldman Sachs’s physical commodities unit is a “core”
business that provides a crucial service to clients, Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein said yesterday.  JPMorgan was the largest investment bank by revenue in the
first six months this year and also ranked first for fixed
income, currencies and commodities as a group, Coalition said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  