-- JPMorgan Agrees to Repay Customers in Credit-Card Settlement
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-19T14:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/jpmorgan-agrees-to-repay-customers-in-occ-credit-card-settlement.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to
repay harmed consumers and fix problems with its handling of
credit-card debt collections under an agreement with the U.S.
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency released today.  The New York-based bank violated rules regarding
collections practices, debt documents and sales of consumer
credit-card debt, the OCC said in a consent order. JPMorgan, the
biggest U.S. bank by assets, must provide remediation to
affected customers, improve its documentation procedures with
non-home loans and review lending accounts since 2005 for
deficiencies that need to be repaired, the OCC said.  JPMorgan agreed to the sanctions without admitting or
denying wrongdoing, according to today’s order. The settlement
was announced at the same time as a separate $920 million
agreement with multiple regulators over the bank’s London Whale
trades.  “The unsafe or unsound practices identified by the OCC
were most prevalent in the Bank’s consumer and community banking
lines of business, including credit-card services, auto lending,
and student lending,” according to the  order . The bank’s
employees -- or those of hired third-party firms -- signed
affidavits that they personally reviewed debt documents that
“were not based on such personal knowledge or review of the
relevant books and records.”  The bank will review files and submit a plan to the
regulator on how it intends to repay those harmed. Because the
plan isn’t yet approved, the amount of remediation isn’t set.  Steps Taken  “We have taken extensive steps over the past two years to
remediate the issues that affected customers and redesign our
practices,” said Bill Wallace, the bank’s head of operations
for consumer and community banking, in a statement. “Although
these issues affected less than 1 percent of Chase customers,
any mistake is regrettable and does not reflect the high
standards we set for ourselves.”  The problems were discovered by the bank in its own
internal reviews in 2010, it said in a statement. JPMorgan said
it stopped filing credit-card collection lawsuits against
customers in early 2011 and hasn’t restarted.  Richard Cordray , director of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, has also made the debt collection industry a
top priority this year. His agency, which has been focusing on
the accuracy of information used to collect debts, is
investigating JPMorgan’s practices, the bank said in a
Securities and Exchange Commission filing last month. The
consumer agency may write a regulation to create nationwide
industry standards, Cordray said on July 10.  JPMorgan said in its  SEC filing  that it had responded to
formal and informal inquiries from both federal and state
regulators on credit-card collections. In May, the bank was sued
by the California attorney general for violating state laws on
the use of sworn documents in debt collection and taking illegal
shortcuts to pursue borrowers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 