-- JPMorgan Asset Management Unit Buying Emerging-Market Securities
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-09-19T18:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/jpmorgan-asset-management-unit-buying-emerging-market-securities.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $1.5
trillion asset management unit is buying emerging-market and
convertible bonds as it seeks higher-yielding securities with
the  Federal Reserve  maintaining its stimulus effort.  “All asset prices are going to be underwritten by central
banks for the foreseeable future,” Robert Michele, JPMorgan
Asset Management’s chief investment officer of fixed income and
currencies, said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “There are
many parts of the  bond market  that look attractive.”  Michele said the firm is buying “equity-like” fixed-income securities, including local emerging-market debt, bank
capital contingent notes and convertible bonds.  Investors are bolstered by the Fed’s decision yesterday to
maintain its $85 billion of monthly Treasury and mortgage-debt
purchases, surprising economists who expected the central bank
to start slowing the stimulus program. The greatest proportion
of fixed-income buyers are more “overweight” investment-grade
corporate bonds since February 2011, according to a September
survey by JPMorgan strategists led by  Eric Beinstein .  The yield on the benchmark 10-year  government  note plunged
16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 2.69 percent
yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, the
biggest drop since Oct. 31, 2011.  ‘Defensive’ Investors  Corporate bonds in the U.S. are returning 0.4 percent this
month, paring a 4.3 percent loss in the previous four months as
concern mounted that the Fed would start slowing its
unprecedented stimulus effort. U.S. policy makers said yesterday
they want more evidence of an economic recovery before reducing
its quantitative-easing program.  “Investors had become very defensive over the summer and
raised a lot of cash,” Michele said. “You start to sense that
the market is oversold.”  Corporate bonds from developing nations are returning 1.3
percent this month, the biggest gain since October, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Emerging Markets Corporate
Plus Index, as confidence increases that easy monetary policies
will keep supporting riskier debt markets. A Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index of convertible notes is returning 4.5
percent this month, the most since January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  