-- The JPMorgan Settlement Is Too Small
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-19T22:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/jpmorgan-whale-settlement-won-t-stop-miscreants.html
It comes through loud and clear in
the “London Whale” settlement by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) : The
bank thumbed its nose at its compact with shareholders to reveal
how their money is being spent and how much they are owed in
return.  Legal papers reveal misconduct involving a single trading
strategy that is patently egregious. To its credit, the
 Securities and Exchange Commission  required JPMorgan to admit to
wrongdoing.  A few heads have rolled, including the chief investment
officer’s, and some executive compensation has been clawed back.
Still, for a bank that could earn $23 billion this year, $920
million in fines isn’t enough to ensure that shareholders won’t
be deceived again.  The bank bypassed numerous internal controls, which all
publicly traded companies must have to make sure shareholders
get honest financial disclosures. The law requires multiple
layers of oversight and strict rules for the disclosure of
information to the lawyers and accountants who prepare a
company’s quarterly filings. After the Enron Corp. scandal in
2001, Congress added yet another layer by requiring most large
companies to regularly test the effectiveness of their controls.  JPMorgan  and its auditor repeatedly told shareholders that
its controls were airtight. Now we learn the truth. Federal
prosecutors have criminally indicted two of the many bank
employees who were involved. Yet Jamie Dimon, the chairman and
chief executive officer, and a handful of other senior managers
should also accept blame. They may not have known about the
wrongdoing, but they didn’t make sure procedures were followed
that might have prevented it, either. For a global bank with
$2.4 trillion in assets, that’s asking for trouble.  Among management’s sins: Derivatives traders -- whose huge
positions in an index that tracks corporate credit risk caused
more than $6 billion in  losses  -- were allowed to run amok. For
months, the traders covered their tracks by claiming higher
values for their positions than market prices indicated. When
their models told them they’d hit their risk limits, the traders
created new models that let them bet even more.  A separate control group, which was supposed to monitor
valuations independently of the trading desk, instead fell under
its influence. The control unit was “understaffed,
insufficiently supervised” and failed to “adequately document
its actual price-testing policies,” according to the SEC.  The faults came to light in part because counterparties to
the derivatives trades demanded $520 million in collateral that
the bank disputed. Senior management then failed to tell the
board’s audit committee -- violating what one SEC official
called a cardinal rule of corporate governance -- or even to
examine the reasons for the misvaluations. An order from top
managers to keep all findings confidential hid essential details
from internal and external review teams, and caused shareholders
to be deceived.  These are only a few of the many failures “permeating all
levels of the firm,” according to the U.K. regulator, the
 Financial Conduct Authority . The  Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency , JPMorgan’s lead bank regulator, was also misled
about the trading strategy, the size of the positions and the
failure of the controls.  Considering the extent of the wrongdoing, it’s hard to
believe the bank’s executives didn’t smell trouble: The SEC says
some “expressed reservations” about signing off on a first-quarter 2012 earnings statement. And Dimon, as CEO, knew things
he should have reported to the board’s audit committee. He is,
after all, the chairman of the board. Once there were news
reports on the immensity of the derivatives trades, directors
should have demanded quicker answers. And PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, the auditor, should have detected weaknesses in the
internal controls.  The bank’s legal woes aren’t over. Perhaps the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, which is investigating whether the
bank manipulated trading in credit derivatives, and the Justice
Department, which is conducting a criminal probe, can correct
the settlement’s deficiencies.  This one shouldn’t just pinch; it should be painful, even
if shareholders have to pay a steep price. Only then will they
demand corrective actions to ensure they aren’t misled again.
And only then will other public companies see that their
controls are working.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 