-- Junk Credit Risk Drops to Two-Year Low in Europe on Fed Stimulus
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-19T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/junk-credit-risk-drops-to-two-year-low-in-europe-on-fed-stimulus.html
The cost of insuring high-yield
corporate bonds against losses dropped to the lowest in more
than two years in  Europe  after the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly
refrained from paring monetary stimulus.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly speculative-grade credit ratings
fell 11 basis points to 365 at 4:30 p.m. in London, the lowest
since May 2011.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Italy’s biggest phone
company, and Swisscom AG were among companies that sold bonds in
Europe today.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said it wants more proof
of an economic recovery before curbing its $85 billion-a-month
asset-buying program, surprising analysts predicting a $5
billion cut to Treasury purchases. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
there is no fixed schedule for tapering, which could still start
this year should data confirm the Fed’s “basic outlook.”  “It’s a positive knee-jerk reaction, but whether it
translates into an ongoing rally is debatable,” said Hans Lorenzen, a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London.
“With more liquidity than expected, markets are anticipating
that excess demand for securities will continue for longer.
That’s supportive for higher-risk assets in particular.”  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings dropped four basis points to 89, the
lowest level in four months. A decrease signals an improvement
in perceptions of  credit quality .  New Issues  The yield investors demand to hold junk-rated company bonds
fell two basis points to 4.9 percent yesterday, the lowest in
almost three weeks, according to Bloomberg bond  index  data.  In the new issue market, Milan-based Telecom Italia sold 1
billion euros ($1.4 billion) of seven-year bonds to yield 330
basis points more than the midswap rate, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company has the lowest investment grade
ranking from all three major ratings companies with a negative
outlook.  Swisscom (SCMN) , Switzerland’s biggest phone company, issued 500
million euros of seven-year bonds through its Lunar Funding V
unit. The notes yield 40 basis points more than swaps.  Australia Pacific Airports Melbourne Pty Ltd., the owner
and operator of Melbourne Airport, raised 550 million euros from
a sale of 10-year securities yielding 105 basis points more than
swaps. It was the company’s first sale of securities in euros,
Bloomberg data show.  Hapag-Lloyd AG, a German liner shipping company, is meeting
investors for a sale of 200 million euros of five-year high-yield notes. It would be the Hamburg-based company’s first bond
sale since 2010, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  