-- Ken Norton, Boxing Champion Who Broke Ali’s Jaw, Dies at 70
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-09-19T12:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ken-norton-former-heavyweight-boxing-champion-dies-ap-says.html
Ken Norton, the former world
heavyweight boxing champion who rose to prominence when he broke
 Muhammad Ali ’s jaw the first time they met in the ring, died
yesterday. He was 70.  Norton, who was badly injured in a car accident in 1986,
had been ill for several years after a series of strokes, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing a friend of the boxer that it
didn’t identify.  Ken Norton Jr., a linebacker for 13 years for the  Dallas
Cowboys  and  San Francisco 49ers  and now an assistant coach with
the  National Football League ’s Seattle Seahawks, confirmed his
father’s death in a phone call, AP said. The World Boxing
Council reported Norton’s death on its website and declared a
three-day period of mourning in boxing.  “They called us all handsome; Muhammad they called pretty,
but the fairest of them all -- Ken Norton,” two-time
heavyweight champion  George Foreman  said on his Twitter account
last night.  Norton won his first bout with Ali in 1973 on a split
decision in a non-title fight in San Diego. Ali won the rematch
six months later and beat Norton again on Sept. 28, 1976, at
Yankee Stadium in New York. Both bouts went the full 15 rounds.  “So saddened by the passing of Ken Norton Sr. and sending
condolences to the Norton family,” Seahawks coach  Pete Carroll 
said on his Twitter feed. “This hits close to home for all of
us here.”  Norton was born Aug. 9, 1943, in Jacksonville,  Illinois . He
started boxing as a Marine before turning professional in 1967
at the age of 23.  Declared Champion  Norton was the only fighter not to win the heavyweight
title inside the ring. After Leon Spinks beat Ali to take the
title in February 1978, the WBC ordered the champ to fight its
No. 1 contender, Norton. A month later, after Spinks opted to
fight Ali again, the WBC declared Norton its champion.  On June 9 that year Norton lost his title to Larry Holmes
in a 15-round contest at Caesars Palace in  Las Vegas .  “The final round of his fight against Larry Holmes showed
Ken’s incredible fighting spirit,” the WBC said in a statement
on its website last night. “Many consider it the  greatest
single round  in boxing history. It defined Ken as a man.”  Norton fought five more times after losing to Holmes and
was knocked out in the first round by Gerry Cooney at Madison
Square Garden in his final bout, on May 11, 1981.  “Ken Norton was always nice to me even when I was just an
amateur fighter,” former heavyweight champion  Mike Tyson  said
on his Twitter feed. “He always treated me like I was somebody.
Remarkable man.”  After retiring from boxing with a 42-7-1 record and 33
knockouts, Norton acted in about 20 movies, according to his
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 