-- Kingfisher Default Said to Raise Airline Costs: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-20T11:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/kingfisher-default-said-to-raise-airline-costs-corporate-india.html
Payment defaults by grounded Indian
carrier  Kingfisher (KAIR)  Airlines Ltd. are prompting aircraft lessors
to demand a premium to cover risks in the South Asian country.  Companies leasing out planes are insisting on a one-year
security deposit instead of the usual three-month cover in
addition to a commitment to hire the aircraft for as long as
nine years, said two officials of Air India Ltd. The state-owned
firm is negotiating to lease 19 Airbus SAS A320s for six years,
they said, asking not to be identified because the talks are
private.  Higher costs may weigh on local carriers that are already
struggling with a combined debt of $13.6 billion, the region’s
most expensive fuel tariffs and a falling rupee, said Mark D. Martin, chief executive officer of Dubai-based Martin Consulting
LLC. Lessors including a unit of American International Group
Inc. are wary after the government failed to release some
aircraft grounded by Kingfisher, leading to messy litigation.  “I don’t really blame the lessors,” said Martin, who
advises airlines on their fleet strategy. “You have to blame
Kingfisher for this. Right now, lessors are pretty much in
control and command of the negotiations.”  State Guarantee  While keeping rentals unchanged, the lessors also sought
government guarantee for the planes, which Air  India  declined to
provide, the officials said. The carrier has asked the
government to expedite a rule change to address their concerns,
the officials said.  India plans to ease rules to ensure leasing companies are
able to take possession of aircraft without any hurdles,
Aviation Secretary K.N. Shrivastava said Sept. 13, without
giving a timeline.  The rule change is aimed at underscoring the supremacy of
the  Cape Town Convention  over Indian laws. In 2008, India signed
the agreement that provides for the irrevocable power of
attorney, which allows lessors to seek deregistration and export
of aircraft in the event of a default. That will end the repeat
of any “Kingfisher-like fiasco,” Shrivastava said.  Kingfisher, the only Indian carrier to order Airbus A380s,
has grounded planes since October after five straight years of
losses. The airline lost its operating license on Jan. 1 after
failing to convince authorities it has enough funds to revive
operations.  Planes Seized  The Bangalore, India-based company defaulted on payments to
lessors, creditors and airports as losses widened amid rising
fuel costs and competition.  AIG’s unit International Lease Finance Corp. earlier this
year struggled to retrieve six Airbus aircraft it had leased to
Kingfisher after local airport and tax authorities seized them
against dues owed by the carrier.  DVB Bank SE (DVB)  also faced delays
in repossessing two planes.  “The difficulties incurred by aircraft lessors in re-possessing aircraft placed with Kingfisher has raised the
perception of the India-market risk,” said Binit Somaia, a
Sydney-based director with consultancy CAPA Centre for Aviation.
“This may result in tighter adherence to contracts. There is
likely to be less leeway with delayed payments.”  India’s current market conditions haven’t deterred foreign
carriers from investing.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  yesterday
announced a venture with Tata Group to set up a full-service
operator from New Delhi. Malaysia’s  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  has also teamed
up with Tata for a discount airline while Etihad Airways PJSC
this year agreed to buy a stake in Jet Airways (India) Ltd.  Rising Costs  Aircraft  leasing costs  for Jet Airways jumped 31 percent to
3.63 billion rupees ($58 million) in the quarter to June 30 from
a year ago, according to an exchange filing. For  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) ,
they rose 16 percent in the same period. Leasing costs account
for the highest expense for airlines after fuel, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jet hasn’t posted an annual group profit in the six years
through March, while SpiceJet reported loss for the second year
in a row through March 31.  Shares (JETIN)  of Jet rose 1.3 percent to 358.95 rupees in Mumbai
today. The stock has lost 36 percent this year, compared with a
4.3 percent gain for the benchmark S&P BSE  Sensex. (SENSEX)  SpiceJet, the
nation’s only listed budget carrier, tumbled 50 percent.  The rupee’s slide may further boost expenses for airlines,
Giorgio De Roni, chief executive officer of budget carrier Go
Airlines (India) Pvt., said in an Aug. 30 interview.  Rupee, Fuel  The local currency has slumped about 11.6 percent this year
against the dollar. The one-month implied volatility of the
rupee surged 333 basis points in the past month to 17.46
percent, signaling a greater potential for losses.  The rupee’s fall “is a serious challenge,” De Roni said.
“There’s a consequential impact on fuel and all the costs that
are in foreign exchange.”  He didn’t immediately respond to a separate e-mail seeking
comments on lessors increasing costs. S.L. Narayanan, chief
financial officer of SpiceJet’s parent Sun Group, didn’t respond
to two calls and a text message to his mobile phone. Jet Airways
and IndiGo didn’t respond to e-mailed questions.  Indian airlines have 381 aircraft with a list price of $60
billion on order with Airbus and Boeing Co. IndiGo, which has an
order of 280 aircraft pending with Airbus, has predominantly
expanded fleet through sale and leaseback transactions.  “I don’t see this as a great hindrance,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst with Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. in
Mumbai. “From a financial perspective, security deposits may be
interest bearing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  