-- KKR to Apollo Vie for Spain Lending Left by Banks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-09-20T08:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/kkr-to-apollo-vie-for-spain-lending-left-by-banks.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  are vying for a slice of Spain’s 1.5 trillion-euro ($2 trillion) lending market, as private equity firms snap
up customers the nation’s  banks  deem too risky a bet.  “The banks are becoming a lot choosier about who they lend
to,” Mubashir Mukadam, the London-based head of European
special situations at KKR, said in a telephone interview.
“We’re clearly looking at a number of opportunities for more
deals.”  Spanish banks’ stock of loans has dropped 20 percent from
the 2008 peak of the credit boom, while record  defaults  and the
26 percent  jobless  rate make the industry reluctant to lend. As
regulators tighten rules on refinancing loans, space is opening
up for private equity lenders, said Carlos Rueda, a partner in
the banking and finance department at Gomez-Acebo & Pombo
lawyers in  Madrid .  Lending to individuals and companies shrank by 27 billion
euros, or 1.8 percent, in July from June, even as financing
terms for banks improve amid lower sovereign bond yields. The
premium investors charge to hold  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  covered
bonds maturing in 2020 rather than German bunds was 166 basis
points at 10:20 a.m. in Madrid, down from a peak of 422 in July
2012.  ‘Big Funds’  “I’m detecting a lot of interest from big funds that are
interested in occupying this lending space,” Rueda said in a
Sept. 18 interview at a conference in London organized by
Debtwire. “They are going to be new players in the lending
market as  banks  give up some ground.”  Uralita SA (URA) , a Spanish building materials company, turned to
KKR in April when it took 320 million euros in seven-year
financing to replace existing bank debt and bonds. The firm was
forced to act to meet a deadline to find alternative financing,
Javier Gonzalez, a board member of the Madrid-based company,
said in a phone interview.  The funding provided by KKR comes with greater flexibility
than bank loans as part of the interest payments can be delayed
until the end of financing term, said Gonzalez, adding that the
cost of the transaction wasn’t public. KKR also contributes to
running the company with its know-how and contacts, he said.  Uralita Deal  “Everyone is very happy with the way it’s going,” he
said. “Our perception is that the banks are still not being at
all receptive to taking on any additional risk.”  For KKR, the Uralita deal offered the opportunity to lend
to a solid company that was  suffering  as a result of  Spain ’s
six-year economic slump and property crash, Mukadam said. The
banks “had very little interest in extending their loans to a
good but highly cyclical company, which we feel, based on the
due diligence that we have done, is at the trough of the
cycle,” he said.  The Bank of Spain has tightened rules on how banks treat
208 billion euros of refinanced or restructured loans, creating
opportunities for private equity. The changes mean it’s “more
expensive for banks to keep lending to sub-optimal or sub-performing businesses,” Mukadam said.  As well as one-on-one deals with companies, investment
firms have started acquiring lending businesses and real estate
assets amid signs Spain’s two-year recession is bottoming out.  Apollo agreed this month to purchase Evo Banco, a unit of
nationalized lender NCG Banco with 702 million euros of loans.
In March, New York-based Apollo agreed to buy FinanMadrid, an
auto and consumer loan unit, from the state-owned Bankia group.  “We believe there is a direct lending opportunity for
consumers and SMEs,” Andres Rubio, a partner at Apollo European
Principal Finance in  London , said in an interview, adding that
the firm has 1 billion euros of performing loans in Spain.
“Even a small slice of this market represents a huge
opportunity for a new entrant.”  Spanish Homes  H.I.G. Capital, a U.S. investment firm with $13 billion
under management, bought a majority stake in a portfolio of
almost 1,000 homes last month from Spain’s bad bank, in the
first asset sale by the vehicle set up last year to absorb
soured real-estate from rescued lenders.  Investment companies’ advance into the Spanish lending
market risks being held back by the terms they demand, as
companies may refuse to pay higher financing costs, said Alberto
Garcia Elias, a managing director at March  Capital Markets  in
Madrid.  Private equity firms typically seek annual returns of 8
percent to 15 percent for direct-loan transactions, he said. At
the same time, banks may become less wary about  lending  to
medium- and large-sized companies as the economy improves, he
said.  “As yet, there is probably more money looking to invest
than there are real transactions,” Garcia Elias said in a phone
interview. “The cost of capital and the returns being sought
are high, and there aren’t many companies that can bear these
costs.”  Traditional Funding  The challenge for investment firms is to persuade Spanish
companies that financing via direct lending can be their best
chance, as traditional sources of funding remain scarce, said
Stefan Lindemann, the Madrid-based director of H.I.G.
WhiteHorse, an affiliate of H.I.G. Capital that’s investing in
direct lending in Iberia.  “Overall it’s my impression that the banks are far from
able to lend freely,” he said. “There’s a lot more talk than
action. The challenge is to get companies to come to terms with
the fact that while money used to be easy and cheap to come by
in Spain, it isn’t any longer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  