-- Konecranes Rises as Deutsche Sees Cyclical Boost: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-09-19T08:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/konecranes-rises-as-deutsche-sees-cyclical-boost-helsinki-mover.html
Konecranes Oyj (KCR1V)  advanced to a three-month high in Helsinki as Deutsche Bank AG said clients should
buy the Finnish cranemaker’s stock as Europe’s recovering
industrial output could boost sales next year.  Konecranes gained 4.2 percent to 26.20 euros at 11:22 a.m.
local time, the highest intraday level since June 4. Shares in
the Hyvinkaa-based company rose as much as 4.8 percent with
trading volume at 76 percent of the three-month daily average.  “We see Konecranes to be a key beneficiary of a cyclical
upturn,” Anette Luomanpera, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said
in a note to clients today. “We look past possible weakness in
second-half earnings toward the growth in 2014.”  Germany ’s manufacturing  purchasing managers index  increased
to 51.8 in August, the highest in two years. The reading hit
above 50 for the second month in a row, indicating expansion.
 Business climate index  in manufacturing for Europe’s largest
economy has been positive since February, according to the IFO
institute in Munich.  Even as industrial production in the euro area fell in
July, indicators support future growth, Luomanpera said, raising
her  recommendation  to buy from hold and increasing the price
estimate to 30 euros from 25 euros. Konecranes is set to benefit
from the manufacturing boost with a delay of two or three
quarters, she said.  Konecranes lowered its profit forecast in June as global
slowdown in investments and a lackluster shipping industry
weighed on the company. The company seeks to cut costs by 30
million euros ($41 million) by the end of 2014, it said on July
24. These measures add further potential to the company, as its
fixed cost base was “too high,” Luomanpera said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  