-- N.J. Judge’s Comedian Job No Laughing Matter, Court Rules
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-09-20T01:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/new-jersey-judge-barred-from-working-nights-as-comedian.html
Vincenzo A. Sicari may get laughs
on stage from self-deprecating jokes about his sex life and his
Italian family, but the  New Jersey Supreme Court  isn’t amused.  Sicari, a municipal judge in South Hackensack, can’t
continue with his part-time job as a comedian and reality show
star because the side gig demeans his judicial post, the seven-judge panel ruled unanimously today, affirming a review board’s
decision. Sicari resigned after the decision against him.  “It is what it is,” Sicari, 44, said in a phone
interview. “I respect the Supreme Court’s decision but I was
honest and open from day one.”  Sicari, who performs under the name Vince August, was
appointed to the $13,000-a-year judicial post in January 2008,
11 years after he began his stand-up routine at a  New York  City
comedy club, according to court documents. Sicari told the
Bergen Record in a June 2007 interview that he refuses to make
fun of lawyers or the law, according to court records.  His moonlighting career isn’t compatible with the code of
conduct for judges, even those who sit on the bench part-time,
the panel said.  “The focus of his comedy and his decision to participate
in a pseudo-reality television show in situations that demean,
ridicule, or embarrass others based on their race, religion,
gender, sexual orientation, marital status, or physical
characteristic are simply not consistent with the high standards
of conduct expected of a judge,” the court said.  Reality Show  The state’s Advisory Committee on Extrajudicial Activities
didn’t see the humor in jokes that focused mostly on his
Italian-American heritage and sexual experiences. The committee
concluded in May 2010 that Sicari’s second career couldn’t be
entertained and neither could his appearance on the television
reality show “ What Would You Do? ”  The  Supreme Court  agreed, saying that the possibility
existed for people to associate Judge Sicari with Vince August.  “Once a person makes that association, the concern is
whether an ordinary member of the public can divorce the comedy
routine or the roles played by Vince August from Judge Sicari,”
the court said in its ruling.  Sicari’s alter ego, Vince August, finds kids creepy and
boasts that real Italian names are handed down through
generations by the FBI witness protection programs. Vince August
has appeared on at least 17 episodes of “What Would You Do?”
playing a homophobic bar patron and a person who engaged in
racial profiling.  Demeans Office  Such humor by a sitting judge demeans the office, the court
ruled.  It’s “imperative that the judge conduct his or her
personal and professional life in a manner to avoid disparaging
the role of the municipal court in our system of justice,” the
court said.  Sicari said that while he expected the ruling against him,
he was surprised it was unanimous.  “I thought maybe a few of the justices would see my
side,” Sicari said. “I had complete candor with the court at
all times. I blew the whistle. No one filed a complaint.”  Municipal judges  in  New Jersey  are appointed by their local
governing body. The judges, who handle traffic violations,
determine bail and issue temporary restraining orders, are the
“face of the judiciary,” the Supreme Court said. Such courts
handled more than 6.1 million matters in the state in the
2011-2012 court year, according to the ruling.  “I never left comedy and I never left the law,” said
Sicari, who performs weekly at Carolines on Broadway, a stand-up
comedy club in New York’s Times Square. “The only thing that’s
going to change tomorrow is that I’m no longer a judge.”  The case is In the Matter of Advisory Letter No. 3-11 and
Opinion of No. 12-08 of the Supreme Court Advisory Committee on
Extrajudicial Activities (A-23-10/A-26-11)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  