-- New York Times Brings Back Dividend Payout After Five-Year Break
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/new-york-times-brings-back-dividend-following-five-year-hiatus.html
New York  Times Co. said it will pay
a dividend of 4 cents a share next month, its first shareholder
payout since the end of 2008.  The newspaper publisher will make the payment to both its
shareholder classes on Oct. 24 as part of a plan to reestablish
a quarterly dividend, it said yesterday in a statement. The
company  had  cash and short-term investments of $747 million at
the end of last quarter, with debt of $694 million.  The Ochs-Sulzberger family, which controls Times Co.
through its Class B shares, has pressured the company to resume
dividends that used to supply it with as much as $20 million
annually. If the dividend remains at 4 cents a share, the
family’s 13 percent stake in the company would give it $774,163
each quarter, or $3.1 million annually from the dividends.  Times Co. stopped paying its  dividend  five years ago as it
coped with a decline in revenue from print advertising as
readers turned to the Internet. The company has boosted
circulation sales by asking online readers to pay for access to
its news articles.  “The strength of our balance sheet justified the
restoration of a dividend,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Thompson  said in the statement. “Given the expectation of
continued volatility in advertising revenue and the fact that
our growth strategy is at an early stage of development, we will
maintain a prudent view of both the balance sheet and free  cash
flow .”  The dividend will be paid to shareholders of record as of
Oct. 9, the company said.  Times Co. gained less than 1 percent to $11.54 yesterday in
New York before the dividend was announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  