-- Nokia’s Elop to Get $25 Million If Microsoft Deal Done
-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n
-- 2013-09-19T15:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/nokia-s-elop-to-get-25-million-if-microsoft-deal-done.html
Stephen Elop, the former  Nokia (NOK1V)  Oyj
chief executive officer who is rejoining  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , is set
to get more than $25 million if the Finnish company completes
the sale of its handset business to the software maker.  Microsoft will pay 70 percent of the projected total amount
of about 18.8 million euros ($25.5 million), and Nokia the
remainder, according to a proxy  filing  by Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia today. The value of Elop’s reward is estimated using
Nokia’s Sept. 6 closing share price and may still change.  The 49-year-old Canadian, who was CEO at Nokia for three
years, will move back to Microsoft as part of the 5.44 billion-euro takeover announced this month. He is a candidate to succeed
Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer , who is preparing to step down.  Nokia shares  have dropped by more than a third since Elop
was hired on Sept. 10, 2010, even with the stock’s gain since
the sale to Microsoft was announced. Nokia shareholders are set
to vote Nov. 19 on the transaction, which will see a business
that accounted for half of the company’s 2012 revenue, along
with 32,000 employees, transfer to Microsoft.  The shares fell 1.1 percent to 4.89 euros at 6:06 p.m. in
Helsinki. Nokia has a market value of 18.3 billion euros.  Other Candidates  Elop headed Microsoft’s business division before joining
Nokia. He is returning with experience competing head-on in
mobile devices against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , rivals
Microsoft needs to challenge to gain market share in
smartphones, tablets and search.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , has said it will
consider internal and external candidates to replace Ballmer.
Tony Bates, Satya Nadella, Qi Lu and Terry Myerson are the other
leading choices among Microsoft’s executives, people with
knowledge of the matter have said.  At Nokia, Elop’s effort to transform its handset business
failed to lead to an earnings recovery, with the company losing
more than 5 billion euros in nine quarters. Even as sales of the
Lumia smartphone -- based on Microsoft’s Windows Phone operating
system -- made some early gains, Nokia’s market share has shown
little improvement against Google’s Android and Apple’s iPhone.  Among the victories Elop can claim: In the first quarter,
on the strength of Lumia, Windows Phone beat out  BlackBerry (BBRY)  as
the third-largest smartphone operating system, according to a
 Gartner Inc. report . Elop has also helped attract new
application developers through Lumia’s nascent sales gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in Helsinki at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  