-- Norges Bank Signals Faster Rate Increases After Taming Krone
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-09-19T09:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/norges-bank-signals-faster-rate-increases-after-taming-krone-1-.html
Norges Bank left its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged and signaled faster tightening after
efforts to fight back the krone’s appreciation were successful,
freeing policy makers to focus on an overheated housing market.  The deposit rate was kept at 1.5 percent for a ninth
meeting, the Oslo-based central bank said today, as predicted by
all 19 of the economists in a Bloomberg survey. The bank sees
rates at 1.5 percent at the end of this year and at 1.57 percent
in the first quarter, compared with the 1.38 percent forecast in
June. The rate will be 1.74 percent at the end of 2014, compared
with 1.58 percent previously.  “The analyses imply a key policy rate at today’s level in
the period to summer 2014, followed by a gradual increase to a
more normal level,” Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad said.  The bank signaled it will move toward higher rates as  house
prices  and consumer debt hover at record levels. Norway, like
 Switzerland , has struggled to keep its economy balanced as
unprecedented monetary easing across the globe distorts assets
prices in some of the world’s richest nations. The U.S. Federal
Reserve refrained yesterday from reducing its $85 billion in
monthly securities purchases, even after earlier signaling it
may taper its support of bond markets.  The krone gained as much as 1.1 percent against the euro
and was 0.3 percent stronger at 7.8463 as of 11:22 a.m. in the
Norwegian capital.  ‘Softer Growth’  Norges Bank has kept rates unchanged for more than a year
while signaling as recently as June that policy makers were
prepared to ease to prevent krone strength from undermining
their inflation targeting. Those efforts paid off last month as
underlying inflation surged to 2.5 percent, hitting the target
for the first time in four years.  Faster inflation is accompanying a slowdown in growth in
the $500 billion economy. Mainland gross domestic product, which
excludes oil and gas production, will expand 1.75 percent this
year, after growing 3.4 percent in 2012, the bank forecast
today. Output by that measure will grow 2.25 percent in 2014, it
said. In June, the bank saw growth of 2.5 percent and 2.75
percent this year and next.  “The krone is weaker, inflation is higher, expected rates
abroad are higher so all those things pulled up but Norges Bank
had turned much more pessimistic on the growth outlook,” said
 Erik Bruce , an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo. “So
significant change in its outlook on the economy, that’s the
main reason why they didn’t revise up the interest rate forecast
more despite very high inflation figures.”  The krone has lost about 6.4 percent against the euro this
year, paring some of its gains since 2009. The currency slid on
rate warnings from the central bank and after a recovery in the
euro area diminished the allure of assets from AAA rated Norway.  The central bank is trying to balance policy to avoid
fueling krone gains without overheating an economy buoyed by a
booming  petroleum industry  and house prices that have doubled
since 2002. Private debt has surged to about 200 percent of
disposable income, according to the central bank.  The bank said today that debt ratios are still high and
rising faster than income, according to its report.  “The Executive Board also discussed the moderate growth in
private consumption, pointing to many years of strong credit
growth which has resulted in a very high level of household
indebtedness,” the bank said. “The high debt level is likely
to continue to have a damping impact on growth in  consumer
spending  ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  