-- NSA Spying Gives Advantage to Brazil’s Local Tech Firms
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-09-19T16:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/nsa-spying-gives-advantage-to-brazil-s-local-tech-firms.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and Huawei
Technologies Co. are losing clout in the world’s fifth-largest
telecommunications market as Brazil’s government backs smaller
local companies that pledge to block foreign spying.  Officials have intensified conversations with
communications hardware makers such as Padtec SA and Datacom,
betting they can get greater protection against the possibility
of so-called back-door security holes in foreign-made products.
While discussions have focused on government-operated networks
for now, they open the door for the companies to take a greater
role in the networks of Brazil’s publicly traded phone carriers.  Allegations that the U.S. was snooping on its South
American ally led Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  this week
to cancel a state visit to  Washington . The rising tensions are
creating opportunities for closely held Padtec and Datacom,
which had already established government ties through contracts
with state-owned  Telecomunicacoes Brasileiras SA. (TELB3)   “Since we use only technology we develop, we believe we
can guarantee its security,” Datacom Chief Executive Officer
Antonio Carlos Porto said in a phone interview. “If you don’t
have control, you’re vulnerable.”  The Brazilian government is strengthening the defenses of
the nation’s telecommunications networks following allegations
by American journalist Glenn Greenwald that the U.S. National
Security Agency spied on Rousseff and on state-owned oil company
Petroleo Brasileiro SA. The allegations, which the U.S. says it
is reviewing, aired on Brazil’s most-watched TV news magazine,
Fantastico.  Buying Local  Brazil is considering a plan to force all phone companies
doing business within its borders to use locally made equipment,
betting it will have the technology to make the project feasible
within three to five years, Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  told  Bloomberg News  last week. Already, local companies
are providing network parts to Brasilia-based Telecomunicacoes
Brasileiras, or Telebras, which serves government agencies and
private companies and is improving  Internet access  in remote
areas.  “We’re taking every precaution that the construction of
the network that serves the government will be totally secure,”
said Telebras President Caio Bonilha. “We are using routers and
fiber-optic equipment that have all been developed here. This is
equipment that was made in accordance with Brazilian law.”  More Secure?  Brazil’s major network equipment providers are  San Jose ,
California-based Cisco; Sunnyvale, California-based  Juniper
Networks Inc. (JNPR) ; Shenzhen, China-based Huawei; and Paris-based
 Alcatel Lucent (ALU) , said Joao Paulo Bruder, an analyst at research
firm IDC. While  Brazil  probably won’t ask companies to replace
equipment made by those foreign providers, it may require the
government and state-run companies such as Petrobras to buy new
equipment only produced in Brazil, he said.  “Brazilian industry would certainly benefit, and on the
question of security, theoretically it would be more secure,”
Bruder said. “But all it would take to spy on the new system
would be to break the new code.”  Cisco disputed the idea that Brazil could protect its
networks by using domestic manufacturers.  “Networks in Brazil must be connected to networks in the
rest of the world,” Felipe Lamus, a Cisco spokesman, said in an
e-mail. “Using different standards and protocols would isolate
Brazilian networks and reduce the scrutiny of global customers
invested in finding and addressing security vulnerabilities.  ‘‘Network equipment produced in a particular country would
also lack economies of scale. It will cost more and may end up
sacrificing innovation.’’  Datacom, Padtec  The Brazilian government first contacted Datacom six months
ago to discuss tighter security measures, said Porto, the CEO.
The conversations ‘‘intensified’’ after news of NSA spying, he
said.  Datacom, based in the southern state of  Rio Grande  do Sul,
makes about 200 million reais ($91 million) in annual sales,
compared with Cisco’s $49 billion in  revenue  last year. The
Brazilian company has 850 employees, with 350 working on
research.  Datacom has 55 million reais worth of contracts with
Telebras. The company is also working on two government-funded
projects worth 10 million reais each, Porto said.  BNDES Backing  Padtec, based in  Sao Paulo  state, produces equipment for
fiber-optic networks in Brazil and more than 40 other countries,
CEO Jorge Salomao Pereira said in a phone interview. A third of
the company’s employees are dedicated to research, Salomao said.
He declined to discuss Padtec’s financial figures or the details
of its Telebras contract.  In a 2011  report , state-owned bank BNDES identified Padtec
and Datacom as holding ‘‘leadership positions” in the industry.
In January, BNDES joined  IdeiasNet SA (IDNT3)  and Padtec managers and
employees in  raising  167 million reais in capital for new
products, acquisitions and international expansion. Rio de
Janeiro-based IdeiasNet, which owns a 34 percent stake in
Padtec,  fell  1.5 percent to 1.35 reais at 1:43 p.m. in Sao
Paulo.  The Brazilian companies’ fortunes are rising just as Cisco
is betting on its future in Brazil. The company opened an
innovation center in  Rio de Janeiro  in August to boost sales and
services to government and corporate clients, it said last
month. Cisco will continue with its Brazil investment plans,
Lamus said.  “Cisco does not monitor communications of private citizens
or government organizations anywhere in the world and Cisco does
not customize equipment for specific customers to facilitate the
surveillance of users,” he said.  Falun Gong  Chinese and U.S. citizens accused Cisco of conspiring with
 China ’s government to monitor and torture members of religious
group Falun Gong, according to an amended lawsuit filed
yesterday. Cisco said it will seek to dismiss the case, calling
it meritless.  Huawei also said it remains committed to  Latin America ’s
largest economy.  “We share concerns about the recent revelations of
compromised networks and data, and we have sophisticated
programs, processes and policies in place to ensure the security
and integrity of our operations and products,” the company said
in a statement. “We look forward to continuing to work with our
Brazilian and worldwide partners and customers.”  Kurt Steinert, an Alcatel spokesman, declined to comment.  “Our products are designed to meet the high security and
privacy standards that users require of current and rapidly
evolving networks,” Juniper said in an e-mailed statement.  Technology Transfer  Brazil’s focus on homegrown technology is also guiding its
space program. Brazil’s first geostationary satellite, to be
launched in 2016, will bring Internet to remote areas and
provide secure military communications. Brazil currently uses a
satellite operated by Mexico City-based  America Movil SAB .  Telebras selected French-Italian aerospace company Thales
Alenia Space SAS to build the satellite, a decision Bonilha said
was unrelated to spying allegations and partly based on a
technology transfer agreement. The $650 million project is run
by Visiona, a joint venture between Telebras and  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the
aircraft maker based in Sao Paulo state.  Sharing technology will let Brazilian companies play a
bigger role in building a second satellite planned to launch in
2022 and a third in 2026, according to Leonel Fernando Perondi,
director of the  Brazilian Space Agency .  “This is a window of opportunity, and we don’t have many
of them, so the idea is to not miss this one.” said Bonilha of
Telebras. “This satellite will be part of a system of future
satellites that will be mostly made in Brazil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  