-- Obama Auto Czar Bloom Said to Face Ex-Ally in Detroit Bankruptcy
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-09-19T21:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/obama-auto-czar-bloom-said-to-face-ex-ally-in-detroit-bankruptcy.html
Ron Bloom , who helped lead
President  Barack Obama ’s auto team, will advise  Detroit  retirees
fighting benefit cuts in the city’s bankruptcy, according to
people familiar with the decision.  Bloom will provide financial advice to the committee
representing retirees in the bankruptcy case, said three of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the hiring
decision isn’t yet public.  The hiring pits Bloom, a  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  vice chairman,
against Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr, who was one of the
lawyers for Chrysler Group LLC’s predecessor when Bloom led an
$80 billion bailout that saved and helped revive  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and Chrysler in 2009.  The pensioners have said the  Michigan  Constitution
protects the unfunded benefits from proposed cuts of as much as
90 percent in the $18 billion bankruptcy. Orr and his boss,
state Governor  Rick Snyder , have countered that the police, fire
and city retirees are unsecured creditors, like bondholders,
under U.S. bankruptcy law and aren’t exempt from potential cuts.  Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Orr, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail requesting a comment. Claude D. Montgomery,
an attorney with the Dentons law firm, which represents the
retiree committee, declined to comment. Judi Frost Mackey, a
Lazard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment.  Second Adviser  Working with Bloom will be Lazard managing director Andrew Yearley, said three of the people. Yearley was lead adviser to
the United Auto Workers union in negotiating with the  U.S.
Treasury  in the GM and Chrysler bailouts.  Bloom, 58, rejoined Lazard in February 2012 after resigning
in August 2011 from a White House post advising Obama on
manufacturing topics. Orr, 55, who advised on the Chrysler
restructuring, left the  law firm  Jones Day in March to take the
job overseeing Snyder’s takeover of Detroit.  The industry bailout that Bloom led and Orr advised on has
U.S. auto sales poised for the fifth straight year of annual
increases. Chrysler has had 41 straight months of gains and GM
has said it expects a modest improvement over its $6.19 billion
in  earnings  in 2012 as it heads for its fourth consecutive
annual profit. Next year, U.S. auto sales are projected to
exceed 16 million for the first time since 2007.  Bloom became Obama’s top manufacturing adviser after the
auto bailouts. Before joining the bailout team in 2009, Bloom
was an adviser to the  United Steelworkers  union and a
manufacturing specialist at Hamilton, Bermuda-based Lazard.  Protecting Pensions  During the auto bailouts, Bloom argued that pensions for
UAW members deserved protection even as bondholders and banks
faced cuts because the workers were necessary to build cars and
trucks once the companies exited court protection. A bankruptcy
judge supported that position.  Detroit’s retired public workers will be represented by
nine people, including at least two union officials, on a panel
that may negotiate with the city, a U.S. trustee monitoring the
bankruptcy decided last month.  Orr, 55, said in a July interview that a retiree committee
is needed because, unlike union members or bond investors, the
pensioners don’t have a strong organization backing them.  Detroit retirees earlier this month joined unions in
claiming that the bankruptcy law that lets municipalities seek
court protection from creditors violates the U.S. Constitution.  The groups, which want the bankruptcy case thrown out in a
hearing next month, also point to a line in the Michigan
Constitution that says public-worker pensions are a contractual
right that cannot be undone.  Constitutional Issues  The retirees argue that Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code  can’t trump a state constitution. The groups asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to find that either the
bankruptcy filing doesn’t meet the tests set out in Chapter 9 or
that Chapter 9 itself violates the U.S. Constitution because it
interferes with Michigan’s sovereignty.  In business cases, the types in which Orr has more
experience, federal courts have routinely upheld the power of
bankruptcy judges to impair or cancel contractual rights, even
those protected by state laws.  Before joining  Jones Day , Orr held several U.S. government
jobs, including director of the Justice Department unit that
oversees bankruptcy cases and trustees, according to the law
firm.  As an adviser to the United Steelworkers for 13 years, and
before that as a manufacturing specialist at Lazard and his own
boutique investment firm, Bloom participated in more than 100
bankruptcies and restructurings, trying to balance the realities
of business with the need for jobs, he said in a 2010 interview.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  