-- Odds Grow Longer for Obama’s Nominee to U.S. Energy Panel
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-19T21:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/odds-grow-longer-for-obama-s-nominee-to-u-s-energy-commission.html
Opposition to President  Barack Obama ’s choice to head the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission grew as Republicans led by Senator Mitch McConnell
said they’ll vote against Ron Binz’s confirmation.  “His nomination is yet another threat to American energy
and jobs and I will work to defeat it,” McConnell of  Kentucky ,
the Senate minority leader, said in a statement today.  Senators Rob Portman of  Ohio  and Lamar Alexander of
 Tennessee  today joined fellow Republican senators Lisa Murkowski
of  Alaska , Dean Heller of  Nevada  and Democrat Joe Manchin of
West Virginia in saying they won’t support Binz, a former
chairman of the Colorado Public Utilities Commission.  Senators John Barrasso of  Wyoming , Jeff Flake of  Arizona ,
John Hoeven of North Dakota and James Risch of  Idaho  -- also
Republicans -- will vote against the nominee, according to
spokesmen for each. All are members of the 22-member Energy and
Natural Resources Committee that held a hearing this week on
Binz’s nomination.  With Democrats holding a two-vote majority on the
committee, and Manchin opposed, Binz’s path to approval rests
with the vote of Senator Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat,
and Republicans such as Tim Scott of South Carolina. The two
have not said how they will vote.  Coal-industry and free-market groups have said Binz, 64,
promoted renewable energy over coal in  Colorado  at consumers’
expense, while clean-energy advocates have supported him.  Portman’s No  Portman echoed comments by Murkowski, the top Republican on
the energy panel, who said during Binz’s Sept. 17 confirmation
hearing she was concerned that that Binz hadn’t revealed the
extent of his support from lobbyists and public-relations
groups.  Binz “has been far from forthcoming in his dealings with
the Energy Committee, and his past statements and background
demonstrate an aggressive bias toward certain types of energy
generation,” Portman said today in a statement.  Binz declined to comment on the senators’ comments today.
At his hearing, he said he was not anti-coal.  “What we did in Colorado was to increase the diversity and
the balance” of the fuel mix in the state, he said. Binz said
he provided the committee with e-mails showing those who were
helping him prepare for his confirmation hearings.  Keith Chu, spokesman for Committee Chairman Ron Wyden, said
the panel is working on scheduling a vote.  Wyden “respects other members’ views on this,” Chu said
today in an e-mailed statement. “However he continues to feel
Mr. Binz’s years of service in Colorado and views on respecting
FERC’s role make him well-qualified to serve on the
commission.”  ‘Foot Soldier’  McConnell said Binz was “handpicked” by Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid to be “another foot soldier in his and this
administration’s war on coal.”  Reid today said he strongly supports the former Colorado
regulator. “Mr. Binz is the type of common-sense energy
regulator that should be approved on a bipartisan basis and his
nomination is supported across party lines from people who know
FERC better than anyone,” Reid said in an e-mailed statement.  Manchin said in a statement yesterday that Binz’s
“approach of demonizing coal and gas has increased electricity
costs for consumers.”  Richard Caperton, managing director for energy at the
Center for American Progress, a Washington-based policy group
with ties to Democrats, said “If the committee members focus
solely on the substance, then they should approve the Binz
nomination.”  The FERC’s responsibilities include overseeing the
reliability of the nation’s electric grid, regulating interstate
transport of natural gas and reviewing electric utility mergers.
Congress in 2005 expanded the agency’s enforcement power to help
it police energy markets.  This year alone, FERC has sought more than $900 million in
penalties and settlements from banks including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  on charges of market manipulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  