-- Holder Says Drug-Charge Policy to Apply to Pending Cases
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2013-09-19T20:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/holder-says-drug-charge-policy-to-apply-to-pending-cases.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
said a new policy to stop seeking mandatory minimum prison terms
for some non-violent drug offenders will apply to cases of
people who have been charged though not yet convicted.  Holder ordered Justice Department prosecutors on Aug. 12 to
avoid bringing charges that carry mandatory minimum sentences
against nonviolent drug offenders with no ties to criminal
organizations.  Such sentences “do not serve public safety when they’re
applied indiscriminately,” Holder said, according to a text
prepared for a speech in  Washington  today. Instead, he said the
U.S. should preserve “the most severe prison terms for serious,
high-level or violent drug traffickers or kingpins.”  The Justice Department has been working on a review of the
U.S. criminal justice system at Holder’s direction since the
start of this year. Lawmakers in Congress have sought to
identify ways to reduce a prison population of more than 1.5
million people in 2012 at federal, state and local levels.  In a memo to federal prosecutors released by the Justice
Department, Holder said the new policy applies in pending cases
of defendants who haven’t pleaded guilty or been convicted.
Prosecutors can decide whether to apply the policy to people who
have been convicted or pleaded guilty and haven’t been
sentenced, the memo said. People who have been sentenced won’t
have their convictions changed.  “We must never stop being tough on crime,” Holder said in
remarks prepared for a forum today sponsored by the
Congressional Black Caucus. Still, he said the new approach “is
both smarter and more efficient.”  Some lawmakers of both political parties have supported the
new policy. Kentucky Republican Senator  Rand Paul  in August
called Holder’s announcement “a welcome development.” Paul and
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat, have proposed giving federal judges more sentencing
flexibility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  