-- Home Depot Sending 20,000 Part-Timers to Health Exchanges
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-09-19T20:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/home-depot-sending-20-000-part-timers-to-health-exchanges.html
Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the world’s
largest home improvement retailer, plans to end medical coverage
for about 20,000 part-time employees and direct them to
government-sponsored exchanges scheduled to open next month as
companies revamp benefits to fit the  U.S. Affordable Care Act .  Employees with fewer than 30 hours a week will no longer be
offered limited liability medical coverage, Stephen Holmes, a
spokesman, said today by telephone. About 5 percent of Atlanta-based Home Depot’s 340,000  employees  are enrolled in that plan.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , Trader Joe’s Co. and other
employers have been cutting benefits ahead of next month’s roll-out of government exchanges that were designed to give uninsured
Americans a chance to buy taxpayer-subsidized medical coverage.
While the corporate scale-back could benefit low-wage employees
who may find better options through Obamacare, it’s not what the
law intended, said  Robert Laszewski , an industry consultant.  “Obamacare is predicated on employers maintaining
coverage,” Laszewski, who is based in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
said by phone. “It’s supposed to pick up the relatively few
people who can’t access health insurance because they’re self-employed or work for small employers who can’t afford it. The
big guys were supposed to stay committed.”  The Affordable Care Act exchanges are scheduled to open
Oct. 1 to sell policies that take effect Jan. 1.  Part-Time Status  Home Depot said it is maintaining coverage for full-time
workers, though those people will pay more next year, reflecting
a rise in the cost of health care. Whether part-timers pay more
under the health law’s insurance marketplaces will depend on the
type of plans they choose, Holmes said.  The company will continue offering part-time employees
coverage for dental, vision, critical illness, disability and
back-up dependent care, according to Holmes. The Affordable Care
Act defines part-time workers as those working fewer than 30
hours a week. Holmes said Home Depot had already been using the
30-hour standard for defining part-time versus full-time work.  Home Depot  rose  1.5 percent to $78.51 at the close in  New
York . The shares have advanced 27 percent this year.  Trader Joe’s, the closely held grocery store chain, said
last week it will end health benefits for part-time workers next
year. Employees will get $500 to help them buy insurance
elsewhere, the Monrovia, California-based company said.  Private Exchanges  UPS is keeping workers on company plans though it said in
August it would no longer provide benefits to employed spouses
of 15,000 non-union workers. Atlanta-based UPS pointed out that
those spouses must be offered coverage by their own companies
under the health law.  The $1.3 trillion Affordable Care Act mandates that
individuals obtain medical coverage starting next year and the
majority of employers offer health plans starting in 2015 or pay
fines.  Some companies that are maintaining employee coverage are
finding ways to shift more of the responsibility and cost to
their workers.  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S. drugstore chain,
has told 160,000 workers they must buy insurance through a
private exchange rather than having the Deerfield, Illinois-based company arrange their coverage.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and
 Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI)  also have made similar decisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  