-- One Word May Save Indonesia’s Forests
-- B y   J o h n   H u d s o n
-- 2013-09-19T22:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/one-word-may-save-indonesia-s-forests.html
Indonesia’s forest and peatland
fires have flared up again this season, sending smoke and haze
from the island of Sumatra north across the Malacca Strait to
 Malaysia . The  fires  are now an annual consequence of the
mismanagement of Indonesia’s forests. With the removal of a
single word from the country’s constitution, however, that may
change for the better.  On May 16, Indonesia’s  Constitutional Court  deleted the
word “state” from this clause: “Customary forests are state
forests located in the areas of custom-based communities.” That
one adjustment  denied the government ownership  of forests on the
lands of the nation’s indigenous people. By returning the
forests to their traditional stewards, the court’s ruling could
come close to turning off Indonesia’s greenhouse-gas spigot. Yet
more work is needed.  In practice, the change means the central and local
governments will no longer be able to grant leases to logging,
plantation and mining companies in forests of indigenous people.
The consequences of government control are visible from
satellite photos showing enormous loss of forests and peatlands,
as well as the fires that have resulted. Today, the  World Bank 
ranks Indonesia as the world’s  third-largest emitter  of
 greenhouse gases .  This pattern of development has brought little benefit to
the tens of millions of indigenous people, whose customary
forests account for 30 percent of Indonesia’s total, according
to AMAN, the National People’s Indigenous Organization. These
communities have lost access to these lands, and fights over
them have added to religious and ethnic conflicts over the last
40 years. Those who challenged the forest giveaways were
imprisoned or even killed.  That was a tragedy. There is  strong evidence  from the
Amazon and elsewhere that indigenous communities are the best
stewards of the forests and prioritize keeping their lands
intact even as they strive for economic improvement. Countries
with increasing areas of forests, such as  Chile ,  China ,  India ,
 South Korea  and  Vietnam , have embraced land reforms and other
policy changes that include the return of forest ownership to
indigenous people.  The court’s ruling in Indonesia is a good first step. But
it doesn’t deal with the legacy of the government’s control over
the forests. Indonesia must now formally recognize its
indigenous communities’ rights through legislation and by
resolving the claims of current licensees who, in some cases,
have  overlapping permits  granting them access to forests now
owned by communities, and those still owned by the state.  The government also has to  map  the country’s forests and
grant new ownership rights. Mapping the forests is no small task
in a country so large, geographically dispersed and
institutionally complex. However, 12 Indonesian ministries and
institutions  agreed  in March to work together to delineate
forest areas and identify third-party rights, a promising
development.  To further advance the government’s efforts,  Indonesia ’s
Geospatial Information Agency should introduce a standard for
mapping and registration. Other institutions should be granted
additional capacity to address the claims of current licensees
and protect the interests of customary communities.  In the past, the allocation of forest licenses was linked
to the interests of local and national politicians, and many
people doubted that the Indonesian authorities would ever
support the changes they are now considering. The Indonesian
government is showing that pressure from commercial interests
can be resisted and that the broader public interest can hold
sway.  As the smoke begins to clear from this year’s fires, the
spotlight now turns to the indigenous communities. Can they
succeed in managing what is left of their forests, once they
finally regain their rights? For Indonesia, and the global
climate, too much is at risk to let the opportunity pass by.  (John Hudson is chairman of the board of the  Rights and
Resources Initiative , an international organization that
supports tenure, policy and market reforms for local and
indigenous communities.)  To contact the writer of this article:
John Hudson at  johnmhudson@btinternet.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net . 