-- TonenGeneral Said to Be in Talks to Purchase Mitsui’s Oil Unit
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-09-19T04:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/tonengeneral-said-to-be-in-talks-to-purchase-mitsui-s-oil-unit.html
TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K. (5012) , a
Japanese oil refiner part-owned by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , is in
talks to buy Mitsui Oil Co. from Mitsui & Co., two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Tokyo-based TonenGeneral is seeking to expand petroleum
sales channels by acquiring Mitsui Oil, which operates about 270
gas stations in  Japan , said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private. The Nikkei
newspaper earlier today reported the deal will be valued at as
much as 50 billion yen ($510 million), without citing anyone.  Japanese oil refiners are under pressure to consolidate as
the nation’s demand for petroleum products dwindles. Exxon Mobil
last year cut its voting stake in TonenGeneral to 22 percent
from 50.5 percent, and Brazil’s Petroleo Brasileiro SA has been
considering a sale of its refinery on Japan’s southernmost
island of Okinawa.  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  owns 89.93 percent of Mitsui Oil, according to
the Tokyo-based trading company’s website.  TonenGeneral is “actively” seeking partnerships with
other companies to strengthen its petroleum-product supply chain
in Japan, it said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange
today in response to the Nikkei report, without mentioning talks
for Mitsui Oil. Spokesmen for Mitsui & Co. and Mitsui Oil
declined to comment.  Mitsui Oil and TonenGeneral together own Kyokuto Petroleum
Industries Ltd., which operates the 175,000-barrels-a-day Chiba
refinery near Tokyo, according to Mitsui Oil’s website. Mitsui
Oil posted profit of 1.6 billion yen on sales of 362 billion yen
for the year through March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  