-- OPEC Exports to Rise on Saudi Arabia Supply, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-19T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/opec-exports-to-rise-on-saudi-arabia-supply-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will increase crude shipments by 1.4 percent
through to early October as Saudi Arabia boosts output amid
losses in Libya, tanker tracker Oil Movements said.  OPEC, which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
will raise exports by 320,000 barrels a day to about 23.9
million a day in the four weeks to Oct. 5 compared with the
period to Sept. 7, the researcher said in a report. The figures
exclude two of OPEC’s 12 members,  Angola  and  Ecuador , and may be
revised lower to reflect recent disruptions in Libya production,
according to Oil Movements.  “The Saudis are already ramping up to the high points of
the year,” Roy Mason, the company’s founder, said by phone from
Halifax,  England . Shipments will decline in coming weeks as
refiners conduct seasonal maintenance work, he said.  Libyan production has been curbed as a labor dispute at oil
terminals cripples the nation’s export capabilities. The
disruption has prompted Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil
exporter, to replace the lost supplies, according to Oil
Movements. Brent crude was at $109.70 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange as of 3:42 p.m. in  London .  Middle Eastern shipments will rise by 1.8 percent to 17.54
million barrels a day to Oct. 5, compared with 17.23 million in
the month to Sept. 7, according to Oil Movements. Those figures
include non-OPEC nations Oman and Yemen.  Crude on board tankers will increase 0.6 percent to 479.39
million barrels on Oct. 5, data from Oil Movements show. The
researcher calculates volumes by tallying tanker bookings, and
excludes crude held on vessels for storage.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. It will next meet in Vienna on Dec. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  