-- Mortgage Rates Fall as U.S. Homebuyers Get Fed Reprieve
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-19T14:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/mortgage-rates-fall-as-u-s-homebuyers-get-fed-reprieve.html
Mortgage rates for 30-year U.S.
loans fell to a five-week low, a decline that’s likely to be
extended after the  Federal Reserve  refrained from reducing its
monthly bond buying.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to
4.5 percent from 4.57 percent, Freddie Mac said in a statement
today. The average 15-year rate decreased to 3.54 percent from
3.59 percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based company.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
that more signs of lasting improvement in the economy are needed
before the central bank tapers its purchases. Mortgage rates,
which increased from near-record lows in May on speculation of a
scaled-back stimulus, probably will fall for another few weeks,
said  Keith Gumbinger , vice president of HSH.com, a mortgage-data
firm in Riverdale, New Jersey. That gives would-be homebuyers a
limited opportunity to take advantage of lower costs.  “If you are in the game for a mortgage, or if you have
been on the cusp of jumping in, it’s a good idea to capture
these dips if you can,” Gumbinger said in a telephone interview
yesterday. After the temporary decline, rates are “more likely
to be higher as we go forward then they are to be lower.”  This week’s rate doesn’t fully reflect the market’s
reaction to Bernanke’s comments because  Freddie Mac ’s data are
mostly collected from Monday to Wednesday. The overnight average
rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to 4.42 percent from
4.56 percent last week, according to Bankrate.com.  Taking Toll  The jump in rates since May have started to take a toll on
the housing recovery. Builders last month began work on  fewer 
U.S. homes than economists projected, Commerce Department data
showed yesterday. Applications for future work declined more
than forecast.  Builders remain confident, even with the increased
borrowing costs. Sentiment held in September at the highest
level in almost eight years, a National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo  index  showed two days ago.  Sales (ETSLTOTL)  of previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly rose in
August to the highest level in more than six years, figures from
the National Association of Realtors showed today. The gain may
be a temporary peak,  Lawrence Yun , the group’s chief economist,
said in a statement.  An index of mortgage applications  increased  last week,
rebounding from an almost five-year low, the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  said yesterday. The Fed’s announcement yesterday
should boost loan volume as borrowers take advantage of a
“temporary reprieve,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a report today.  ‘Normal Range’  The 30-year fixed mortgage rate climbed from 3.35 percent
in early May to a two-year high of 4.58 percent last month. The
rate is still well below the average of about 6.3 percent for
the past 20 years,  data compiled  by Bloomberg show. The 20-year
average for a 15-year loan is about 5.8 percent.  “We have some room to increase rates -- back up to a
normal range -- without derailing the housing recovery,”  Stan Humphries , chief economist at Seattle-based property-data
company Zillow Inc., said yesterday in a phone interview.
“Homes nationally are still quite affordable from a historical
perspective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  