-- Mossberg to Leave Wall Street Journal as AllThingsD Talks Fail
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/mossberg-to-leave-wall-street-journal-as-allthingsd-talks-fail.html
Walt Mossberg will end his two-decade tenure as the Wall Street Journal’s personal-technology
columnist after failing to reach a deal to keep managing the All
Things Digital conference and website.  Mossberg and journalist Kara Swisher, who both led the
 AllThingsD  events and news outlet owned by Dow Jones & Co.,
won’t renew their contracts when they expire by the end of this
year, according to a statement. In their absence, Dow Jones said
it will expand its technology coverage and conference business.  Mossberg’s weekly technology column was a first-read for
consumers deciding whether to buy the latest iPhone or upgrade
computer software. The AllThingsD conference has been lucrative
for the past  decade , consistently selling out its limited 500-seat event every year with guests such as  Steve Jobs  of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ,  Bill Gates  of Microsoft Corp. and  Rupert Murdoch  of News
Corp., the parent of Dow Jones.  Mossberg and Swisher have approached other media companies,
including the  New York  Times, about a joint venture to create a
similar conference under a new brand, according to three
executives familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Tickets to AllThingsD’s most recent conference, at the end
of May, cost $5,500 each, for a total of $2.75 million. The
conference also takes  sponsors  -- such as  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and Sony
Corp. -- which pay as much as $400,000 each, adding up to more
revenue than ticket sales generate, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the business.  Advertising Revenue  The website only brings in about $3 million to $4 million
in annual ad revenue, most of it tied to deals that also run
across Dow Jones’s other sites, such as wsj.com, one of the
people said. As a stand-alone entity, AllThingsD.com would only
generate about $1 million a year, the person said.  The company declined to comment on what will happen to the
AllThingsD brand. AllThingsD recently added two new events --
one focused on media and another on the mobile industry -- in an
effort to expand the franchise.  Dow Jones Editor-in-Chief Gerard Baker said the publisher
plans to expand the Wall Street Journal’s technology coverage
and will extend its conference business to include an
international event. He praised Mossberg’s contributions to the
publication.  “I want to offer heartfelt thanks for more than 20 years
of Personal Technology columns as well as his very fine
reporting on national and international affairs in the years
before he turned his attention to technology coverage,” Baker
said in the statement.  News Corp . split off from Murdoch’s entertainment business,
now called 21st Century Fox Inc., earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  