-- Motiva Convent Refinery Plans Sulfur Unit Work, Filing Shows
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-09-19T14:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/motiva-convent-refinery-plans-sulfur-unit-work-filing-shows.html
Motiva Enterprises LLC’s Convent
 refinery  in Louisiana plans to perform work on a sulfur unit
during a turnaround that will last about 63 days, the company
said in a filing with state regulators.  The refinery requested an emissions variance starting Sept.
3 for turnaround work on Sulfur Recovery Unit 5. It was approved
by the state in a filing dated Sept. 4 that showed the
maintenance would be “beyond the scope of a regular
turnaround.” The variance will expire Nov. 20, the filing
shows.  Destin Singleton, a Motiva spokeswoman in Houston, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment on the work.  Motiva also plans to do sulfur plant work in January to
install new heat exchangers, said a person familiar with the
schedule in August.  The refinery will also shut a crude unit for maintenance in
January, according to another person. That person said Aug. 26
that the plant will take a vacuum distillation unit out of
service for repairs that were delayed from last year. The people
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  The Convent refinery, 50 miles (80 kilometers) west of New
Orleans, can process 255,000 barrels a day of crude, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The plant receives feedstocks
primarily by pipeline and distributes refined products by pipe,
rail, truck and water to markets on the Gulf Coast and in the
southeastern U.S., the company said on its website.  Motiva is a refining and marketing joint venture of Saudi
Refining Inc., a subsidiary of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., and Shell
Oil, a unit of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  