-- Republican Split Over Health Care Muddles Strategy
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-09-20T14:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/house-to-vote-tomorrow-on-measure-that-starves-healh-law.html
The difficulty in dodging a U.S.
government shutdown grew yesterday as a senator pledged to start
a filibuster over a temporary spending bill and the divide among
Republicans over defunding President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law widened.  Divisions that emerged before today’s House of
Representatives vote on a government funding bill led
Republicans to accuse fellow Republicans of giving up their
principles. Senator  Ted Cruz , criticized for abandoning the
cause, said yesterday he’s willing to do “everything necessary
and anything possible,” including holding a filibuster.  “This is the most important fight in the country,” said
Cruz, a  Texas  Republican. “It’s easy to focus on the political
back and forth.”  In the House, Republicans said today they’d start working
next week on separate legislation to increase the nation’s debt
limit, and attach a one-year delay in the health law, cuts in
entitlement programs, and approval for the Keystone XL pipeline.  Republicans first are using the stopgap spending measure as
the vehicle to try to choke off funds for the health-care
program the party has opposed since 2009. Democrats say they
will strip out the defunding provision when they pass the
spending measure, derailing the Republicans’ effort.  Shutdown Risk  If the Obama administration and lawmakers can’t agree on
the stopgap funding, most, though not all, federal operations
would come to a halt when the fiscal year ends on Sept. 30.  House Republicans  said the spending plan coupled with
health-law defunding is meant to give the Senate’s chief
opponents of the law -- Cruz of Texas and Republican  Mike Lee  of
 Utah  -- an opening to vote to deny funds, while insulating House
Republicans from blame.  Cruz upset his party members this week with a statement
that urged House Republicans to “stand firm, hold their ground,
and continue to listen to the American people,” after the
Senate strips funding from the health-care law, as promised by
Democrats. As he sought to appease his colleagues by saying he’d
hold a filibuster, Cruz created a rift with more moderate
members of his party who questioned the approach.  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, said Cruz would
put the party’s strategy in jeopardy. In a posting on his
Twitter feed, Corker said: “I can count -- the defunding box
canyon is a tactic that will fail and weaken our position.”  Party Dispute  Cruz would be following Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky
Republican, who in March held a 13-hour filibuster delaying the
confirmation vote for  John Brennan  to lead the Central
Intelligence Agency and seeking a promise from the Obama
administration that it wouldn’t use drones to target Americans
on U.S. soil without an imminent threat.  Cruz’s filibuster vow fuels a growing congressional
Republican dispute over how to choke off funding for the health
law without shutting the government on Oct. 1.  Cruz acknowledged that he may not succeed.  “It’s not going to be a single shot” to defund the Obama
health law as part of a measure to keep the government operating
for 2 1/2 months after Sept. 30.  When the House measure gets to the Senate, Democratic
leaders are considering a procedural tactic that would put Cruz
and his allies in an awkward spot.  Under Senate rules, they could have a simple-majority vote
that would strip the health-care defunding language once they
end debate on the House measure.  Defunding Language  That would require Cruz to vote against the House-passed
bill with the defunding language he has championed, or instead
join with Democrats to overcome the procedural hurdle.  Representative Tim Griffin, an Arkansas Republican, took to
Twitter saying, “so far Sen Rs are good at getting Facebook
likes, and townhalls, not much else. Do something.”  Obama administration officials said yesterday the president
would veto the bill if sent to him by Congress.  The Senate will pass a temporary spending measure without
the health-care language, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
yesterday. That would leave Republican leaders, who have said
they want to avoid shuttering the government, needing to round
up votes from both parties without defunding Obama’s chief
domestic-policy achievement.  The Senate is expected to start considering the spending
bill on Sept. 23 with the goal of finishing by Sept. 26.  The government also is closing in on its debt ceiling.
After the vote on the spending measure, members could vote as
soon as next week on an increase in borrowing authority.  House Agenda  House Republicans emerged from a closed-door meeting today
saying the House will start work on the debt-limit bill next
week. The bill will have several attachments, Republican
Representatives  John Fleming  of  Louisiana  and Duncan Hunter of
 California  said.  The main elements are instructions to start rewriting the
 tax code , construction of the Keystone pipeline, a one-year
delay of the health-care law, and cuts in entitlement programs
such as means testing for Medicare, according to Fleming. Hunter
said that leaders are also considering requests from lawmakers
to include the  defense budget  and undo across-the-board spending
cuts.  “Republicans have no interest in defaulting on our debt.
None,” Boehner said yesterday. “We just want to find a way to
pay it off.”  Boehner also said he won’t go to the White House to
negotiate with the president on raising the debt limit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  