-- House Republicans Say Benghazi Report Seen as a Whitewash
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-09-19T20:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/house-republicans-say-benghazi-report-seen-as-a-whitewash.html
House Republicans  said an outside
panel’s review of the deadly attack on the U.S. mission in
Benghazi,  Libya , was incomplete and is viewed as a whitewash by
the public.  Nine months after completion of the report that faulted
State Department officials for inadequate security at the
Benghazi compound, members of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee today questioned the review board’s leaders on
why they never interviewed top officials, including then-Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  The hearing renewed the partisan disputes that have
surrounded the investigation of the Benghazi attack on Sept. 11,
2012, that killed U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three
other Americans.  “The vast majority of Americans feel your report was a
whitewash,” Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican,
told the chairman and vice chairman of the Accountability Review
Board appointed by Clinton to investigate the attack.  The report found no State Department employees had
committed a “breach of duty,” although some failed to show
proactive leadership.  “It looks like a sort of inside job of investigation --
the Department of State looking at the Department of State,”
Mica said.  Democrats Disagree  Committee Democrats rejected that description and issued
their own report today accusing Republicans of unfairly
attacking both the review board and the Obama administration’s
handling of the attack.  “I have seen no evidence -- none whatsoever -- to support
these reckless accusations,” said Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , the panel’s top Democrat.  Former Ambassador Thomas Pickering, the review board’s
chairman, said his panel was free to investigate anyone it
wished without restriction. He said the board didn’t interview
Clinton because it had no need to “go to the people who didn’t
make the decisions” on security in Benghazi.  “If the secretary wasn’t involved, I must be on another
planet,” Mica said.  Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , the committee’s
Republican chairman, said the board’s structure hindered its
ability to provide a complete investigation.  “Our criticism today is, was it the appropriate
investigation?” Issa asked. “Was it complete?”  ‘On the Mark’  Pickering said his panel’s work, based on more than 100
interviews, thousands of pages of documents and hours of videos,
“is still on the mark, free of cover-up and political tilt.”  Clinton, who was succeeded by  John Kerry  as secretary in
February and leads in early polls of potential presidential
candidates for 2016, told a Senate committee in January that the
State Department was moving to correct lapses in security cited
in the report.  “I take responsibility, and nobody is more committed to
getting this right,” she said. Pushing aside Republican
questions about the Obama administration’s initial, incorrect
account of the attack, Clinton said, “The fact is, we have four
dead Americans. What difference at this point does it make?”  Pickering, under questioning by Democrats on the panel
defending Clinton’s role, said there was no evidence that she
personally approved any security decisions on the Benghazi
compound.  While State Department cables on security surfaced with
Clinton’s name on them, “All cables sent out by the Department
of State are stamped with the secretary’s name,” he said.  Rescue Effort  The review board also rebutted charges by Republicans that
the U.S. military could have rescued some of the slain Americans
had forces not been ordered to stand down.  “An order to stand down was never given,” said retired
Navy Admiral  Michael Mullen , a former chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff who served as the review board’s vice chairman.  He said four Special Operations troops in Tripoli were told
not to go to Benghazi because they wouldn’t have reached the
Americans in time and the evacuation from Benghazi had already
been completed. He said there were no fighter planes on alert
and ready to deploy from bases in  Europe  to reach Benghazi in
enough time to make a difference.  “They didn’t fall down on the job, and I just completely
disagree with that view,” Mullen said.  Intensified Security  In the last year, the Pentagon has stepped up its
contribution to diplomatic security by moving as many as 1,000
Marines into the program, said Garry Reid, principal deputy
assistant secretary of defense for special operations and low-intensity conflict, in testimony today to the House Armed
Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.  He said the Pentagon has increased the minimum size of
Marine Security Guard detachments at high-risk posts from 7 to
13. The Pentagon also will deploy 35 new detachments by the end
of next year, he said.  The mission of Marine guards, who traditionally were used
only to protect classified information at embassies, has been
expanded to include the protection of people and facilities,
according to Reid.  “I want to underscore that we are more ready than ever to
respond to a crisis or attack if one occurs without warning,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  