-- Lloyds Sale of A$9 Billion Aussie Unit to Get at Least Four Bids
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-09-19T22:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/lloyds-australia-a-9-billion-sale-attracts-at-least-four-bidders.html
Bidders including  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC) ,  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Pepper  Australia  Pty and  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  are preparing final binding
offers for  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Australian assets,
according to people familiar with the matter.  The face value of assets in the transaction, known as
“Project Carey,” is close to A$9 billion ($8.6 billion) and
bids are due Sept. 30, according to the 15 people, who asked not
to be identified because the details are confidential. The sale
includes Lloyds’ Capital Finance unit and a portfolio of over 30
corporate loans valued at more than A$2 billion, lent to
companies including  Telstra Corp Ltd. (TLS) ,  Arrium Ltd. (ARI)  and WICET
Holdings Pty, the people said.  Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, part-owned by the U.K.
government, is off-loading assets it no longer considers
essential as it shrinks its balance sheet after a government
bailout in 2008. The U.K. this week started to sell its 39
percent stake in the lender as part of a move to full private
ownership. European banks are bolstering their balance sheets
via asset sales as they try to meet stricter capital rules.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is advising Lloyds on the sale,
with senior management from Credit Suisse Group also assisting
the London-based bank. Lynne Machin, Lloyds’ Sydney-based
spokeswoman, didn’t return a call or reply to an e-mail seeking
comment yesterday. A spokeswoman for Credit Suisse declined to
comment, while a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman wasn’t immediately
available yesterday.  Westpac, Macquarie  Westpac, Australia’s third-largest bank by assets, is
planning to submit a bid for the assets, advised by  UBS AG (UBS)  and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the people said. Macquarie is also
expected to table an offer, while ANZ is being advised on its
bid by Deutsche Bank AG, they said.  Lloyds’ Capital Finance unit, which provides retail,
equipment and commercial financing services, has more than A$6
billion in assets and equity of more than A$2 billion, a person
familiar with the matter said in July. The business on sale as
part of Project Carey has about 700 employees, the people said
yesterday.  Sydney-based Pepper, a non-bank lender, is planning to bid
alongside Bank of America Corp. and U.S. financier General
Electric Co., the people said. Bank of America is advising on
that bid and may acquire the corporate loans if it succeeds,
said the people. General Electric is providing most of the
Capital Finance funding, they said. Other parties have been
engaged by the Pepper-led group to take over remaining assets if
the bid is successful.  Citigroup Inc. and other investors have offered to help
fund Macquarie’s bid, according to the people familiar. Bank of
America has also approached Macquarie, as well as Westpac, to
potentially back either of those bids, they said.  Pepper Finance  Australia’s two other largest banks aren’t expected to bid,
said the people.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  has instead
offered to help finance the Pepper-led and Macquarie offers,
while  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  is also negotiating finance
arrangements with Pepper, they said. Melbourne-based NAB tabled
an initial bid, other people said in August.  Lloyds International Pty, the lender’s Australian unit,
reported a loss of A$148.3 million in 2012, narrowing from a
shortfall of A$1.2 billion the previous year, according to
Australian Securities & Investments Commission filings. The
division reduced assets by 24 percent to A$12.2 billion last
year, according to the documents.  ‘Non-Core’  A trust managed by Sankaty Advisors LLC agreed to buy a
A$371 million portfolio of loan assets from Lloyds last month.
Lloyds also sold some distressed corporate loans to investors
backed by  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in November, and 809 million pounds ($1.3
billion) of real estate loans to a joint venture between Morgan
Stanley and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in June.  Paul Marriage, a Sydney-based spokesman for Westpac,
declined to comment and Natalie Payne, Pepper Australia’s
external communications adviser, wasn’t available to comment
when contacted by phone yesterday.  A Macquarie spokeswoman wasn’t immediately available
yesterday and ANZ spokesman Stephen Ries declined to comment.
Spokespeople for Credit Suisse, PwC, UBS, CBA, Bank of America,
NAB, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, GE and Goldman Sachs declined or
weren’t immediately available yesterday to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  