-- Pandora, Vivendi, Schlumberger: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-19T11:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/pandora-vivendi-schlumberger-intellectual-property.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest
Internet radio service, won a court order to stop a group
representing songwriters and music publishers from limiting the
number of songs that it licenses to Pandora.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in Manhattan said in a
ruling Sept. 17 that Pandora’s five-year license beginning Jan.
1, 2011, won’t be affected by withdrawals of new-media licensing
rights from the repertory of the  American Society of Composers,
Authors and Publishers . Cote granted Pandora’s request for
summary judgment, citing an earlier consent decree between Ascap
and the U.S.  The issue in the case arose from decisions by large music
publishers including  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s EMI Music Publishing Ltd. and
Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC to withdraw new-media rights from
Ascap and negotiate license fees directly with Web radio
services. Pandora said that while its license renewal with Ascap
was pending, the organization shouldn’t allow the withdrawals,
which would reduce the number of songs covered by Ascap’s
licenses.  “We welcome the court’s decision,” Chris Harrison, an
assistant general counsel of Pandora, said in a statement. “We
hope this will put an end to the attempt by certain Ascap-member
publishers to unfairly and selectively withhold their catalogs
from Pandora.”  Pandora filed a lawsuit in November asking the court to set
“reasonable” fees for a licensing agreement with Ascap through
2015 that would cover all songs represented by the 470,000-member group. Pandora said the current fees made sustained
profitability impossible.  Ascap and Pandora reached an “experimental” fee agreement
in 2005 that lasted until 2010. The parties then were unable to
agree on licensing rates after more than a year of talks,
Pandora said in its complaint.  Under the terms of the federal consent decree that resulted
from a 1941 lawsuit against Ascap, the U.S. District Court in
 New York  has jurisdiction over rate-setting if the parties can’t
come to terms. Cote will preside over a trial to set the rates
in December.  The case is In re Petition of Pandora Media Inc., 1:12-cv-08035, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Universal Music Must Face Lawsuit Over Bob Marley Remixes  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group Inc. must face claims
that it tried to block a music production company from
distributing its remixes of early  Bob Marley  songs, a federal
appeals court in  California  ruled.  Universal won dismissal of the claims brought by Rock River
Communications Inc. after arguing to a lower court that the
distributor had to prove it was legally authorized to use the
music on its album. Universal couldn’t have interfered if the
album violated copyright laws, the company said. Universal is
only half right, a three-judge appeals panel ruled yesterday.  The case involves licensing rights for early musical
recordings by  Bob Marley and the Wailers . Rock River sued in
2008 accusing Universal of strong-arming its plans to release an
album called “Roots, Rock, Remixed” that included 12 versions
of popular Marley songs. Universal claimed to have purchased
exclusive rights to the music in 2003 from a company called JAD
Records, according to court documents.  Rock River’s obtained its license to sample 16 musical
recordings by the group from San Juan Music Group Ltd., which
had licensed music since 1980 through an agreement with former
Marley producer Lee Perry, according to court documents.  “When the music was initially recorded in  Jamaica  in the
1960s, record keeping was not a primary concern,” the appeals
court said in its ruling. “The absence of legal documentation
has led to confusion in the marketplace as to which entities own
licensing rights for these recordings.”  UMG’s transmission of cease-and-desist letters in 2007, an
action that prompted Rock River’s suit, could be viewed by a
reasonable jury as the company’s attempt to enforce its claim to
exclusive licensing rights through a “threat of litigation”
rather than actual litigation, the appeals court said in its
ruling. The court noted that despite San Juan’s long history
“openly licensing” Marley recordings, neither Universal or JAD
ever sued that company for infringement.  The case is Rock River Communications Inc.  Universal Music 
Group Inc., 11-57168,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth
Circuit (Pasadena).  Dish’s Ad-Skipping Feature Survives ABC’s Court Shutdown Bid  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s ad-skipping recording feature survived
a court bid by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC television unit to shut it
down almost a year after a  Los Angeles  judge rejected a similar
effort by another broadcaster.  ABC’s request for a preliminary injunction against the ad-skipping service was denied yesterday by U.S. District Judge
Laura Taylor Swain, who placed her opinion under seal because it
contained confidential business information, according to a
filing in federal court in Manhattan.  The dispute over Dish’s ad-skipping technology is playing
out in federal courts on both coasts. Dish sued ABC,  CBS Corp. (CBS) 
and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC in New York in May 2012, seeking a
judgment that its AutoHop feature, which allows viewers to skip
ads only in broadcast shows, doesn’t violate network copyrights
or contracts. The same day, News Corp.’s Fox Broadcasting, CBS
and NBC sued Dish in Los Angeles for copyright infringement and
breach of contract.  In November, U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee in Los Angeles
rejected Fox’s bid for an injunction similar to the one sought
in New York. An appeals court upheld Gee’s ruling in July.  Dish , based in Englewood,  Colorado , introduced its new
digital-video recorder, the Hopper, in March 2012. Its PrimeTime
Anytime feature can record all the major networks’ primetime
shows and store them for eight days after their initial
broadcast. AutoHop, introduced in May 2012, allows viewers, with
the touch of a button, to skip all ads automatically, without
having to manually fast-forward through them.  Dish’s response relied in part on a 1984 U.S. Supreme Court
ruling that consumers have the right to make copies of TV shows
with video recorders for later viewing. It also relied on a 2008
decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York that a company
isn’t liable for infringement if its customers initiate the
recording process.  The New York case is In re AutoHop Litigation, 12-04155,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Schlumberger Sues PGS Over Underwater Seismic Survey Patents  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ’s WesternGeco unit sued a Norwegian
oilfield services company for patent infringement.  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS)  is accused of infringing four
patents related to marine seismic data acquisition.  In dispute are patents 6,691,038, issued in February 2004;
7,080,607, issued in July 2006;  7,162,967, issued in January
2007; and 7,293,520, issued in November 2007.  WesternGeco said that Petroleum Geo-Services will be an
exhibitor at of the Society of Exploration Geophysicists
International Exposition and Annual Meeting this month to
promote products and services that infringe the disputed
patents.  Technology the Norwegian company supplies has already been
found to infringe the WesternGeco patents in a case against
Houston’s Ion Geophysical Corp., according to the complaint
filed Sept. 16 in Houston federal court. As a result, Petroleum
Geo-Services should have been aware of the infringement,
WesternGeco claims.  In the case against Ion, a jury awarded Houston-based
WesternGeco $105.9 million in damages and royalties for
infringement of those patents. The jury also found that the
infringement was deliberate.  The Schlumberger unit asked the court for awards of money
damages, and, claiming the Norwegian company’s infringement is
deliberate, seeks triple damages as punishment.  Additionally, WesternGeco requested a court order barring
future infringement of the patents at issue and awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Petroleum Geo-Services said in a statement that only two of
the ships in its survey fleet are equipped with the devices
WesternGeco claims infringe the patents, and neither have been
used in a seismic survey conducted in U.S. waters. The Norwegian
company said the claims are without merit and “will at most
have a limited financial impact for the company.”  The case is WesternGeco LLC v. Petroleum Geo-Services Inc.,
4:13-cv-02725, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  The case against ION is WesternGeco LLC v.  ION Geophysical
Corp. (IO) , 4:09-cv-01827, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Texas (Houston).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  South Africa Shoe Companies Dispute Sole Design as Trademark  Two shoe companies have gone to court in South Africa in a
trademark dispute involving shoe soles,  according to  South
Africa’s Business Day Live.  Unlike the recent battles involving the red-soled shoes
made by Christian Louboutin Sarl, the court case in South Africa
is focused on a wavy design on shoe soles made by Futura
Footwear, which manufactures  Bata ’s Toughees for the South
African market, according to Business Day Live.  Novita Shoes is accused of infringing the sole design,
which customers who have low literacy levels may use as a major
brand identifier, the South African news website Business Day
Live reported.  The case is set to be heard in 2014, according to Business
Day Live.  Cigar Maker Claims Distributor Infringes ‘Recluse’ Trademark  Iconic Leaf Cigars LLC , a Florida-based cigar manufacturer,
sued a New Hampshire retailer for trademark infringement.  The company claims  Vintage Cigar Distributors of New
England Inc.  sold and distributed cigars that infringe Iconic
Leaf’s “Recluse” trademark and trade dress, according to the
complaint filed Sept. 17 in federal court in Miami.  Iconic Leaf said it registered “Recluse” as a trademark
in January, and identifies its product with packaging bearing
the image of a spider. The spider design is also a registered
trademark, the company said in its filings.  It objects to trademark applications submitted by Vintage
and says the packaging, which used a spider design, infringes
its trade dress. The alleged infringement has continued despite
Iconic Leaf’s having sent multiple cease-and-desist notices to
the New Hampshire company, according to the complaint.  Iconic Leaf claims it has been harmed by Vintage’s actions,
and that the public is confused by the similarity in the name
and packaging.  It asked the court to order Vintage to quit using the
spider name and allegedly infringing packaging, and asked for an
award of the New Hampshire company’s profits attributable to the
infringement. Additionally, Iconic Leaf asked for awards of
money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Vintage didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Iconic Leaf Cigars LLC v. Vintage Cigar
Distributors of New England Inc., 1:13-cv-23345-UU, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami).  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Norwegian Agency Says Country Is ‘Tempting’ Goal for Espionage  The  Norwegian National Security Agency  has issued a warning
that computer systems in the country are vulnerable and a
“tempting” goal for industrial espionage, the NewsinEnglish.no
website  reported .  The agency said in a statement that many Norwegians
operations are targeted daily by hackers, and too many computer
programs aren’t updated to provide adequate protection for
sensitive data, according to the news website.  Seminars aimed at improving computer security will be held
in eight cities, including Oslo, will be conducted in October by
the agency, NewsinEnglish.no reported.  The agency said it hopes the seminars will reach companies,
state and municipal operations, academic circles, organizations
and citizens with interests in information technology and
security, according to NewsinEnglish.no.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  