-- Pandora Surges to Record After Pricing Expanded Offering
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/pandora-rises-to-record-high-after-increasing-share-offering.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest Web
radio service, rose to a record yesterday after pricing an
expanded stock offering that will finance plans to compete with
 radio stations  for advertisers.  Pandora advanced 6.7 percent to $27.35 at the close in  New
York , the highest price since the company first sold shares in
June 2011. The stock has almost tripled this year. Pandora,
based in Oakland,  California , said yesterday it will sell 13
million shares at $25 each, up from 10 million planned earlier.  With the sale, Pandora is raising an estimated $312.9
million, according to a regulatory filing, amid plans to open
sales offices and challenge radio stations for $15 billion in
local U.S. advertising. Last week Pandora named digital ad
veteran Brian McAndrews as chairman and chief executive officer.  The sum raised could increase to $378.8 million if
underwriters including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley
exercise a 30-day option to purchase 2.73 million more shares,
up from 2.1 million originally. The offering is expected to
close on Sept. 24, Pandora said.  Crosslink Capital Inc., the company’s biggest  shareholder ,
is selling 5.2 million shares in the offering, up from the 4
million initially proposed.  Some proceeds may be used for acquisitions and new
technology, according to the prospectus. Pandora said in a Sept.
16 prospectus that the stock sale would generate $231 million to
$280 million, depending on the over-allotment.  Songza and Raditaz, both closely held music applications,
are possible acquisition targets, Rich Tullo, an analyst at
Albert Fried & Co., wrote in a Sept. 16 report. Pandora could
also purchase businesses to build its ad-selling platform and
expand into films and books, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  