-- Parents Crucial to Tackle Underage Drinking, Bud Maker Says
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-09-19T12:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/parents-crucial-in-tackling-underage-drinking-bud-maker-says.html
Parents could do more to help their
children drink alcohol responsibly by talking to them about the
dangers, according to a survey conducted by Ipsos for  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer.  “What we’ve found, and what people often forget, is that
the key influence when it comes to children making the right
decisions is actually the role that their parents are playing in
their lives,” Sabine Chalmers, chief legal and corporate
affairs officer at AB InBev, said by phone yesterday.  Brewers are seeking to maintain a clean image amid concern
over the impact of youth alcohol consumption. AB InBev, based in
Leuven,  Belgium , has spent more than $112 million on promoting
responsible drinking and plans to invest at least $300 million
by the end of 2014. Hospitalization for underage drinking costs
about $755 million a year in the U.S., according to a study
published last year by medical researcher the  Mayo Clinic .  About 90 percent of parents in 10 out of 11 countries
surveyed deem it important to discuss responsible drinking with
their children, while 80 percent in nine of those countries had
actually done so, the survey showed. Those parents that hadn’t
talked about the issue mainly said their children were too
young. Ipsos surveyed 1,000 people each in  Argentina , Belgium,
Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, the U.K.,  Mexico , Russia, the
U.S. and Ukraine, AB InBev said in a press release.  “Our view is that it’s never too early or too late to talk
to your kids,” Chalmers said. “Some of those conversations can
and should start as early as the ages of six, seven or eight.”
Parents assume the prime age to be from nine to eleven,
according to the survey.  Many parents find it difficult to initiate the discussion,
Chalmers said. AB InBev is taking steps to help enable them to
talk including partnering with schools to provide workshops for
parents, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  