-- Pegasus Air Targets Europe on Middle Eastern Route Delays
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-19T09:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/pegasus-air-targets-europe-on-middle-eastern-route-delays.html
Turkish discount carrier  Pegasus
Airlines (PGSUS)  is studying options for expansion including flights to
London Gatwick airport and destinations in France and Italy as
it awaits traffic rights to grow in the Middle East and  Africa .  Another three or four European cities could be added, with
some routes possible next year and all rolled out over the next
three, Chief Commercial Officer Guliz Ozturk said in an
interview in London, where Pegasus currently serves only the
Stansted discount hub. Other routes may get higher frequencies.  Pegasus Hava Tasimaciligi AS, as the Istanbul-based carrier
is known in Turkish, flies to 44 cities outside its home nation
and is seeking further routes after agreeing in December to buy
75  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A320neo-series jets to phase out older  Boeing Co. (BA) 
737s. While the company is seeking European growth, the primary
goal remains  emerging markets , the unit of Esas Holding AS said.  “Our focus for growth is on the  Middle East , Africa and
the CIS,” Ozturk said, adding that it’s more difficult to
obtain traffic rights in those regions than for Europe.  Pegasus stock , which began trading on the Istanbul exchange
in April after an initial public offering of a 34.5 percent
stake, has risen 75 percent and traded at 33.6 lira as of 10:20
a.m., valuing the airline at 3.4 billion lira ($1.8 billion).  Russia Route  Forward bookings are in line with forecasts after the
company’s performance in the first six months was ahead of plan,
Ozturk said. The weakness of the Turkish lira has created some
challenges, particularly in terms of fuel costs paid in dollars,
though that has started to moderate recently, she said.  Pegasus may add Moscow services next month with three
weekly flights to Domodedovo airport if authorities sign off on
new rights that became unexpectedly available, Ozturk said.  The airline is also looking for approval to add further
flights to Dubai and Tel Aviv, which appeal because they yield
passengers who transfer in Istanbul, the executive said. Unlike
low-cost carriers such as  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,
Europe’s biggest, Pegasus encourages people to hub via its main
base, with 22 percent of passengers changing plane there.  The airline operates 45 jets and will add around 10 more in
the next year, Ozturk said, with some coming direct from Boeing
and others sourced from leasing companies, she said. The Airbus
planes, 58 A320neos and 17 larger A321neos, will be delivered
from mid-decade through 2022, Pegasus has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  