-- PetroChina Declines as Oil Outweighs Fed: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-19T21:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/petrochin-declines-as-oil-outweighs-fed-china-overnight.html
Chinese energy companies from
 Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  to PetroChina Co. fell in New York after
rallying in Hong Kong, as slumping oil prices outweighed the
Federal Reserve’s decision to maintain monetary stimulus.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. closed little changed at 104.08
yesterday after sliding as much as 0.7 percent. American
depositary receipts of PetroChina dropped, widening the discount
versus its Hong Kong shares to the most in four weeks. Yanzhou
slumped 2.6 percent after rising 2.5 percent in Hong Kong. Web
clothing retailer  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  rose for a fourth day
and  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  jumped to a two-year high.  West Texas Intermediate crude fell for the fourth time in
five days as President Bashar al-Assad said Syria will make
available information about its chemical weapons, offsetting
gains backed by the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to refrain from
reducing its bond purchases. China’s coal price has declined
almost 12 percent this year, leading to a decrease of 150
million tons of raw coal output, according to a report by
Bloomberg Industries.  “Emerging markets are going to be volatile on a daily
basis after the Fed’s not tapering caused quite a big rally,”
Sam Mahtani, who oversees about $5 billion as director of
emerging markets at  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM)  in London, said by
phone yesterday. “Chinese energy companies reflected that the
sector isn’t an area that’s been of a huge investor interest
globally this year.”  Thermal Coal  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 0.7 percent to $38.88 in
New York, dropping the most in a week. The Standard & Poor’s 500
 Index (HSCEI)  slipped 0.2 percent as investors weighed the latest batch
of U.S. economic reports, including sales of previously owned
U.S. homes and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
general economic index.  Yanzhou’s ADRs slumped to $10.46, the biggest decline in a
week. The ADRs have lost 39 percent this year, after tumbling 44
percent the two previous years.  China’s benchmark price for thermal coal fell over the past
week from the prior period to as low as 530  yuan  ($87) a metric
ton, data from the China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association showed Sept. 16.  “The coal sector in China will remain weak in the next
several years as rising supply will keep prices low,” Mahtani
said.  Beijing-based  PetroChina (PTR) , the nation’s biggest oil
producer, fell 1.1 percent to $113.91. The ADRs, each
representing 100 underlying shares in the company, traded  1.1
percent below  its Hong Kong stock, the widest discount since
Aug. 22.  Crude Futures  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil explorer, dropped
0.7 percent to $209.41. WTI futures slipped 1.6 percent on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . Oil surged the most in three weeks
on Sept. 18 following the Fed’s statement that it won’t reduce
its bond buying.  Guangzhou-based Vipshop rallied 5.5 percent to a record
$60.12, extending gains into a fourth day. Trading volume was
five times the 90-day daily average, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. E-House, a real estate brokerage based in China, climbed
5.3 percent to $10.01, the highest close since May 2011.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index jumped 1.7 percent
yesterday to 10,769.54, the highest level since May. The markets
in mainland China were closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  