-- Manufacturing in Philadelphia Region Expands by Most Since 2011
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-09-19T14:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/philadelphia-fed-factory-index-increased-to-22-3-in-september.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded in September at the fastest pace since March
2011, a sign factories are picking up momentum.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  jumped to 22.3 this month from 9.3 in August. Readings
greater than zero signal growth in the area, which covers
eastern  Pennsylvania , southern New Jersey and  Delaware . Measures
of orders, sales and factory employment increased at faster
rates in September, while a gauge of the six-month outlook was
the strongest in a decade.  Factories are benefitting as auto sales and consumer demand
for home-related goods gain. Stronger household balance sheets
as house and equity prices rise, combined with improvement in
overseas markets, may provide a further boost for manufacturing,
which accounts for about 12 percent of the economy.  “Subtle improvement in the global economy should be
lifting manufacturer’s spirit a little in September,”  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania, said before the report. “The regional
surveys all signal an improvement in manufacturing.”  The  median forecast  of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a reading of 10.3. Estimates ranged from 5 to 16.6.  Another report today jobless claims rose less than forecast
last week as two states began working through a backlog of
applications that were caused by computer-system changeovers.
Filings for  unemployment benefits  climbed by 15,000 to 309,000
in the week ended Sept. 14 from a revised 294,000 in the prior
period, the Labor Department said.  New York  A  report  from the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  on Sept.
16 showed manufacturing in that region expanded in September for
a fourth month. The so-called Empire State index eased to 6.3
after rising to 8.2 in August. Readings greater than zero signal
growth in  New York , northern  New Jersey  and southern
 Connecticut .  The Philadelphia Fed’s  new orders  measure increased to 21.2,
also the highest since March 2011, from 5.3 in August. An index
of shipments jumped to 21.2 in September from minus 0.9 a month
earlier. A gauge of  employment  rose to 10.3 this month from 3.5
in August.  Philadelphia-area manufacturers were more optimistic about
the future, today’s report showed. The outlook index for six
months from now increased to 58.2, the strongest since September
2003, from a 38.9 last month.  PPG Industries Inc., a Pittsburgh-based company that makes
glass products, coatings and chemicals, is among companies
benefitting from a recent bounce-back in manufacturing.  ‘Steady Improvement’  “In the U.S. market, things have begun to turn, so you’re
seeing now, from a steep decline in 2009, steady improvement in
the U.S. and  Canada  in volumes,” chief executive officer
Charles E. Bunch said in a Sept. 17 presentation. “We have been
able to set new regional records in terms of segment earnings
for our coatings business.”  Economists monitor Philadelphia and Empire State factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing. The next ISM report is due
Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  