-- Pimco Raises Outlook for 2014 Growth Citing Fiscal Policy
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-09-19T13:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/pimco-raises-outlook-for-2014-growth-citing-fiscal-policy.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the world’s largest active bond manager, said it’s optimistic
about global growth over the coming 12 months as the drag from
fiscal policy restraints eases.  Economic output will increase to 2.25 percent to 2.75
percent through September of next year, compared with 2.2
percent for the year ended June 30, Saumil Parikh, a portfolio
manager at Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, said in a
report being posted on its website today.  “Pimco’s cyclical outlook for the year ahead is cautiously
optimistic,” wrote Parikh, who focuses on asset allocation,
multisector fixed income and absolute-return portfolios.  U.S. and European government policy won’t hamper growth as
much as in the past, private sector confidence will strengthen
as global wealth increases, and central banks will use monetary
policy to curb risks, according to Pimco’s report. Pimco Chief
Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian and co-Chief Investment
Officer  Bill Gross  coined the term “new normal” in 2009 to
describe an era of lower returns, heightened government
regulation and shrinking U.S. clout in the world economy
following the 2007-2009 financial crisis.  ‘Successful Handoff’  Expansion for the four quarters ending Sept. 30, 2014,
could be hindered by a reduction of  household debt  relative to
income, and by the increase in market interest rates in this
year’s second quarter, which will cause tighter financial
conditions for the global economy’s most rate-sensitive
components, Parikh said.  A “successful handoff” to self-sustaining growth will
depend on an increase in  household income  and spending as the
effects of fiscal and monetary policy wane, according to Pimco.  The  U.S. economy  will expand by 2 percent to 2.5 percent in
the coming 12 months, compared with 1.7 percent in the four
quarters through June 30, as weak household income growth
stemming from the low-quality nature of new jobs tempers gains,
Parikh said. The euro area will experience growth of 0 percent
to 0.5 percent as fiscal and monetary policy remain tight, he
predicted.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, will grow 6.75
percent to 7.25 percent, Pimco estimates.  Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , managed
$1.97 trillion in assets as of June 30. Gross runs the $251
billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the biggest mutual fund in the
world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  