-- Poland to Sell Energa, Rail Cargo Unit as Markets Rally
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-09-19T10:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/poland-to-sell-energa-rail-cargo-unit-as-markets-rally.html
Poland  kept plans to sell stakes in
its largest rail cargo company and power utility Energa SA in
the coming months as stock prices rallied worldwide on the
Federal Reserve’s decision to maintain U.S. monetary stimulus.  State-owned railway  Polskie Koleje Panstwowe SA  plans an
initial public offering of its freight transportation unit to
raise funds for reducing its own debt, while the government will
sell to the public a stake in Energa to help finance the budget
deficit, Deputy Treasury Minister Pawel Tamborski told reporters
in Warsaw today.  “It’s realistic for Energa shares to start trading on the
Warsaw exchange in November,” Tamborski said. “PKP Cargo’s
sale may come before Energa’s offering.”  The share offerings are set to be the largest in state-controlled companies in Poland since the 5.24 billion-zloty
($1.7 billion) sale of a stake in PKO Bank Polski SA in January.
PKP may raise as much as 1.65 billion zloty from its cargo
unit’s IPO, Puls Biznesu reported on July 11, without saying
where it got the information. Both IPOs may be valued at as much
as 5 billion zloty, Parkiet newspaper reported today.  Stocks Rally  Warsaw’s broad WIG Index jumped as much as 2.2 percent
today to the highest level in more than two years and the zloty
rallied to a four-month high against the euro after the Fed
unexpectedly refrained from reducing U.S. monetary stimulus.  “With the WIG Index peaking and positive sentiment on
 emerging markets , the offerings will probably be sold,”
Jaroslaw Niedzielewski, who helps manage the equivalent of $648
million zloty at Warsaw-based Investors TFI SA, said by phone
today. “PKP Cargo is the group’s jewel in the crown and as for
Energa, all its competitors are already listed in Warsaw so it
will be probably tougher” to sell.  The government earlier sold to the public minority stakes
in Energa’s bigger competitors including PGE SA, Tauron Polska
Energia SA and Enea SA. CEZ AS, the largest Czech power
producer, is also traded on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.  Poland’s financial regulator may clear Energa’s IPO plans
by Oct. 15, Treasury Minister Wlodzimierz Karpinski said
yesterday. Energa, Poland’s fourth-largest power utility, won’t
sell new shares in the IPO, Rzeczpospolita reported on Sept. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  