-- Polish Yields Slide to 5-Week Low as Fed Stays Put: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-09-19T11:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/polish-yields-slide-to-5-week-low-as-fed-stays-put-warsaw-mover.html
Yields on Polish bonds fell to
five-week lows as the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly maintained
its monetary stimulus, spurring demand for higher-yielding,
emerging-market assets.  U.S. policy makers said yesterday they wanted more evidence
of an economic recovery before paring their $85 billion-a-month
quantitative-easing program. Fed Chairman Ben. S. Bernanke, who
said in June the central bank may start curbing stimulus this
year and end it in 2014 if the economy finally achieves
sustainable growth, said the central bank must determine its
policies based on “what’s needed for the economy,” even if it
surprises markets.  The yield on the 10-year government bond slumped 23 basis
points to 4.22 percent at 12:50 p.m. in Warsaw, the lowest since
Aug. 12. The five-year yield slid 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 3.62 percent. The zloty weakened 0.4
percent to 4.1864 against the euro after surging 1.2 percent to
the strongest level in four months late yesterday. Its 3.3
percent return this quarter makes it the best-performer among 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Poland’s currency “has been immune” to investor fears
over the Fed’s tapering plans in recent weeks and “there’s no
reason to believe it will cease to be immune,” the nation’s
central bank Deputy Governor Witold Kozinski said in parliament
today. “My impression is that the zloty is holding strong and
the risk of investor outflow is unlikely.”  Bank Minutes  Narodowy Bank Polski will release minutes from its meeting
on Sept. 4, at which it kept  interest rates  unchanged at record
low 2.5 percent, at 2 p.m. local time today. Governor  Marek Belka  said after the meeting that the central bank will keep
borrowing costs on hold until at least the end of this year.
There is a 50 percent chance that interest rates will remain
stable throughout 2014, Monetary Policy Council member Andrzej Bratkowski was quoted as saying by the PAP newswire today.  There is room to cut rates further, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  told lawmakers today. Poland’s economy is forecast to
expand by 1.1 percent this year, the slowest pace since at least
1997, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
43 economists.  “I guess after Bernanke’s ‘gift’ to the market yesterday,
anything is possible, but my sense from the MPC, even the doves,
is that they would be loathed to deliver much more on the rate
front,” Tim Ash, London-based chief emerging-market economist
at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a note today. “Maybe a
better kicker for the economy would be a weaker zloty, but
Bernanke has now probably put paid to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  