-- Pope Says Church Should Stop Obsessing Over Gays, Abortion
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-09-20T11:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/pope-says-church-should-stop-obsessing-over-gays-abortion.html
Pope Francis said the Catholic
Church shouldn’t be “obsessed” with preaching about abortion,
gay marriage and contraception and should instead try to reach
out to a broader congregation.  “It is not necessary to talk about these issues all the
time,” Francis told the  Catholic publication , La Civilta
Cattolica. “We have to find a new balance; otherwise even the
moral edifice of the Church is likely to fall like a house of
cards, losing the freshness and fragrance of the Gospel.”  Francis, the first non-European pope in more than 1,200
years, distinguished himself from the start of his papacy by
speaking out in favor of the world’s poor. In the first six
months of his papacy he’s also made overtures to other faiths
and attempted to root out corruption in the Vatican Bank.  “He is getting back to the real values,” Veronica
Chambers, 68, a practising Catholic who lives in  Los Angeles 
said in a telephone interview. “Those of us who have any
brains, us modern Catholics who need it, want it, will welcome
this message.”  His comments marks a contrast with that of his predecessor,
Benedict XVI, who struck a more conservative tone on sexuality
and was criticized for not doing enough to root out sexual abuse
in the clergy.  The Church should be “the home of all,” Francis said in
the 12,000-word interview conducted in August at his quarters in
the Vatican guest house, which he chose over the rich papal
apartments of his predecessors.  ‘Mediocrity’  The interview covered topics ranging from his political
sympathies to his desire for more consultative leadership. He
also discusses his human side, saying he loves the Federico Fellini film, “La Strada.”  Francis, 76, professed disdain for clergy who make the
Church into “a nest protecting our mediocrity.” He added that
when he sees religious leaders’ negative behavior, “the first
thing that comes to mind is: ‘Here’s an unfruitful bachelor,’ or
‘Here’s a spinster.’ They are neither fathers nor mothers, in
the sense that they have not been able to give spiritual life.”  Some academics cautioned against reading too much into
Francis’s comments.  “He hasn’t announced a change in Church doctrine,” Franck
Fregosi, who teaches religious studies at the Aix-en-Provence
campus of Sciences Po, said in an interview. “He’s understood
the Church can’t be a church of interdictions, of refusals. He’s
still against gay marriage, he’s just saying don’t be fixated on
it.”  Papal Changes  Elected in March after Benedict became the first pontiff to
abdicate in 600 years, Francis has worked to portray himself as
a man of the people, shirking the traditional robes, jewelry and
even papal apartment for more spartan trappings.  Francis also named a commission to oversee the Vatican
Bank’s operations after  Moneyval , the Council of  Europe ’s
monitoring body for  money laundering  and terrorism financing,
called for its independent supervision. The director and deputy
director of the bank resigned July 1 amid a corruption
investigation, three days after a senior Vatican cleric was
arrested for alleged fraud. Francis also appointed an advisory
council of eight cardinals to propose changes to the church.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  