-- Priceline Tops $1,000 on Growing Demand for Web Bookings
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/priceline-tops-1-000-on-growing-demand-for-web-bookings.html
Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  closed above
$1,000 a share yesterday, exceeding a dot-com bubble high and
making the largest U.S. online travel site the ninth member of a
club of U.S. companies trading in quadruple digits.  The Norwalk, Connecticut-based company rose 0.6 percent to
a record close of $1,000.62 in New York. The bubble-era high on
a split-adjusted basis was $990 in April 1999, and the stock
breached $1,000 in intraday trading on Sept. 18. The company’s
shares have advanced 61 percent this year, compared with a 21
percent gain for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  In reaching the milestone, Priceline is the only technology
stock to join companies such as  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) ,
Seaboard Corp., Farmers & Merchants Bank of Long Beach and five
others trading at more than $1,000 a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, which tracks more than 3,000 publicly-traded U.S. institutions with prices above $1.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has
also been flirting with that threshold.  Priceline’s gains have been fueled by its surging
international business through two units, Amsterdam-based
Booking.com and Bangkok-based Agoda.com., said  Henry Harteveldt ,
a travel analyst at Hudson Crossing in San Francisco.  Priceline reported second-quarter sales last month that
topped analyst estimates on international growth. International
bookings jumped 44 percent year-over-year in the second quarter,
accounting for 85 percent of total bookings for the company.  Company Transformation  “That’s the key to Priceline’s success,” Harteveldt said.
“The business that’s known for naming your price has, through
organic growth and acquisitions, really transformed itself.”  Priceline’s business has surged as its top rival has
faltered.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  reported second-quarter profit and
revenue in July that missed analysts’ estimates. The Bellevue,
Washington-based company cited weakness in Southern Europe and
reduced traffic from  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) ’s site.  During the late 1990s dot-com bubble, Priceline was known
for its name-your-own-price option for airlines, hotels and
other services and advertisements featuring pitchman  William Shatner . Between April 1999 and October 2000, a period when many
dot-com companies failed, Priceline lost 97 percent of its
market value.  Priceline  purchased  Booking.com in 2005 and Agoda.com in
2007, helping to reshape the company into a leader in
international travel.  To diversify its business, Priceline also acquired travel
search-engine Kayak Software Corp. for $1.8 billion in a deal
that closed in May. Kayak lets travelers compare prices and make
reservations for hotels, flights, cars and vacations.  Shatner still promotes the Priceline brand -- and keeps an
eye on the stock. Last month, after the company’s earnings
briefly pushed the shares to as high as $994.98, the actor who
played Captain Kirk on the “Star Trek” TV series said in a
Twitter Inc. post, “Congratulations to @Priceline on their
stock price. Wish I hadn’t sold my stock all those years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  