-- Putin Says Not 100% Certain Assad Will Give Up Weapons
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-09-19T21:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/putin-says-not-100-certain-assad-will-give-up-weapons.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
said he isn’t “100 percent” certain that Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad will fulfill his commitment to give up chemical
weapons.  Putin’s comments today may indicate that  Russia ,  Syria ’s
arms provider and ally, harbors doubts about Assad’s
reliability, though less so than the U.S., which has demanded a
quick and intrusive process to prevent the use of Syria’s
chemical arsenal and to test whether the Syrian leader will give
it up.  Putin said Syria has taken “practical steps” by joining
the Chemical Weapons Convention barring such arms and it now
faces a disarmament process under a U.S.-Russia accord reached
last week in Geneva that begins with an accounting of the
weapons inventory due Sept. 21.  “Will it be possible to bring everything to a
conclusion?” Putin said in Valdai, Russia. “I can’t say 100
percent. But everything that we’ve seen up to now inspires
confidence that this can and will be done.”  In Washington, U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said the
 United Nations Security Council  “must be prepared to act next
week” to pass a binding resolution requiring the Assad regime
to abide by terms of the U.S.-Russian agreement.  ‘Speak Out’  “It is vital for the international community to stand up
and speak out in the strongest possible terms about the
importance of enforceable action to rid the world of Syria’s
chemical weapons,” Kerry told reporters.  The U.S. is seeking “a binding resolution that codifies
the strongest possible mechanism to achieve the goal and to
achieve it rapidly,” Kerry said. A report issued by UN
inspectors provides “clear and compelling evidence” that
Syrian government forces carried out an Aug. 21 sarin gas attack
near Damascus, Kerry said. Assad, with Russia’s backing, denies
that his forces carried out the attack.  Andrew Tabler , a senior fellow at the Washington Institute
for Near East Policy, said that Kerry was addressing the
fundamentally different views the Russians and the U.S. have of
the UN report. While the team was barred under its mandate from
placing blame, the U.S. and independent analysts said details
such as munitions types and rocket trajectories implicate
government forces in the attack the U.S. says killed more than
1,400 people, including more than 400 children.  ‘Basis of Reality’  “I think he realizes we are in a ‘basis of reality’
dispute with the Russians, and they are not recognizing the
facts here,” Tabler said in an e-mail.  With the threat of military action receding, West Texas
Intermediate crude fell for the fourth time in five days. WTI
crude for October delivery, which expires tomorrow, slid $1.68
to settle at to $106.39 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  As the U.S. threatened military action earlier this month,
Russia proposed that Syria turn over its chemical weapons to
international control and Assad said Syria would join the
convention, which requires steps to declare, secure and
eliminate his arsenal.  Assad said yesterday that he envisions it will take about a
year to destroy his chemical weapons and related equipment.
Meeting the disclosure and inspection conditions is “no
problem, we can do it tomorrow,” Assad said in a  Fox News 
Channel interview.  Blaming Rebels  While saying he is committed to surrendering those weapons,
Assad gave no ground on his assertions that rebels, not his
forces, were responsible for the Aug. 21 sarin gas attack.  Assad said he has set no conditions on cooperating with the
 Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons , or OPCW,
the body based in  The Hague  that implements the treaty.
Previously, he’d said that Syria’s actions depended on the U.S.
and others not supplying weapons to rebel forces.  “We are committed” to the full requirements of the treaty
and any delay in implementation “is not about will, it’s about
techniques,” he said.  Assad faces an early test because, under the U.S.-Russia
accord negotiated last week in Geneva by Kerry and Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , Syria is supposed to turn over a
full inventory of its chemical weapons arsenal by Sept. 21. That
would then be subject to verification by the OPCW.  Complicated Process  Assad said that eliminating the arsenal is a complicated
process that will be done as directed by OPCW experts. He said
he’s been told it may take about a year and cost as much as $1
billion to destroy the chemical weapons without creating
environmental problems.  Assad didn’t explicitly address the U.S.-Russia accord,
which averted American military action in return for Syria
giving up its chemical arsenal. He presented Syria’s promised
actions as occurring under the requirements of the Chemical
Weapons Convention, which Syria joined last week after decades
during which it didn’t acknowledge having chemical arms.  “Whenever we join an agreement as Syria, we always
committed to those agreements,” he said.  The Fox News interview in Damascus was arranged by Dennis Kucinich, an anti-war activist who’d met with Assad on a past
visit to Syria as a Democratic congressman from  Ohio . Kucinich,
who works as a contributor to Fox News, was joined by Fox
correspondent Greg Palkot in questioning Assad.  Early Test  The U.S.-Russia accord sets an objective of completing the
destruction or removal of chemical weapons and related equipment
by next June 30.  While Kerry has said that Syria “must submit” a full
disclosure of its chemical weapons by Sept. 21, State Department
spokeswoman Marie Harf said yesterday that the date -- one week
after the accord was reached in Geneva -- and others in the
accord were more a “timeline” than “a hard and fast
deadline.”  Russia’s army may send chemical and biological experts to
Syria to assist with the operation, Kommersant reported, citing
an unidentified military official.  The unedited, hour-long Fox News interview provided Assad
with an extended opportunity to present his view of the civil
war in his nation that has killed more than 100,000 people and
uprooted about 6 million.  He described the rebels as 80 percent to 90 percent
jihadists, dismissing broad public opposition that started with
peaceful protests, and he said that more than 15,000 government
soldiers have died in the 2 1/2 years of fighting. While saying
he is open to peace talks, his view of how that might proceed
differs from that of opposition leaders, who insist that he must
quit as part of any deal.  Syria yesterday gave Russia what it said was evidence
supporting its case that rebels were responsible for the
chemical-weapons attack last month. Russian Deputy Foreign
Minister Sergei Ryabkov said during a visit to Damascus
yesterday that Russia thinks the UN report “was distorted, it
was one-sided, the basis of information upon which it is built
is not sufficient,” according to Russian state broadcaster RT.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in  Washington  at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  