-- S. Africa Bond Yields Fall to 2-Month Low on Fed; Rand Retreats
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-09-19T15:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/rand-retreats-from-4-month-high-on-signs-fed-gains-were-overdone.html
South Africa’s bonds gained,
pushing the yield to a two-month low, after the  Federal Reserve 
refrained from cutting monetary stimulus and as the nation’s
central bank left its policy rate unchanged. The rand dropped on
speculation a surge to a four-month high was overdone.  Global bonds jumped with  stocks  and  commodities  as the Fed
yesterday said it wants more evidence of an economic recovery
before paring its $85 billion-a-month bond-buying program,
surprising analysts. South Africa’s central bank left its
repurchase rate at 5 percent, in line with analysts’ forecasts.  “The local rates decision was always going to be
overshadowed by what happened in the U.S.,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the Johannesburg-based chief dealer at Bidvest
Bank, said by phone. “The rand’s moves are going to be
determined by data from the U.S. from now on.”  Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent rand-denominated bonds due
December 2026 fell 29 basis points, or 0.29 percentage point, to
7.88 percent by 3:53 p.m. in Johannesburg, the lowest on a
closing basis since July 22.  South Africa ’s currency depreciated
0.4 percent to 9.6286 per dollar after gaining as much as 0.4
percent earlier to 9.5484, the strongest level since May 24.  ‘Basic Outlook’  “Below the 9.60 level we saw a flood of importer orders
coming through” for dollars, making the rand weaker,’’ De
Vleeschauwer said. “That’s to be expected; we haven’t seen
these levels in four months.”  The rand’s 6.8 percent advance this month took the
stochastic oscillator to 10.2, further below the 30 level that
indicates the currency is overbought may be poised to retreat.
The measure, which tracks the price of a currency relative to
its highs and lows during a particular period, has been below 30
since Sept. 16.  The rand’s recovery from a four-year low against the dollar
on Aug. 28 has given policy makers room to keep borrowing costs
unchanged even as inflation exceeded the bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target band for a second month in August. The economy is
set to expand at the slowest pace since the 2009 recession,
according to government forecasts.  “Upside risks to the inflation outlook require careful
monitoring,” Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said. The
decision to keep the rate unchanged was “a balancing act as to
what is appropriate” given global uncertainties, she said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said there is no fixed
schedule for tapering and it could still start this year should
data confirm the central bank’s “basic outlook.” U.S. jobless
claims increased less than forecast last week and sales of
previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly rose in August to the
highest in more than six years, data released today showed.  “Fed tapering has been delayed and not canceled,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “While the Fed’s
decision is great for  emerging markets  in the short term, there
is also an unfortunate consequence. The uncertainty remains, and
so too will volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  