-- Re/Max Brokerage Files to Raise $241.5 Million in IPO
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-09-19T15:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/re-max-brokerage-files-to-raise-as-much-as-241-5-million-in-ipo.html
Re/Max Holdings Inc. (RMAX) , a franchiser
of real estate brokerages, filed to raise as much as $241.5
million in a U.S. initial public offering as the property market
recovery bolsters shares of housing-services companies.  Re/Max, based in Denver, plans to sell 10 million shares
for $19 to $21 each, according to a regulatory filing today. The
total amount, which includes overallotment options, was
increased from an initial target of as much as $100 million.  Companies that make money from home sales and searches are
benefiting as housing rebounds from the worst crash since the
Great Depression. Shares of  Realogy Holdings Corp. (RLGY) , owner of the
Century 21 and Coldwell Banker brands, and listings sites Zillow
Inc. and  Trulia Inc. (TRLA)  have surged since their IPOs. The Federal
Reserve’s unexpected decision yesterday to extend its support
for the mortgage market may add to investor demand.  “It does seem like good timing for Re/Max,”  Anthony Sanders , professor of real estate finance at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax, Virginia, said in a telephone interview.
“Why not jump on bandwagon and do an IPO if the Fed is going to
continue on its quantitative easing mission? Why not benefit
from that?”  Realogy, based in Madison, New Jersey, climbed about 70
percent since it raised $1.08 billion in an IPO last October.
Zillow, Seattle-based operator of the largest real estate
information website, has more than tripled this year after going
public in July 2011. San Francisco-based Trulia, which went
public last September, has gained more than 200 percent in 2013.  Shares Jump  Homebuilder shares jumped the most in two months yesterday
after the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly said it plans to continue
$85 billion of monthly bond purchases to keep  interest rates 
low. The 11-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index gained 6 percent at the close, the biggest increase since
July 11.  Re/Max was founded in 1973 by Dave Liniger and Gail Liniger, who remain majority owners, and is backed by private-equity firm Weston Presidio. The company has more than 90,000
agents worldwide and its 6,300 offices are owned by agents or
franchisees, according to today’s filing.  Re/Max, which reported revenue of $143.7 million for 2012,
plans to list the shares on the  New York  Stock Exchange under
the symbol RMAX.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  