-- Treasury Error Said to Block Goldman Sachs From Auction of Bills
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-19T19:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/treasury-error-said-to-block-goldman-sachs-from-auction-of-bills.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was
prevented from participating in the Sept. 9 auction of three-month  U.S. Treasuries  because of a malfunction with the
government’s online order system, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  One bidder couldn’t participate in the sale of three-month
bills due to a “technical error” with the government’s TAAPS
system, the Treasury’s Bureau of Public Debt  said  Sept. 10 on
its website. Goldman Sachs was the firm that was locked out,
according to a person briefed on the event, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions were private.  The disruption in the Treasury auction comes as U.S.
regulators press for improvements in the infrastructure of
American equity and derivatives markets. Following Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc.’s three-hour trading halt on Aug. 22, Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White told U.S. stock
markets on Sept. 12 to collaborate on bolstering technology
systems. On Sept. 9, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
requested industry input on safeguarding markets.  The Bureau of Public Debt “continues to test its systems
to maintain the smooth functioning of Treasury auctions,” it
said on Sept. 10. The government said attempts to address the
Sept. 9 malfunction “ultimately resulted” in the bidder buying
more than 35 percent of the six-month bills that were sold,
which normally isn’t allowed.  “We have determined that it is in the best interest of
market participants to waive the 35 percent limitation and for
yesterday’s auctions to stand,” the Bureau of the Public Debt
said on Sept. 10.  Rates Decline  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for New York-based  Goldman
Sachs (GS) , declined to comment. Brandi Hoffine, a Treasury
spokeswoman, wouldn’t elaborate beyond the Bureau of Public
Debt’s Sept. 10 statement.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that Goldman Sachs
had been shut out of the auction of three-month bills.  The Treasury sold $30 billion of three-month bills and $25
billion of six-month bills on Sept. 9. Rates on six-month bills
fell after the auction concluded at 11:30 a.m. New York time
that day,  sinking  as low as 0.0203 percent from 0.0304 percent
at 11:29 a.m.  The market reaction is “indicative of just how scarce
Treasury bills are relative to the amount of money looking for
very short-term, very liquid investments,” said Thomas Simons,
a government-debt economist in  New York  at the primary dealer
Jefferies LLC. “When one particular bidder is awarded a very
large amount of an auction, it will cause” a scramble by other
investors to obtain Treasury bills needed, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  