-- Treasury Inflation Notes Attract Lowest Direct Demand Since 2009
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-09-19T21:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/treasury-inflation-notes-attract-lowest-direct-demand-since-2009.html
     Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) --- The Treasury’s sale of $13 billion
in inflation-indexed notes attracted the least demand since 2009
from a group of investors that includes pension funds and
insurers, with U.S. consumer prices rising less than forecast.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
bids directly with the Treasury,  bought  1.9 percent of the
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities auctioned yesterday, the
least since October 2009. The average at the past 10 sales was
12 percent. The notes were sold at a  yield  of 0.5 percent, the
highest since July 2011, compared with a forecast of 0.488
percent, the average estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of six
of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers.  The sale came a day after Fed unexpectedly kept the pace of
bond purchases by the central bank unchanged, saying policy
makers are concerned that rapid tightening of financial
conditions in recent months will slow growth. Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  has said low inflation could cause the recovery to
bog down by inhibiting  capital investment  and increasing the
risk of “outright deflation,” a broad-based decline in prices.  “Direct bidders were very passive, and them not showing up
had a negative impact on the auction,” said Tom Simons, an
economist in New York at Jefferies LLC, one of primary dealers
required to bid at Treasury auctions. “In light of an uncertain
monetary-policy environment, the Fed’s growth concerns and an
inflation environment that is very weak, without sighs of even
burgeoning inflation, the road remains tough for TIPS.”  Below Forecast  The consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent in August,
the least in three months, Labor Department figures showed Sept.
17. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 87 economists
called for a 0.2 percent gain. Consumer prices increased 1.5
percent in the 12 months ended in August after a 2 percent year-over-year gain the prior month.  Inflation-indexed securities rise or fall in value tracking
changes in the  consumer price index  calculated by the Labor
Department. Inflation adjustments will be added to the notes’
principal and interest coupon and be payable at maturity.  Demand for the securities surged in 2011 as yields on
conventional Treasuries fell to almost record lows and investors
sought a hedge against a possible rise in inflation from the
Fed’s unprecedented monetary stimulus measures. The last sale
yielded 0.38 percent, following nine consecutive sales where the
securities were bought at negative yields.  Fed Speculation  Inflation-protected Treasuries maturing in 10 years or more
have lost about 15 percent this year, and are on track for their
worst year since the securities were first issued in 1998, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Inflation expectations  plummeted this year as investors
began to price in an end to the Fed’s bond-buying program.  They have recovered some this month, as the difference in
yield between 10-year notes and similar-maturity TIPS, a measure
of trader expectations for rises in consumer prices over the
life of the debt called the break-even rate, reached 2.27
percentage points yesterday, after falling to a year low of 1.92
percentage points in June.  “The supply was a lot to take down given how much real
yields have rallied this week,” said Michael Pond, head of
global inflation-linked research at Barclays Plc, a primary
dealer. “There wasn’t enough time to set up for the auction,
given all the news this week, but break-evens have room to rally
from here.”  The bid-to-cover  ratio , which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.38, the
weakest since September 2012, and lower than the 2.66 average
for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect  bidders , a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 53.8 percent of the 10-year TIPS
auctioned. The average for the past 10 offerings is 48.3
percent.  Primary dealers won 44.6 percent of the offering, compared
with 35.4 percent at the previous sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  