-- Ringgit Leads Jump in Asian Currencies as Fed Maintains Stimulus
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-09-19T08:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ringgit-leads-jump-in-asian-currencies-as-fed-maintains-stimulus.html
Malaysia’s ringgit led a surge in
Asian currencies, climbing the most since the 1998 regional
financial crisis, after the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly
refrained from cutting monetary stimulus.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  stressed yesterday the pace of
bond buying, which was kept at $85 billion a month, would depend
on economic data and the central bank has no predetermined
schedule for tapering measures that have fueled demand for
emerging-market assets. Analysts polled by Bloomberg predicted a
$5 billion cut to purchases of Treasuries. The ringgit jumped
the most since 1998, while the baht was set for the biggest gain
in more than six years. The yield on 10-year  U.S. Treasuries 
dropped 16 basis points yesterday, the most since October 2011.  “You have got to go with the flow at the moment,”  Mitul Kotecha , the global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Credit
Agricole SA in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “You have to buy currency risk assets,” he said,
after writing in a note today that the ones in Asia that have
the strongest correlations to U.S. yields are Indonesia’s
rupiah, the baht, the ringgit and India’s rupee.  The ringgit strengthened 2.5 percent to 3.1543 per dollar
as of 4:13 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , the most since September 1998,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee climbed 2.4
percent to a one-month high of 61.8575. The baht rose 2.3
percent to 30.9480 and the rupiah rallied 1.7 percent to 11,283,
its best performance since May 2012. Financial markets are
closed for holidays in  China , South Korea and Taiwan.  Markets ‘Overreacted’  The rupiah is Asia’s biggest loser this year, having
tumbled 15 percent against the dollar, while the rupee lost 9.6
percent. The region’s emerging-market currencies slid in the
last four months after the Fed signaled plans to rein in asset
purchases, a policy known as quantitative easing.  Markets “overreacted to the initial trial balloons from
the Fed about the taper process, markets are probably now going
to overreact to the Fed not tapering,” said  Ray Farris , the
Singapore-based global head of currency strategy at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “The lesson that I think people should take
away from the experience of the past 24 hours is the data will
direct the Fed; they will not allow rhetoric to bind them to a
decision that runs contrary to the data.”  Global funds were boosting holdings of Asian assets in the
run-up to yesterday’s Fed announcement and this trend is likely
to be “reinforced” in coming trading sessions, according to
Kotecha and Emmanuel Ng, a strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. in Singapore. Overseas investors pumped some $10.5 billion
into equities in South Korea, Taiwan and India this month, after
net sales of about $500 million in August.  One-month non-deliverable forwards on South Korea’s won
climbed to an eight-month high of 1,073.60 per dollar today. The
 yuan  rose to a record 6.1042 in  Hong Kong ’s offshore market,
while non-deliverable forwards due in 12 months strengthened as
much as 0.24 percent to an all-time high of 6.1905.  “There is a big rebound in reaction to the Fed,” said
Pareena Phuangsiri, a Bangkok-based analyst at  Kasikornbank Pcl. (KBANK) 
“I would say it’s very dovish. But even though the Fed didn’t
taper this time” they will do so eventually, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  