-- Rolls-Royce, United Technologies Scrap Engine Partnership Accord
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-19T16:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/rolls-royce-united-technologies-scrap-engine-partnership-accord.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  and  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  said they’re no longer pursuing a joint
venture to power future airliners seating 120 to 230 passengers.  “Because of the current regulatory environment, the
parties have agreed not to proceed with the partnership,”
London-based Rolls and  United Technologies  said in separate
statements. Neither company commented on the nature of the
obstacles to the pact, which would have brought together the
world’s No. 2 and No. 3 engine-makers after  General Electric Co. (GE)   Rolls-Royce and United Technologies announced plans to
cooperate on turbines for mid-sized jetliners in 2011 as part of
a restructuring of the International Aero Engines joint venture
involving MTU Aero Engines AG and Japanese Aero Engine Corp.
Rolls sold its stake to UTC for $1.5 billion while retaining a
supplier role on V2500 engines used by  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A320 planes.  “Rolls-Royce remains fully committed to this important
market segment and will continue to invest in technologies that
will enable us to take advantage of opportunities as they
arise,” the U.K. company said.  When they first agreed to team up, Rolls and Pratt said
they’d focus on high-bypass-ratio geared turbofan technology and
work on a variety of different engine designs within a midsize
market for about 45,000 turbines over two decades.  Pratt & Whitney  said today it would “continue
independently” to develop applications of the geared turbofan
after betting heavily on a technology that this week powered
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CSeries plane on its first flight.  A version of the powerplant will also be used by Airbus on
its A320neo and was selected by  Brazil ’s  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  to re-engine
its regional-jet family and for the Mitsubishi Regional Jet.  Rolls-Royce has focused its research on other engine
concepts for the next-generation mid-size planes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  