-- Romania Is ‘Satisfied’ With Interest in Nuclear Utility Sale
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-09-19T13:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/romania-is-satisfied-with-interest-in-nuclear-utility-sale.html
Romania is “satisfied” with the
interest in the sale of utility Nuclearelectrica SA before the
country’s first initial public offering in five years ends
tomorrow, said Gabriel Dumitrascu, in charge of state-asset
sales at the government’s energy department.  The administration seeks to raise at least 284 million lei
($86 million) from the sale of 25.4 million shares, or a 10
percent stake in the nuclear-power operator, according to the
Bucharest Stock Exchange’s website. The government set a price
range of 11.2 lei and 15 lei per share in the IPO, which started
on Sept. 9.  “We’re satisfied and optimistic about today and
tomorrow,” Dumitrascu told reporters in Bucharest today.
“We’re comfortable” with the level of demand for the shares.  The sale is part of the nation’s accord with the
International Monetary Fund and the European Union to list
minority stakes in its energy companies to raise funds to cover
its budget deficit and attract investors.  The eastern European country, which sold a 15 percent stake
in natural-gas grid operator Transgaz SA in April, plans to sell
a further stake in natural-gas producer Romgaz SA by the end of
November, Dumitrascu said today. It may raise as much as 220
million euros ($298 million) from the Romgaz sale on the
Bucharest Stock Exchange and the remainder to about 600 million
euros from shares wrapped up in global depositary receipts sold
on the London Stock Exchange, he said.  Nuclear Expansion  Romania is one of the few countries in Europe, along with
the Czech Republic, that still plan to continue nuclear power
expansion. Nuclearelectrica holds the majority stake in a
planned project to build two new nuclear reactors at its
Cernavoda plant near the Black Sea. The project was abandoned by
 GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,  RWE AG (RWE)  and Iberdrola SA in 2011.  The government plans to sell 10 percent of shares in
Nuclearelectrica’s IPO to small investors, 5 percent to large
investors and 85 percent to institutions, according to the sale
prospectus.  “Because the tranche for small investors is six times
oversubscribed already and this is the first IPO in five years
and external environment is favorable, my estimates are that the
sale will be successful,” Dumitru Beze, chairman of the
Romanian Capital Market Investors’ Association, said in
Bucharest today. “This will pave the way for the next listings
and I’m sure we will next see the 500 million-euro offer of
Romgaz this year.”  Romanian brokerages Swiss Capital SA and BT Securities SA
are managing the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  