-- Rubber Climbs to 1-Week High as Fed Maintains Economic Stimulus
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-09-19T01:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/rubber-climbs-to-1-week-high-as-fed-maintains-economic-stimulus.html
Rubber climbed for a third day to
the highest level in more than a week after the  Federal Reserve 
said it will maintain monthly bond purchases to stimulate growth,
boosting demand outlook for the commodity used in tires.  The contract for February delivery on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange jumped as much as 3.3 percent to 287 yen a kilogram
($2,922 a metric ton), the highest level for a most-active
contract since Sept. 9. Futures traded at 286.1 yen at 10:25
a.m., paring losses to 5.4 percent this year.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said it wants to see more
evidence that improvement in the  U.S. economy  will be sustained
before adjusting the pace of its $85 billion in monthly
purchases of Treasury and mortgage debt. The decision boosted
oil in  New York , raising the appeal of natural rubber as an
alternative to synthetic products.  “Investor appetite for the commodity increased as the Fed
maintained monetary stimulus,” said Hideshi Matsunaga, an
analyst at broker ACE Koeki Co. in Tokyo.  Rubber was also supported by speculation that farmer
protests in Thailand may disrupt shipments from the world’s
largest producer and exporter, he said.  Farmers blocked a road in the southern Thai province of
Nakhon Sri Thammarat after a clash on Sept. 16 in which 76
police officers were injured and eight cars burnt, Interior
Minister Charupong Ruangsuwan said yesterday.  Thai rubber  free-on-board was unchanged at 82.70 baht ($2.66) a kilogram, the
Rubber Research Institute of Thailand said yesterday.  The Shanghai Futures Exchange is closed today and tomorrow
for holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  