-- Ruble Has Longest Rally to Dollar as Fed Refrains From Tapering
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-09-19T15:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ruble-poised-for-record-rally-as-fed-refrains-from-tapering.html
The ruble had a record streak of
gains against the dollar after the U.S. Federal Reserve
unexpectedly refrained from cutting stimulus, spurring investor
appetite for high-yielding, emerging-market assets.  The ruble advanced for a 10th consecutive day, appreciating
0.4 percent against the dollar to 31.6865 by 6 p.m. in Moscow
when the central bank stops its open market transactions. That’s
the strongest level for the currency since May, when Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke stoked speculation the central bank’s
bond-buying program would be pared, triggering a rout in
developing-nation currencies. The yield on 10-year ruble bonds
fell 24 basis points to 7.14 percent, the lowest since May 29.  The Federal Open Market Committee said it wants more
evidence of an economic recovery before paring its $85 billion-a-month bond buying program. A group of 20 of the most-traded
emerging-market currencies lost 7.4 percent between May and
August, the most in two years. It rose 0.7 percent today.  “I haven’t seen such a long move for a while,” Artem Roschin, a foreign-exchange dealer at OOO KB Aljba Alliance bank
in Moscow, said by phone. “Given how deep the ruble has dropped
before that, it’s no surprise.”  The ruble earlier strengthened to 31.5075 against the
dollar, breaching its 200-day moving average of 31.5534, a test
for some traders of whether the run of strength has momentum to
continue.  Support Level  “The ruble is overbought against the dollar, and there is
an important support level in the face of the 200-day moving
average,” Sergey Fishgoyt, a foreign exchange trader at OAO
Otkritie Bank in Moscow, said by phone.  The ruble would need to end the week “substantially
stronger” than the moving average for technical indicators to
justify the rally continuing, Fishgoyt said.  The ruble lost 6.5 percent from May 22 to the start of the
current rally against the dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The Russian currency advanced 0.1 percent against the euro
to 42.9375 today and gained 0.3 percent to 36.7448 against the
central bank’s target basket of dollars and euros, the strongest
since June 17.  Oil, Russia’s main export earner, fell 0.9 percent to
$109.63 per barrel in  London , paring yesterday’s 2.2 percent
advance.  The Finance Ministry sold 30 billion rubles ($950 million)
of OFZ bonds on Sept. 18, its largest placement of local debt in
three months. The ministry sold 2028 notes at an average yield
of 7.81 percent, one basis point off the top end of guidance and
the first time since April that it sold all the 15-year debt
offered.  ‘New Money’  “The bonds have been rising for the last couple of
weeks,” Evgeny Shilenkov, head of trading at Veles Capital in
Moscow, said by phone. “The vector has changed, money started
flowing back in. This all culminated in yesterday’s Fed
statement.”  The ministry also placed 10-year bonds at an average yield
of 7.47 percent yesterday, compared with guidance of 7.45
percent to 7.50 percent.  The volume of trading in 10-year notes on the Moscow
Exchange was 9.4 billion rubles at face value, almost four times
the three-month average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. “We
saw purchases along the curve,” Shilenkov said. “Foreigners
were buying, some short covering, but there was some new money
as well.”  Emerging-market funds “have been running high cash
positions and we see a good chance they will be forced to add
risk as the market rallies,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by
Rashique Rahman said in an e-mailed note.  Tax Period  Russian companies will pay about 1.12 trillion ruble of tax
in the last two weeks of September with the largest payment of
370 billion rubles for mineral extraction levies due Sept. 25,
according to VTB Capital.  “If exporters were holding back some of their revenue,
they will take advantage of this opportunity to sell it all
down,” KB Aljba’s Roschin said.  The ruble has almost priced in the capital flows the Fed’s
continued easing may entail,Fishgoyt said. “We see another one
percent gain for the ruble at best. After that, we go long on
the basket against the ruble.”  Russian consumer spending slowed more than economists
estimated in August and investments fell the most since 2010 as
the world’s biggest energy exporter remains mired in its
steepest economic slowdown since 2009, Federal Statistics
Service data showed yesterday.  Russia ’s real GDP growth may have slowed to 1.7 percent in
August from 2.1 percent in July, Alexander Morozov, chief
economist for Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States
at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  “The economy is stagnating,” Otkritie’s Fishgoyt said.
“The numbers are weak from the macro point of view, while the
ruble is overbought in terms of technicals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  