-- Rupiah Surges Most Since May 2012, Stocks Jump After Fed Meeting
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-09-19T03:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/rupiah-surges-most-since-may-2012-after-fed-refrains-from-taper.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah surged the most
in 15 months, stocks jumped and government bonds gained after
the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from reducing
stimulus that has spurred inflows to  emerging markets .  The currency rose 1.7 percent to 11,281 per dollar as of
10:03 a.m. in Jakarta, the biggest advance since May 30, 2012,
prices from local banks show. In the offshore market, the one-month non-deliverable forwards gained 1.2 percent to 11,065. The
contracts were 2 percent stronger than the spot rate after
trading 2.8 percent weaker on average in the past month.  The Fed needs more evidence of improvement in the world’s
largest economy and is concerned a rapid increase in  interest
rates  may curb growth, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
Washington yesterday. Economists had expected the U.S. central
bank to reduce its monthly purchases of Treasuries by $5 billion,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey . The
Jakarta Composite index of shares rose 4.5 percent, the most
since October 2011.  “Everything is reacting to the overnight news,” said
Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY)  in Singapore. “The spot rate will eventually
stabilize and narrow the spread. Sentiment has shifted so it’s
now cheaper to hedge against the rupiah.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, rose 22 basis points
to 18.03 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A  fixing  used
to settle the rupiah forwards was set at 11,218 per dollar
yesterday, according to the Association of Banks in Singapore.  ‘Quite Happy’  Bank Indonesia  is “quite happy” with the current rupiah
level and doesn’t want it “too strong,” spokesman Peter Jacobs
said in interview with Bloomberg TV Indonesia today. The central
bank has raised borrowing costs by 1.5 percentage points to 7.25
percent since the middle of June in an attempt to rein in the
current-account deficit, which reached a record $9.8 billion in
the second quarter.  The Fed’s decision “will remove some pressure on the
rupiah,” said Priyo Santoso, chief investment officer at PT
Mandiri Manajemen Investasi in Jakarta. “This provides some
time for the government to take care of economic conditions and
push for structural reform.”  Property and exchange-rate sensitive stocks like retailer
 PT Mitra Adiperkasa (MAPI)  should benefit, Santoso said. Shares of
Mitra Adiperkasa rose 5.2 percent,  PT Alam Sutera Realty (ASRI)  jumped
17 percent while PT Bumi Serpong Damai, a real-estate developer,
advanced 16 percent.  The yield on the government’s 5.625 percent bonds due May
2023 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.26
percent, according to prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  