-- RWE to Cut Dividend in Face of Shrinking Power Generation
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-09-20T12:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/rwe-to-cut-dividend-in-face-of-shrinking-power-generation-income.html
RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest
utility, reduced  dividend  payments after the country’s shift to
renewable power curbed profit from gas- and coal-fired plants.
The shares fell.  RWE will pay 1 euro ($1.35) on each common and preferred
share at the 2014 annual meeting, half of what it paid in 2013,
it said in a statement yesterday. RWE plans to cut the portion
of recurrent net income earmarked for dividends to 40 percent to
50 percent from a previous target of 50 percent to 60 percent.  “Given RWE’s dividend policy in the past, we need to
assume the 1 euro is to be kept in coming years,” said Ingo
Becker, an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux who recommends selling
the shares. At 1 euro, a 40 percent to 50 percent payout would
imply recurrent net income of 1.2 billion euros to 1.5 billion
euros next year, he said. That’s less than the 1.74 billion-euro
average estimate of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  RWE is cutting the dividend “in light of the deterioration
in the earnings prospects of the conventional electricity
generation business,” the Essen-based company said yesterday.  The  shares  sank as much as 4.6 percent in  Frankfurt , the
biggest intraday slump in five weeks, and were down 4.4 percent
at 24.575 euros as of 2:08 p.m. local time. Trading volumes were
already twice the three-month daily average. Larger German
competitor EON SE fell 1.3 percent to 13.37 euros.  Profit Hurt  Weak European electricity demand and increased output of
alternative energy has dragged down power prices, narrowing
margins at gas and coal-fired plants. RWE said in August it will
shut 3,100 megawatts of capacity in Germany and the Netherlands,
about 7 percent of its total in northern  Europe , after operating
profit for conventional power generation fell 62 percent to 690
million euros in the first six months of the year.  The company’s dividend decision also hurts municipal
shareholders. Dortmunder Stadtwerke AG, which says it holds 3.7
percent of RWE, will probably receive about 19.5 million euros
less for 2013 than last year, Chief Executive Officer Guntram
Pehlke said today in an e-mailed statement. He called for
changes to the “wrong-headed energy-market policies of the
federal government” after German elections on Sept. 22.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s order to close all nuclear
reactors by 2022 following  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster has led
RWE and EON to reduce costs and sell assets.  Earnings Outlook  RWE’s “balance sheet remains overly stretched,” even with
the dividend cut, analysts at UBS AG said.  The utility has forecast 2013 operating profit of about 5.9
billion euros and recurrent net income, the measure used to
calculate the dividend, of about 2.4 billion euros. Based on
that profit measure, a 1-euro payout represents a payout ratio
of 26 percent.  RWE’s decision “is driven by a cautious outlook on
thermal-power profits and political-intervention risks,”
Bloomberg Industries said today. Utilities with a high
proportion of thermal-power generation, including EON, may also
choose to review their dividend policies, it said.  RWE shares have fallen 22 percent this year, compared with
a 14 percent gain in  Germany ’s benchmark DAX Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  