-- Home Sales Climb as Americans Rush to Lock in Rates: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-09-19T20:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-unexpectedly-climb-to-six-year-high.html
Sales of previously owned U.S.
homes unexpectedly rose in August to the highest level in more
than six years as buyers rushed to lock in  interest rates  before
they increased further.  Purchases climbed 1.7 percent to a  5.48 million  annual
rate, the most since February 2007, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in Washington. The  median
forecast  of 79 economists in a Bloomberg survey called for 5.25
million. Other figures showed Philadelphia-area manufacturing
expanded at the strongest pace since March 2011.  The housing data reflect transactions begun in June or
July, when buyers were trying to get loans at  mortgage rates 
near record lows. The Realtors’ chief economist said sales will
probably cool, which combined with figures showing a slump in
new-home demand and weaker-than-projected construction explains
why the Federal Reserve yesterday decided to maintain stimulus.  “We’ll continue to see increases in home sales and prices,
though not as fast as in August,” said  Gus Faucher , a senior
economist in Pittsburgh at PNC Financial Services Group, which
is the best forecaster of existing-home sales over the past two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The Fed’s
decision to hold off on tapering is understandable. We’ll see
stronger economic growth toward the end of the year.”  Stocks fell a day after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed to a record on the Fed’s decision to refrain from
cutting stimulus. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.2 percent to 1,722.34 at
the close in  New York .  Factory Pickup  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic 
index jumped to 22.3 this month from 9.3 in August. Readings
greater than zero signal growth in the area that covers eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware . Measures of
orders, sales and employment increased, while a gauge of the
six-month outlook was the strongest in a decade.  The report indicates “a significant acceleration in
manufacturing activity after the stutters in recent months,”
 Millan Mulraine , director of U.S. rates research at TD
Securities USA Inc. in New York, said in a note to clients.
There’s “a meaningful uptick in optimism among this segment of
the business community about the outlook for the economic
recovery.”  Economists’ estimates of existing-home sales in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from 4.95 million to 5.41 million.  The median selling price of an existing home increased 14.7
percent from a year ago to $212,100, today’s report showed. That
was the biggest gain since October 2005.  ‘Last Hurrah’  Lawrence Yun , chief economist at the Realtors group, said
the surge in sales in August was probably the “last hurrah”
for the next year to 18 months as higher prices and the increase
in  mortgage rates  hurts affordability for some buyers.  Activity at lockboxes, which contain the keys that real-estate agents use to show properties to prospective buyers,
showed “some significant change in direction” in recent weeks,
indicating sales will probably slow, Yun said at a news
conference as the data were released.  “Rising mortgage rates hurried some people into making the
decision” to close on a deal, he said, which means demand will
cool in coming months.  The number of previously owned homes on the market was 2.25
million at the end of August, the fewest for that month since
2002. At the current sales pace, it would take 4.9 months to
sell those houses compared with 5 months at the end of July.  Housing Recovery  Existing-home sales, tabulated when a contract closes, are
recovering from a 13-year low of 4.11 million reached in 2008.
Annual purchases peaked at a record 7.08 million in 2005.  Fed policy makers yesterday maintained record accommodation
as rising borrowing costs showed signs of slowing the expansion.
That spurred the biggest rally in Treasuries in almost two
years. The drop in bond yields may help hold down mortgage
rates, which have jumped more than a percentage point since the
end of April.  “The Committee decided to await more evidence that
progress will be sustained before adjusting the pace of its
purchases,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a
statement after its two-day meeting. While “downside risks” to
the outlook have diminished, “the tightening of financial
conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow
the pace of improvement.”  The rate on 30-year home loans averaged  4.50 percent  in the
week ended today, close to the highest level since July 2011,
according to data from McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac . The
rate, which had been as low as 3.81 percent at the end of May,
has been rising since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that month
indicated the central bank may slow asset purchases.  Economic Sentiment  Higher borrowing costs may explain why households are
losing confidence about the future. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index showed views of the  economic outlook  slumped in
September to the weakest level in a year. The gap between
positive and negative expectations widened to minus 9, the worst
since August 2012, from minus 5 in the prior two months. The
weekly confidence measure rose to a one-month high of minus 29.4
from minus 32.1.  The jump in mortgage costs is unlikely to halt the nation’s
housing recovery,  Red Bank , New Jersey-based  Hovnanian
Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  said. The company reported a profit for its
fiscal third quarter as net contracts climbed 1.8 percent and
the contract backlog, an indication of future sales, jumped 18
percent to 2,893 homes.  The company is confident any hesitancy from its customers
caused by the jump in borrowing costs “will be a temporary bump
in the road to housing recovery,” Chief Executive Officer  Ara
Hovnanian  said on a Sept. 9 conference call with analysts.  Rate Impact  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , based in  Bloomfield Hills ,  Michigan ,
expects the run-up in borrowing costs will vary across consumer
segments, James Zeumer, head of  investor relations , said on a
Sept. 10 teleconference. For first-time buyers, a half-percentage-point rise in interest rates means “there will be
some of them that will be out of the game,” he said, while the
move-up buyers “have a little bit more flexibility.”  Another report from the Labor Department today showed
jobless claims rose less than forecast last week as two states
began working through a backlog of applications that were caused
by computer-system changeovers.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  climbed by 15,000 to
309,000 in the week ended Sept. 14 from a revised 294,000 in the
prior period, a Labor Department report showed today in
Washington. The median forecast of 53 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for an increase to 330,000. A Labor Department
spokesman said it could be a week or two before the state
employment agencies are able to catch up on applications.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  