-- Schaeffler Owners Holding Talks on Company’s Leadership
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-09-19T15:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/schaeffler-owners-holding-talks-on-company-s-leadership.html
The owners of Schaeffler AG, the
world’s second-largest maker of bearings, are holding
discussions about the future leadership of the company.  “Talks about such topics are for good reasons strictly
confidential,” Maria-Elisabeth Schaeffler and her son Georg
said in a letter to employees dated today obtained by  Bloomberg
News . “We will inform you more in due time.”  The Schaefflers plan to name Klaus Deller, a management
board member at Munich-based Knorr-Bremse AG, as a successor for
Chief Executive Officer Juergen Geissinger, Manager Magazin
reported earlier today. The contract has not yet been signed,
and the Schaeffler supervisory board still needs to approve it,
the German monthly magazine said.  Geissinger has led the company, which is also the biggest
shareholder in  Continental AG (CON) , since 1998. His contract expires
at the end of 2014, Schaeffler spokesman Marcus Brans said,
declining to comment on the report.  Geissinger came under pressure after spearheading a hostile
takeover bid for Continental in late 2008. The offer, which was
made just before financial markets collapsed, was accepted by
more investors than expected, burdening Schaeffler with debt and
nearly leading to the company’s collapse.  Since then, Schaeffler has been working to lower its debt
load and hired former Dresdner Bank executive Klaus Rosenfeld as
chief financial officer in 2009 to help with the effort.  Continental Sales  To raise cash, the manufacturer has reduced its holding in
Continental from more than 90 percent to 46 percent. The latest
move was carried out this week, when Schaeffler and its holding
company Schaeffler Verwaltungs GmbH sold a 4 percent stake for
about 950 million euros ($1.29 billion), helping to cut debt to
9 billion euros. The company has also sold bonds to help
refinance the loans from the 2009 deal.  Moody’s today upgraded Schaeffler’s debt one level to Ba3,
the third-highest non-investment grade. The weaker link with
Schaeffler prompted the rating company to boost Continental to
Baa3, the lowest investment ranking.  Schaeffler, which makes roller bearings, lowered its 2013
sales forecast last month on weaker demand for industrial
components. It now expects revenue to grow by 1 percent to 2
percent, down from a previous estimate of 4 percent growth.  Even with the lower growth, the company stuck to a target
for earnings before interest and taxes to be the equivalent of
about 13 percent of sales for the full year. Schaeffler has
delivered Ebit margins of between 12.7 percent and 15.9 percent
between 2010 and 2012.  ‘Important Task’  “As owners, a leadership dedicated to the future of the
company is among our most important tasks,” Maria-Elisabeth and
Georg said in the letter. “The interest of the company and of
its employees stands above the interest of individuals.”  In the letter, the Schaeffler owners denied speculation
about a possible reverse takeover of Schaeffler by Continental,
saying “this rumor is false and without any factual basis.”  Deller is head of commercial vehicle systems at brake
manufacturer Knorr-Bremse, a family-owned company with sales of
4.3 billion euros in 2012 and more than 19,000 employees.  Knorr-Bremse has no knowledge that Deller will leave the
company, Eva Seifert, a Knorr-Bremse spokeswoman, said by phone.
Deller’s contract runs through April 30, 2015, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  