-- Schaeuble Seen Keeping Finance Post Even in SPD Coalition
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-09-19T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/schaeuble-seen-keeping-finance-post-even-in-spd-coalition.html
Wolfgang Schaeuble may hold on to
his post as finance chief in German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
third-term cabinet even if the election in two days lands her
with a new coalition partner.  Earning Merkel’s confidence through the upheavals of her
second term puts Schaeuble in pole position when haggling for
government posts ensues after Sept. 22. Polls suggest Merkel’s
Free Democratic ally will struggle to remain in government let
alone be in a position to demand plum jobs; the opposition
 Social Democrats ’ finance expert and chancellor candidate,  Peer Steinbrueck , refuses to serve under Merkel.  “The most likely scenario is that Schaeuble remains
finance minister,” Oskar Niedermayer, a politics professor at
Berlin’s Free University, said in a telephone interview. “If
Schaeuble wants the post again, Merkel won’t deny it to him.”  Working from his  ministry  on Berlin’s Wilhelmstrasse -- the
former Nazi-era Air Ministry and post-World War II Soviet
military administration headquarters -- Schaeuble has been at
the center of crisis-fighting since the beginning of Merkel’s
second term in 2009: from combating the deepest recession in
living memory to the euro region’s financial emergency.  Merkel’s most senior minister, his portfolio eclipses all
other government departments save the Chancellery itself, making
the Finance Ministry the prize in coalition deliberations. It is
one that Schaeuble has claimed as his own within the ranks of
his Christian Democratic Union party.  ‘Keep Him’  “ Wolfgang Schaeuble  is an excellent finance minister,”
Ralph Brinkhaus, a CDU member of the lower house Finance
Committee, said in an interview. “We all very much want to keep
him in the post.”  A wheelchair user who turned 71 on Sept. 18, Schaeuble has
been partially paralyzed since being shot by a deranged
assailant at a campaign rally in 1990. His health became an
issue for Merkel in 2010, when he was forced to miss several
crisis meetings after being repeatedly hospitalized.  While Merkel leapfrogged Schaeuble to the CDU party
leadership during a funding scandal that brought down  Helmut Kohl , she twice declined her minister’s offer to make way during
his ill health in 2010. Merkel said that she’d given him the job
because of his “wealth of experience” and because she trusted
him, he told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung.  ‘Hungry’ Schaeuble  Schaeuble now is “in good health and hungry” to remain in
his post for another four years,  Volker Kauder , the CDU
parliamentary caucus leader, said in an Aug. 13 interview. The
minister spoke at more than 30 campaign rallies, including four
events in one day.  He hasn’t always been this popular in the CDU. He was
forced out as party chairman in a bribery scandal a decade after
leading talks that led to German reunification.  More recently, his austerity demands at the height of the
euro crisis prompted Greek President Karolos Papoulias to remind
him the country’s resistance against the Nazis.  While polls show Merkel is headed toward victory, voter
surveys leave in doubt whether her governing partner will remain
the Free Democrats -- her preferred option -- or switch back to
the Social Democrats, with whom she was forced to form a
coalition in her first term from 2005 to 2009.  Steinbrueck, her finance minister from those days,
understands the importance of the post, having stood with Merkel
to guarantee German  bank deposits  on Oct. 5, 2008, during the
financial crisis. Yet he has said he won’t serve in another
coalition comprising the two traditional rivals.  Diminished Influence  What’s more, in any grand coalition re-run the SPD would be
in a weaker bargaining position than eight years ago. In 2005,
Merkel defeated SPD Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  by just one
percentage point, resulting in an equal distribution of cabinet
posts. Now, the SPD led by  Sigmar Gabriel , her then-environment
minister, is polling 25 to 28 percent compared with 38 to 40
percent for her bloc.  It’s even questionable whether the SPD would seek the post,
the government body that has to supervise adherence to  Germany ’s
constitutional debt limit and control ministries’ spending,
according to Niedermayer. Nobody in the SPD leadership wants
finance at any cost, he said.  The SPD may prefer to claim the Foreign Ministry, now run
by Free Democrat  Guido Westerwelle , and the Labor Ministry, the
department with the largest budget, where the Social Democrats
could enforce the party’s “core issues,”  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London , said by phone.  SPD Possibilities  A grand coalition with the Social Democrats might mean SPD
Chairman Gabriel as vice chancellor, though he wouldn’t “bring
anything to the table as finance minister,” said Juergen Falter, a professor of political science at Mainz university.  “I’m not sure that the SPD is even casting an eye on the
post of finance minister,” Falter said in an interview.  Schmieding said two potential SPD finance ministers are
European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen and
Hamburg Mayor Olaf Scholz.  “If the SPD were to take over the Finance Ministry, Joerg
Asmussen or Olaf Scholz would be two influential people who
could head it,” Schmieding said. Asmussen “would be an ideal
candidate because he embodies the grand coalition.”  Asmussen has worked at the  Finance Ministry  in various
functions under CDU-led and SPD-led governments. Scholz, labor
minister in Merkel’s first-term government, is a “pragmatic,
no-nonsense politician who would probably be well received
internationally,” Schmieding said.  Another factor is the  Christian Social Union , the Bavarian
sister party to Merkel’s CDU. After winning an absolute majority
at state elections on Sept. 15, the CSU may have a stronger hand
at the negotiating table.  Theo Waigel, serving under Kohl from 1989 to 1998, was the
last CSU minister in that position. Among the possible CSU
candidates to lead the ministry are Markus Soeder, the current
finance minister in Bavaria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  