-- Senate Budget Chief Sees Republican Yield on Debt Lifting
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-09-20T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/senate-budget-chief-sees-republican-yield-on-debt-lifting.html
Republicans seeking to curb
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law probably will
capitulate to demands from Democrats to enact a “clean” bill
raising the nation’s debt ceiling, the Senate’s top Democratic
budget writer said.  “I see no deals on the debt ceiling,” Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington state, who leads the Budget Committee, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  “The downside of not paying our bills is our credit-rating
tanks,” Murray said. “That affects every family, every
business, every community. It affects Main Street. It affects
 Wall Street .”  Murray said she also expects Republicans to relent on their
demands for stripping spending from Obama’s health plan as part
of action on a spending bill needed to keep the government
running after Sept. 30.  Republicans led by House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  have
clashed with Obama over the  debt  ceiling, with the lawmakers
demanding changes to spending programs as a condition of raising
the $16.7 trillion federal borrowing limit.  Republicans “will come together with some mishmash policy
of everything in the bag they’ve ever promised” to anti-tax Tea
Party activists, though “they haven’t been able to get the
votes for anything yet,” said Murray, 62, fourth-ranking
Democrat in the Senate’s leadership.  Federal Reserve  As  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  nears the end
of his second term in January, Murray said there’s “a very good
chance” that Obama will nominate Fed vice chairman  Janet Yellen 
to succeed him.  Yellen is “very experienced” and “certainly understands
that we need to create jobs, the kind of economic climate that
brings stability to families in my home state and across the
country,” Murray said.  Yellen also would be a “historic choice,” as the first
woman to lead the U.S. central bank, Murray said.  Yellen became the front-runner to lead the Fed after  Larry Summers  withdrew from consideration Sept. 15 amid opposition
from some Democratic senators. Murray was among the one-third of
the 54-member Senate Democratic caucus who signed a July letter
urging Obama to appoint Yellen as Bernanke’s successor.  The Senate will have to confirm Obama’s nominee.  Republicans led by Boehner have said they won’t negotiate
with Obama over raising the debt ceiling. The House will act on
a debt-ceiling measure that would also reduce the deficit,
promote growth and delay Obama’s health-care law by one year,
Boehner said at a press conference yesterday.  Reduce Deficit  “If you’re going to raise the debt ceiling, you should
work to reduce the  deficit  and grow the economy at the same
time,” Boehner said.  The House plans to vote today on the stopgap spending bill
that would finance federal government operations through Dec. 15
while denying money for the president’s health-care overhaul.
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has called that plan “dead on
arrival.”  Obama would veto the bill because the legislation
“advances a narrow ideological agenda that threatens our
economy,” the president’s Office of Management and Budget said
yesterday in a statement of administration policy.  The Democratic-run Senate won’t pass any bill curbing
Obama’s top domestic policy achievement, Murray said.  ‘Helping Millions’  Republicans are demanding to repeal a health-care law
“that is already in place, that’s been upheld by the  Supreme
Court  and is helping millions of Americans,” she said.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told Congress in a letter
last month that lawmakers need to raise the borrowing limit by
mid-October to remove the threat of a government default.  A government shutdown and a failure to raise the debt limit
“could have very serious consequences for the financial markets
and for the economy,” Bernanke said Sept. 18 as he announced
that the  Federal Open Market Committee  wouldn’t reduce the $85
billion pace of its monthly securities buying.  Bernanke “sees what I see right now,” Murray said, that
the economy “is starting to get stable again, but there’s a lot
of uncertainty around it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  