-- Sharpe Ratio Shows Rupiah Is Worst Carry Trade Bet: Asean Credit
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-09-20T05:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/sharpe-ratio-shows-rupiah-is-worst-carry-trade-bet-asean-credit.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah is delivering
the developing world’s worst carry trade returns this month and
Barclays Plc says volatility won’t end just because the U.S.
Federal Reserve is maintaining stimulus.  The currency’s Sharpe ratio, which measures returns
adjusted for price fluctuations, was 0.18, the least among 23
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg. That compares with 13 for
the Philippine peso and the Thai baht’s 12, placing them in the
top 10. One-month implied volatility in the rupiah almost
tripled to 17 percent this year, at least double the readings
for  Thailand  and the Philippines.  The rupiah, Southeast  Asia ’s worst-performing currency this
quarter, remains vulnerable to capital outflows because of its
record current-account deficit and prospects the Fed will pare
stimulus later this year, according to Barclays Plc. Amundi says
the Philippines,  Malaysia  and Thailand are the first countries
investors should look at because their economic fundamentals are
better than Indonesia.  “In the near term, the delay on the tapering will support
risk assets, with Indonesia also benefitting,”  Prakriti Sofat ,
a Singapore-based economist at Barclays, said in an interview
yesterday. “However, when the dust settles the uncertainty on
when the Fed is finally going to start tapering will mean
volatility will still remain in the markets.”  Bernanke Reaction  Measures of implied price swings in currencies fell across
Asia yesterday after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  kept the
monthly bond-buying program at $85 billion. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg were predicting a cut of about $5 billion. A signal
from Bernanke in May that the central bank was considering
paring asset purchases triggered a selloff in emerging markets.  While the rupiah’s one-month volatility gauge dropped 1.71
percentage basis points this week, it’s still higher than the
5.75 percent at the end of last year. The baht measure fell 32
basis points during the five days to 7.68 percent, while the
peso’s equivalent declined 69 to 6.03 percent. The  Singapore
dollar ’s reading slid 85 to 5.6 percent, while the ringgit’s
climbed 105 to 10.5 percent.  “As the Fed will still reduce stimulus, investors will
have to be more selective in their asset allocations,”  Tsutomu Soma , the manager of the fixed-income business unit at Rakuten
Securities Inc. in  Tokyo , said in an interview yesterday.
“Indonesia especially, is not providing enough returns against
the volatility, making it hard to attract inflows.”  More Complacent  The Sharpe ratio for the rupiah is the worst in the
developing world this month ahead of 3.8 for the Romanian leu
and 6.5 for the Czech koruna. In Southeast Asia, the peso and
baht are giving the best return figures. The  Singapore  dollar is
providing 7.8 and the ringgit 6.8.  The ratio, named after Nobel laureate and Stanford
University professor  William Sharpe , is a measure of the excess
return per unit of risk in holding a currency position. This is
used to determine how well an investor is compensated, with a
higher ratio translating to more of a reward.  Southeast Asia ’s most-active currencies rallied yesterday,
led by the ringgit’s 2.7 percent advance and the rupiah’s 1.7
percent gain. The peso climbed 1.1 percent, the baht rose 2.2
percent and Singapore’s dollar was little changed.  The risk from the Fed averting stimulus paring is that
policy makers in current-account deficit countries such as
Indonesia may become more complacent about undertaking further
reforms and interest-rate increases to improve their financial
positions, according to Barclays.  HSBC Favors  HSBC Holdings Plc is starting to favor the rupiah after
being cautious toward the currency for almost two years.
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  increased subsidized fuel
prices in June for the first time since 2008 to help narrow the
current-account deficit, while the central bank raised its
benchmark  reference rate  by a total of 150 basis points, or 1.5
percentage points, since June this year to 7.25 percent.  “If foreign-exchange liquidity improves for the rupiah,
then we would feel more confident that the currency is moving
onto a better footing given recent monetary tightening and firm
policy action to reform fuel prices,” HSBC analysts led by Hong
Kong-based  Paul Mackel  wrote in a report yesterday.  Indonesia reported a shortfall in its broadest measure of
trade of $9.8 billion in the second quarter, the largest in data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1989. Malaysia’s surplus
shrank to 2.6 billion ringgit ($826 million), the closest the
country’s come to a deficit since at least 1999. Thailand posted
its fourth monthly deficit in June at $709 million.  Investment Flows  The Philippines still enjoys a surplus. The balance in the
broadest measure of trade climbed to $2.5 billion last quarter
from $2.3 billion in the same period a year earlier, Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas Director Rosabel Guerrero said in a media
briefing in  Manila  today.  The Fed’s decision has given a much more positive tone to
“risky” assets, Philippe Jauer, chief investment officer for
global fixed income and currencies in Singapore at Amundi, which
oversees about $1 trillion, said in an e-mail interview
yesterday.  Investors should look beyond the current accounts of
Southeast Asian nations and focus more on international
investment that would support further economic growth, Ken Hirose, a fixed-income portfolio manager in Singapore at Nikko
Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $156 billion, said in a
Sept. 17 interview.  Singapore and Malaysia have some of the highest ratios of
foreign direct investment to gross domestic product in the
region at 20.6 percent and 4.2 percent, according to the latest
available data from the  World Bank . In Thailand, the proportion
is 2.4 percent,  Vietnam  is 6 percent, the Philippines 1.1
percent and Indonesia 2.3 percent.  “The current-account deficit tends to be more cyclical,”
Hirose said. “FDIs into these key nations are likely to be more
sustainable and grow further from here, which is a sticky money
inflow. Thailand and Malaysia are in a better situation in that
sense. The Philippines is still behind the curve.”  Discouraged Investors  The cost to protect Indonesia’s bonds from non-payment
using five-year credit-default swaps dropped 35 basis points to
208 in the last two days and is up two basis points this quarter,
CMA prices show. In Thailand, it fell 18 to 106 and dropped 14
from June 30. Malaysia’s rate declined 21 to 100, compared with
120 at the end of last quarter, and in the Philippines it
slipped 16 to 102.  “Forex volatility discouraged foreign investors from
adding to positions in some Southeast Asian countries,”
Takahide Irimura, Tokyo-based head of emerging-market research
at Kokusai Asset Management Co.,  Japan ’s biggest mutual fund
managing $38 billion, said in an interview yesterday.
“Attention has been paid to current-account balances of each
nation and those who suffer from a widening deficit or whose
surplus has been shrinking saw sharper sell-offs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  