-- Singapore Airlines Plans Indian Carrier With Tata Group
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-20T12:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/singapore-airlines-ties-up-with-tata-to-start-carrier-in-india.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  tied up
with Tata Group, owner of the Jaguar and Land Rover brands, to
start an airline in India, its third attempt to tap the surging
travel demand in the world’s second-most populous nation.  Tata will hold 51 percent of the venture and Singapore Air
the remainder, the airline said in a statement yesterday. The
two companies entered into an initial agreement for a $100
million investment and are seeking government approval to set up
the full-service carrier, to be based in capital New Delhi.  Entering India will enable Singapore Air to get a foothold
in a market where the number of air passengers is forecast to
triple to 452 million by 2020. Asia’s third-largest economy last
year permitted foreign airlines to buy stakes in local airlines,
a move that brought in investments from budget carrier  AirAsia
Bhd. (AIRA)  and Abu Dhabi’s Etihad Airways PJSC.  “This is terrific news for Indian aviation,” said Mark D.
Martin, chief executive officer of Dubai-based Martin Consulting
LLP. “The Tata-SIA venture will provide the much-needed balance
in Indian aviation space between full-service and budget
carriers.”  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government changed laws
last year to allow foreign airlines to buy as much as 49 percent
in local companies, reversing a decade-old ban that had kept out
carriers like Singapore Air from the Indian market.  Five Airlines  AirAsia also chose Tata for its venture in India. Tata Sons
Ltd., the holding company for the group, owns 30 percent in the
new discount carrier, which is awaiting final approvals to start
operations later this year.  Arun Bhatia of Telestra Tradeplace Pvt., who owns 21
percent in AirAsia India, is ready to buy out Tata’s stake in
the budget airline venture as the group announced its second
airline with Singapore Air, ET Now television reported, citing
Bhatia. Bhatia didn’t respond to four calls and two text
messages to his mobile phone. Debasis Ray, a spokesman at Tata
Sons, declined to comment on the ET Now report and said AirAsia
didn’t object to the group forming a full-service airline.  Entering India is not without risks. Airlines have to
confront the region’s highest fuel costs, a depreciating
currency and the lack of adequate infrastructure.  Maran, Mallya  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the carrier that Etihad is
investing in, hasn’t made a group profit for six years.  SpiceJet
Ltd. (SJET) , controlled by billionaire Kalanithi Maran, posted losses
for a second straight year in the period ended March 31. Liquor
baron Vijay Mallya’s  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  grounded its
planes last year after mounting debt and struggling to pay
salaries.  Shares of Singapore Air fell 0.3 percent to S$10.44 at the
close of trading in the city-state. The stock has fallen 2.9
percent this year. Nine of 21  analysts recommend  investors buy
Singapore Air stock, while seven say hold and five sell,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jet Airways shares have slumped 36 percent in Mumbai
trading this year and SpiceJet 50 percent.  India ’s economic growth has helped double airline-passenger
traffic in the country over the past seven years. Five airlines
operate in India’s skies now. The nation’s aviation rules don’t
bar companies from forming two ventures, Civil Aviation Minister
Ajit Singh said yesterday.  ‘High Growth’  “The Indian aviation industry is projected to experience
future high growth rates,” Singapore Air said in the statement.
“The recent Indian government decision to allow foreign
airlines to invest up to 49 percent in Indian carriers provides
an opportunity for SIA to participate directly in one of the
fastest growing and largest aviation markets globally.”  Tata doesn’t see a conflict of interest in partnering with
Singapore Air for a full-service airline and AirAsia for a
budget carrier, Mukund Rajan, a group spokesman, said in a phone
interview. The $100 billion conglomerate has businesses ranging
from automobiles, hotels, steel and software.  The group formerly operated Tata Airlines that later became
state-owned Air India Ltd. In 1932, Tata Airlines began meeting
Imperial Airways’ London-to-Karachi flight and then continued to
Madras, now called Chennai, via Mumbai.  It used a de Havilland Puss Moth monoplane, which had a
cabin instead of an open cockpit. Former Chairman J.R.D. Tata
piloted the inaugural flight, which hauled mail.  Air India  Singapore Air has tried in the past to enter the market. In
1994, the company and Tata formed a venture to start an airline
in India. Policy changes prevented that from starting and in
1998, Mumbai-based Tata dropped its plan to start an airline.  In November 2000, Tata and Singapore Air teamed up again,
to buy 40 percent of state-run carrier Air India that the
government was putting on the block. In September 2001,
Singapore Air decided not to proceed with that plan.  “The Tata-SIA joint venture was long overdue, and should
have started 15 years back,” said  Kapil Kaul , head of the
Indian unit of consultant CAPA Centre for Aviation. “Foreign
direct investment rules are game-changing and we will see a new
era in Indian aviation, subject to government not creating
regulatory challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  