-- South African Reserve Bank Keeps Benchmark Rate Unchanged
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-09-19T16:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/south-african-reserve-bank-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged.html
The South African Reserve Bank kept
its benchmark  interest  rate unchanged for a seventh meeting as a
rebound in the rand allowed policy makers to focus on fostering
growth in  Africa ’s largest economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the repurchase rate at 5
percent in a unanimous decision, Governor Gill Marcus told
reporters today in  Pretoria , matching the forecasts of all 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The rand’s recovery from a four-year low against the dollar
on Aug. 28 has given policy makers room to keep borrowing costs
unchanged even as  inflation  exceeded the bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target band for a second month in August. Marcus said
that breach will probably be temporary, enabling the Reserve
Bank to help foster growth in an economy that’s set to expand
this year at the slowest pace since a 2009 recession.  “We are still firmly in neutral mode in monetary policy,”
Elize Kruger, an economist at KADD Capital in Johannesburg, said
in a phone interview. “I doubt they will move preemptively in
this current cycle because economic growth is still below
potential growth. They are going to have to give the economy
more time to recover before thinking of hiking rates.”  The central bank kept its average inflation forecast for
this year unchanged at 5.9 percent, while raising next year’s
projection to 5.8 percent from 5.5 percent, and predicting 5.4
percent in 2015. Inflation accelerated to 6.4 percent in August
from 6.3 percent in the previous month, in line with the median
estimate of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg survey.  Rand Gains  While the rand slumped 18 percent against the dollar in the
first eight months of the year, pushing up fuel and food prices,
the currency surged 6.8 percent since the start of September,
curbing inflation expectations.  The rand weakened 1 percent to 9.6819 per dollar as of 6:16
p.m. in Johannesburg, compared with 9.6276 before Marcus began
speaking. The yield on 13-year bonds bonds fell 24 basis points
to 7.91 percent.  “A sustained breach of the inflation target is not our
central forecast but the upside risks to the inflation outlook
require careful monitoring,” Marcus said. “The risks to the
inflation outlook from the exchange rate remain elevated and
dependent on its future trend. A sustained depreciation trend
could pose a significant risk.”  Inflation Expectations  The benchmark rate has remained unchanged at the lowest
level in more than 30 years since July 2012 to spur economic
growth. The central bank expects the economy to grow 2 percent
this year, 3.3 percent in 2014 and 3.6 percent in the following
year, the same as it forecast two months ago.  “Manufacturing output is expected to be adversely affected
by protracted strikes, particularly in the motor vehicle
sector,” Marcus said.  The MPC said while there are some signs that the
depreciation of the rand this year is starting to boost producer
prices, the impact of the weaker currency on inflation has been
muted due to low demand in the economy and an inability of
retailers to pass on higher prices to consumers. A 10 percent
fall in the currency usually adds 2 percentage points to the
inflation rate, according to the central bank.  Inflation expectations are little changed, according to a
survey conducted on behalf of the Reserve Bank by the Bureau for
Economic Research. Financial analysts, business executives and
labor union officials predict the inflation rate will average
6.2 percent in 2014, compared with 6.1 percent estimated in the
second quarter, the bureau said in a statement today.  “Should the risks to the medium-term inflation outlook
deteriorate significantly, the MPC will not hesitate to take
appropriate action in order to maintain the integrity of the
inflation-targeting framework and to anchor inflation
expectations at a lower level,” Marcus said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  