-- South African Stocks Surge to Record on Gold: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-09-19T13:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/south-african-stocks-surge-to-record-on-gold-johannesburg-mover.html
South  Africa ’s benchmark stocks
gauge surged to a record as gold- and platinum-mining stocks
jumped on higher prices for the metals following the Federal
Reserve’s surprise decision not to pare back stimulus.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index (JALSH)  rose as much as 2.3
percent, the most since January 2012 on an intraday basis, and
traded 2.2 percent higher at 44,318.34 by 3:02 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The gold-mining  gauge  rallied 8.6 percent, the
most in more than a month, and platinum stocks advanced 6
percent to the highest since Feb. 26.  Commodity prices jumped after the Fed unexpectedly left its
monthly asset purchases unchanged yesterday at $85 billion,
while analysts projected a $5 billion tapering of stimulus. The
spot price of gold added 4.3 percent to $1,366.68 per ounce
since yesterday, the biggest two-day gain since July 22.
Platinum increased 3.4 percent in the period, the most in almost
six weeks.  “There is a broad-based rally going on as markets cheer
the surprise lack of tapering to the Federal Open Market
Committee’s accommodative stance,” Ryan Wibberley, head of
equity dealing for frontier and  emerging markets  at Investec
Asset Management, said by phone from Cape Town. “More stimulus
is good for asset prices, including metal prices.”  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s largest producer of the
metal, increased 12 percent, the most since Aug. 12, to 139.56
rand. The stock is the best performer on the 165-member all-share index today.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  gained 8 percent to
38.03 rand, halting four days of declines.  South Africa has the world’s largest-known reserves of
platinum and chrome and is the sixth-biggest producer of gold.  “The Fed’s decision to wait for more evidence of recovery
before tweaking quantitative easing stokes risk appetite,”
Wibberley said. “This means dollar weakness, gains for
emerging-market assets, gains for global share prices and gains
for commodity prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  