-- SPD May Push ECB Bank-Failure Role in Grand Coalition
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-09-19T15:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/spd-may-push-ecb-bank-failure-role-in-grand-coalition.html
Germany ’s main opposition party,
the  Social Democrats , called for the European Central Bank to
take control of failing euro-area lenders, setting up a showdown
with  Chancellor Angela Merkel .  The SPD, which may find itself in a grand coalition
government with Merkel after the Sept. 22 election, rejects the
chancellor’s preference for having a network of national
regulators handle bank resolution, said the party’s finance
spokesman, Carsten Sieling. The SPD sees no “fundamental
problem” in widening the ECB’s role beyond bank supervision, he
said.  Germany’s upper house of parliament, the Bundesrat, will
vote tomorrow on a resolution calling for the Frankfurt-based
ECB to be vested with the power to shutter banks. The SPD
rejects a European Commission proposal to create a Single
Resolution Mechanism with a common fund for handling failing
lenders. Merkel has also resisted this plan, which gives the
final say on closing banks to the commission in Brussels.  If the commission’s resolution-mechanism plan doesn’t move
forward quickly, the ECB won’t be able to count on cross-border
backstops if it encounters problems at euro-area banks. The ECB
is scheduled to begin supervising lenders in the currency zone
as soon as October 2014, forcing the EU to grapple with who
should decide when to close a bank and who will pay for it.  Vilnius Talks  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said last week
that the commission’s strategy must be overhauled because it’s
on shaky legal ground and could endanger national control of
budgets. In talks with his EU counterparts in Vilnius, the
German was joined by critics from  Sweden  to  Slovakia .  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief who put
forward the proposal, rejected the SPD’s alternative today.  “The central bank can’t be the supervisor and the
resolution authority at the same time,” Barnier told reporters
in  Madrid  through a translator. “And the central bank isn’t
asking to be the resolution authority, either.”  ECB Executive Board member Vitor Constancio said in March
that “bailout of banks is for governments to do.”  Yet separating the ECB’s responsibilities for monetary
policy and bank supervision from an additional authority over
resolution “is not an insuperable challenge,” Sieling said
today by telephone from Bremen. “Chinese walls can work. It’s
not a dream solution, but why accept third-best when you can get
second-best?”  Third Pole  Leading polls released this week show an increased
possibility of a grand coalition of Merkel’s  Christian Democrats 
with the SPD emerging after the election, a prospect that would
potentially create a third pole of conflict over banking union
to add to Merkel’s differences with the commission.  Support for Merkel’s bloc held at 38 percent in an INSA
poll published today, while the SPD rose 1 percentage point to
28 percent. Her Free Democrat allies polled 6 percent, barely
over the 5-percent hurdle set to qualify for parliament.  Some 50 percent of German voters prefer a coalition of
Merkel’s bloc with the SPD, compared with 46 percent who reject
the idea or are indifferent, according to a FGW poll for ZDF
television released on Sept. 13.  Germany’s Greens, also a potential post-election partner
for Merkel, also favor widening the ECB’s role to include powers
of closure over banks.  “If you want independent banking supervision with non-political decision-making, we believe that the  European Central
Bank  should have the right of final decision,” Priska Hinz, the
environment party’s budget spokeswoman, said this week. “We’re
concerned that there would be political deals” if the
commission were given the power to order bank closures, she
said.  Barnier has said the commission isn’t wedded to being chief
decision-maker in the resolution system and would welcome a
discussion of alternatives. The commission put itself forward
for the role because of its reading of the bloc’s treaties, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  