-- Steinbrueck Calls Merkel Failed Leader at German Election Rally
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-09-19T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/steinbrueck-calls-merkel-failed-leader-at-german-election-rally.html
German Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck  accused  Chancellor Angela Merkel  of failing to lead
 Europe ’s largest economy in any firm direction as he began his
closing arguments to voters three days before the election.  Joined by the SPD leadership, including party Chairman
 Sigmar Gabriel  and parliamentary opposition leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier on Berlin’s Alexanderplatz yesterday, Steinbrueck
urged voters to unseat Merkel’s government on Sept. 22.  “It could be gone in three days,” Steinbrueck told a
crowd of several thousand in the German capital, adding that
Merkel has been a listless leader in four years. “Merkel is in
a position to offer a direction, but doesn’t have any direction.
Rather she drives around in circles.”  Polls have shown  a boost for the SPD this month, following
the campaign’s only televised debate on Sept. 1 in which
Steinbrueck offered a spirited defense of the party’s social-justice agenda. Still, the SPD’s only chance to return to
government may be in a so-called grand coalition under Merkel.  The SPD climbed a percentage point to 28 percent, 10 points
behind Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc, according to an
 INSA poll  published today. It was the latest survey to show both
main parties falling short of a majority with their preferred
coalition partners.  Touting the SPD’s program of social justice, including
raising taxes on the wealthy and establishing a nationwide
 minimum wage , Steinbrueck said Merkel has fallen short in
tackling issues such as retirement funding, infrastructure
investment and financing for communities in four years.  Ballot Plea  “Please go vote,” Steinbrueck said in a circus-like tent
assembled in Berlin’s east. The SPD has been assembling a voter-mobilization campaign over the summer, aiming to capture an
estimated 10 million voters who once supported the SPD but have
stayed home in the two past elections.  Throughout the campaign, the SPD has said it only wants to
lead a coalition with the environmental  Green Party , which
dropped three points to 8 percent in the INSA poll, far short of
a majority.  Steinbrueck also took aim at Merkel’s European policy,
saying that the SPD would contrast as a “good neighbor.”  Merkel told supporters on Sept. 18 in Hamburg that she’ll
stand as a bulwark against joint debt in the euro area if she’s
elected to a third term and continue to extract conditions from
indebted nations. She reiterated that message yesterday at a
rally in the Hessian city of Fulda.  “Everybody must do their homework so that we can get
stronger together,” Merkel said at the rally.  Both candidates will make their closing bids over the next
two days, with Steinbrueck winding up the day before the
election in Frankfurt and Merkel rallying voters in Berlin and
then in her voting district, the Baltic city of Stralsund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  