-- Stenson Leads Tour Championship as Woods Stumbles Down Stretch
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-09-20T20:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/stenson-leads-during-first-round-of-golf-s-tour-championship.html
Henrik Stenson holds a five-shot
lead at 9 under par in today’s second round of the Tour
Championship, the final event of the U.S. PGA Tour’s playoffs.  The winner of the 30-player, season-ending tournament at
Atlanta’s East Lake Golf Club receives $1.4 million. A victory
for any player in the top five of the FedEx Cup standings would
secure a $10 million bonus.  Stenson had three birdies through his opening eight holes,
while  Adam Scott , the Masters Tournament winner from  Australia ,
had two bogeys and a birdie over the same stretch to fall to 4
under. He began the day one shot behind Stenson.  Tiger Woods , a two-time winner of the points competition,
played his final five holes today in 5 over par after being 5
under through his first 13. He’s 3 over for the tournament.  “I’m tired,” Woods told reporters before slowly walking
to his car in the players’ parking lot. “It’s just been a long
grind.”  Woods ended his round with a double bogey on the 14th hole,
a bogey on the 16th and a triple bogey on the 17th, where he hit
his tee shot into water on the left side of the fairway.  “My legs were just tired,” he said of that shot. “I
didn’t rotate through the ball and I turned it over.”  Woods’s 3-over-par 73 yesterday was the first time he
failed to make a birdie in a professional round since the start
of the 2010  U.S. Open  and only the seventh time in his
professional career. He birdied the third hole today to end the
streak at 21 holes.  “It was nice to finally make a birdie,” he said.  Last Place  Woods, the points leader coming into the event, is tied for
last place in the tournament as second-round play continues.
He’s 13 shots behind Stenson, the Deutsche Bank Championship
winner from  Sweden . Stenson is second in the standings behind
Woods.  Scott, who won the playoff-opening Barclays event in  New
Jersey  last month, is third in the standings, followed by BMW
Championship winner  Zach Johnson  and  Matt Kuchar , both
Americans.  Scott is tied for second with Roberto Castro and Jordan
Spieth, one shot ahead of a group of seven players, including
2011 PGA Championship winner Keegan Bradley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  