-- Stolen Nigerian Oil Threatens Legitimate Global Trade
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-09-19T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/stolen-nigerian-oil-threatens-legitimate-global-trade.html
Crude oil stolen from  Nigeria  is
reaching global markets, threatening the integrity of the
financial system and legitimate oil trade, according to a report
by Chatham House.  Africa’s biggest oil producer lost at least 100,000 barrels
a day of oil to theft in the first quarter, according to the
report titled “Nigeria’s Criminal Crude: International Options
to Combat the Export of Stolen Oil,” released today by London-based Chatham House.  “This illicit oil is likely to have found ready buyers in
West Africa, the U.S., Europe and several Asian countries,”
authors Christina Katsouris and Aaron Sayne said in the report.
“Stolen Nigerian crude and the profits from it are laundered
around the world, threatening the integrity of financial markets
and the legitimate oil business.”  Oil theft has hampered output from Nigeria, Africa’s
largest oil producer, which depends on crude exports for 80
percent of government revenue and about 95 percent of foreign-currency income. The  Finance Ministry  estimates that about
400,000 barrels of crude are stolen daily.  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , ExxonMobil Corp.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run
joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp. that pump most of the country’s oil.  Crude output fell to 1.81 million barrels a day in March,
the lowest since September 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Oil theft cost Africa’s most populous nation, with
more than 160 million people, $1.23 billion in the first
quarter, according to figures released by state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. on April 17.  Seeking Help  President Goodluck Jonathan is seeking international help
to curb crude theft by approaching countries that receive stolen
crude from Nigeria or where the proceeds are laundered to help
close the loopholes, Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke
said on Feb. 19. Some of the stolen crude is illegally refined
and used locally in the oil-rich Niger River delta, authorities
say.  “Nigeria cannot resolve the problem alone, but it needs to
take the initiative to develop an achievable strategy with its
foreign government partners,”  Chatham House  said in an e-mailed
statement. “Even then, much more intelligence is needed to
connect the very complex issues and range of actors involved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  