-- Suga Sees Japan Needing Abenomics for Tax System to Back Growth
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-09-19T06:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/suga-sees-japan-needing-abenomics-for-tax-system-to-back-growth.html
Japan  must create an ’Abenomics’
for the tax system that would review corporate rates and tax
regulations unique to the country to drive economic growth, the
top government spokesman said in an interview.  Cutting the effective tax rate and bringing forward the
abolition of a temporary levy for earthquake reconstruction, are
among the ideas that will be considered, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga said today at the prime minister’s residence in
 Tokyo .  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe vowed  in June  to make Japan the
easiest place in the world to do business as part of the
’Abenomics’ economic strategy he has promoted since taking
office in December. Japan’s 35.6 percent corporate tax rate is
more than double that of  Singapore .  “We are told by foreigners that Japan’s effective  tax rate 
is high,” Suga said. “In addition, we have various tax
regulations that don’t exist in the rest of the world. The most
important thing is to review these and create an Abenomics tax
system that can support our economic policies.”  Sales Tax  The Nikkei newspaper reported earlier that Abe had
instructed Finance Minister Taro Aso to include a two-step
corporate-tax reduction plan in stimulus measures that will take
effect if a planned sales tax increase goes ahead in April. The
first step would bring forward by a year the abolition of the
2011 earthquake reconstruction levy, which is due to end in
March 2015, the paper said.  Aso has publicly expressed skepticism about cutting Japan’s
main corporate tax rate. Lowering the levy may have a limited
effect because about 70 percent of companies don’t pay corporate
tax, he said on Sept. 13.  Abe has shown no sign of backing down from the plan he
inherited to increase the  sales tax  to 8 percent from the
current 5 percent in April. Some of his advisers have counseled
that increasing the tax would choke the economic recovery. Abe
has said he will make the final decision in early October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  