-- Suzlon Sells Stake in China Unit for Less Than Planned
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-09-19T08:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/suzlon-sells-stake-in-china-unit-for-less-than-planned.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the wind-turbine maker behind  India ’s biggest convertible bond default,
will get less than expected for a stake in its Chinese
manufacturing unit as it seeks to pay down debt.  Poly LongMa Energy (Dalian) Ltd. has made the first payment
of a total $28 million for a 75 percent stake in the Tianjin-based unit, Suzlon said in a statement late yesterday. Suzlon
had expected to divest the whole unit to China Power (Tianjin)
New Energy Development Co. for $60 million last year.  Suzlon is struggling to manage debt racked up in overseas
acquisitions and wants to raise $400 million through 15 asset
sales by March 31. It’s in talks with bondholders after failing
to pay $209 million in convertible notes in October and has
another  $120 million  maturing in July.  The stock has lost 63 percent this year, the second-worst
performer among renewable energy companies on the 95-member
WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation Index. The shares rose
3.8 percent to 6.8 rupees as of 12:56 p.m. in Mumbai trading.  Suzlon didn’t provide a reason for the change in buyer or
the unit’s reduced sale value. Group Chief Financial Officer
Kirti Vagadia told analysts in February that its deal with China
Power ran into delays with a lender to the unit and regulators.  The unit has 600 megawatts of annual capacity to produce
turbine components including nacelles and rotor blades. Under
the new agreement, Suzlon will continue to produce its 1.25-megawatt, 1.5-megawatt and 2.1-megawatt turbines in  China  for
Poly LongMa.  Suzlon previously had planned to exit manufacturing in
China, the world’s largest wind market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  