-- Swiss Stocks Rally to Highest Level Since May After Fed
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-09-19T08:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/swiss-stocks-rally-to-highest-level-since-may-after-fed.html
Swiss stocks  rallied to their
highest level since May after the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly
refrained from slowing the pace of its monthly bond purchases.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  climbed 4 percent for the  best performance  on
the Swiss Market Index. Swatch Group AG, the biggest maker of
Swiss watches, and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner of
the Cartier brand, gained more than 1.5 percent after a report
showed Swiss watch exports rose in August.  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  added 1.5
percent after announcing a plan to increase the productivity of
the world’s major crops by 20 percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  added 1 percent to 8,134.62 at 10:21 a.m. in
Zurich. The broader Swiss Performance Index climbed 0.9 percent
today. The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed
companies was more than double the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed yesterday refrained from reducing its $85 billion
of  monthly asset purchases , saying it needs to see more
indications that the  U.S. economy  is improving sustainably. Of
64 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the decision, 44
 predicted  that the central bank would start slowing its bond
buying after concluding a two-day policy meeting yesterday.  Bernanke reiterated that any decision to slow the pace of
asset purchases would depend on economic data, rather than a
timetable. Policy makers repeated their guidance that the Fed’s
target interest rate will remain low at least as long as
 unemployment  exceeds 6.5 percent, and the outlook for inflation
fails to climb above 2.5 percent.  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said at a press conference in Washington after European markets
closed. “The committee has concern that rapid tightening of
financial conditions in recent months would have the effect of
slowing growth.”  The SMI has gained 5.1 percent so far this month, extending
its rally this year to 19 percent, as central banks pledged to
leave interest rates low for a prolonged period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  