-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; Citigroup Leads Surge in Bond Sales
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-19T22:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/u-s-corporate-swaps-rise-sirius-plans-600-million-bond-sale.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose from a four-month low after the  Federal Reserve  decided to
refrain from cutting stimulus, stoking a $14.9 billion surge of
bond offerings led by  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s $1.75 billion sale.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 69.9 basis points as of 5:14
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates and
falls as it improves.  The index dropped 3.6 basis points yesterday to 69.5, the
lowest level since May 8, after the Fed announced it will
maintain its $85 billion pace of monthly bond purchases that
have bolstered company debt. Investors are now looking for
further direction on how credit markets will react to the Fed’s
continued pace of bond buying, according to Marc Gross, a  money
manager  who oversees $3.5 billion in fixed-income funds at RS
Investments in New York.  “Swaps made such a tremendously large move yesterday, so
traders are trying to figure out what to do next,” Gross said
in a telephone interview. “The economy is in a pause.”  Benchmark  10-year Treasury yields  declined 16 basis points,
or 0.16 percentage point, to 2.69 percent yesterday after the
Fed announcement, before rising to 2.75 percent today, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. Investment-grade bonds gained 0.7
percent, the biggest single-day return in more than a year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Bond Rally  “Ben, bless his soul, is determined to keep that 30-year
bond rally going,” Robert Michele, chief investment officer for
fixed income, currencies and commodities at JPMorgan Asset
Management, said in a Bloomberg Television interview with
 Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik Schatzker . “But it’s going to come to
an end at some point. The vast liquidity in the system will be
ignited.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The debt sold or planned for today brings offerings for the
week to $32.2 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Citigroup Offering  Citigroup issued five-year, senior unsecured notes with a
2.5 percent coupon that yielded 112 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  sold $650 million of seven-year 5.875
percent, senior unsecured notes, Bloomberg data show.  The New York-based radio broadcasting company will use
proceeds to help redeem outstanding 7.625 percent senior notes
due in 2018, according to a company statement distributed by PR
Newswire.  A new version of the Markit CDX investment-grade index will
begin trading tomorrow, according to a  statement  on the Markit
Group Ltd. website. Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.,
Weatherford International Ltd., Avon Products Inc. and Genworth
Holdings Inc. will be added to Series 21 of the index and SLM
Corp., H.J. Heinz Co., Dell Inc. and Genworth Financial Inc.
will be removed.  New versions of Markit’s indexes are created every six
months. Companies are replaced if they no longer hold
appropriate grades, aren’t among the most actively traded
borrowers or fail to meet other criteria.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, increased 5.6 basis points to 346.1, Bloomberg prices
show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries tightened 5 basis points to 129.8
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 11.2 basis points to 652.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  