-- U.S. Commercial Paper Market Expands to Most Since May, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2013-09-19T15:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/u-s-commercial-paper-market-expands-to-most-since-may-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  short-term IOUs  expanded to the most in almost four
months as investors prepared for a reduction in  Federal Reserve 
stimulus that failed to materialize.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
outstanding rose $11.8 billion to $1.047 trillion in the week
ended yesterday, the Fed said today on its website. That’s the
second straight increase and the highest level since the period
ended May 29.  Demand from money-market funds, among the biggest investors
in commercial paper, has increased during the last month amid a
bond-market selloff as investors prepared for an expected
trimming of the central bank’s debt purchases. Yesterday, the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  refrained from
curbing the $85 billion pace of its monthly securities buying,
triggering the biggest rally in Treasuries since 2011.  “The continued rise in financial issuance reflects the
ongoing gains in money-market fund assets, which have expanded
$40 billion since the start of August,”  Howard Simons , a
strategist at Bianco Research LLC in Chicago, wrote in an e-mail. That shift reflected a move away from bonds into shorter-maturity instruments “in expectation of the Federal Reserve’s
taper.”  Total assets  in the funds increased to $2.659 trillion in
the week ended Sept. 11 from $2.612 trillion on July 31,
according to the  Investment Company Institute .  Commercial paper  sold by non-U.S. financial institutions
climbed $10 billion to $267.3 billion, the first advance in four
weeks, while the amount  issued  by U.S.-based banks rose $3.5
billion to $280 billion, the highest level since the period
ended July 3, according to the Fed.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  