-- MUB Discount at Two-Month Low as Munis Rally Following Bernanke
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-09-19T16:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/mub-discount-at-two-month-low-as-munis-rally-following-bernanke.html
The largest exchange-traded fund
tracking the $3.7 trillion municipal market is trading at its
 smallest discount  in two months as local-government debt
rallies.  The  $3 billion  iShares National AMT-Free Muni Bond ETF,
known as MUB, sold at 0.22 percent less than the value of its
holdings as of yesterday, the smallest discount to its
underlying assets since July, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  After trading at a discount for a record 80 straight days,
the shift signals the fund is closer to selling at a premium,
said Bart Mosley, co-president of Trident Municipal Research in
New York.  Investors are returning to MUB and other funds as they
again view municipal securities “as a strategic asset class
that is relatively safe from a credit perspective and provides,
at this point, very attractive yields compared with other fixed
income,” Mosley said.  The municipal market is rebounding after yields set a two-year high this month.  The interest rate on 10-year benchmark munis fell to 2.88
percent at noon in New York, the lowest since Aug. 14, Bloomberg
data show. Yields dropped after the Federal Reserve yesterday
unexpectedly said it wouldn’t shrink its monthly bond-buying
program.  The fund’s price fell to  $103.65 (MUB)  at 12:25 p.m. in New York
after climbing to $103.83 yesterday, the highest since July 31.  The MUB, created in 2007, is an exchange-traded fund. While
ETFs are similar to mutual funds that track an index of
equities, bonds or commodities, they can be bought and sold
throughout the trading day and their prices may rise or fall
more than the value of the assets they hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  