-- UBS Offers Exchange-Traded Note Tied to Dividend Securities
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-09-19T15:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/ubs-offers-exchange-traded-note-tied-to-dividend-securities.html
UBS AG (UBS)  is offering an exchange-traded note tied to an index of dividend-yielding securities,
the latest linking to companies that periodically distribute
profits to investors.  The  ETRACS Diversified High Income ETN (DVHI) , which started
trading today under the ticker DVHI, pays a coupon based on the
performance of companies in the NYSE Diversified High Income
Index, according to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The  gauge , created on Aug. 20, tracks
138 publicly traded securities, including stocks, real estate
investment trusts, and master-limited partnerships that
“typically pay high dividends,” according to the document.  Megan Stinson, a spokeswoman for the bank in  New York ,
declined to comment.  ETNs tied to companies that pay a portion of surplus cash
to shareholders have been popular in the U.S., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays Plc worked with billionaire  Ken Fisher ’s Fisher
Asset Management LLC to create a security tied to dividend-yielding stocks in May. That note is the 18th largest in the
U.S., with $254.9 million, after four months, Bloomberg data
show.  The largest ETN, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Alerian MLP Index (AMJ) 
note, links to coupon-paying MLPs, according to offering
documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. It
has about $5.6 billion in assets, Bloomberg data show.  For the new ETRACS ETN, UBS charges 0.07 percent of the
coupon in monthly fees and a 0.125 percent redemption fee,
according to the prospectus. The coupon may be considered
taxable as ordinary income, while increases in the principal may
be taxed at the typically lower capital gains rate if the note
is held for more than a year.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, offers 29 other U.S. ETNs,
Bloomberg data show. The lender last offered an ETRACS ETN in
October last year, according to the data. The security yields
twice the gains and losses of an index of mortgage real estate
investment trusts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  