-- UMW Oil & Gas Starts Investor Education for $746 Million IPO
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2013-09-19T04:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/umw-oil-gas-starts-investor-education-for-746-million-ipo.html
UMW Oil & Gas Corp. (UMWOG)  started
investor education for its initial public offering that may be
Malaysia’s biggest this year.  The IPO may raise as much 2.36 billion ringgit ($746
million) with 843.2 million new and existing shares offered at
as much as 2.80 ringgit each, according to a term sheet. The
company, a unit of  UMW Holdings Bhd. (UMWH) , plans to start trading on
Kuala Lumpur’s stock exchange on Nov. 1.  At $746 million, UMW Oil & Gas’ planned sale will be larger
than Westports Malaysia Sdn., whose shareholders including  Li Ka-Shing ’s Hutchison Port Holdings Ltd. are seeking as much as
2.03 billion ringgit in the company’s IPO. First-time offers
have raised $1.1 billion this year in  Kuala Lumpur , down from
$5.3 billion in the same period in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  UMW Holdings’ Chairman Asmat Kamaludin said in June that a
separate listing would allow the unit to raise funds easier as
the oil and gas industry is capital intensive.  UMW Oil & Gas, which manufactures oil pipes and provides
services including offshore drilling and pipe-coating, is
selling 611.8 million new shares in the IPO to raise about 1.7
billion ringgit for itself, which it would use to buy and
maintain rigs, upgrade machinery and pay debt to its parent,
according to the document.  Malayan Banking Bhd., CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., Credit
Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are the joint
global coordinators for the offer.  Westports, the main terminal operator at Malaysia’s Port
Klang, is offering shares at between 2.30 ringgit and 2.50
ringgit, a separate term sheet obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed
today. Cornerstone investors include AIA Bhd., Malaysia’s
Employees Provident Fund and Permodalan Nasional Bhd., according
to the document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  