-- Climate Fund Head Prepares First Fundraising for 2014
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-09-19T16:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/un-climate-fund-head-prepares-first-fundraising-for-next-year.html
The new head of the  Green Climate
Fund , charged with disbursing some of $100 billion a year
pledged to poor countries affected by  climate change , is
readying an initial capital raising to conclude as soon as 2014.  “The desirable scenario is that some time in the third
quarter of 2014 we would successfully conclude what we are
calling an ad-hoc pledging process, the equivalent of the first
financial close,” Hela Cheikhrouhou said yesterday.  Cheikhrouhou declined to specify how much money has been
targeted. The timing depends on the fund’s board of directors,
which is meeting next month, she said in an interview from
temporary offices in Bonn before the fund relocates to Songdo
near  Seoul .  Developed countries meeting at United Nations climate talks
have pledged $100 billion a year to help poor countries cut
their emissions and cope with climate change. So far donors have
contributed $7.5 million for start-up costs to the GCF, which
will be established over the next several years.  The GCF may help make climate finance from about 40 richer
nations to 150 developing nations more efficient, said Sam
Bickersteth, chief executive of the Climate and Development
Knowledge Network at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in  London .  The current system is like “spaghetti soup,” he said
today in an interview in London. The GCF is important “because
it will catalyze finance, not because it’s the facility through
which all money will flow.”  Spurring Markets  The funding may spur wind and solar farms, renewable-energy
subsidies like feed-in tariffs, or carbon taxes and markets,
depending what emerging nations prefer, said Cheikhrouhou, a
Tunisian national who took up her appointment 10 days ago.
“When you are an institution with grants and concessional loans
to give away, you will typically want to give them in the most
creative way to catalyze the maximum amount of investment.”  UN envoys from almost 200 nations will meet in Warsaw in
November, the latest in a series of meetings to work on a
climate-protection deal to be set in 2015 and start in 2020, the
last year with targets under the  Kyoto Protocol . Richer and
poorer countries have so far disagreed about how best to
proceed.  It’s too early to speculate how much the GCF will raise,
Cheikhrouhou said. The  24-person board , led by South African
representative Zaheer Fakir and Australian Ewen McDonald, meets
in Paris on Oct. 8 to shape further details of the capital
“mobilization” and set more rules governing how money will be
disbursed.  Korea Contribution  South Korea , listed as a developing nation in the 1992 UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change, had contributed the most
to the fund as of June 30, at $2.1 million, and has pledged $40
million.  Germany , the U.K. and  Sweden  are among others who have
contributed, according to a statement on the fund’s website.  The board is also debating governance for a private sector
facility that may sit under or alongside the GCF, according to
its website.  Pension funds and other private investors hold the key to
supplementing government cash to transform energy markets and
industries, including agriculture, away from fossil fuels
without threatening economic growth, Cheikhrouhou said.  Cheikhrouhou became manager for private infrastructure &
public/private partnerships at the African Development Bank
Group in 2007, where she boosted finance activities across the
continent, including 168 million euros ($227 million) for the
first phase of the planned Ouarzazate concentrated solar project
in  Morocco . The plant will be the largest in  Africa , according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Citigroup Risks  That plant will help diversify away from mainly fossil-fuel
energy production in the country, which imports almost 97
percent of its needs, according to  AfDB’s website . Cheikhrouhou
previously worked for the  World Bank  and for Citigroup Inc.,
where she helped manage African market risks.  “I don’t have a strong preference on whether the private
sector should be able to lend us money directly or not,”
Cheikhrouhou said. “If private investors don’t make a
contribution to the fund directly, they will definitely be
important players in the projects and programs that are
ultimately going to benefit from the contributions in the
fund.”  The fund’s first few projects will be key as it tries to
build a reputation for making climate finance more efficient and
convince richer nations to give up piecemeal direct spending,
said Anthony Hobley, president of the Climate Markets &
Investment Association, a lobby group in London supporting
carbon markets. “They will be judged at their success at
leveraging private money,” he said today in an interview.  While progress setting up the fund may seem slow, it’s
coming together quite quickly, he said in London. “Those used
to UN processes are amazed how fast it’s going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  