-- Uniwax of Ivory Coast Uses Design Strategy to Counter Fakes
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-09-19T13:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/uniwax-of-ivory-coast-uses-design-strategy-to-counter-fakes.html
Uniwax SA, a fabric-printing
company owned by London-based private-equity firm Actis LLP, is
boosting its sales in  Africa  by delivering more designs to fend
off counterfeit products from Asia.  The company forecasts sales will rise at least 8 percent
this year to over 20 million yards from 18.4 million yards in
2012, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Louis Menudier said in an
interview Sept. 16 in Abidjan, the commercial capital.  Uniwax is looking to counter fake products, which account
for more than 90 percent of the market in Ivory Coast, by
reducing the turnaround time and increasing the number of new
designs, Menudier said. “We aim to keep ahead of the
counterfeits which take more than two months to arrive in the
market,” he said.  The fabric printer, which has a market share of about 5
percent, creates at least 60 new designs a month; 10 years ago
it was coming up with 100 a year, Menudier said. It now requires
five to seven days to produce a new design compared with more
than five weeks three years ago.  Sales are forecast to rise as the company started sales to
Gabon and the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2011 and to  Angola 
a few months ago, Menudier said. It wants to export to Nigeria
by the beginning of next year as Africa’s most populous country
offers a “high growth opportunity,”  Menudier said.  Sales growth will probably slow in its home market this
year as Ivory Coast’s economic recovery hasn’t filtered through
to consumer spending yet, he said. The West African nation
accounts for 48 percent of sales followed by Benin, Niger and
Burkina Faso.  Top Performer  Uniwax’s shares have  quadrupled  to 277.50 CFA francs over
the past six months, making it the best performer on the Bourse
Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres, the Abidjan-based regional
stock exchange.  The Abidjan-based company, which specializes in African wax
and fancy-print fabrics, reported net income of 928.9 million
CFA francs ($1.9 million) in the six months through June this
year on sales of 12.8 billion francs compared to a loss of 727.5
million francs in the same period a year ago, according to
figures e-mailed by the company on yesterday.  It plans capital expenditure of 3.5 million euros to 4
million euros ($4 million-$5.4 million) in 2014, in addition to
4 million euros this year, to upgrade equipment and boost
production capacity to 30 million of yards by 2016, Menudier
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andres R. Martinez at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net  