-- Murray Sees Republican Yielding on Debt-Limit Cap (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-09-19T23:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/murray-sees-republican-yielding-on-debt-limit-cap-transcript-.html
Senate Budget Committee Chairman
 Patty Murray  said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
she expects Republicans seeking to curb President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law probably will give in to demands by her fellow
Democrats to enact a “clean” bill raising the nation’s debt
ceiling.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with the chairman of the Senate
Budget committee, Senator Patty Murray of  Washington . Thank you
for being with us, Madam Chairman.  PATTY MURRAY: It’s great to be with you, Al.  HUNT: Do you agree now with the potential showdown 10 days
away that the real big fight is not likely to be over the
continuing resolution, the budget, but you’ll probably do
something short-term on that?  MURRAY: Well, I’ve been surprised at the ballyhoo about a
short-term budget agreement, to just keep government running
while we deal with the bigger issue of where we’re going to go
in the future. And I’m hopeful that those people who feel they
have to have a temper tantrum before they do it will get over
that very quickly and we can move on, because it is important
that we address our budget challenges in the coming year and
years as quickly as possible.  HUNT: But you don’t think you’re going to do that in the
next 10 days? I mean, there will be some sort of short-term
resolution, and then you come back to that?  MURRAY: I think it’s critically important that we have a
short-term resolution and keep government running. However,
we’re not going to take hostages in this. The Republicans have
gone to their temper tantrum -  HUNT: Right, there’s not going to be Obamacare on this.  MURRAY: - on Obamacare. No. There’s not going to be a
repeal of a law that many, many people are having the advantage
to be able to participate within.  HUNT: You know, on both the deficit commission and as the
chairman of the Budget Committee, you’ve probably dealt with
more  House Republicans  than almost any other Senate Democrat.
What do you think is their endgame here?  MURRAY: Well, it’s changing. I think there are those
Republicans in the House and Senate who very much want to work
with us to find a solution to our budget challenges, both the
 budget deficit  and debt that we carry, but also our debt and
deficit that we carry in transportation and education and policy
and how we can make sure our country is strong in the future.  The Republicans’ initial reason for not doing anything is
they wanted to make sure that we had strong policies in place in
terms of health care spending and those kinds of things. They’ve
now changed completely, and they are saying the only way they
will raise the debt ceiling, the only way they’ll do a
continuing resolution, the only way that they’ll do any kind of
budget framework going forward is to repeal a law that is
already in place that’s been upheld by the  Supreme Court  and is
helping millions of Americans.  HUNT: And that’s not going to happen.  MURRAY: No, it is not going to happen.  HUNT: And Speaker Boehner now says the whale of a debate -
as he puts it - really is not going to happen on the C.R., but
over increasing the debt ceiling. The Republicans argue that
they have - they’re on stronger grounds here. They cite a  Wall
Street  Journal-NBC poll that show by 2 to 1, Americans say they
oppose increasing the debt ceiling.  MURRAY: Well, how is it strong ground that you’re going to
grind the government to a halt and really ruin our economy?
We’ve been through this before, and our credit was downgraded.
Wall Street was devastated by our inaction, inability to raise
the debt ceiling to pay our bills. How is it good for our
economy to do that? I do not understand the rhetoric around the
debt limit.  HUNT: So what do you see ensuing here? I mean, if they’re
going to focus on that - the president says he won’t negotiate
on the debt ceiling.  MURRAY: That’s right. He won’t.  HUNT: But he did last time. He did it in 2011.  MURRAY: I think he has before, but he is not going to
repeal Obamacare to - you know -  HUNT: OK, but that’s different from not negotiating.
Suppose they come in and say, all right, instead of - we’ll
drop, you know - we’ll drop that.  What we want is those
entitlement cuts the president has already proposed, means
testing and CPI. You know, if you do that, we’ll then do
something on -  MURRAY: Well, they haven’t said that. But I will tell you
this, that we have to be very careful what we do with the debt
ceiling. The debt ceiling - sure, if you ask the public, they -
they don’t want us to vote to raise the debt ceiling. It doesn’t
sound good.  But what it’s basically saying is, we’re going to pay our
bills as a country. The downside of not paying our bills is our
credit rating tanks. That affects every family, every business,
every community. It affects Main Street. It affects Wall Street.
It affects our ability to have jobs and security.  The one thing the American people are saying today stronger
than they ever have is, please, we’re just starting to get out
of this. Don’t send us into chaos again.  So to me, having the Republicans say with the debt ceiling
that they’re going to play with fire and threaten to shut down
over hostage-taking, whatever it is, is wrong for today, but
it’s also wrong for tomorrow. Every time we’re going to pay our
bills, every time we’re going to do the responsible thing in our
economy going forward, we’re going to attach whatever popular
issue is out there to it?  HUNT: But if they don’t do the continuing resolution - we
sort of agree they’re likely to agree to a short-term, non-Obamacare -  MURRAY: I certainly hope so.  HUNT: So what happens in the days to come? They’re going to
- you know, with their - with their - with their base -  MURRAY: I am confident that they will come together with
some mishmash policy of everything in the bag they’ve ever
promised to the  Tea Party , attach it to the debt ceiling, and
try and send it over. Now, they haven’t been able to get the
votes for anything yet -  HUNT: And when they do that -  MURRAY: - but we’ll see.  HUNT: When they do that, what’ll happen?  MURRAY: What will happen is that the Senate Democrats will
say we are going to pass a clean debt ceiling. We have a
responsibility as people who’ve been elected to govern to do the
right thing.  HUNT: So no deals on the debt ceiling?  MURRAY: I see no deals on the debt ceiling.  HUNT: OK. So eventually Republicans are going to have to
capitulate.  MURRAY: They did last time.  HUNT: Right. Let me turn to another subject, and that’s the
 Federal Reserve , which this week voted not to tighten its - its
policies and to really continue to try to foster economic
growth. Was that a good decision?  MURRAY: Well, I think Bernanke sees what I see right now.
Our economy is starting to get stable again, but there’s a lot
of uncertainty around it, much of it in Congress and the Tea
Party controlling the Republican Party right now and threatening
us with every shutdown they can think of, and I think that kind
of uncertainty is what he’s responding to, and rightfully.  HUNT: So how do you feel that the Fed - would you give the
Fed a good grade as to how they’re performing these days?  MURRAY: I think that  Ben Bernanke  is doing a good job, and
I think he recognizes what’s happening in our economy and what’s
happening in our country and doing the best he can to bring
stability.  HUNT: You have been a supporter of Janet Yellen to succeed
Ben Bernanke. You’ve said it would be a great choice and -  MURRAY: It would be an historic choice.  HUNT: - and historic, the first chairman - the first woman
chairman of the Federal Reserve. Now that the other leading
contender, Larry Summers, has dropped out, wouldn’t it really be
a slap if the president didn’t pick Janet Yellen?  MURRAY: Well, let’s be clear. The president makes the
choice.  We don’t.  HUNT: Right.  MURRAY: And I am hopeful that he does consider strongly
 Janet Yellen . I think she is a very good voice. She’s very
experienced.  She certainly understands that we need to create
jobs, the kind of economic climate that brings stability to
families in my home state and across the country. And, again,
she’d be an historic choice, and I think it would be great.  HUNT: And, Madam Chairman, do you think he will?  MURRAY: Well, I’m not in his head.  HUNT: Now, I know he makes - but you have an instinct for
these things and you see the way things are and you know, you
know, the way the Senate is. Do you think Yellen is likely to be
the next chairman of the Fed?  MURRAY: I think there’s a very good chance. I’m certainly
hoping so.  HUNT: OK. You know, talking about  Larry Summers , you look
at that, and there was a lot of Democratic opposition to Larry
Summers in the Senate. You look at the  New York  mayor’s race.
You look at Bill Daley dropping out of the Illinois
gubernatorial contest. Is there a populist anti-Wall Street
fever growing in the  Democratic Party ?  MURRAY: I would not characterize it that way.  HUNT: OK.  MURRAY: What I see growing is a concern about the income
disparity that has really left a lot of Americans without the
ability to be confident that their child will be able to go to
college or get a good job or be able to be somebody that can
live on their own and not return home 20 times after they leave
your house after they graduate.  HUNT: But isn’t some of that - that that hasn’t occurred as
much as you’d like for most of those people, whereas Wall Street
has made out, you know, great?  MURRAY: Well, I think there is an income disparity. That is
very real. And we need to look at the policies that we have in
place today to address that.  Certainly, having good jobs, Wall Street provides them in
many ways, but we also have a lot of small businesses, we also
have a lot of other things we need to do, and that’s part of
what we, I think, as America are - is really saying across the
board today. We want a chance, too.  HUNT: Senate Budget Committee Chair Patty Murray, thank you
very much for being with us today.  MURRAY: You bet.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 