-- ViroPharma Drug Appeal Seen Driving 50% Return: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-09-19T21:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/viropharma-drug-appeal-seen-driving-50-return-real-m-a.html
ViroPharma Inc. (VPHM) , the maker of drugs
for rare diseases that rallied on optimism it will be the next
biotechnology takeover target, could fetch a 50 percent premium
in a deal.  The  stock  already surged as much as 34 percent to a 13-year
high after  Bloomberg News  reported ViroPharma is working with
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. on a possible auction and attracted
interest from suitors including European drugmakers Sanofi and
 Shire Plc (SHP) , citing people familiar with the process. JMP Group
Inc. said the $2.6 billion seller of a treatment for hereditary
angioedema, an inflammatory condition, could fetch $60 a share,
compared with $40 yesterday.  Sanofi and Shire may be drawn by the chance to market
ViroPharma’s drugs through existing salesforces and snap up the
company’s pipeline while investors aren’t fully  valuing  its
future revenue opportunities, said Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. and
shareholder Penn Capital Management Co. Even after the gains,
the Exton, Pennsylvania-based company traded yesterday at a
lower multiple of projected sales than 87 percent of similar-sized U.S. peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m certainly not surprised that they attracted
interest,” Richard Simons, a Philadelphia-based analyst at Penn
Capital, which oversees more than $7 billion including
ViroPharma shares, said in a phone interview. “In terms of the
pipeline, it’s very underappreciated. There are a lot of
potential shots on goal that aren’t reflected in the stock.”  Unsolicited Approach  ViroPharma hired Goldman Sachs after fielding an
unsolicited approach, said the people familiar with the process,
who asked not to be named because the talks are private. The
investment bank has actively sought other suitors since then,
one person said.  After the Sept. 13 report, ViroPharma’s shares climbed
three out of four days, closing at a 13-year high of $40.78 on
Sept. 17.  Today, ViroPharma shares fell 0.1 percent to $39.96.  Michelle Larkin, a spokeswoman for ViroPharma, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation when asked whether the
drugmaker has been approached by potential buyers.  ViroPharma is an attractive target because of the growth
potential in both the U.S. and  Europe  for its primary drug
Cinryze and because of the possible sales opportunity for
maribavir, an experimental antiviral treatment that’s currently
being tested, according to Akiva Felt of Oppenheimer. Felt
estimated the company could fetch as much as $50 a share in a
competitive bidding situation.  An acquirer “could have a large and growing rare-disease
franchise,” the San Francisco-based analyst said in a phone
interview. “Any company with the balance sheet to absorb the
acquisition could potentially be interested.”  ‘Pretty Inexpensive’  Investors aren’t giving the company credit for its sales
prospects, said Liisa Bayko, a Chicago-based analyst at JMP.
While analysts  project  ViroPharma’s  revenue  will rise to $674.1
million in 2015, a 58 percent increase from 2012, the drugmaker
 trades  at a discount to peers.  ViroPharma is valued at 3.9 times its projected 2015 sales,
compared with a median 10 times for U.S. biotechnology companies
valued at more than $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The stock is not really valuing elements of their
pipeline just yet and so maybe someone wants to pay in advance
for those,” Bayko said. “It still seems pretty inexpensive.”  Shire and  Sanofi (SAN)  are the most logical acquirers, said
Simons of Penn Capital. Shire could sell Cinryze alongside its
own HAE treatment, Firazyr, while Sanofi could use ViroPharma to
further bolster the rare-disease medicine foothold it acquired
through the purchase of Genzyme Corp. that closed in 2011, he
said.  Orphan Appeal  Orphan-drug “assets tend to be very long-lived assets,
with very predictable growth, obvious geographical expansion
opportunities,” Simons said. Sanofi and Dublin-based Shire
“are very well-positioned to have a good idea of how that space
is going to evolve.”  ViroPharma’s valuation in a takeover could jump to $52 a
share if the buyer is a company like Shire with an existing HAE
salesforce, Robyn Karnauskas, a New York-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a Sept. 13 note. It may fetch $46 a
share from an acquirer without the same cost-cutting
opportunities, she said.  Karnauskas published a new report dated Sept. 18, reducing
her recommendation to “hold” based on limited upside after the
stock’s recent gains. She now estimates the shares could be
valued at about $43, based on a probability adjusted discounted
cash flow analysis with a takeover premium.  Jazz Interest?  Other large pharmaceutical companies including  Pfizer Inc., (PFE) 
 AstraZeneca (AZN)  Plc and Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis (NOVN)  AG have
shown interest in orphan drugs and also could seek to bid on
ViroPharma, Simons said.  While a deal may not materialize,  Jazz Pharmaceuticals Plc (JAZZ) 
has a specialty-drug business model that would complement
ViroPharma’s rare-disease treatments and could also use its
Irish corporate structure to trim the company’s tax rate, Joseph Schwartz, a Boston-based analyst at Leerink Swann LLC, wrote in
a Sept. 13 note.  Representatives for Paris-based Sanofi, London-based
AstraZeneca, Dublin-based Jazz, New York-based Pfizer, Shire and
Novartis declined to comment on whether their companies would be
interested in buying ViroPharma.  Cinryze will lose some of its exclusivity by 2015, which
makes ViroPharma’s longer-term growth prospects less certain,
Mario Corso, a Boston-based analyst at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc., wrote in a Sept. 16 note. The treatment also could face
competition from the oral HAE drug that’s being developed by
 BioCryst Pharmaceuticals Inc. (BCRX) , according to a report yesterday
from Bank of America Corp. analysts including Rachel McMinn.  ‘Value Proposition’  Given growth concerns and the limited number of HAE
patients, buyers may balk at paying a premium for the company,
said Stephen Brozak, president of WBB Securities LLC.  “I don’t see the value proposition in this type of an
acquisition,” Brozak said in a phone interview from Clark,  New
Jersey . “I would not spend my money on going out there and
going for a premium to where they are trading.”  Bayko of JMP is more optimistic about the company’s growth
prospects and said even a relatively high takeover bid may not
be that pricey. A $60-a-share offer would give ViroPharma an
 enterprise value  of about $3.8 billion, or 9.4 times its
trailing 12-month sales. That compares with a median revenue
multiple of 8.3 for U.S. biotechnology deals valued at more than
$1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A 50 percent premium “seems like a lot but then again in
biotech, that’s really not that much,” Bayko said. “Clearly
they’ve got good products and there’s a lot of leverage in their
pipeline still to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  