-- VW’s Scania Says Fleet Replacements Sustain Europe Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-09-19T11:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/vw-s-scania-says-fleet-replacements-sustain-europe-sales.html
Scania AB (SCVB) , the Swedish truckmaker
controlled by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said European demand isn’t showing
“seasonal weakness” this quarter as vehicle replacements and
orders in advance of stricter emissions rules sustain sales.  Scania is sticking to a worldwide target of delivering
120,000 trucks a year in 2020, and will safeguard profitability
during the expansion, Henrik Henriksson, head of sales and
marketing, said today at an investor conference at Scania
headquarters in the  Stockholm  suburb of Soedertaelje.  “The European market will come back,” and Scania will
work to increase market share in the region by adding models for
industries such as mining and forestry to a lineup focused on
long-haul freight vehicles, Henriksson said.  Scania is rolling out new trucks, including the new
Streamline long-distance model range, as well as engines that
meet tighter emissions standards in a bid bolster sales to
counter recessions across  Europe . The manufacturer is increasing
production rates to ensure short delivery times after second-quarter orders rose 15 percent.  Industrywide registrations in Europe of commercial vehicles
heavier than 16 metric tons, excluding buses and coaches, fell
11 percent in the first half of the year, with double-digit
declines in all major markets apart from the U.K., the  ACEA 
automotive trade group said on July 26. A recession in the 17-country euro area ended in the three months through June after a
record six-quarter contraction.  Emissions Rules  New trucks sold starting in 2014 must meet tighter European
Union emissions standards, dubbed Euro 6. During such rules
changes, some customers order cheaper vehicles that are still
available while the older regulations remain in place. Demand at
Scania has been helped in part by the “pre-buying” effect,
Chief Executive Officer Martin Lundstedt said at the conference.  Second-quarter orders at Scania rose to 22,564 trucks and
buses from 19,586 vehicles a year earlier, while deliveries
jumped 33 percent, the company said in July. Net income fell 6
percent to 1.37 billion kronor ($217 million), hurt by a
strengthening Swedish currency and lower truck prices. Operating
profit increased 5 percent to 2.04 billion kronor, while
earnings as a proportion of sales narrowed to 8.9 percent of
sales from 10.1 percent a year earlier.  Margin Target  The operating  margin  will return to previous highs of 14
percent and more, “but I don’t know when: It depends on the
global economy,” Chief Financial Officer Jan Ytterberg said at
the conference. Investment spending that holds back
profitability has been necessary to prepare for volume
expansion, Ytterberg said. “It is time to be a little more
aggressive” and lay the foundation for future growth, he said.  Scania  rose  as much as 3.4 percent and was trading up 2.9
percent at 143.4 kronor as of 1 p.m. in Stockholm, reaching the
highest since July 18, based on closing prices. The stock has
gained 6.8 percent this year, valuing the truckmaker at 112.2
billion kronor.  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest automaker, is forging a truck
alliance between its Munich-based  MAN SE (MAN)  division and Scania to
reap cost savings and take on global market leader Daimler AG. A
domination and profit-transfer agreement giving VW full control
of MAN took effect in July. VW promoted former Scania CEO Leif Oestling last year to run group truck operations and lead the
efforts for joint projects.  Shareholders’ Stance  Scania said on Aug. 29 that an arms-length policy on
cooperation with VW and MAN remains in place after a Swedish
shareholders group called for an independent audit of the
companies’ transactions.  The Swedish Shareholders’ Association, which represents
individuals with small stakes in the country’s traded companies,
called in August for an independent monitor to evaluate
cooperation between the companies to ensure minority investors’
interests aren’t overlooked.  The group is seeking the support of investors controlling
10 percent of Scania stock to call a  shareholders’ meeting  to
appoint the outside overseer.  Any work with VW and MAN, which may include projects on
axles, gearboxes, hybrid technology and purchases, will need
approval of Scania’s management board, Lundstedt reiterated
today.  “Cooperation is developing in line with our internal
plans,” Lundstedt said. “Projects like that are complex and
they take time.”  VW owns 46 percent of Scania’s equity and 71 percent of the
votes, while MAN holds 13 percent of the stock and 17 percent of
the votes. VW’s stake in MAN exceeds 75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Soedertaelje via 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  