-- Wall Street Defends Commodity Trades Against Regulatory Scrutiny
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-09-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/wall-street-defends-commodity-trades-against-regulatory-scrutiny.html
Banks including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , facing regulatory scrutiny of
their commodity trading, provide liquidity in oil, natural gas
and other markets that can’t be easily replaced, according to a
report commissioned by  Wall Street ’s main lobbying group.  The firms’ ability to trade physical commodities and
related financial derivatives helps airlines and natural gas
power plants hedge against changes in commodity prices,
according to the report from  IHS Inc. (IHS)  released today. The
report, commissioned by the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, said efforts to curb banks’ role in
commodity markets would hurt their commercial and industrial
clients.  “Banks play a key role in kind of bringing together buyers
and sellers and providing financing,”  Kurt Barrow , vice
president at IHS and co-author of the report, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It’s not at all clear who could
replace them or to what extent,” IHS said in the report.  The role of banks in in trading commodities while also
owning refineries and warehouses has faced scrutiny this year
from lawmakers and regulators including the  Federal Reserve  and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Congressional Democrats
and some regulators have sought curbs on bank trading in
commodities that could put revenues in jeopardy.  Goldman Sachs’s physical commodities unit is a “core”
business that provides a crucial service to clients, Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein said yesterday.  Banks ‘Important’  “The role we play in that business is very, very important
to users in the market,” Blankfein, 58, said in a CNBC
television interview. “Without us in that market, a good
credit, a regulated company, the outcomes won’t be very good for
the users of the market.”  Commodities revenue at the 10 largest investment banks fell
25 percent in the first half of this year, putting those units
on pace for the worst annual performance in more than five
years, industry analytics firm Coalition Ltd. said in August.
Revenue fell to about $2.7 billion in the first six months from
$3.6 billion in the same period of 2012, Coalition said Aug. 5
in an e-mail.  JPMorgan said July 26 that it plans to get out aspects of
the business of owning and trading physical commodities ranging
from metals to oil. The bank’s announcement came three days
after members of a Senate Banking subcommittee questioned
whether banks are abusing their ownership of raw materials to
manipulate markets.  Ownership Concerns  Senator  Sherrod Brown , the Ohio Democrat who led that
hearing, said he plans another on banks’ ownership of mines,
pipelines, tankers and warehouses. “It does significant
potential damage to the economy,” Brown said July 23.  The Federal Reserve Board said in July that it is reviewing
a series of decisions dating to 2003 that have allowed banks to
take physical delivery of commodities and expand their trades.
Meanwhile, the CFTC, the top U.S. regulator of derivatives, has
issued subpoenas to Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and other operators
of metal warehouses after brewer MillerCoors LLC and others
complained of long waits for materials.  Bart Chilton, a Democratic member of the CFTC, said U.S.
lawmakers should revoke an exemption that lets Goldman Sachs and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  own commodity warehouses and other assets.
Congress should also “do away with the ability of the Fed to
allow any commodity-related ownership by the banks,” Chilton
said on Sept. 14.  The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations is also
probing banks’ involvement in commodities. Senator  Carl Levin ,
the Michigan Democrat who leads the panel, said in July that his
subcommittee, which has subpoena power, had been looking at the
commodities issue for at least six months.  “The potential here for conflicts of interest and
manipulating prices to benefit their own proprietary holdings is
huge and it’s a very, very serious issue,” Levin said in an
interview on July 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  