-- We Have the Tools to Prevent Another Shooting Spree
-- B y   S a l l y   S a t e l
-- 2013-09-19T20:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/we-have-the-tools-to-prevent-another-shooting-spree.html
As a psychiatrist, I have
frequently seen psychotic patients brought into the emergency
room by police, only to be released into the night because of a
toxic combination of restrictive commitment laws and a desperate
shortage of psychiatric beds. For the most part, such sad
stories affect only the patients themselves and their families.
On a few horrific occasions, they are a missed opportunity to
prevent a larger, bloodier  tragedy .  We will never know his precise motivations, yet it is
becoming increasingly clear how Aaron Alexis, who police say
shot and killed 12 people at the Navy Yard in  Washington  this
week, fell through some cracks in our  mental health system .  On Aug. 7, police in Newport, Rhode Island, responded to a
call from Alexis, who was staying at a Marriott hotel. According
to the police, Alexis said he had an argument at the airport
with a stranger who had sent three people to follow him and who
were keeping him awake by talking to him through the walls and
by sending vibrations to his body from a microwave machine. He
said he had already switched hotels twice to escape them.  Although he was  clearly delusional , Alexis denied having
psychiatric trouble. When he told the police he was afraid the
strangers whose voices he heard were going to hurt him, one
officer, rather curiously, “advised him to stay away from the
individuals that are following him and to make contact with the
NPD if they attempt to make contact with him.”  ‘Mental Disturbance’  Here was the first problem: The responding officers either
didn’t have the training to realize they were dealing with a
very psychotic man or, if they did, didn’t know how to handle
the situation. That wouldn’t be unusual; many officers find
themselves at sea when responding to a “mental disturbance”
call.  Worse, even if the Newport police officers had realized
they were dealing with a person who was severely mentally ill,
they might not have been able to bring Alexis to a hospital for
emergency evaluation. “He’s just hearing voices,” Lieutenant
William Fitzgerald, a spokesman for the Newport Police
Department, told the  New York Times . “We can’t arrest someone
for that.”  Arrest? The issue here isn’t crime-fighting. It is aiding a
sick person -- and the law in Rhode Island authorizes police to
do so only if they deem the person in need of “immediate care
and treatment” to avert “imminent likelihood of serious
harm.” Alexis clearly needed treatment, but the judgment call
of whether he needed immediate care was left to the officers,
who would have had to deem him a danger to himself or others.  Even if Alexis had been brought to a hospital where the
doctors found him psychotic, it’s quite possible that he
couldn’t have been admitted against his will.  That’s because many  states  have restrictive civil
commitment laws. In Rhode Island, for example, an individual
with mental illness must exhibit a “grave, clear and present
risk to physical health and safety” before a court can
intervene and order treatment. These criteria might not have
applied to Alexis: He wasn’t violent, didn’t display any intent
to harm himself or others, and appeared capable of meeting his
basic survival needs.  Many lapses and missed opportunities along Alexis’s journey
to the Navy Yard were preventable. First, police need training
in handling mental disturbances. According to the Treatment
Advocacy Center in Arlington,  Virginia , only 49 percent of the
public is served by law enforcement personnel who have received
such instruction.  Intervention Training  Most states offer crisis intervention training to law
enforcement (Rhode Island is one of five  that don’t ). One
popular program, a 40-hour curriculum known as the Memphis
model, teaches police how to respond safely to a person in
crisis. It includes information about how to recognize mental
illness and about the local mental health system and laws, as
well as guidelines for interacting with disturbed people who are
extremely agitated or aggressive.  A second response should be to expand commitment laws. The
majority of states -- again, Rhode Island is an exception --
have a “grave disability” standard, an explicit and broad
designation that focuses on a person’s ability to feed, clothe
and protect themselves.  For instance, people who are so paranoid that they refuse
to eat for fear of being poisoned would meet the criteria for a
grave disability, yet more restrictive rules such as Rhode
Island’s might not allow authorities to act.  States shouldn’t stop there. More should adopt an even more
progressive type of commitment statute: the “ need for
treatment ” standard. This provision, which is in effect in
about half the states, allows a court to intervene in a mental
health crisis. These standards are particularly relevant for
individuals who lack insight into their illness (a syndrome
known as anosognosia).  The most important component of reform, however, is to
ensure that these legal tools are used.  Arizona , where Jared Lee Loughner shot Representative  Gabrielle Giffords  and 17 others in
2011, has a need for treatment standard. If Loughner had been
found “persistently and acutely disabled” by severe mental
illness and “likely to benefit from treatment,” an emergency
evaluation and subsequent care could have been mandated by the
court.  Admittedly, vivid patterns jump out in hindsight. Before
his shooting spree, Loughner had accumulated a troubling record:
Concerned staff of Pima Community College had called campus
police about him, a teacher and students had voiced safety
concerns, and the college wouldn’t readmit him after a
suspension without psychiatric clearance. Those events could
have justified involuntary assessment, if not treatment.  The Navy Yard shootings, like so many recent disasters, had
roots in deficiencies in the U.S. mental health system. We need
better training for law enforcement, more responsive statutes
that put therapeutic need on a par with protection of the
patient and the public, awareness of good laws that are already
in place, and the will to use them.  (Sally Satel is a doctor and a resident scholar at the
American Enterprise Institute.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Sally Satel at  http://www.sallysatelmd.com/ .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 