-- Wison CFO Resigns as Bank Accounts Frozen in China Probe
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-09-19T01:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/wison-cfo-resigns-as-bank-accounts-frozen-in-china-probe.html
Wison Engineering Services Co. (2236) ,
supplier to PetroChina Co., said  China ’s authorities froze
certain bank accounts and that its chief financial officer
resigned, as investigations into company executives continue.  The oil services company said CFO Chen Wenfeng resigned
“to pursue other business opportunities,” according to a
statement to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange last night. In a
statement today, Wison said regulators asked about “certain
projects,” took records and froze bank accounts, some of which
have since been unfrozen.  The company wasn’t given reasons for stopping its bank
accounts, it said in the statement. Its chairman and founder Hua Bangsong and a manager in a subsidiary’s finance department,
Zhao Hongbin, are still assisting authorities with their
investigations, it said.  Wison said on Sept. 3 that Hua was helping in unspecified
investigations, a day after its shares plunged 16 percent and
were suspended from trading. China is investigating  PetroChina
Co. (857) ’s former Chairman Jiang Jiemin and four senior executives
for graft. The nation’s largest oil producer was Wison’s biggest
customer before 2012.  “Hua is not contactable and he is not able to discharge
his daily duties in relation to the group’s business operation
and administration,” Wison said in today’s statement. “The
company is still liaising with the regulatory authorities,
assessing the impact of the investigations on its normal
operation and taking actions to manage cash-flow and risks.”  Wison’s revenue from contracts with PetroChina was around
111 million yuan ($18.1 million), or 5.6 percent of its revenue,
in the first half of 2013, according to a statement on Sept. 13.
Outstanding contracts with PetroChina amount to around 204
million  yuan , it said.  Wison didn’t say when its shares will resume trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  