-- WTI Set for Second Weekly Drop as Libyan Output Returns
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-20T12:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-19/wti-poised-for-second-weekly-drop-as-libyan-oil-output-returns.html
West Texas Intermediate headed for
a second weekly loss as Libya’s oil output recovered and the
threat of military strikes against Syria receded, damping
concern that  Middle East  supplies may be disrupted.  Futures slipped in  New York  to bring their weekly loss to
2.5 percent. Libyan production will rise to more than half this
year’s peak and five of the country’s nine export terminals are
operating, according to its Oil Ministry. Syria will provide
information about its chemical weapons and open facilities to
inspectors, President Bashar al-Assad said Sept. 18 in an
interview with  Fox News .  “The Syrian-risk bullish driver has moved completely to
the background and of course we’ve seen oil coming back in Libya
with the western fields now online,” said Bjarne Schieldrop,
chief commodity at SEB AB in Oslo. “We still have some
tightness in the market, but we do expect prices to slide down
further toward the fourth quarter.”  WTI for October delivery, which expires today, fell 94
cents to $105.45 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  as of 1:40 p.m.  London  time. The more-actively traded November contract dropped 61 cents to $105.25.
The volume of all futures traded was about 10 percent below the
100-day average.  Libyan Output  Brent for November settlement rose 15 cents, 0.1 percent,
to $108.91 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. It lost 1.7 percent yesterday. The European benchmark
was at a premium of $3.67 to WTI, compared with $2.90 yesterday,
the smallest since Aug. 12.  Brent is “recovering a bit from yesterday’s massive sell-off,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy
Aspects Ltd., a research company in London. “Fundamentals are
not bearish. Libya is hardly pumping.”  Libyan oil output is set to rise to 800,000 barrels a day,
Ibrahim Al Awami, director of measurement at the country’s oil
ministry, said by phone from Tripoli yesterday. Supply fell to
as low as 150,000 barrels earlier this month, compared with a
2013 high of 1.4 million in April, the  International Energy
Agency  said in a Sept. 12 report.  Further Retreat  Oil prices  will drop further next week after a U.S.-Russian
accord reduced the risk of an American attack on Syria,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 34 analysts.  Crude rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that
a U.S.-led assault would widen the Syrian conflict and disrupt
Middle East exports. Syria borders Iraq and is near  Iran , which
together control almost a fifth of OPEC production capacity,
Bloomberg estimates show. The Middle East accounted for 35
percent of global oil output in the first quarter of this year,
according to the IEA.  Assad’s government must turn over a full inventory of
Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal by tomorrow, according to the
U.S.-Russia deal struck last week in Geneva in response to the
Aug. 21 sarin gas attack near Damascus that the U.S. says killed
more than 1,400 people.  About 2.7 million barrels day of oil production was off-line during August in Libya, Iran,  Iraq ,  Nigeria ,  Sudan  and
other nations, according to a  Sept. 10 report  by the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. That’s the highest level of
unplanned disruptions since at least January 2011, the EIA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  