-- Clinton Warns of Sea Clashes as China Delays Talks Over Rules
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-12T05:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/-good-neighbor-china-pushes-asean-for-joint-development-in-seas.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  warned of more confrontations in the  South China Sea 
without a region-wide solution as China rebuffed calls to
expedite talks on rules for operating in disputed waters.  “Issues such as freedom of navigation and lawful
exploitation of maritime resources often involve a wide
region,” Clinton said in remarks today to Asia-Pacific foreign
ministers during a meeting in Phnom Penh,  Cambodia .
“Approaching them strictly bilaterally could be a recipe for
confusion and even confrontation.”  Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying yesterday said China would
start talks on a legally binding code of conduct in the South
China Sea “when conditions are ripe,” according to the
official Xinhua News Agency. It warned nations this week to
avoid mentioning the territorial spats with  Vietnam  and the
 Philippines  at today’s regional security meeting that includes
envoys from 26 Asia-Pacific nations and the European Union.  Diplomatic squabbling between the U.S. and  China  escalated
after Clinton’s remarks in Mongolia this week in which she
criticized governments that lock up dissidents and hinder
freedom of speech. The Communist Party’s  People’s Daily
newspaper  today blasted U.S. “arrogance” in commenting on
human rights and democracy in  Asia .  U.S. ‘Preacher’  “If the U.S. always shows up as a preacher, and always
picks on democracy in Asia by standing high and looking down, or
if it even wants to raise its flag to build a ‘team’ that can
balance China’s development, it will ultimately make itself
marginalized,” the editorial said.  The U.S. and the 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations , after a meeting yesterday, called for the “early
conclusion” of a code of conduct that complies with the United
Nations Law of the Sea, according to a  statement . The summary of
a separate meeting between Asean states and Chinese Foreign
Minister  Yang Jiechi  didn’t mention the code of conduct.  “It is China’s consistent position that disputes over the
sovereignty of some islands and delimitation of some waters in
the South China Sea should be peacefully settled by the parties
directly concerned through negotiations,” spokesman Zhang
Jianmin  told Xinhua  yesterday. “Pending the settlement of the
disputes, the parties concerned may put aside their differences
and engage in joint development.”  Territorial Disputes  The Philippines and Vietnam reject China’s map of the
waters as a basis for joint development and have sought a
regional solution to increase their bargaining power with Asia’s
biggest military spender. Clinton has urged the countries to
define their territory based on the UN Law of the Sea, a move
China has resisted because it may lead to a loss of some waters
it now claims.  Vietnam Oil & Gas Group (PVD) , known as PetroVietnam, last month
called for China National Offshore Oil Corp., the government-
owned parent of Cnooc Ltd., to cancel an invitation for foreign
companies to explore nine blocks that overlap with areas awarded
to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Moscow-based OAO Gazprom and  India ’s Oil &
Natural Gas Co. The Philippines has urged Asean to take a
position on its two-month standoff earlier this year with China
over a disputed reef known as the Scarborough Shoal in the
Philippines and Huangyan Island in China.  Chinese vessels last year cut the cables of a PetroVietnam
survey ship and chased away a boat in waters delimited by the
Philippines. The region is estimated to have as much as 30
billion metric tons of oil and 16 trillion cubic meters of gas,
which would account for about one-third of China’s oil and gas
resources, according to Xinhua. China had 2 billion tons of
proven oil reserves and 99 trillion cubic feet of natural gas
reserves in 2010, according to BP Plc estimates.  China, Japan  China has also clashed with  Japan  over a disputed island
chain known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese, where
both countries have sent patrol boats in recent weeks. Yang told
Japanese counterpart Koichiro Gemba yesterday in Phnom Penh that
he hopes Japan will appropriately handle problems in the
bilateral relationship, Xinhua reported.  In a visit to  Tokyo  this week, Clinton sought clarity on a
report that Japan’s government planned to buy the islands,
prompting an angry response from China. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he would continue to brief her on Japan’s plans,
according to a State Department official who wasn’t authorized
to speak on the record.  The U.S. interest in the South China Sea is based on the
importance of freedom of navigation in the 1.2 million-square-
mile body of water that links the Pacific and Indian oceans,
Clinton said today. China has denied its actions threaten
freedom of navigation.  “We believe the nations of the region should work
collaboratively and diplomatically to resolve disputes without
coercion, without intimidation, without threats, and without use
of force,” Clinton said.  China Military  The U.S. Defense Department noted in a 2009 report that
China’s growing military strength strength increases “Beijing’s
options for military coercion to press diplomatic advantage,
advance interests, or resolve disputes in its favor.” Chinese
military spending in 2011 is more than double that of Asean
countries combined, according to the National Bureau of Asia
Research, a Washington policy group. In 1990, the two budgets
were almost equal.  Last year, Asean and China agreed on guidelines to
implement a non-binding agreement signed in 2002. That  deal
 calls on signatories to avoid occupying disputed islands, inform
others of military exercises and resolve territorial disputes
peacefully.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in  Phnom Penh   at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Phnom Penh at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  