-- Some on FOMC Said More Stimulus Probably Will Be Needed
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-07-13T13:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/a-few-fomc-members-said-more-stimulus-probably-would-be-needed.html
(Corrects affiliation of executive in next-to-last
paragraph of story published on July 11.)  A few Federal Reserve policy makers
said the central bank will probably need to take more action to
boost the labor market and meet its inflation target, according
to minutes of their June meeting.  “A few members expressed the view that further policy
stimulus likely would be necessary to promote satisfactory
growth in employment and to ensure that the inflation rate would
be at the Committee’s goal,” according to the record of the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s June 19-20 gathering released
today in  Washington .  Stocks fell as the report disappointed investors looking
for a stronger signal that additional stimulus was likely. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last month said policy makers were
prepared to “take additional steps” to boost the economy
following their decision to extend the Operation Twist program
aimed at lowering long-term interest rates.  “The Fed is being cautious,” said  Mark Vitner , senior
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in Charlotte,  North
Carolina . “We are not at the threshold yet to justify
additional securities purchases and a further increase in the
balance sheet. We have to wait for a more of a slowdown before
the Fed will act.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell as much as 0.6 percent
after the release before closing 0.02 point lower at 1,341.45 at
4 p.m. in New York, posting a fifth-straight retreat. The yield
on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.51 percent from
1.50 percent yesterday.  Bond Purchases  Two participants said additional bond purchases are
appropriate, while two others said they would be warranted in
the absence of “satisfactory progress” in cutting unemployment
or if downside risks increase. FOMC members also said strains in
global markets stemming from  Europe ’s debt crisis had increased
since their April meeting, and that “U.S. fiscal policy would
be more contractionary than anticipated.”  The minutes also show policy makers considering the risk
that further easing might pose. Some members of the committee
noted that excessive purchase of Treasuries could “at some
point, lead to deterioration in the functioning of the Treasury
securities market that could undermine the intended effects of
the policy.”  Minutes of the meetings don’t identify participants by name
and sometimes use qualitative terms to describe how many hold a
certain view. “A few” means two or three, and “a number”
means four or five, according to Roberto Perli, a former senior
staff economist in the central banks’ division of monetary
affairs, which drafts the language in the Fed’s communications.  Low Risk  Members agreed the risk of such a deterioration was “low
at present” and would be outweighed by the benefits of
extending the Operation Twist program.  In their discussion of policy, a few members said it would
be “helpful to have a better understanding” of how large
purchases would have to be to disrupt the Treasury market.  Participants at the meeting said financial conditions had
become less supportive of the economy as investors’ concerns
about the euro region’s sovereign-debt and banking crisis
increased. Policy makers said that strains in Europe could spill
over into the U.S. and “noted the importance of undertaking
adequate preparations to address such spillovers if they were to
occur.”  The FOMC met before a Labor Department report last week
showing that companies hired 80,000 workers in June, fewer than
forecast, and the  unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent for a
second month. Growth in private employment, which excludes
government agencies, was the weakest in 10 months.  Growth Outlook  Policy makers in June also lowered their outlook for
economic growth and employment. They said they expect the
jobless  rate  to average 8 percent to 8.2 percent in the fourth
quarter of this year. The rate has been stuck above 8 percent
since February 2009.  The FOMC at the last meeting said it will extend Operation
Twist by swapping $267 billion of shorter-term securities with
the same amount of longer-term debt. The announcement extended
the previous $400 billion program introduced in September. The
Fed also repeated that its key  interest rate  was likely to stay
near zero at least through late 2014.  Several Fed policy makers said the central bank should
“explore the possibility of developing new tools to promote
more accommodative financial conditions and thereby support a
stronger economic recovery.”  High Uncertainty  Nearly all policy makers judged uncertainty about economic
growth and unemployment to be higher than the normal level
during the previous 20 years, the minutes show.  Fed officials continued their discussions of communications
policies at the June meeting, and noted that the economic and
interest rate forecasts they give to the public do not provide
guidance “about how those diverse views come together” in the
FOMC statement.  “Many participants indicated that if it were possible to
construct a quantitative economic projection and associated path
of appropriate policy that reflected the collective judgment of
the Committee, such a projection could potentially be helpful,”
the minute said.  Bernanke asked the communications subcommittee to “explore
the feasibility” of developing a consensus forecast of the
FOMC.  Since the June jobs report, San Francisco Fed President
 John Williams  and the Chicago Fed’s  Charles Evans  said that the
central bank could add additional stimulus through a third round
of asset purchases, this time including housing debt.  ‘Effective Tool’  “If further action is called for, the most effective tool
would be additional purchases of longer-maturity securities,
including agency mortgage-backed securities,” Williams said in
a July 9 speech in Coeur D’Alene,  Idaho . Evans said he would
have favored the Fed taking stronger action in June.  Recent data have pointed to slowing growth. Manufacturing
unexpectedly shrank in June for the first time since the economy
emerged from a recession three years ago, according to a July 2
report from the  Institute for Supply Management . A June 29
Commerce Department report showed that  consumer spending  stalled
in May.  Prices rose 1.5 percent from a year earlier in May, as
measured by the personal consumption expenditures price index.
The inflation gauge is the lowest since January 2011 and has
dropped from a 2011 peak of 2.9 percent in September.  Fed officials have identified the  European debt crisis  and
the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S. as risks to the economic
outlook. More than $600 billion in higher taxes and spending
cuts will take effect in 2013 unless Congress acts.  China, Europe  Central banks cut interest rates and boosted bond buying to
prop up economic growth on July 5. The  European Central Bank  and
People’s Bank of China cut their benchmark borrowing costs,
while the  Bank of England  raised the size of its asset-purchase
program. The steps by the U.K. and euro area pushed JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s average interest rate for developed economies to a
crisis-era low of 0.48 percent.  The outlook for residential real estate has continued to
improve, with prices falling in April at the slowest pace in
more than a year. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
in 20 cities dropped 1.9 percent in April from the same month in
2011, the smallest decline since November 2010, after decreasing
2.6 percent in the year ended March, the group said.  Auto Companies  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC
reported U.S. sales for June that beat analyst estimates,
helping the industry stay on pace for the best year since 2007.
Sales accelerated to a 14.1 million seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  That recovery is at risk if the economy continues to
deteriorate, said Kurt McNeil, U.S. vice president of sales
operations at Detroit-based GM. The pace of U.S. sales remains
below the 16.8 million annual total average from 2000 to 2007,
according to Autodata.  “We certainly need a stronger economy and more  job
creation  to continue driving auto sales back to pre-recession
levels,” McNeil said on a conference call following the July 3
U.S. sales report. “We still see headwinds but at the end of
the day we’re calling for moderate, gradual economic growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  