-- A New, Improved Draft? No Thanks
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-07-11T18:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/a-new-improved-draft-no-thanks.html
So Gen. Stanley McChrystal, and now Thomas Ricks, want to bring back the
draft. Writing yesterday in the  New York  Times, Ricks  proposes  a mandatory 18
months of national service following high school. Conscripts would enter the
military, but wouldn’t be deployed unless they volunteered to be. Instead, they
would do things like “paperwork, painting barracks, mowing lawns, driving
generals around, and generally doing lower-skills tasks so professional soldiers
don’t have to.” Or, young people could choose to do civilian service, but they would have to
do 24 months of that. The conscripts wouldn't be paid much, but they would get
free college tuition afterward. Where to begin with the idiocy of this? We can start with the fact that it is likely unconstitutional. I can see no
provision in the Constitution that authorizes mandatory national service, and
the  13th Amendment  bars "involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime
whereof the party shall have been duly convicted." The  Supreme Court  has upheld
a military draft, but under Congress's enumerated power "to raise and support
armies"; it is not at all clear that this power extends to mandated civilian
service. But even if the federal government can impose a peacetime civilian draft,
it's still a terrible idea. One issue is whether U.S. government agencies need,
at any given time, 5-million-odd unskilled and unwilling teenagers to do
paperwork and mow lawns. If the military's paperwork can be done by an 18-year-
old with no prior training, perhaps it doesn’t need to be done at all. This also goes against the stated purpose of the plan. Supposedly
conscription will discourage the U.S. from going to war unnecessarily. But if
you know your conscripted child isn’t going to be sent to  Afghanistan , but will
instead be on a military base in  Ohio , repainting a mess hall that was just
painted three days ago because the military has so many 18- and 19-year-old
painters, why should that change your opinion about sending other people's kids
to war? The plan would theoretically save money because conscripts are so much
cheaper than the career employees they could displace, whether civilian or
military. The article gives the example of high pay for custodians in the New
York City public schools.  Newt Gingrich  proposed replacing school custodians
with poor teenage students who want to earn extra cash. Ricks proposes replacing
some of them with recent high school grads with no option but to work for the
government for $15,000 a year. Three points to make about this: The first is that, well duh, conscripted
labor is cheap:  because you’re stealing it.  We could pass a law forcing
New York Times op-ed contributors to clean toilets for free, and that would be
cheap, too. The second is that, in general, well-paid employees are paid well
for a reason. Work requires skills, even custodial work. So, lower pay will be
offset by a reduction in worker productivity. Yes, sometimes, public employees
are overpaid. But that doesn't mean we could replace them with teenage
conscripts without consequence. Finally, while the idea is presented as saving the government money on
benefits (young conscripts won’t generally have kids or costly medical
conditions), it would also give the teenagers free college tuition once they
finish service. College, you may have noticed, is expensive. In fact four years
of college can cost a lot more than 18 months of family health coverage. So in
addition to being unwilling and incompetent, these conscripts may not even work
out to be cheap. The plan would also reduce GDP. It would delay workforce entry by 18 months
to two years, meaning that time young people spend on national service displaces
time they would spend working in their careers. Given the likelihood that
conscripts would be engaged in makework and projects of dubious value, it would
reduce national income. It also might well reduce birth rates. Young people today already find it
hard enough to get themselves to a point where they feel established enough to
marry and support children. Introducing another two years' delay into careers
would only exacerbate that trend. Both of those sound like fairly technical objections to mandatory national
service. But they are quantitative manifestations of what is so qualitatively
objectionable with this plan: People have things they want to be doing with
their time and their lives. Forcing them to take 18 months out -- roughly 2
percent of their expected life spans -- to work for the government at minimum
wage is no small thing. Ricks does allow that "libertarians" who "declined to help  Uncle Sam " should
have an out: They can skip the draft, but only if they also agree not to use any
federal programs. This is perhaps the most objectionable aspect of this
argument: that only a libertarian could be so rude as to insist that there is a
limit to what the government can tell him to do. If the government wants to
force me to work for it, it had better have a damned good reason, such as the
outbreak of a world war. Short of that, I'll reserve my right to decide what to
do with my time, thanks. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  Follow  him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Josh Barro and other Bloomberg View
columnists and editors at  the Ticker .