-- Airbus Scraps Target of 30 A380 Sales as Demand Dwindles
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-11T18:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/airbus-scraps-target-of-30-a380-sales-as-demand-dwindles.html
Airbus SAS abandoned a target of
selling 30 A380 superjumbo jets this year, as airlines opt for
smaller, less-expensive airliners in an economic slump.  “The big aircraft market has been slowing down,” Airbus
Sales Chief  John Leahy  said in an interview at the Farnborough
air show today. The target of 30 is “looking like a stretch at
this point but when you set your goals at the beginning of the
year you can’t change them. Let’s see how close we can get.”  Airbus has struggled with its flagship model, after cracks
emerged in wing components and output in the first half only
reached a third of the annual goal of 30 deliveries.  The A380, which typically seats about 520 passengers on two
decks, is Airbus’s response to  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 747 jumbo. That
plane’s latest variant, the 747-8, has also failed to sustain
the momentum of earlier versions, with Chicago-based Boeing
booking the last orders for the humpbacked jet one year ago.  Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. fell
4.7 percent, the most since October, to 26.92 euros in Paris.
The drop pared EADS’s gain this year to 11 percent.  Slow Intake  Airbus’s only contract for the A380 this year is one for
four aircraft worth $1.58 billion from  Russia ’s Transaero
Airlines. That’s after Leahy had said Feb. 15 at the  Singapore
air (SIA)  show that he expected to sell at least 30 of the planes,
replenishing the backlog by matching the delivery target.  “They’ll struggle to meet that level next year as well,”
said Mark Lapidus, managing partner at London-based Doric Asset
Finance Ltd., which is the biggest lessor of the A380, with 18.
“Fixing the wings is diverting a lot of resources and that’s
going to continue to be the case.”  The 747-8’s strength has been in the freighter model, with
70 sales so far compared with only 36 for the passenger version,
and even those purchases have been under pressure. Boeing said
in November that it lost a deal for five 747-8s when lessor
Dubai Aerospace Enterprise Ltd. converted that order to the
cargo version of the twin-engine 777.  “You can expect over the course of the next twelve months
a number of orders to be realized on the 747 on the passenger
side,” Patrick Shanahan, the chief of Boeing’s airplane
programs, said today. “The freight market has been a little
off. We have a good backlog there. I would expect the same
thing, maybe a little bit later.”  Four-Engine Aircraft  The A380 and 747 are the only remaining aircraft with four
engines in the manufacturers’ lineup. Airbus ended production of
its four-engine A340 last year after the jet with the company’s
longest fuselage lost out to the  Boeing 777 . Airlines are opting
for more fuel-efficient two-engine jets, as kerosene makes up
the single biggest expense for carriers.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and Singapore Airlines Ltd. have both
had to repair A380s after fissures were found in wing parts.
While the aircraft is safe to fly with the cracks, repair work
has cost Airbus more than a quarter of a billion euros and
damaged the image of the world’s largest commercial aircraft.
Emirates is the biggest customer for the A380, having ordered a
total of 90 units, with a list price of $389.9 million apiece.  Qatar Airways Ltd. will receive an upgraded version of
Airbus SAS’s A380 superjumbo after refusing to take jets with
wing faults requiring modifications later, Chief Executive
Officer Akbar Al Baker said at the show this week. The second-
biggest Middle East carrier behind Etihad will take its first
A380 in January 2014, he said.  Airbus has delivered 10 A380s so far this year, and would
need to double output in the second half to reach its target.
 Malaysian Airline System BHD (MAS)  is among the most recent airlines
to receive the double-decker, and the carrier has put the jet on
display at the Farnborough air show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Farnborough, England, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in Farnborough, England, at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  