-- Alzheimer’s Findings Offer New Direction on Treatment
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-07-12T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/alzheimer-s-findings-offer-new-direction-on-when-how-to-treat.html
In separate probes into the roots of
Alzheimer’s, scientists have uncovered a rare gene mutation that
keeps plaque from forming in the brain and found the disease may
take hold 25 years before symptoms appear.  The DNA variant slows production of an enzyme called beta
secretase-1 that helps form the hallmark brain tangles. The
finding, reported in the journal  Nature , supports the validity
of drugs being developed by Merck & Co.,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and
other companies designed to slow release of the enzyme, said
 Kari Stefansson , a report author.  The second study, published in the  New England Journal of
Medicine , involved people with DNA that predisposed them to the
disease before age 60. That research found changes in spinal
fluid 25 years before symptoms began, and brain volume
differences 15 years earlier. Together, the reports may lay
groundwork allowing scientists to identify when it may be best
to start treating patients and, perhaps, hold off the disease.  “These are steps on the pathway, really high-quality
ones,” said  William Thies , chief medical and scientific officer
for the Chicago-based Alzheimer’s Association. Though the
findings won’t lead directly to drugs and diagnostics, they may
provide a foundation for them, he said.  More than 5 million Americans have Alzheimer’s, which is
the most-common type of dementia, according to the Alzheimer’s
Association. Global dementia cases are expected to double within
20 years to as many as 65.7 million people, the Geneva-based
 World Health Organization  said in April.  DIAN Group  The New England Journal study focused on a group called the
 Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network , or DIAN. People in this
group have a dominant gene mutation inherited from their parents
guaranteeing they’ll get Alzheimer’s and suffer dementia before
age 60, said  Randall Bateman , a study author and a professor of
neurology at Washington University School of Medicine in  St.
Louis . That makes them an ideal to study the disease’s progress,
he said in a telephone interview.  “This may mean there’s a window of opportunity to
potentially intervene,” Bateman said. “The symptoms may
represent a brain failure after damage has been going on for
decades.”  The researchers used the DIAN group to estimate the time to
the onsets of symptoms by comparing them with their parents’
data. A 35-year-old whose parent was 45 when the symptoms began
was thought to be 10 years away from onset, the report said.  Certain signs, or biomarkers, found in spinal fluid or the
brain let scientists track disease progression, said  Laurie
Ryan , the program director for Alzheimer’s disease clinical
trials at the National Institute on Aging in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Changes Tracked  The researchers noted when changes occurred and accrued
over time, she said. If tests can be developed to determine
whether a person is at risk for the disease it may aid
diagnosis, help improve treatment and speed drug development,
the  Alzheimer’s Association ’s Thies said.  “Getting to the point where we can do a biomarker endpoint
for phase 3 clinical trials, that’s going to take a while,”
Thies said. “But we’re on the road to that.”  The first sign of impending Alzheimer’s in the DIAN
patients -- found 25 years before the expected beginnings of
symptoms -- was a drop in beta amyloid in the cerebrospinal
fluid. That indicates the protein isn’t getting cleared out of
the brain, Ryan said. While healthy brains break down and
eliminate beta amyloid, the protein fragments accumulate and
start to clump in the brains of people with Alzheimer’s.  Brain Atrophy  The next changes, observed 15 years before the expected
symptomatic illness, showed abnormal deposits of beta amyloid
and increased levels of tau, another characteristic Alzheimer’s
protein, as well as brain atrophy.  Five years after that, patients start to experience memory
problems. About three years after they were expected to have
symptom onset, patients meet the diagnostic criteria for
dementia, according to the study.  Bateman’s group is planning  an extension of the study  that
looks at three yet-to-be-determined experimental drugs, to see
if treating patients earlier will help stave off the effects of
the mind-robbing illnesses.  Because the DIAN group uses an  early-onset form of the
illness , meaning before age 60, Bateman and other scientists
urged caution in stretching the finding to the more-common late
onset type of Alzheimer’s.  “We don’t know if this is exactly what we’d see in late-
onset  Alzheimer’s disease ,” in the course of the disease in
people without the mutation, Ryan said. “But we have data that
suggests similar patterns.”  Drug Trials  Drug trials are being planned to evaluate whether earlier
intervention will help people who are at added risk for
Alzheimer’s due to family history or because they carry certain
biomarkers for the disease without showing impairment. Those
trials will be discussed at the Alzheimer’s Association
International Conference in  Vancouver  beginning on July 14.  The finding of a rare, gene mutation that protects against
Alzheimer’s, described in the paper published in Nature, may
support new treatment approaches in fighting the brain plaques
associated with the disease. Scientists from deCode Genetics
Inc. discovered the mutation that prevents an enzyme called  beta
secretase 1 , or BACE-1, from helping create the characteristic
beta amyloid tangles in the brains of Alzheimer’s patients.
Drugs that mimic this action are in development from  Merck &
Co. (MRK) , Eli Lilly & Co. and  Eisai Co. (4523)   The variant points to a mechanism that’s different from the
experimental therapies from Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer Inc. and
Lilly that are designed to clear beta amyloid from the brain by
binding directly to the protein. The mutation was associated
with a 40 percent reduction in beta amyloid in those people
carrying it, the paper said.  Clinical Testing  The discovery signals that beta secretase inhibitors such
as Merck’s, expected this year to start the second of three
phases of clinical testing generally needed for marketing
approval, might be on the right track.  “It provides encouraging evidence that reducing the
production of amyloid, and in particular through beta secretase
activity matters for preclinical disease,” said Eric Reiman,
chief executive officer of Banner Research, a Phoenix-based
medical research institute, and a professor of psychiatry at the
University of  Arizona  in a telephone interview. “The question
is, how early do you need to start?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 