-- Animals Like Sex, Suffer Erectile Dysfunction: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/animals-like-sex-suffer-erectile-dysfunction-interview.html
Stallions self-mutilate, wild
chimpanzees feel depressed, koalas acquire sexually transmitted
diseases and wallabies get stoned.  Owing to our common evolution, human beings share many
behaviors -- and disorders -- with denizens of the animal
kingdom. Yet veterinarians and doctors rarely trade notes.  UCLA Health System cardiologist Barbara Natterson-Horowitz
and science writer Kathryn Bowers spent five years researching
the ways animal and human conditions can illuminate one another.
The result is “Zoobiquity: What Animals Can Teach Us About
Health and the Science of Healing.”  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: In addition to cancer,  heart disease  and
diabetes, animals have erectile dysfunction, obsessive-
compulsive disorder, anorexia -- all kinds of psychiatric
problems?  Bowers: Yes. But most physicians see animals and their
diseases as somehow “different.”  But what is a physician -- a veterinarian who treats only
one species.  New Treatments  Lundborg: How can it help us to look at animals?  Natterson-Horowitz: We could get new treatments or new
perspectives if vets and physicians collaborated.  In human psychiatry, for example, cognitive behavioral
therapy, or CBT, is really the rage. Who are greater experts
than animal behaviorists?  A therapist with patients who burn themselves with
cigarettes could talk shop with a bird specialist who treats
parrots with feather-picking disorder.  Lundborg: What is deep homology?  Bowers: A term to describe the genetic kernels we share
with nearly all creatures, so genes taken from a sighted mouse
and placed into a blind fruit fly cause the insect to grow
structurally accurate fly eyes.  All living creatures, including plants, are long-lost
relatives.  Lundborg: Why do vets care more about sex than physicians?  Bowers: They see it as a marker of health, and it’s just
folded into the animal’s daily life.  Natterson-Horowitz: Sometimes it’s easier to talk to your
cardiovascular patients about whether they can walk up a flight
of stairs carrying a bag of groceries instead of asking, “Are
you having sex or are you having angina?”  Male Mammals  Lundborg: The oldest penis on record was active 425 million
years ago and belonged to a crustacean. What does the long
evolutionary history mean for men?  Natterson-Horowitz: Every aspect of ourselves has emerged
through hundreds of millions of years of natural selection,
including our sexuality.  Mammals emerged about 200 million years ago -- if you’re a
male mammal you have a penis, you get erections, you copulate,
you ejaculate. The neurological sequence that has to happen to
have an erection is conserved across mammals and other animals.  Lundborg: Not just mammals?  Bowers: That a turtle would have an erection in the same
way that a human being would have is kind of astounding.  Lundborg: How did evolution shape sex?  Natterson-Horowitz: It’s evolutionary biology that
underlies making connections between the central nervous system
and the penis.  Over time it became more strategic in terms of becoming
erect in response to opportunity and then detumescing, deflating
in response to threat.  Lundborg: One barnacle has a penis 40 times the size of its
body. So, how important is length?  Bowers: If you need to mate with a barnacle on the other
side of the rock, it’s probably pretty important to have a long
one. A barnacle in a roiling tide pool has a shorter, thicker
penis.  Erectile Dysfunction  There are certain bird species that have actually lost the
penis because it seems to be aerodynamically not advantageous.  Lundborg: What does the animal kingdom tell you about
erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation?  Bowers: It tells you that it happens and it’s normal.  Lundborg: How did it get pathologized?  Natterson-Horowitz: I hope that the book can de-pathologize
a number of conditions because people who suffer from ED or
eating disorders or cancer or whatever it is, not only have to
deal with the disorder but the shame and the self-recrimination
and the guilt.  Knowing it all happens across species can for some people
reduce that.  Lundborg: Animals also have sex for reasons other than
procreation?  Bowers: The more we started looking at erection,
ejaculation -- and orgasm in both sexes -- we started thinking
about what would entice animals to engage in sexual activity.
And the answer is pleasure. Feeling. Sensation.  Natterson-Horowitz: Masturbation is so common, from mammals
to insects, and you also see lots and lots of same-sex activity.  In fact, most of the sexual activity in animals is non-
procreative -- the reproductive aspect is a byproduct.  Stoned Critters  Lundborg: Why do animals deliberately hurt themselves?  Bowers: Most animals groom, and they release feel-good
neurochemicals. When an animal gets stressed, those activities
can increase.  They are trying to get more and more of that feeling and
they end up actually hurting themselves.  Natterson-Horowitz: Cutters say it makes them feel
relieved, it calms them, so it’s sort of grooming amplified.
Pain also releases endorphins.  Lundborg: What does it tell us that animals get stoned?  Natterson-Horowitz: People with substance-abuse problems
and addiction suffer so much blame.  But it’s a biologically driven disease, with a chemical
reward system shared by other animals, from worms to primates,
which has been in existence for millions of years.  Lundborg: Why did you write this love-letter to vets?  Natterson-Horowitz: I became a better doctor by working
with veterinarians and I feel my colleagues should be reaching
across the species divide and collaborating.  Most people love their veterinarians, and many patients
actually say that they wish their physicians were more like
their vets.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  dining  and  book  reviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 