-- Apple Quitting Green Registry Leads to Purchasing Fallout
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-07-11T20:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/apple-quitting-green-registry-leads-to-purchasing-fallout.html
San Francisco  plans to suspend
purchases of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  computers after the company stopped
participating in an environmental certification program used by
governments and universities to make purchasing decisions.  San Francisco’s 50 departments and 28,000 employees will no
longer be able to use city funds to buy Apple desktops, laptops
or monitors because the Cupertino, California-based company
dropped out of a rating system called  EPEAT  to track the
environmental impact of computers, Jon Walton, the city’s chief
information officer, said yesterday in an interview. The city’s
policy doesn’t apply to iPhones and iPads, he said.  Apple’s plan to drop participation in the program may have
broad consequences because many governments and universities are
required to use EPEAT’s registry when making purchasing
decisions. The  University of California , the largest U.S. public
higher-education system, is considering whether to suspend Apple
computer purchases because its bylaws require computers to meet
the standards, said  Bill Allison , head of campus technology
services at the Berkeley campus.  “When something like this happens, it’s a significant
change in the landscape,” Allison said. The school needs two
weeks to work with Apple and administrators in the university
system to consider how to move forward, he said. “We’re
reviewing the impact of this.”  San Francisco’s decision was first reported by the Wall
Street Journal’s  CIO Journal .  ‘Comprehensive Approach’  Apple defended its decision to drop out of EPEAT, which it
helped create several years ago. The company said it meets
strict environmental standards, including the government’s
Energy Star program, that exceed EPEAT.  “Apple takes a comprehensive approach to measuring our
environmental impact, and all of our products meet the strictest
energy-efficiency standards backed by the U.S. government,”
said  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple. “We also lead the
industry by reporting each product’s greenhouse gas emissions on
our website, and Apple products are superior in other important
environmental areas not measured by EPEAT, such as removal of
toxic materials.”  Allison, of the University of  California , said Apple’s move
may lead to an updating of the environmental standard, which is
several years old. Apple told him that EPEAT is outdated and has
become less effective as manufacturing standards and product
design have changed, he said.  Purchasing Decisions  Design changes for Apple’s new MacBook Pro may have led the
company to pull out of EPEAT, said  Kyle Wiens , the co-founder of
IFixit, which performs tear-down analysis for consumer-
electronics products and advocates for better recycling
practices. The latest MacBook’s battery is now glued to the
aluminum body of the laptop, making it more difficult to
disassemble and recycle, he said.  EPEAT standards make purchasing decisions easier because
the school doesn’t have the budget or time to review each
product on a case-by-case basis, Allison said.  “It may be that we need to help push vendors who like to
act unilaterally when they can to work together to evolve the
current standard,” he said.  While Apple has occasionally run afoul of environmental
groups -- including being  targeted by Greenpeace  protesters for
not using enough clean energy at its data centers -- the company
has taken steps to be more green. Apple said in May that its
500,000-square-foot data center in  North Carolina  will be
powered by renewable energy by 2013. It was also the first
technology company to eliminate PVC toxins used to insulate
power cords and in flame retardants for its products.  Environmental Impact  EPEAT was started in 2006 by technology companies, U.S.
government agencies and outside groups as a rating system for
buyers of electronics to determine the environmental impact of
products.  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. are among the manufacturers that  participate , according to
the group’s website.  “We regret that Apple will no longer be registering its
products in EPEAT,” the group said on its website. “We hope
that they will decide to do so again at some point in future.”  According to EPEAT’s website, the registry is used to make
purchasing decisions at the states of California and
 Massachusetts ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Yale University.  The U.S. General Services Administration, the agency in
charge of much of the federal government’s purchases,
“recommends EPEAT, but at this time GSA doesn’t require EPEAT
for all contracts,” said Dan Cruz, a spokesman for the agency,
in an e-mailed statement.  Cornell University , in Ithaca,  New York , will be reviewing
decisions around computer purchasing “carefully,” according to
Thomas Romantic, director of Cornell Business Services.
Middlebury College in  Vermont  also is evaluating how to proceed,
said Jack Byrne, director of sustainability integration at the
school.  In San Francisco, Apple’s products make up about $45,000 of
the city’s total $200 million information technology budget,
Walton, the city’s CIO, said.  “I’m just hopeful that we can have a dialog with Apple so
we can continue to work with them,” he said.  Apple’s shares fell less than 1 percent to $604.43 at the
close in New York. The stock has increased 49 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  