-- Marc Dreier’s Son Says College Roommates Bet He Would Drop Out
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-11T22:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/marc-dreier-s-son-says-college-roommates-bet-he-would-drop-out.html
Spencer Dreier, the son of convicted
ex-lawyer  Marc Dreier , testified that after his father’s 2008
arrest for fraud, his college roommates bet on how long he would
take their taunting before he left school.  Dreier, 22, addressed a jury in federal court in  Manhattan 
for about three and a half hours in his defamation trial against
his former roommate, Ben Clorite. U.S. District Judge John G. Koetl asked Dreier 10 times to slow down in the first two hours.  “When your father gets arrested and everything one day is
one way and another day another way, it’s unsettling; it’s
upsetting,” Dreier said. Still, he said, he hoped his roommates
would be sympathetic but “It was just the opposite.”  Marc Dreier pleaded guilty in May 2009 to  money laundering ,
conspiracy,  securities fraud  and  wire fraud  after admitting to
stealing $400 million by selling fake notes to hedge funds. He
was arrested in early December 2008, just as his son was
beginning winter break in his freshman year.  Spencer Dreier said that while he and Clorite had never
gotten along, the situation worsened when the students returned
to Schenectady, New York-based Union College after that recess.  Clorite “was constantly telling me he was reading about
the case and suggesting extracurricular reading to the other
students,” Dreier said.  Running Bet  He said Clorite and the other two men who lived in their
suite had a running bet about how long he would stay at the
school and in the suite.  Jerome Coleman, a lawyer representing Clorite, accused
Dreier during the beginning of cross-examination of fabricating
some of the details of his story.  “Isn’t it true that there was never any pool about whether
you would stay in college? You just made it up?” Coleman asked.
“Isn’t it true that you had hostility toward Ben Clorite?”  Dreier responded that he wouldn’t have made the statement
under oath if it weren’t true.  Clorite told the jury during his testimony that he and the
other suitemates were concerned about Dreier’s mental health
when they heard about his father’s arrest. He said they wrote to
officials who oversaw their dorm to suggest there be extra
support in place when Dreier returned to school.  Taunting Increased  Instead, Dreier testified, the taunting increased.  “They would talk literally as loud as they could,” Dreier
told the jury. “They would scream about me or my father” and
“Say, ‘Oh! Did you see that article today?’”  The younger Dreier sued his former roommate for defamation
after Clorite posted a comment on the Wall Street Journal’s Law
Blog accusing Spencer of obstructing the case against his father
and attempting to destroy evidence.  Spencer Dreier, who is representing himself, told the jury
he had no involvement in his father’s Ponzi scheme or in trying
to obstruct the case after his father’s arrest.  “I’m trying not to use too severe words in saying how
ridiculous these statements are,” Dreier said. “The whole
statement is just mean, unfounded, and totally ruined everything
I had going at Union.”  Dreier is seeking more than $4 million in damages from
Clorite over the alleged defamation and an assault Dreier
alleges occured during a physical altercation the men had in
January 2009. Both men left Union College after the 2009
incident.  Clorite countersued Dreier for defamation and is seeking
damages related to forfeited tuition payments and costs
associated with the litigation, totaling more than $260,000.  Marc Dreier, 62, is serving a 20-year sentence in federal
prison in  Minnesota .  The case is Dreier v. Clorite, 09-cv-7553, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  