-- Marriott Earnings Increase as Corporate Bookings Improve
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-07-11T21:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/marriott-earnings-increase-as-corporate-bookings-improve.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, said second-quarter
earnings increased 5.9 percent as demand from groups and
corporate travelers rose for high-end hotels.  Net income climbed to $143 million, or 42 cents a share,
from $135 million, or 37 cents, a year earlier, the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company said today in a statement. Results
matched the average estimate of 11 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Earnings are being helped by group bookings and demand for
upscale hotel rooms in major cities in North America and  Asia ,
Nikhil Bhalla, a senior lodging analyst at FBR & Co. in
Arlington,  Virginia , said before results were announced. In
 Washington , demand rose “slightly” from the first quarter, he
said. Marriott, whose brands include Ritz-Carlton, has about 5
percent of its rooms in the U.S. capital.  “Our business performed well in most markets around the
world,”  Arne Sorenson , Marriott’s president and chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “In North America,
strengthening group business, more travel by our special
corporate customers, especially in the technology and consulting
industries, and the impact of modest supply growth, drove our
occupancy and room rates higher.”  Earnings met the company’s own forecast from April.
Marriott had projected earnings of 39 cents to 43 cents a share
for the quarter.  Revenue Increases  Revenue climbed to $2.78 billion from an adjusted $2.61
billion, which excludes results from the timeshare business that
Marriott spun off in November. Without the adjustment, revenue
fell 6.6 percent.  Marriott said comparable revenue per available room rose
6.5 percent at hotels systemwide in  North America , and 7.2
percent internationally. That was within its April forecast that
revpar, an industry measure of occupancies and rates, would gain
6 percent to 8 percent in all regions before currency
adjustments.  “With robust group bookings in North America, including
Washington, D.C., we expect strong revpar and room-rate growth
in the second half of the year,” Sorenson said.  Group revenue on the books is up 10 percent for the second
half of this year and 8 percent for 2013, according to Sorenson.
Marriott’s planning an increase of almost 10 percent in
corporate rates for hotel stays scheduled for next year, he
said.  Marriott expects third-quarter earnings of 39 cents to 41
cents a share and 2012 earnings of $1.65 to $1.75. That’s higher
than its April forecast of $1.58 to $1.69. Marriott’s full-year
estimate doesn’t include the impact of its planned $210 million
acquisition of  Gaylord Entertainment Co. (GET) ’s hotel brand and
management company, announced in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  