-- Marvin Traub, Former Bloomingdale’s CEO, Dies at Age 87
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-07-11T22:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/marvin-traub-former-bloomingdale-s-ceo-dies-at-age-87.html
Marvin S. Traub, who helped
distinguish Bloomingdale’s from the department-store pack by
offering glamorous, luxurious products from around the world,
has died. He was 87.  Traub had suffered from bladder cancer, according to
Mortimer Singer, president of Martin Traub Associates.  Traub served as the luxury retailer’s president and chief
executive officer for 22 years, according to the  website  for his
self-named consulting firm. He helped turn the phrase “like no
other store in the world” into the slogan and marching order
for Bloomingdale’s and turned its flagship, at Lexington Avenue
and 59th Street in  Manhattan , into a showcase.  “He was a showman,” said Walter Loeb, founder of the New
York-based retail consulting firm Loeb Associates Inc. “He
understood that theater is what made Bloomingdale’s a very
special place to shop. Whether it was country-tied events, or
bringing fashion designers in contact with shoppers for the
first time, it was all about the excitement.”  A merchandising manager at the store since 1962, Traub
became president in 1969 and oversaw the opening of new branches
and the growth of “Bloomie’s” as a brand name, particularly on
women’s underwear.  “Blessed with enormous energy, he will always be
remembered for the devotion he gave to our store for the last 62
years,” current CEO and Chairman Michael Gould said in an e-
mail to employees. “Marvin took great pride in all of those
that he mentored, from retail industry leaders to our
Bloomingdale’s family. He touched so many and we are grateful to
have been a part of his journey.”  Fashion Heritage  Marvin Stuart Traub was born on April 14, 1925, in  New York
City , an only child. His father, Sam, was vice president of a
corset company, and his mother, Bea, was a saleswoman at Bonwit
Teller in  New York , according to a 1980 People magazine profile.  His studies at  Harvard University  were interrupted by U.S.
Army service during World War II, during which he was severely
wounded by a bullet. Back at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Harvard, he helped resurrect the student newspaper, the Crimson,
which had suspended publication during the war, People reported.
He attended  Harvard Business School , specializing in marketing.  After a year working for the Alexander’s retail chain, he
joined Bloomingdale’s.  Survivors include his wife, Lee, and three children,
Andrew, James and Peggy, according to Singer.  Today,  Macy’s Inc. (M) , based in Cincinnati and New York,
operates 37 Bloomingdale’s locations in addition to about 800
Macy’s stores. The parent company earned $1.26 billion on
revenue of $26.4 billion in its fiscal year ending in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net 
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  