-- U.S. Stocks Pare Drop as Investors Dissect Fed Minutes
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-07-11T20:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/asian-stocks-drop-for-fifth-day-on-growth-concern-yen-advances.html
U.S. stocks pared losses in the
final half hour of trading as investors debated whether the
 Federal Reserve  will embark on another economic stimulus
program. The Dollar Index touched a two-year high while
commodities gained and Treasuries were little changed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped less than 0.1
percent to 1,341.45 at 4 p.m. in  New York , paring a drop of 0.6
percent. The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six
major peers, rose as much as 0.3 percent to 83.61 before paring
its gain to 0.1 percent. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities added
1.1 percent as oil rose following a drop in U.S. supplies. Gold
lost 0.5 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields rose one basis point
to 1.51 percent after approaching a record low.  Stocks slid  and the dollar rose as Fed minutes showed two
participants said more bond purchases are appropriate, while two
others said they would be needed in the absence of
“satisfactory progress” in cutting unemployment or if downside
risks grew. Equities recovered as analysts dissected the
minutes, with Jefferies & Co. economist  Ward McCarthy  saying in
a note there’s a “reasonable probability” a third round of
quantitative easing is announced in coming months.  “What often happens is when the market is looking for
something positive and doesn’t get it, it will read into the
notes and see what the implication of the Fed’s posture is and
the posture is clearly more toward an accommodation than it was
a month ago,” said  Peter Kenny , managing director in
institutional sales at Knight Capital Group Inc. in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey .  ‘Cheerleading’  The minutes from the June meeting also show policy makers
considered the risk that further easing might pose. Some central
bankers noted that excessive purchase of Treasuries may lead to
deterioration in the functioning of the Treasury market. UBS AG
economist  Drew Matus  wrote in a client note that the language in
the Fed minutes indicates the threshold for a third round of
quantitative easing is high and should not be taken as a given.  “There is not much cheerleading in these minutes,”  Mike Shea , a managing partner at New York-based brokerage firm Direct
Access Partners LLC, said in an interview. “We see a lot of
discussion on what the real benefits of more stimulus would be,
and it appears there is a conclusion that benefits would be
modest.”  The Fed minutes come amid growing concern that the U.S.
economic recovery is faltering and corporate profits are
shrinking. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its estimate for second-
quarter U.S. gross-domestic product growth twice today, lowering
it to 1.3 percent after data on wholesale inventories and the
trade deficit dimmed prospects for the economy.  Earnings Season  Earnings at  S&P 500  companies decreased 1.8 percent in the
second quarter, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That would mark the first year-over-year decline
since 2009.  Technology  shares  in the S&P 500 slipped 0.6 percent as a
group and were the biggest drag on the index for a second day.
The group lost 1.2 percent yesterday as reduced sales
projections at Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and  Applied Materials
Inc. (AMAT)  spurred concern about profits at technology companies, the
group forecast to have the strongest second-quarter earnings
growth among 10 industries.  Five-Day Slump  The S&P 500 has slipped for five straight days, the longest
slump in almost two months. United Technologies Corp., Boeing
Co. and Microsoft Corp. lost at least 1.5 percent to lead
declines in 21 of 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) ,
which fell 48.59 points to 12,604.53. Exxon Mobil Corp. and
Chevron Corp. rose at least 0.9 percent as energy shares had the
biggest advance in the S&P 500, while Bank of America Corp. rose
2 percent to pace an advance in banks.  Last’s month Fed meeting came before a report July 6 that
showed U.S. employers added fewer workers than forecast in June
and growth in private payrolls was the slowest in 10 months.  The  Dollar Index  reversed a decline of as much as 0.4
percent. The U.S. currency strengthened against nine of its 16
major peers, rising the most against the South African rand,
Swedish krona and Japanese yen.  Almost two shares fell for each that gained in the  Stoxx
Europe 600. (SXXP)  Burberry Group Plc tumbled 7.4 percent after the
U.K.’s largest luxury-goods company reported sales that missed
estimates. Britvic Plc plunged 13 percent after the maker of
Robinsons fruit drinks said full-year results will be at the
bottom end of analysts’ estimates. Bankia SA, the nationalized
Spanish lender, tumbled 7.8 percent.  Spain Rally  Spain ’s IBEX 35 Index of stocks rallied 1.2 percent and its
bonds surged for a second day after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said the government will take more measures amounting to 65
billion euros ($79.9 billion) to shore up the budget.  The prime minister announced cuts in jobless benefits and
public wages, signaled reductions in pensions and raised sales
taxes as part of a 65 billion-euro ($80 billion) package of
deficit cuts, risking a deeper recession. As striking miners
clamored for aid to keep their industry alive in a march along
 Madrid ’s main boulevard, Rajoy trimmed union funding by 20
percent.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond fell 23 basis points to
6.58 percent, while the rate on similar-maturity Italian
securities slipped 14 basis points to 5.81 percent.  The yield on 10-year  German bunds  decreased five basis
points to 1.27 percent as the government sold 4.15 billion euros
of the securities at a record-low yield of 1.31 percent. Two-
year German yields were minus 0.016 percent.  Corn Reverses  Corn fell 2.2 percent to $7.015 a bushel, retreating from a
10-month high on speculation that a drought-fueled rally in
prices will curb demand. Earlier, the grain reached $7.48, the
highest for the most-active contract since Sept. 13. Today, the
USDA cut its domestic production estimate by 12 percent a month
after predicting a record harvest. The U.S. is the world’s
largest grower and exporter.  Corn prices through yesterday surged 42 percent since mid-
June as areas of moderate to extreme drought expanded to 53
percent of the Midwest. Crop conditions as of July 8 were the
worst for that date since the drought of 1988, government data
show.  Oil in New York rose 2.3 percent to $85.81 a barrel today
after the U.S. Energy Department reported supplies dropped and
refineries operated at the highest rate in almost five years.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.2 percent,
retreating for a sixth day in the longest run of declines since
May. Russia’s Micex Index lost 1.3 percent and  India ’s Sensex
slipped 0.7 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.5
percent. The Turkish lira strengthened against 13 of 16 major
peers after the current-account deficit narrowed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  