-- Mason Capital Seeks Disclosure Order for Telus Vote Proxies
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-11T14:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/mason-capital-seeks-disclosure-order-for-telus-vote-proxies.html
Mason Capital Management LLC asked a
court to order  Telus Corp. (T)  to release details of shareholder
proxy votes on a plan to merge the Canadian wireless carrier’s
two stock classes that the  investment company  opposed.  Lawyers for New York-based Mason sought an order for Telus
to deliver “unredacted copies” of the proxies, in a July 10
petition to the  Supreme Court  of British Columbia. Mason also
said it raised its stake in Telus to 19.98 percent, without
giving a previous figure. Jonathan Gasthalter, a Mason
spokesman, declined to comment beyond the filing.  Telus announced on May 9 that it dropped the plan to
convert all nonvoting shares into voting stock on a 1-to-1
basis, saying the proposal wouldn’t survive a shareholder vote.
Mason used its stake to pressure Vancouver-based Telus to
withdraw the plan because it would dilute the value of the
voting shares the investment company had bought.  Some investors submitted proxies before Telus dropped the
plan. Mason said it sought full results of those votes since the
May balloting and received only edited copies of the proxies for
voting shares and nothing for the nonvoting shares.  “We will oppose this filing,” said  Shawn Hall , a Telus
spokesman. “As this matter is before the courts we cannot
comment further.”  Telus’s  voting shares  fell 1.2 percent to C$62.51 at
10:57 a.m. in Toronto. The  non-voting shares , which have
historically traded at a discount to the voting stock, declined
1.2 percent to C$61.26.  Potential Sale  Mason had enlisted  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to help sell a stake
of about 20 percent in Telus Corp. and contacted 20 to 30
potential investors, a person familiar with the discussions said
in June. The investment company was talking to strategic buyers
in the industry, said the person, who declined to be named
because the talks were private.  Telus wanted to boost the appeal of its stock as the
carrier competes in Canada’s wireless market with  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,
 Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and newer companies. Chief Executive
Officer Darren Entwistle said in May after withdrawing the share
plan that he remained committed to a 1-for-1 conversion and
planned to introduce a new proposal “in due course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  