-- Australian Dollar Gains as Some Fed Officials See Stimulus Need
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-11T21:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/australian-dollar-gains-as-some-fed-officials-see-stimulus-need.html
The Australian dollar strengthened
against all of its most-traded counterparts as Federal Reserve
minutes showed a few policy makers said more stimulus may be
needed, adding to demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The Aussie was the biggest gainer yesterday against the
 U.S. dollar  and the yen and rose to a record versus the euro.
New Zealand’s currency also rose against most of its major
counterparts as commodities gained and a report showed  consumer
confidence  in Australia reached a five-month high. The minutes
from the U.S. central bank’s June meeting showed a few officials
thought a third round of the asset purchasing program known as
quantitative easing would likely be needed to boost the economy.  “People were looking for signs that QE3 is coming and
people were slightly adding riskier currencies,” saidJohn Curran, a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online
foreign-exchange dealer in Toronto.  The Australian dollar gained as much as 0.7 percent to
A$1.19354 per euro yesterday in New York. The Aussie climbed 0.6
percent to $1.0251 and rose 1 percent to 81.77 yen.  The  New Zealand dollar , nicknamed the kiwi, gained 0.3
percent to 79.65 U.S. cents and appreciated 0.7 percent to 63.53
yen.  The  Thomson Reuters-Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
rose 0.7 percent to 290.79, led by a gain in oil.  Consumer Sentiment  An index of Australian  consumer sentiment  advanced 3.7
percent in July to 99.1, the highest level since February,
according to a report yesterday from Westpac Banking Corp. and
the Melbourne Institute. Data released earlier this month showed
retail sales increased in May and home-building approvals
climbed by a record.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan announced new currency
talks with China, the nation’s biggest trading partner, about
direct exchange between the Aussie and the  yuan , also called the
 renminbi . He said yesterday that while he is in  Hong Kong  and
Beijing this week he will discuss the possibility of “direct
convertibility at some stage in the future between the
Australian dollar and the renminbi for transactions completed in
mainland China, without pricing through the U.S. dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  