-- Austrian Towns Have $25 Billion in Hidden Debt: Study
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-07-11T13:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/austrian-towns-have-25-billion-undisclosed-debt-study.html
Austrian municipalities have as much
as 20 billion euros ($25 billion) in off-balance-sheet debt
which isn’t fully recognized in official statistics, a state-
sponsored  monitoring group  said.  The liabilities, which are owed by entities operating
public transport, utilities, theaters, museums and hospitals,
aren’t counted toward  Austria ’s public debt and are not
completely disclosed, the State Debt Commission said in a  study 
released today. The numbers were based on a survey and excluded
the capital Vienna, where a quarter of all Austrians live.  “The off-budget debt level of municipalities has probably
reached a significant magnitude,” authors Eva Hauth and
Bernhard Grossmann said in the study. “Off-budget companies
controlled by municipalities have a significant impact on their
financial situation because of their importance.”  Austria’s debt and deficit are below the euro-area average
and the interest it has to pay on its debt dropped to record
lows this year after investors moved into its bonds during the
euro-debt crisis. While it lost its triple-A rating at Standard
& Poor’s this year because of risks to its banks, it still holds
the top  credit rating  at Moody’s Corp. and Fitch Ratings Ltd.  The Alpine republic expects its  budget deficit  to rise to 3
percent of gross domestic product this year, from 2.6 percent in
2011, because of bank aid given to KA Finanz AG and
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG. (VBPS)  Its debt is due to rise to 74.7
percent of GDP, from 72.2 percent.  Maastricht Rules  Austrian towns and cities established companies beginning
in the 1990s to operate local utilities, hospitals and public
transport. Other companies constructed and managed buildings.  The 20 billion euro debt, equivalent to 6.7 percent of
Austria’s GDP, comes on top of 4.6 billion euros in municipal
liabilities already recognized under European Union rules, the
study said. By comparison, Vienna has around 4 billion euros of
officially-recognized debt, according to the study.  As much as half the municipal debt load is hidden at off-
balance-sheet companies, according to estimates collected by the
study. Researchers used a questionnaire that was returned by 14
percent of Austria’s 2,357 towns. Another 7.9 billion euros
disclosed by municipalities in their budgets isn’t being counted
toward total debt under EU rules.  Water and Waste  Companies performing water, waste and recycling management
for more than one municipality had an additional 2.1 billion
euros in debt according to the most recent figures published in
2008, the study said.  EU rules say that municipal companies don’t need to be
counted toward state-debt levels as long as they meet conditions
like covering costs through unsubsidized revenue. Whether the EU
criteria is always properly applied and whether the companies
have adequate assets to balance against their debt, wasn’t
determined, the State Debt Commission’s President, Bernhard Felderer, told journalists in Vienna today.  “It could be that those liabilities are matched by assets
and this isn’t as bad as it looks, but it could also be that
they aren’t,” Felderer said. “It could be, like, ski lifts
nobody needs anymore. We just don’t know.”  While outsourcing local-government services to municipal
companies can increase efficiency, they can also raise risks in
the absence of transparency and oversight, the study said.  “Spin-offs must be regarded critically especially if they
are used exclusively as instruments for staff management, for
‘creative accounting’ with respect to the Maastricht criteria,
or for a more flexible debt management,” the authors said in
the study. In such cases “there is a significant debt risk,”
they said.  Austria’s State Debt Commission is an independent group of
experts that monitors the nation’s financing and compiles
research and recommendations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  