-- Australian Home-Loan Approvals Unexpectedly Declined in May
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-11T01:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/australian-home-loan-approvals-unexpectedly-declined-in-may.html
Australian home-loan approvals
unexpectedly fell in May, the first drop since February, as the
highest  interest rates  among major developed economies
discouraged investors from entering the market.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments declined 1.2 percent from April, when they rose a
revised 0.5 percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists
was for a 0.8 percent increase in approvals.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
the benchmark rate by a total of 75 basis points in May and June
as weakness in Europe and  China  threaten the global outlook,
after reducing it by 50 basis points late last year. Policy
makers left borrowing costs unchanged at 3.5 percent this month,
and traders are betting Stevens will resume cutting in August as
industries outside of resources struggled under a high currency,
prompting job losses at manufacturers and retailers.  “Stubbornly cautious consumers are proving reluctant to
get into debt with heightened global uncertainty, despite 125
basis points worth of rate cuts,” Katrina Ell, an economist at
Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said before the release.  The local dollar was little changed after the report,
buying $1.0186 at 11:39 a.m. in Sydney.  Today’s report showed the total value of loans fell 1.4
percent to A$20.2 billion ($20.6 billion) in May.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers gained 0.2 percent,
the report showed. The value of loans to investors who plan to
rent or resell homes dropped 4.6 percent.  First-Time Buyers  First-home buyers accounted for 17.8 percent of dwellings
that were financed in May, up from 16.8 percent in April and
higher than 16.7 percent a year earlier, the report showed
today.  Australian  house prices  dropped in the three months through
March in the longest losing streak in at least a decade.  An index measuring prices for established houses in eight
major cities dropped 1.1 percent last quarter from the previous
three months, when it fell a revised 0.7 percent, a government
report showed May 1.  Traders are pricing in a 67 percent chance the central bank
will lower borrowing costs by a quarter-percentage point to 3.25
percent at its meeting next month, swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  