-- Australia Consumer Confidence Rises to 5-Month High on Rate Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-11T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/australia-consumer-confidence-rises-to-5-month-high-on-rate-cuts.html
Australian  consumer confidence  rose
to a five-month high as households responded to the central
bank’s 1.25 percentage points of interest-rate cuts since
November, a private survey showed.  The sentiment index for July advanced 3.7 percent to 99.1,
the highest level since February, a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and
Melbourne Institute survey taken July 2-8 of 1,200 consumers
showed today in Sydney.  “Finally we have some evidence that the Reserve Bank’s
policy of cutting the official cash rate by 125 basis points
between November last year and June this year is starting to
gain more positive traction with households,”  Bill Evans ,
Westpac’s chief economist, said in a statement. “However, this
result is far from convincing and should not be interpreted that
we can expect confidence to steadily return to more normal
levels over the months ahead.”  The survey responses, last week’s greater-than-expected
increase in retail sales and a record month of building
approvals add to the case for Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  to extend a rate pause at next month’s meeting.
The RBA cut the benchmark by 50 basis points late last year and
a total of 75 basis points in May and June as weakness in Europe
and  China  threaten the global outlook.Policy makers left
borrowing costs unchanged at 3.5 percent this month.  Mortgage Holders  “While the  Reserve Bank  did not cut  interest rates 
further, there was a strong 5.5 percent jump in the confidence
of those respondents who hold a mortgage,” Evans said.  Traders are pricing in a 74 percent chance the central bank
will lower borrowing costs by a quarter-percentage point to 3.25
percent at its meeting next month, swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Although there are tentative signs of improvement
emerging in some interest-rate sensitive parts of the economy,
these have yet to show a convincing recovery and remain
vulnerable to renewed weakness,” Evans said. “Our call that
the next cut will come in August could prove to be too early.
However, because we believe that Australia needs lower rates and
much can happen, particularly in the international economy, we
are comfortable maintaining that view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  