-- Avenue Said to Raise $2.8 Billion for Distressed Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-07-11T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/avenue-said-to-raise-2-8-billion-for-distressed-fund.html
Avenue Capital  Group LLC, the
distressed-debt firm co-founded by billionaire  Marc Lasry , has
closed its second European fund at $2.78 billion to invest in
companies hurt by the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, according
to a person familiar with the situation.  The firm in May exceeded its $2.5 billion goal for Avenue
Europe Special Situations Fund II, a little more than one year
after starting to raise money, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the fund is private. Kathleen Deveny, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based firm, declined to comment.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and Davidson Kempner Capital
Management LLC are among firms targeting distressed debt in
Europe to take advantage of deals arising from the region’s
crisis. Lasry said in a Bloomberg Television interview last
month that he doesn’t expect  Europe  to “blow up” and that he
sees a plenty of distressed debt investing opportunities there.  The new fund will make investments in northern European
countries, including the U.K., Germany, Ireland, Belgium and the
Netherlands as well as Scandinavian nations, the firm said in
marketing materials sent in April 2011. The fund will mainly buy
senior secured debt, equities or other financial obligations of
companies in financial difficulty.  The firm offered investors the choice between investing in
a euro-denominated vehicle and dollar-denominated fund,
according to the marketing materials. The prior fund, Avenue
Europe Special Situations Fund LP, was euro-denominated.  Avenue raised 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) in 2008 for
the predecessor fund, which was generating a 1.4 times multiple
and 11.6 percent internal rate of return as of Dec. 31,
according to the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System ,
which has invested in the vehicle.  Lasry and his sister,  Sonia Gardner , founded Avenue Capital
in 1995. The firm, which invests in distressed and undervalued
debt and equity in the U.S., Asia and Europe, managed about
$12.5 billion in assets as of June 30, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  