-- Avolon Sees North America Airline Shift to Jet Leases Over Bonds
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-11T16:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/avolon-sees-north-america-airline-shift-to-jet-leases-over-bonds.html
Avolon, the Dublin-based aircraft
lessor, expects to win more business from North  American
airlines  as carriers in the region shift toward jet rentals
instead of financing planes in the  capital markets .  Airlines are signaling interest in leasing aircraft rather
than buying jets and using them as collateral for bonds, Chief
Executive Officer Domhnal Slattery said today in an interview at
the Farnborough air show near  London , where Avolon committed to
purchase as many as 30  Boeing Co. (BA)  737 Max jets.  “We’ve upped our allocation to  North America  because for
the first time in my career, I can see significant opportunity
to lease aircraft in the U.S.,” said Slattery, a 23-year
industry veteran who founded closely held Avolon in 2010.  Orders and commitments from lessors, not airlines, have
dominated this week’s expo, the year’s highest-profile trade
event for the  aerospace industry . Boeing’s leasing-company
agreements through today had a $19.7 billion list value, while
Airbus SAS has logged jet-lease deals worth about $4.4 billion.  Major North American airlines are seeing that “operating
leasing is a fleet-planning tool,” said Slattery, whose company
has 79 planes with airlines and 16 more joining its portfolio by
year’s end. “We see, as a macro comment, very significant fleet
replacement opportunities over the next 10 years.”  Lessors’ roles have grown worldwide as carriers seek to
preserve cash. In 1990, 10 percent of the world’s fleet was
leased. By 2015 that will reach 35 percent, according to
industry-data provider Ascend, which is based in London.  Two Directions  Avolon buys new planes directly from Boeing and Airbus, as
well as purchasing jets from airlines and renting them back
through so-called sale-leaseback transactions. Those deals have
been used by carriers such as AMR Corp.’s American Airlines,
which agreed to a sale-leaseback with lessor AerCap in 2011 to
finance as many as 35 new Boeing 737s.  Avolon’s sale-leaseback efforts include trying to obtain
Boeing 787 Dreamliners, Chief Commercial Officer John Higgins
said at the Farnborough International Air Show.  “We’re currently bidding on some airplanes that are
delivering next year,” Higgins said in an interview. “We would
hope to own 787s in the next 12 months. At the upper end I would
hope to buy four of them in the next 12 months.”  Avolon has an equity base of $1.4 billion, according to
Slattery. That includes $300 million in equity investment won
from the government of  Singapore  in January.  “That’s been a positive development in a number of ways,”
Slattery said. “In  Asia , where we do a lot of business, the
government of Singapore is a very strong benchmark-type brand
and the fact that they’ve invested in Avolon has sent strong
signals into airline and financial community.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in London at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  