-- Lawmakers Back Strong Lawsuit Protection for Mortgage Lenders
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-07-11T18:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/lawmakers-back-strong-lawsuit-protection-for-mortgage-lenders.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau should give the strongest possible legal
protection to mortgage lenders who follow key underwriting
rules, according to lawmakers preparing a letter to the agency.  Representatives Shelley Moore Capito and  Brad Sherman  will
send a letter to the CFPB on the so-called qualified mortgage
rule later this week that calls for a strong standard, Capito
said at a congressional hearing today in  Washington .  “We must ensure that reforms do not increase the cost of
mortgage credit and therefore restrict credit-worthy borrowers
from receiving  mortgage loans ,” Capito, a West Virginia
Republican, said during the hearing by a House Financial
Services subcommittee. “If there is not sufficient legal
certainty for these loans, the cost of credit for borrowers
could rise as well as fewer mortgages being issued.”  So far, 90 lawmakers have signed the letter, of whom 13 are
Democrats, Ben Fishel, a spokesman for Sherman, a California
Democrat.  The regulation, which the bureau must issue by January 21,
2013, aims to discourage lenders from making home loans with
risky features and outlining steps they must take to verify
borrowers’ finances. Banks that follow the guidelines will gain
protection against being held liable for borrower defaults.  The extent of that legal protection has divided both
industry and consumer groups. The  Federal Reserve , which
proposed the initial rule in 2011 and then handed it off to the
CFPB, has suggested two options: a “safe harbor” standard
which offers complete protection from liability, or a
“presumption” that loans issued according to quality standards
were non-abusive. A presumptive standard could nonetheless be
rebutted by a borrower or bondholder in court.  Credit Restricted  Some industry groups have argued that, without a safe
harbor, lenders will pull back on lending for fear of provoking
extensive litigation.  Debra Still, President and Chief Executive Officer of Pulte
Mortgage, a lender headquartered in Englewood,  Colorado , told
lawmakers at the hearing that consumers harmed by a credit
pullback could be among the most vulnerable.  “If this rule is not finalized appropriately, the impact
will likely be worse for the very borrowers we are trying to
protect and hinder the availability of credit for far too many
borrowers who are otherwise qualified,” said Still, who is also
chairwoman-elect of the  Mortgage Bankers Association . “We will
undoubtedly end up with a far more restrictive lending
environment than we have today, and simultaneously harm the
larger economy for years to come.”  Richard Cordray , director of the consumer bureau, said the
agency wants to avoid the question “being punted into the
courts.” He said it was less important which standard
regulators pick than that it be written clearly.  “If you leave the standards vague and mushy, there’s not a
lot of difference between the two,” Cordray said at a hearing
on March 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  