-- Barclays, U.S. Say Libor Probe Doesn’t Affect 2010 Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-11T20:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/barclays-u-s-say-libor-probe-doesn-t-affect-2010-case.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and the U.S.  Justice
Department  said the bank’s settlement of allegations involving
its manipulation of the London interbank offered rate has “no
effect” on a 2010 deferred-prosecution agreement requiring the
bank to stay out of criminal trouble.  Barclays’s conduct related to its submissions of benchmark
 interest rates  occurred from about 2005 through 2009 -- before
the bank signed the agreement, lawyers for Barclays and the U.S.
said today in a filing in federal court in  Washington .  “Because the conduct preceded the term of the DPA, which
began on August 16, 2010, it does not affect whether Barclays is
in compliance with the DPA,” according to the joint filing.  On June 27, Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($449
million), the largest penalties ever imposed by regulators in
the U.S. and U.K., after admitting it submitted false London and
euro interbank offered rates. Part of that fine went to the
Justice Department, which agreed not to prosecute the bank for
what it called “illegal conduct.”  U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  on June 28 ordered the
parties to explain how the Libor settlement affected the 2010
agreement, which involves a $298 million settlement with the
U.S. over illegal dealings with such nations as  Sudan  and  Iran .  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and  Mark Lane , a spokesman for London-based Barclays, declined to comment
on the filing.  Terms of Deal  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, must
comply until Aug. 16 with the terms of the deferred-prosecution
agreement, which the judge approved on Aug. 18, 2010. Such
agreements allow a company to avoid a criminal conviction as
long as the terms of the deal are met.  The accord states that if the Justice Department determines
that Barclays has committed “any federal crime,” the bank may
be subject to prosecution for facilitating money transfers that
violated U.S. sanctions against Cuba,  Libya ,  Burma , Sudan and
Iran from about March 1995 through September 2006.  In a report to Sullivan on May 30, the department said
Barclays was in compliance with the agreement.  “To date, the United States is not aware that Barclays has
committed any federal crime during the term of the DPA,” Daniel
Marposon, a trial attorney in the Justice Department’s asset
forfeiture and money laundering section, wrote in the report.  ‘Full Compliance’  In its own May 30 report, Barclays said it was “aware of
no determination by the United States that it has committed any
federal crime during the term of the DPA.”  Today’s filing points to a paragraph in the 2010 agreement
that states “the discovery by the  United States  of any purely
historical criminal conduct that did not take place during the
term of the agreement will not constitute a breach” of the
deal.  “Barclays remains in full compliance” with the agreement,
the filing states.  A day before approving the Barclays accord two years ago,
Sullivan called it a “sweetheart deal” and demanded more
information from the bank and prosecutors. He criticized the
Justice Department for failing to go after individuals and
punishing only the company’s shareholders.  In his order approving the agreement, the judge said both
sides were required to file status reports that “shall inform
the court what progress has been made under the terms” of the
agreement.  In particular, Sullivan said he wanted to know what steps
Barclays was taking to make its current and former officers,
consultants, and employees available to federal investigators
and the progress of implementing compliance procedures.  The case is U.S. v. Barclays Bank Plc, 10-cr-00218, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  