-- Batista May Win Petrobras Deal on Ship Delays: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-07-11T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/batista-may-win-petrobras-deal-on-ship-delays-corporate-brazil.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the shipbuilder
controlled by Brazil’s richest man, stands to benefit from a
rival’s failure to deliver vessels on time for offshore oil
production. So do the company’s plunging shares.  Eike Batista ’s OSX is among companies vying to sell  oil
tankers  and other ships to  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  as Brazil’s
state-owned  oil company  seeks to more than double output of
crude by 2020. Until now, OSX has principally supplied Batista’s
own production company,  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA. (OGXP3)   Petrobras, as the oil company is known, in April suspended
a 16-tanker contract with Estaleiro Atlantico Sul SA, which
delivered its first ship 21 months late and lost its
construction technology partner in March. That opens the field
for OSX, said Luiz Broad, an analyst at Agora Corretora.  A major vessel contract with Petrobras “would be very
positive,” Broad said in a telephone interview from  Rio de
Janeiro . “It would have immediate effect on the shares.”  OSX shares have dropped 68 percent since their March 22,
2010 initial public offering, compared with a 22 percent decline
for the benchmark  Bovespa Index. (IBOV)  The shares have suffered from
the production company’s failure to meet its own forecasts on
timetables and levels of oil production.  The OSX shipyard is under construction in Sao Joao da Barra
in northern Rio de Janeiro state and will be the biggest in the
Americas, according to the company’s business plan. It is
scheduled to launch its first domestically built Floating,
Production, Storage and Offloading vessel, or FPSO, in 2014.
Last year OSX delivered to OGX a vessel of the same type built
in South Korea, and two others are under construction in
Singapore.  Local Content  Under former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , the
Brazilian government created rules that require oil producers to
acquire locally made equipment in an attempt to develop
industries ranging from shipyards to oil service providers.
Batista created OSX in 2009 to profit from the rules while also
supplying OGX, his oil company.  OSX, based in Rio de Janeiro, is in talks to become a
supplier of drilling rigs and support vessels for Petrobras,
Luiz Carneiro said in May, before he moved from being chief
executive officer of OSX to the same post at Rio-based OGX. The
shipbuilder in March announced a contract to construct 11 oil
tankers for London-based Kingfish Trading Ltd.’s Brazilian unit
for $732 million.  “Talks continue for the construction of rigs and are
advanced,” OSX said in an e-mailed response to questions about
possible deals with Petrobras. “Talks also reflect the diverse
business opportunities that exist in the Brazilian oil and gas
market in which OSX participates: leasing of off-shore
production units, shipbuilding and operating services.” OSX has
no current contracts with Petrobras, the company said.  American Shipyards  Batista’s shipbuilding arm isn’t the only potential
beneficiary of delays at local yards. U.S. shipbuilders
 Tidewater Inc. (TDW)  and  Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc. (HOS)  and rig
suppliers  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and  Noble Corp. (NE)  could also step in,
according to James West, an analyst at Barclay’s Capital.  “The rig count is ramping up so they need more vessels to
support all the expansion,” West said in a June 29 phone
interview from New York. “There are more and more vessels
heading into Brazil every year. There’s a lot of competition in
Brazil with local providers, and OSX will obviously be one of
those.”  Petrobras intends to take its total vessel count to 578 in
2020 from 280 in 2010, according to West.  As for EAS, the tanker company whose contract was
suspended, Petrobras fined it for the delays and gave it until
Aug. 30 to find a new partner.  New Partner  South Korea ’s  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140)  quit the EAS
partnership in March. While EAS has informed Petrobras’s
transportation unit that it has signed an agreement with a new
technological partner from Japan, the shipbuilder must comply
with further conditions before the suspension is lifted,
Transpetro, the shipping unit, said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  EAS’s new technology partner is Tokyo-based IHI Marine
United Inc., the shipbuilder’s external press office said in an
e-mailed statement. The press office referred questions on the
Transpetro contract to Transpetro.  The Petrobras unit plans to acquire 49 new tankers by 2016
as the parent plans to boost output to about 5.7 million barrels
a day in 2020 from 2.4 billion in 2011. The company, Latin
America’s largest by market value and producer of 93 percent of
Brazil’s oil in May, seeks to increase output in Brazil to about
4.9 billion barrels from the current 2.02 billion as it taps so-
called pre-salt reserves.  Salt Layer  Trapped under a layer of salt beneath the Atlantic seabed
as far as 300 kilometers from the Rio de Janeiro coastline, the
at least 50 billion barrels of pre-salt deposits discovered in
2007 are the biggest discovery in the Americas since Mexico’s
Cantarell field was found in 1976. Spain’s  Repsol SA (REP) , Portugal’s
 Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  and the U.K.’s  BG Group Plc (BG/)  also have
stakes in pre-salt fields off Brazil.  “OSX’s original business plan, and what the markets take
into account, is that they would only supply OGX,” said Jose Luiz Garcia, a portfolio manager at Rio de Janeiro-based
investment fund Mercatto Gestao de Recursos. “Any orders it
gets from others parties will be positive for OSX. Given the
share price, I don’t think the market is considering that
possibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  