-- Berlusconi Will Probably Run Again in 2013, Party Official Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-07-11T12:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/berlusconi-will-probably-run-again-in-2013-party-official-says.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  will probably lead his People of Liberty party into
the next elections due by April 2013, the party’s Secretary
General Angelino Alfano said.  “We are all asking him to run and I believe in the end, he
will decide to lead the party,” Alfano said in an interview in
Rome today with Sky TG24 television.  Berlusconi, 75, resigned in November at a time when Italy’s
10-year bond yield topped 7 percent and turned the government
over to Prime Minister  Mario Monti . Berlusconi has since then
backed Monti and seen support for his party dwindle in the
months since leaving power. Even with his legal woes, Berlusconi
remains one of the nation’s most popular politicians. He is
currently on trial charged with paying a minor for sex.
Berlusconi denies the charge.  Under Monti,  Italy ’s yields initially declined, falling to
less than 5 percent in March. In recent months, the country’s
borrowing costs once again surged, topping 6 percent as recently
as July 10 as  Spain ’s bailout request fueled concern that Italy
would be next.  The jump in Italy’s yields, which pushed the  premium  over
similar German debt to 4.5 percentage points, shows that
Berlusconi was not the reason why investors shunned Italian
bonds as his critics have said, Alfano said.  Berlusconi, one of Italy’s richest men with a fortune
estimated by Forbes at $5.9 billion, has been elected prime
minister three times and was the country’s longest-serving
premier since World War II.  ‘Normal’ Italy  Monti said today in a speech in  Rome  that the Italian
political system will return to “normal” after his unelected
government completes its term next year. The premier said
yesterday that he didn’t intend to remain in politics after the
elections, responding to speculation in the press that he could
be asked to serve another term after the vote.  Berlusconi may face an uphill fight. His party would have
support of just 15 percent of voters if elections were held now,
the lowest since Berlusconi entered politics in 1994, according
to a June 15 poll by SWG Institute. That compared with 24
percent for the  Democratic Party , the main rival of Berlusconi’s
party, which also supports Monti’s government.  The People of Liberty party has seen some of its backers
shift to the insurgent party of comedian-turned politician Beppe Grillo, who has said Italy should consider abandoning the euro
and defaulting on its debt. His Five-Star movement had 20
percent support in the poll, up from about 11 percent the
previous month, SWG said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  