-- Blackstone Said to Bid for ING Asia With Ex-AIA Head
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-07-12T09:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/blackstone-said-to-join-with-ex-aia-head-in-ing-asia-bid.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is teaming up
with  Mark Wilson , the former head of  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , and other
investors in a bid for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Asian insurance business,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The group, which includes reinsurer  Swiss Re (SREN)  Ltd., may make
an offer of 5 billion euros to 6 billion euros ($7.35 billion)
by July 16, the deadline for final bids, said one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the process is private.
ING agreed to divest its  insurance and asset management
operations  before the end of 2013 as a condition of receiving
state aid.  AIA,  Korea Life Insurance Co. (088350) , and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) 
also plan to bid for the ING insurance unit, three people with
knowledge of the matter said. A sale to a company with existing
insurance operations may have a greater chance of getting
regulatory clearance in countries including South  Korea , two
people said.  “The nature of a financial investor is such that they will
typically be looking to exit the business at a future date.”
said Mark Kellock, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays Plc.
“There may be greater certainty from the regulators’ point of
view if an insurance company, with a long-term commitment, is
the buyer.”  ING, led by Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen, opted to
sell the Asian units separately from the European ones as
 Europe ’s debt crisis damped prospects for divestments there. It
is seeking at least $7 billion for the Asian business, people
with knowledge of the matter said in March. Wilson, the ex-AIA
chief who is also a former executive at U.S. insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , would provide management expertise,
said one of the people.  Rival Bidders  The Blackstone-led group may also be competing with bidders
including  Richard Li , son of Hong Kong’s richest man, the person
said. Korea’s KB Life Insurance Co. was also among companies
invited to make-second round bids, people familiar with the
matter said May 31. It isn’t clear that the Blackstone-led group
has any advantage in the bidding and no final decision has been
made.  ING’s Asia life insurance operations are spread across the
region, with larger businesses in Korea, Japan,  Malaysia  and
Hong Kong, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts Arjan van Veen and
Frances Feng wrote in a Feb. 14 report.  Wilson Clash  Richard Li sold his stake in Hong Kong insurer Pacific
Century Insurance Holdings Ltd. to Fortis, the Belgian-Dutch
financial-services company now called Ageas, in 2007. He
acquired PineBridge Investments, a money-management firm, from
AIG in 2010.  Richard Li’s father  Li Ka-shing  said in May he will offer
his son financial support to build businesses outside of the
family’s Cheung Kong Group of companies. His younger son is in
talks with “several sizeable enterprises” for possible
acquisitions, the 83-year-old billionaire said.  AIG, the insurer bailed out by the U.S. government, sold
most of Hong Kong-based AIA in an initial public offering in
2010. Wilson was replaced at AIA after clashing with AIG CEO
 Robert Benmosche  over how to divest the Hong Kong-based
business, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Officials at ING, Blackstone, AIA, Korea Life, Manulife,
Swiss Re and a spokesman for Richard Li declined to comment on
the sale process.  Crisis Impact  The sovereign debt crisis sweeping Europe has stalled
dealmaking in the region as sellers can’t garner the prices they
seek for assets and financing for buyers remains costly.
Announced private-equity deals in Europe have dropped more than
50 percent to $56.8 billion so far this year compared with 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ING agreed to sell assets to help repay the Netherlands
after receiving aid following the 2008 financial crisis. The
Dutch company is also selling its asset management business in
Asia, which may be worth about 500 million euros, according to
an April 19 estimate by Hans Pluijgers, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux.  Blackstone, run by  Stephen Schwarzman , is the world’s
biggest private-equity manager by total assets under management.
The New York-based firm, created in 1985, has expanded
businesses including its hedge fund, credit and real estate. Its
advisory unit began working with AIG in 2008 to restructure its
business and sell units after a government bailout of the
insurance company prevented its collapse.  Regulator Concerns  ING, which would prefer to sell the Asia unit as a whole,
will entertain separate bids for operations in different
countries, people with knowledge of the matter have said.  Taiwanese regulators in August 2010 rejected a $2.2 billion
bid by a group led by Primus Financial Holdings Ltd. for AIG’s
local operations, citing concerns about their financial
capability and long-term commitment.  “Whoever the buyer is, at the end of the day, the
regulators’ greatest interest is the stability of the business
and policyholders’ protection,” said Kellock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  