-- Blackrock, Morgan Stanley Favor Corporate Bonds
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-07-11T06:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/blackrock-morgan-stanley-favor-corporate-bonds.html
Treasury yields that are approaching
record lows are sending  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
asset manager, and Morgan Stanley, one of the bond dealers that
trade with the Federal Reserve, to corporate debt.  The 10-year  yield  of 1.51 percent is seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, from the all-time low set June 1. Bonds
in an index of company debt offer yields that are 294 basis
points more than Treasuries on average, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. Investor demand for corporate bonds has
narrowed the gap, the so-called spread, from 348 on Dec. 31.  “Corporates, even high-yield corporates, are in pretty
good shape,” said James Keenan, a managing director at
BlackRock, which is in  New York  and invests $3.68 trillion.
“The excess spread you’re getting is pretty significant. And
it’s hard to see a lot of defaults without a significant
economic recession,” he said yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik
Schatzker .  While economic growth slowed to 1.9 percent in the first
quarter, it will quicken to 2.5 percent in the fourth, according
to Bloomberg surveys of financial companies. The Fed has pledged
to keep its target for overnight bank lending at almost zero at
least through late 2014 and is extending the maturity of its
Treasury holdings to put downward pressure on long-term
government yields to fuel the expansion.  Outpacing Treasuries  “Corporate credit is the place to be,” Gregory Peters,
chief cross-asset strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York, said
yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Ruhle
and  Adam Johnson . “That’s what we’re telling investors.”
Morgan Stanley is one of the 21 primary dealers that trade
directly with the U.S. central bank.  Treasuries have returned 2.5 percent this year, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data, with investors
seeking U.S. securities as a haven from slowing economic growth
and a fiscal crisis in  Europe . The corporate bond index gained
6.5 percent, the data show. It includes high-yield debt, those
securities ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  The  term premium , a model created by the Federal Reserve
that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and
inflation, shows Treasuries are the most expensive ever. The
gauge fell to a  record low  of negative 0.96 percent yesterday.  Investors as far away as Asia are starting to take note.  Treasury Alternatives  “Corporate and dollar-denominated sovereign bonds are more
attractive than Treasuries,” said Tsutomu Komiya, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $115 billion from  Tokyo  as an investor
at Daiwa Asset Management Co., part of Japan’s second-largest
brokerage. “As long as the  Federal Reserve  keeps its strong
easing policy, demand for bonds other than Treasuries will be
strong.”  Company debt can help investors keep up with inflation,
according to Boston-based Columbia Management Investment
Advisers LLC, which oversees $344 billion. With consumer price
increases running at an annual pace of 1.7 percent, 10-year
Treasuries have a so-called real yield of negative 19 basis
points.  “To earn a ‘real’ yield, or a yield above the rate of
inflation, bond investors need to venture further out on the
risk spectrum,” Gene Tannuzzo, a portfolio manager at Columbia,
wrote in a report on the company’s  website  July 9.  Columbia favors high-grade company bonds and agency
mortgage-backed securities such as those issued by  Fannie Mae ,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  