-- BofA Give-Away Has Few Takers Among Homeowners: Mortgages
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-07-11T16:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/bofa-give-away-has-few-takers-among-homeowners-mortgages.html
When  Bank of America Corp.  sent
letters to 60,000 struggling homeowners offering to slice an
average $150,000 off their loans, the lender got an unusual
response from most of them: silence.  Homeowners who fell behind on their payments began
receiving the mailings in May, part of the bank’s effort to meet
terms of the $25 billion industry settlement over foreclosure
abuses. More than half haven’t responded as “borrower fatigue”
causes them to tune out the offers, said  Dan Frahm , a spokesman
for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank.  “The number of customers responding is lower than we
expected, given the significant assistance available,” Frahm
said in an interview. “We are working very hard to determine
why response rates are lower than expectations.”  Bank of America, which pledged almost half of the fines and
assistance in the February settlement with state and federal
officials, is critical to determining how many U.S. homeowners
are helped by the landmark deal. Housing advocates say that
relying on the same companies that committed loan servicing
abuses to avert foreclosures may result in yet another program
that helps fewer people than intended.  Previous efforts to bolster the housing market haven’t
helped as much as expected. When President  Barack Obama 
announced the Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP, in
2009 he set a goal of 3 million to 4 million renewed loans.
Fewer than one million have been permanently modified.  Principal Reductions  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
will offer principal reductions to more than 200,000 clients by
August, Frahm said. Other steps include cash incentives to sell
a delinquent borrower’s home for less than the amount owed and a
pilot program to turn owners into renters, he said.  Homeowners are exhausted from fighting  foreclosure  and may
think offers to cut loans by one-third aren’t legitimate, Ron Sturzenegger, head of the lender’s Legacy Assets Servicing unit,
said last month at a conference in Denver.  “In many cases, customers unable to make their mortgage
payments are overwhelmed by the process,” Sturzenegger, 52,
said. “Unfortunately, many customers may just be tired of the
process and thinking about giving up.”  Initial solicitations went to those who were delinquent for
the longest and may have abandoned their homes, Frahm said. The
response may improve as the lender reaches those who have been
behind for shorter periods, he said, declining to give specific
figures.  ‘Incredible Dysfunction’  The company has about 1 million customers who have missed
at least 60 days of payments, about 85 percent of whom were
inherited from the 2008 takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp.
The bank, which has posted more than $40 billion of costs tied
to faulty home loans and foreclosures, has about 50,000 people
working to help distressed homeowners.  Borrowers have lost faith in Bank of America and other
servicers, said Lisa Sitkin, managing attorney at Housing and
Economic Rights Advocates in Oakland,  California . Those seeking
modifications have had their paperwork misplaced, been told
conflicting messages and have had applications rejected based on
incorrect information, she said.  “There’s incredible dysfunction in the way they set up
their systems to handle this, and when mistakes happen, which is
constant, they have very little ability to correct them,”
Sitkin said. “If Bank of America is complaining about borrower
fatigue, they can look to themselves for the reason.”  Lost Paperwork  Hassan Fallah, 59, said he has been trying to modify his
Countrywide loan on his Brentwood, California home since late
2009. The hotel manager’s tax returns were lost by Bank of
America, service representatives didn’t return calls or referred
him to people no longer employed by the lender, and he was
eventually told he didn’t qualify for the government’s Home
Affordable Modification Program.  This year, Bank of America reviewed his case for the
 settlement ’s debt forgiveness program. A May rejection letter
overstated his monthly income by $1,400 and left blank inputs
that should have stated potential savings, he said.  “It’s been nothing but a horrible experience with Bank of
America,” Fallah said in an interview. “I would not want
anyone to go through what we went through the last two and a
half years.”  The lender, which had set a July 11 foreclosure date on his
home, is reviewing the case after the California  monitor  for the
settlement got involved. Fallah said he bought the two-story
house in 2003 with a 30-year loan fixed at almost 6 percent
interest. Making payments became difficult after his annual
income fell by $20,000.  Lowest Rating  Bank of America had the  lowest  rating of any large lender
in a December survey by  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based American
Customer Satisfaction Index LLC. ConsumerAffairs.com, a news and
advocacy website, also gave the company a low rating, and an
online forum for complaints about Bank of America mortgages can
be found  here .  Frahm, the Bank of America spokesman, acknowledged that
botched customer interactions “could be a reason for lower-
than-expected response rates.”  The firm is attempting to overcome their misgivings with
appeals by mail,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  packets, e-mails and phone calls
and may work through community housing groups, Frahm said.
Homeowners may be better off getting a loan modified this year,
before tax rules that exempt principal forgiveness as income for
some filers expire, he said.  Bank of America is “confident we will meet our obligations
under the settlement,” he said.  Bank Rules  The lender requires only verification of income for the
modifications, he said. Those who qualify must be at least two
months behind on payments on a mortgage that’s larger than the
value of the property. Bank of America can’t make the offer to
most of its delinquent borrowers because loans owned by  Fannie
Mae  or  Freddie Mac  aren’t included in the settlement.  The February settlement was hailed by Housing and Urban
Development Secretary Shaun Donovan as providing “ immediate 
relief” to distressed homeowners. That could be in jeopardy if
servicers fall short and foreclosures aren’t prevented, which
may cause the U.S. housing market to dip again, said Mike Calhoun, president of the Center for Responsible Lending.  It was allegations of shoddy mortgage servicing, including
using so called robo-signers to cut corners while seizing homes,
that prompted a 16-month investigation and the accord with 49
state  attorneys general  and the  Department of Justice .  “The whole nature of the settlement was ‘We had a broken
system,’ and now you’re asking people to trust this system,”
Calhoun said. “A lot of people are reluctant to believe the
banks.”  Lenders’ actions may be even more important because part of
the settlement’s $2.5 billion of state funds for foreclosure
prevention has been diverted to other purposes, such as propping
up local budgets, according to a Bloomberg Government report.  Better Response  Other firms involved in the settlement, including  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , indicated they may be
getting a better response than Bank of America.  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. mortgage servicer, persuades
80 percent of those who are at least two months delinquent to
work with them, said Tom Goyda, a spokesman for the San
Francisco-based firm. He declined to give a specific figure for
modifications linked to the settlement, as did the other banks.  GMAC Mortgage, the bankrupt lender owned by Detroit-based
Ally, said it has reached out to half of eligible borrowers and
the response has been “high,” according to Susan Fitzpatrick,
a spokeswoman for the business.  Prequalified Offers  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is being “proactive” by sending some
customers prequalified modification offers that require only a
signature and automatically cutting  interest rates  for others,
said  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for the New York-based firm.
 Mark Rodgers  of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  declined to comment.  The settlement’s effects on mortgage bonds appear marginal
so far,  Fitch Ratings  said this week. About 30 percent of
modifications to loans packaged into private securities included
balance cuts in June, up from 20 percent in February, the firm
said, attributing the change to an existing trend.  Bank of America and JPMorgan were singled out as failing to
properly implement HAMP, the U.S. Treasury Department said last
year. The firms, whose CEOs have denounced principal forgiveness
as unfair to those paying their debts, miscalculated borrower
incomes on one-fifth of loans, Treasury said.  Joseph Smith , the former North Carolina commissioner of
banks assigned to police lenders as part of the settlement,
declined to comment before a report due in September, said
spokeswoman Laura Brewer. He can work with state officials to
sue companies that don’t operate in good faith, she said.  Just as with HAMP, firms probably aren’t devoting the
resources needed to adhere to the settlement, making enforcement
by regulators crucial, said  Diane Thompson , an attorney
specializing in mortgage issues at the National Consumer Law
Center in Boston.  “If the attorneys general and the monitor are willing and
able to crack down on Bank of America and the other servicers,
the settlement may help a lot of people,” Thompson said. “If
they don’t, it will be yet another disappointment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  