-- BofA Lifts Bank Bonds to Best Returns of 2012: Credit Markets
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-07-11T15:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/bofa-lifts-bank-bonds-to-best-returns-of-2012-credit-markets.html
Bank bonds are outperforming every
other industry this year as financial firms reduce their supply
of debt and boost capital to meet new risk-curbing regulations.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  lead 8.1
percent returns on dollar-denominated bank notes since year-end,
versus 5.4 percent on non-financial bonds, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Last year, bank bonds were the
worst performers, gaining 1.71 percent.  Lenders responding to the Dodd-Frank and Basel III
financial-regulation overhauls are reducing the amount of debt
for the first time since 1991, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. The securities are returning more than twice as
much as  stocks  this year, even after Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded 15 of the world’s largest lenders last month, as
confidence mounts they can weather a deepening crisis in  Europe 
and a global slowdown.  “If I am a bank bond holder, I am looking at an
institution that is going to have more cash, less leverage and a
more conservative financial profile,” Mitchell Stapley, chief
fixed-income officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Grand
Rapids ,  Michigan , which oversees about $12 billion in fixed-
income assets, said in a telephone interview. “I am less
worried about growth prospects than I am about stability.”  Bond investors are targeting debt of financial companies
that are yielding 3.45 percent compared with 3.05 percent for
industrial bonds in the U.S., Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. Bank borrowing costs are down from last year’s
high of 5.05 percent on Nov. 30.  ‘Risk Premium’  “There was a lot of risk premium priced in at the end of
the year into the bank space in part because of dislocation due
to European problems,” said  Ashish Shah , the head of global
credit investments at AllianceBernstein LP in  New York . “The
outperformance of bank bonds is telling you that you were
getting paid enough to take greater risk.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. was little changed, with
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of
111.2 basis points as of 11:49 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Sumitomo Mitsui  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, decreased 1.8 basis points to 23.74 basis
points as of 11:48 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. are the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, with 112 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:50
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
Tokyo-based lender sold $3 billion of debt yesterday in a three-
part offering.  The total  face value  of debt raised by U.S. banks through
corporate bonds has fallen to $905 billion from $908 billion at
year-end, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. That’s
after increasing every year from $34 billion in 1991 through
2011.  Dodd-Frank, Basel  New regulations from  U.S. Congress  and the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  are spurring the biggest banks to pare
 holdings  of corporate bonds to $43.3 billion as of June 27 from
a peak of $235 billion in October 2007, according to Federal
Reserve data.  Bank of America, JPMorgan and SunTrust Banks Inc. said last
month that they were redeeming trust-preferred securities
following the Fed’s June 7 release of capital rules being
mandated under Dodd-Frank, enacted in 2010.  “As their net debt continues to shrink, their  capital
ratios  continue to climb,” said Michael Plage, a  money manager 
who helps oversee the $397 million Fidelity Corporate Bond Fund
from Merrimack,  New Hampshire . “There’s been tremendous
improvement over the past 18 months or so. Their liquidity
metrics continue to improve.”  ‘Significant Exposure’  Deposits of all U.S. banks exceed loans by $1.6 trillion as
of June 27, Fed data show. That’s up from less than $1 trillion
as of September 2010 as deposits at U.S. banks have climbed by
about 12 percent in that period.  Investors are bidding up prices on bank bonds even after
Moody’s downgraded 15 lenders and securities firms with global
capital markets operations on June 21, citing their
“significant exposure to the volatility and risk of outsized
losses inherent to capital markets activities.”  The $1.5 billion of 5.8 percent bonds from Lloyds, the
partly state-owned U.K. lender, have returned 15.4 percent this
year, Bloomberg data show. The notes that mature in 2020 are
trading at 107.1 cents, 11 cents more than at year-end,
according to Trace data.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America’s $2.25
billion of 5.7 percent bonds have risen 12.3 cents to 111.9
cents on the data since Jan. 19, Trace data show.  Italy, Spain  Spreads on Bank of America bonds have narrowed 242 basis
points since year-end to 323 basis points, more than twice the
117-basis-point decline on the broader bank index to 267 basis
points.  Bank bond returns this year compare with a 3.8 percent gain
on the MSCI All-Country World Banks stock  index .  In addition to increasing faith in bank balance sheets,
bondholders are expressing optimism that the European fiscal
crisis won’t derail global financial markets.  European governments laid the groundwork for possible
purchases of  Italy ’s bonds and fast-tracked aid for  Spain ’s
banks, with finance ministers saying the first 30 billion euros
($37 billion) of 100 billion euros in rescue loans will start
flowing to Spanish banks this month.  “There was the Spanish bank recapitalization the first
week of June, Greek elections that ended in a favorable outcome
and then the Moody’s downgrades which weren’t the worst case
scenario,” Plage said. “With reduced uncertainty comes risk-
asset rallies.”  Gap Shrinks  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch index of industrial
companies from Dallas-based AT&T Inc. to computer-maker Hewlett
Packard Co. is poised to underperform banks for the first time
since 2006, when returns of 4.2 percent on the index were
exceeded by 4.4 percent gains on U.S. bank bonds.  The gap between the relative yields on U.S. bank bonds and
the debt issued by industrial companies declined to 81 basis
points on July 5, the least since Aug. 3, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Index data show. The difference was at 83 as of
yesterday.  “The euro headlines have kept the gap there because of a
pervasive sense of dread,” Fifth Third’s Stapley said. “But
the longer we go without Europe imploding and as these banks
continue to build capital, that gap is going to shrink.”  Thomas Chow , a money manager at Delaware Investments in
Philadelphia, predicts that the proportion of bank bonds in the
overall investment grade index will diminish over the next few
years.  “Banks are trying to portray themselves as better
capitalized and thus able to absorb more economic volatility,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 Snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  