-- Branson Condemns Heathrow Hurdles While Space Plan Soars
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   O l i v i a   S t e r n s
-- 2012-07-12T14:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/branson-s-heathrow-hurdles-contrast-with-virgin-space-optimism.html
Richard Branson ’s inability to grow
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. as fast as he’d like has pushed the
billionaire’s space business to the top of his agenda.  Branson, who revealed plans yesterday to transform his
space-tourism venture into a major company in the satellite
launch market, said he’s “deeply frustrated” by government
opposition to expanding Virgin Atlantic’s  London  Heathrow hub
and the granting of antitrust approval to  British Airways (IAG)  for
the purchase of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s U.K. unit BMI.  With Heathrow operating at 98 percent of capacity, BMI had
presented Virgin with an opportunity to add scarce takeoff and
landing positions, while moves by the U.K. Department for
Transport to defer an overhaul of its aviation policy mean the
chances of adding flights by expanding the airport are receding.  “We made an offer for BMI and BA made another one to stop
us getting it,” Branson, 60, said in an interview at the
Farnborough air show outside London. “In the meantime, what
should be happening is more runways, so we’re very sad at what
the DfT has said about delaying the review. It’s holding  Great
Britain  back and holding us back.”  Cameron Call  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  should intervene and
reappraise the government’s stance on aviation, which has
included a ban on a third runway at Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest
airport and the third largest worldwide, “as soon as
possible,” Branson told Bloomberg News at the expo.  The DfT said today that a call for evidence on the future
of London’s airports will be delayed until later in the year.
Transport Secretary Justine Greening instead published a draft
policy framework focused on liberalizing the market to encourage
competition from foreign airlines.  Some expansion can be achieved by securing slots to be
surrendered by British Airways owner International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA following the purchase of BMI for 172.5
million pounds ($268 million), the entrepreneur said.  “A few crumbs are going to come off the table and be given
to us by the competition authorities,” he said in a separate
interview on July 8 after Virgin Atlantic’s inaugural service to
the tourist destination of Cancun,  Mexico . The airline aims to
fly to Moscow next year using former BMI slots and wants to use
others to set up a Scottish shuttle service to restore feeder
traffic that will be lost with takeout of its former ally.  Astronaut Applications  The constraints to boosting growth at Virgin Atlantic
contrast with Branson’s success in expanding the U.S.-based
Virgin Galactic space business.  The unit had taken deposits from 529 “future astronauts”
as of this week, more than the total number of people to reach
space in the 50-year history of manned launches. Each person is
willing to pay $200,000 to be fired to 360,000 feet (110
kilometers) above the earth and experience weightlessness and
see the curvature of the planet during a six-minute descent.  Singer Sarah Brightman, physicist Stephen Hawking and X-Men
director Bryan Singer are among clients, according to Virgin,
which aims to sell 700 tickets by the time of the six-passenger
SpaceShipTwo craft’s first commercial flight, due next year.  Branson said in Farnborough that Virgin Galactic’s tourism
arm has the potential to lure thousands of high net-worth
customers and has, as yet, “no competitors on the horizon.”
 Paul Allen , the billionaire co-founder of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said
Dec. 14 that his Stratolaunch Systems Inc. plans to build a
plane to launch satellites, cargo and people within five years.  Imaging, Asteroids  Virgin Galactic’s business prospects have been enhanced by
the first contracts to send satellites into space at a fraction
of the cost of current programs.  Virgin’s LauncherOne rocket, which aims to enter service by
2016, would employ the same  WhiteKnightTwo  carrier aircraft to
be used in the first stage of passenger trips to reach 50,000
feet before using its own boosters to climb to low earth orbit.  Several dozen launches have already been booked by remote-
sensing specialist GeoOptics Inc., high-resolution imaging
startup Skybox Imaging, satellite aggregator Spaceflight Inc.
and prospective asteroid miner  Planetary Resources Inc. , backed
by Ross Perot Jnr., Virgin said at an air show presentation.  The venture will carry payloads of 500 pounds into orbit at
a cost of about $10 million, versus $30 million right now.  “When we first dreamt this up the last thing we thought
about was satellites,” Branson said at the air show. “But
suddenly you realize, good grief, we’ve got the best launch
vehicle for a satellite ever, so let’s do it. It’s not great
news for people already putting satellites into space, but we
think it will open up a whole new market.”  ‘Gigantic’  The entrepreneur said that while Virgin Galactic is the
realization of a childhood dream and that he’d be “extremely
happy” for the unit to break even, the extension of its
business into satellite launches puts it on a new footing.  “It’s gigantic,” he said. “Being able to put thousands of
people into space, we can get a return. But with us being able
to put satellites into space I think there’s a lot of money to
be made. I think the financial gamble we’ve taken will pay off.  At Virgin Atlantic, Branson said he did all that he could
to secure BMI and its vital slots at a reasonable price.  “That was the right offer for BMI,” he said. “We’re
doing the best we can. Ever since we set up the airline 28 years
ago Heathrow has been full.”  A380 Delay  Adding bigger planes such as the six  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A380s that
Virgin Atlantic has on order would help squeeze more traffic out
of the carrier’s limited slots, though business passengers tend
to prefer a range of departures and the current global economic
situation isn’t ideal for the model, Branson said.  “I think the A380s in this current climate we will delay
further, because there’s a recession going on,” he said. “What
we want are slightly smaller, slightly more efficient planes.”  Growth is easier to achieve at the Virgin group’s other
airline interests, Branson said, citing Burlingame, California-
based Virgin America Inc. and  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) ,
headquartered Brisbane, in which he holds minority stakes.  “We’re becoming a major airline in America and
 Australia ,” he said. “That shows what we can do when we don’t
have slot restrictions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in Farnborough via 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Olivia Sterns in Farnborough via at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  