-- Brazil Signals More Stimulus After Cutting Rate to Record 8%
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-07-12T12:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/brazil-cuts-rate-for-eighth-straight-time-as-growth-sputters-1-.html
Brazil  cut its benchmark  interest
rate  for the eighth straight time and signaled it will continue
to lower borrowing costs, as spillover from a global economic
slowdown limits inflation risks.  Central bank board members voted unanimously yesterday to
cut the benchmark Selic rate by a half-point to a record 8
percent, as forecast by all but three of 59 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. In a statement almost identical to ones issued at
their two previous meetings, policy makers said “fragility”
abroad is having a “disinflationary” impact in the world’s
second-biggest emerging market, providing little guidance about
how much more stimulus they judge necessary to revive growth.  “It’s hard to see right now what the floor is for the
Selic,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “They left
the door wide open for more cuts.”  Board members led by bank President Alexandre Tombini have
lowered borrowing costs by 4.5 percentage points since August to
revive an  economy  that expanded an annualized 0.8 percent in the
first quarter, less than half the pace of the U.S. The monetary
stimulus, combined with tax cuts and increased lending by state
banks, have so far failed to spur faster growth as indebted
consumers facing a tougher job market cut back on spending.  Another Half-Point?  Before yesterday’s decision traders were betting on at
least a quarter point cut at the bank’s next meeting in August,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures
contracts. Santos said he expects a half-point reduction next
month to be the bank’s last though sees room for more stimulus
if evidence of a stronger recovery from a contraction in the
third quarter of 2011 doesn’t emerge.  The three other economists surveyed by Bloomberg were
expecting a cut yesterday of 0.75 percentage point, a quarter
point and no change.  Brazil’s economy will grow 2.01 percent this year, its
second-worst performance since 2003, according to a central bank
survey of economists published this week. That is the slowest
expected growth among the nine largest economies in the Western
Hemisphere, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Economic Activity  Brazil’s seasonally adjusted  economic activity index , a
proxy for gross domestic product, fell 0.02 percent in May, the
central bank said today in a report posted on its website. The
median estimate from 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
a decline of 0.4 percent. The non-seasonally adjusted index rose
1.09 percent from a year ago, more than the 0.25 percent
increase forecast by 24 analysts.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government received more bad
economic news this week after the national statistics agency
reported that retail sales fell 0.8 percent in May, the most in
more than three years. The broader index, which includes the
sale of vehicles benefitting from tax breaks, fell 0.7 percent.  While  inflation  in  Latin America ’s biggest economy is
slowing, dipping below 5 percent in May for the first time in 20
months, investor confidence is being shaken by signs that
Brazil’s credit-led growth model has run its course after
helping lift 40 million people out of poverty since 2003.  Default Rate  The consumer  default rate  in May rose to 8 percent, a 30-
month high, while the share of  household income  used to service
debt stands at 22 percent, double the level in the U.S.  A strong labor market, which has underpinned growth over
the past decade, also seems to be faltering. While  unemployment 
in May was at a record low for the month of 5.8 percent, the
economy generated 45 percent fewer jobs than a year ago.  Industry has been the hardest hit, as slumping global
demand offset potential gains from a weaker currency that makes
Brazilian goods cheaper. Manufacturing payrolls fell 1.7 percent
in May from a year ago, the eighth straight such decline and the
worst performance since December 2009.  Volvo AB became the latest company to announce layoffs,
saying on July 4 that it was cutting 208 jobs at its truck plant
in Curitiba, Brazil. General Motors and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-
Benz are also seeking to slow output at their Brazilian assembly
lines.  Even after yesterday’s rate cut Brazil still has the third-
highest real interest rate among the Group of 20 nations, after
Russia and  China , meaning policy makers have more firepower to
fight the effects of  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown in
China, its biggest trading partner.  Half-Point Cuts  The slower-than-expected recovery should allow policy
makers to maintain the pace of interest rate reductions at half-
point intervals, a government official familiar with the bank’s
deliberations said last week on the condition of anonymity.  John Welch , macro strategist at  CIBC World Markets , the
investment-banking branch of  Canada ’s fifth-largest bank, said
additional monetary easing is unlikely to contribute much to the
economy and may worsen inflation dynamics in the future.  “It will not help growth and they will have to reverse
themselves after forcing the Selic too low,” he said in a text
message from Sao Paulo.  In the short-term, weak growth is helping to contain
inflation risks even amid a world-beating slide in the currency
that could increase the cost of imports. The real has lost 10.3
percent against the  U.S. dollar  over the past three months, the
most among the 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  While inflation has remained above the bank’s 4.5 percent
target since August 2010, it slowed to 4.92 percent in June and
is forecast by economists to fall further in coming weeks. Tax
breaks on cars and other goods helped drive prices lower in
three of nine categories last month.  The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.63 percent at 9:04 a.m.
local time. The real fell 0.5 percent to 2.0463 per U.S. dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  