-- Brazil Retail Sales Fall Most Since 2008 as Shoppers Pinched
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-07-11T15:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/brazil-retail-sales-fall-most-since-2008-as-shoppers-pinched-2-.html
Brazil ’s  retail sales  fell in May by
the most in more than three years, as indebted consumers failed
to respond to government measures to spur demand. Yields on
interest-rate futures fell.  The volume of sales declined 0.8 percent, down from a
revised 0.7 percent increase in April, the national statistics
agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro . The fall was the biggest
since November 2008 and surprised all 38 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, whose median estimate was for a rise of 0.6 percent.  President Dilma Rousseff’s government has granted tax
breaks for goods including furniture, appliances and automobiles
to prop up demand and achieve its latest 2012 growth forecast of
2.5 percent. The May retail sales data opens room for the
central bank to further cut  borrowing costs  today and at future
meetings, said Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimento SA.  “The drop in retail sales and in industrial production,
low inflation and the international outlook leave the central
bank calm about giving more stimulus,” Serrano said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.68 percent at 12:07 p.m.
local time. The real strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.0312 per
dollar.  Only one analyst surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a decline
in monthly retail sales, forecasting a fall of 0.3 percent.
Retail sales jumped 8.2 percent from a year ago, less than the
median estimate of 10.5 percent from 33 analysts surveyed.  Construction Materials  The broader retail index, which includes the sale of cars
and construction materials, rose 4.2 percent from the previous
year, the statistics agency said.  Brazil’s  consumer default rate  in May rose to a 30-month
high of 8 percent.  Consumer confidence  as measured by the
National Industry Confederation in June fell 1.75 percent from
the prior month and hit its lowest level since September last
year.  Latin America ’s biggest economy will grow 2.01 percent this
year, its second-worst performance since 2003, according to the
latest central bank survey. That is slower-than-expected growth
in any of the nine largest economies in the Western Hemisphere,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Labor Market  Brazilian consumers, whose spending has powered growth,
have been supported by a strong labor market, even as  job
creation  slows. Unemployment in May was 5.8 percent in May, a
record low for the month. The economy created 139,679 jobs in
May, 45 percent fewer than a year ago.  Annual  inflation  slowed to 4.92 percent in June, the
slowest pace since September 2010. The central bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Sales of automobiles in June increased 16.1 percent from a
year ago, according to the Brazilian carmakers’ association
known as Anfavea. Improved sales reflected temporary government
tax breaks for vehicles aimed at drawing down carmakers’
inventories, Alexandre Barbosa, chief economist at Banco
Cooperativo Sicredi, said in an interview from  Porto Alegre  on
July 9.  “This is not a structural measure that will last for the
longer term. The automakers will have to adjust,” Barbosa said.  Factory Layoffs  Volvo last week announced layoffs due to the fall in truck
sales this year, and the prior week  General Motors (GM)  said it is in
talks with unions to reduce its Sao Jose dos Campos plant’s
output.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz laid off 1,500 workers at its
Sao Bernardo do Campo plant in May because of lower sales.  Confidence among businesses in the retail sector fell 3.7
percent in the three months ending in June from the year before,
after declining in May by 2.4 percent, according to figures
published by the Getulio Vargas Foundation.  With Brazilian households more indebted, the easy access to
credit that consumers have enjoyed is starting to retract,
Barbosa said.  “The demand for loans will keep increasing, but not as
fast as it did,” Barbosa said. “Banks are a bit concerned with
the default rate rising.”  Durable Goods  Consumers will postpone or moderate their purchases of
durable goods that require paying in installments, Silvio Sales,
an economist the Getulio Vargas Foundation, said in an e-mail on
July 9.  Brazil’s central bank has cut the benchmark Selic rate by
400 points since August to a record 8.5 percent and is expected
to reduce it by an additional half-point today, according to the
latest central bank survey. President  Dilma Rousseff  has also
successfully pushed both public and private banks to lower loan
rates.  “At the moment, it seems that consumers have preferred to
pay off debts, change to financing at lower rates and maintain
the level of consumption in the area of non-durable goods,”
Sales said.  Over the next 12 months, 88 percent of Brazilian companies
plan to increase their employees’ salaries, according to a
report by consulting firm Grant Thornton International Ltd. One
quarter of those companies will raise wages above inflation, the
report said.  Upper Class  Higher salaries among the upper and upper-middle classes
will boost retail sales, said Madeleine Blankenstein, a partner
at Grant Thornton Brasil, in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo on July 10. Wage increases for the middle class will not
affect retail to the same extent.  “Those people have bought all the cars they could buy, all
the furniture they could buy, all the home appliances they could
buy, so now they’re going to go for the small consumer products.
They might create some volume, but they definitely won’t be so
meaningful in relation to growth indexes,” Blankenstein said.  An increase in salaries pushed May supermarket, food,
drinks and tobacco sales up 9 percent from last year, the IBGE
said in its retail sales statement. The higher volume signals
continued demand growth in sectors where consumers do not rely
on credit, Solange Srour, chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from Rio de
Janeiro.  “It’s a good sign that it’s not a lack of earnings, or
lack of employment. It’s a problem of credit,” Srour said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  