-- Brazil Bets on Eighth Straight Rate Cut as Growth Trails Region
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-07-11T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/brazil-bets-on-eighth-straight-rate-cut-as-growth-trails-region.html
Brazil today is expected to cut its
 benchmark lending rate  for the eighth straight time as cheaper
credit and government stimulus measures fail to revive an
economy that has become the region’s worst performer.  The central bank, which in August became the second in the
Group of 20 after  Turkey  to ease monetary policy in the face of
 Europe ’s debt crisis, will reduce its benchmark rate by a half-
point from an already record low 8.5 percent, according to 51 of
53 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One analyst expects a 75
basis point cut while the other sees a quarter-point reduction.  With households burdened by rising debt and businesses
losing  confidence , the credit-led growth model that helped pull
40 million people out of poverty since 2003 is showing signs of
fatigue. Brazil’s economy will grow 2.01 percent this year, its
second-worst performance since 2003, according to a central bank
survey published this week. That is the slowest expected growth
among the nine largest economies in the Western Hemisphere,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “It’s a lost year, in terms of growth,” said Carlos de
Freitas Gomes, a former central bank director who is now chief
economist at  Brazil ’s National Federation of Commerce. “The
authorities miscalculated” in their attempt to revive growth by
easing credit conditions, he said.  Over the past month the government has adopted 12 stimulus
measures, including extending tax breaks on white goods,
boosting government purchases of buses and extending subsidized
loans for select manufacturers.  Not Enough  Such measures may be too little, too late and a sign the
government may be running out of options, said David Rees, an
emerging market economist at Capital Economics Ltd.  “The fiscal measures that have been announced so far have
been pretty small fry,” Rees said in a telephone interview from
 London . “There is a limit as to how far they can really revive
activity because Brazilian consumers have already taken on huge
amounts of debt.”  The  consumer default rate  in May rose to a 30-month high,
reaching 8 percent, while the share of  household income  used to
service debt stands at 22 percent, double the level in the U.S.  Falling investor confidence amid an uncertain global
economic outlook is exacerbating a lack of competitiveness among
Brazilian manufacturers, said Flavio Castelo Branco, chief
economist at the National Industry Confederation.  “Lower rates don’t translate into more investment,”
Castelo Branco said to reporters in Brasilia on July 5. “It’s
frustrating, because with all these measures we had expected a
recovery.”  Inflation Contained  In what may be a bellwether of the slack that exists in the
world’s biggest emerging market after China, the extra stimulus,
rate cuts and 10 percent slide in the currency over three months
aren’t fueling price increases. While  inflation  remains above
the bank’s 4.5 percent target, it dipped below 5 percent in May
for the first time in 20 months and slowed to 4.92 percent in
June after prices fell in three of nine categories.  The slower-than-expected recovery from a contraction in
last year’s third quarter should allow policy makers led by bank
President Alexandre Tombini to maintain the pace of interest
rate reductions at half-point intervals, a government official
familiar with the bank’s deliberations said last week.  Traders are wagering the central bank will cut the Selic
rate by 50 basis points today and at least 25 points at its next
meeting Aug. 28-29, according to Bloomberg estimates based on
interest-rate futures.  Low Investment  The effectiveness of rate cuts has been curtailed because
of the lack of progress in improving the country’s investment
climate and tackling longstanding bottlenecks such as poor
infrastructure, high taxes and a rigid labor market, the same
official said on the condition of anonymity because he’s not
authorized to discuss monetary policy.  Brazil invested 20 percent of gross domestic product last
year, the lowest among  Latin America ’s major economies and
compared with 48 percent in  China , according to International
Monetary Fund data. In the first quarter, investments fell 1.8
percent from the previous quarter, the national statistics
agency said.  Hardest hit is Brazil’s industry, which saw  production fall 
in May for a third straight month, as slumping global demand
offset gains from a weaker currency that makes Brazilian goods
cheaper.  The trade deficit for manufactured products has widened by
more than $5 billion in the first five months of the year to
$39.8 billion, even as the government tightened customs controls
and increased import tariffs on chemicals, textiles and other
products.  Uncertain Outlook  A weaker economy and large inventories that were built up
in anticipation of stronger sales are hurting the truck and
engine business of  Navistar International (NAV)  Corp. in Brazil.  “Demand for 2012 vehicles is lower than expected until the
market absorbs the excess 2011 inventory,” Andrew Cederoth,
chief financial officer of the Lisle, Illinois-based company,
said in a June 7 earnings call.  While most economists see growth accelerating in the second
half of the year, they disagree over the pace of the recovery.  Pedro Tuesta , senior Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc.,
said that his 2 percent growth forecast will be difficult to
achieve and that he is considering cutting his outlook to 1.7
percent.  Lending Curbs  “The evidence is not very compelling,” he said by
telephone from  Washington , citing banks that are unwilling to
lend and income levels that may not rise.  Some employers are already firing workers. More than 6,000
machinists have been laid off this year, according to the
machine builders’ association known as Abimaq.  Volvo AB said
July 4 that it is cutting 208 jobs at its Curitiba truck plant
to adjust output “to the current market reality,” joining
Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz, which laid off 1,500 workers in May.  Despite the bad news, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  is
sticking to his call that the economy will be growing at a 3.5
to 4 percent annualized rate in the second half of the year, and
some investors seem willing to believe him.  “As we have seen in the past, the Brazilian economy
changes quickly,” said Navistar’s Cederoth. “As rapidly as
things slow, things can recover.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  