-- British Sprinter Pins His Olympic Chances on Bolt Dropping Baton
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-07-11T03:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/british-sprinter-pins-his-olympic-chances-on-bolt-dropping-baton.html
James Ellington says his British
sprint-relay team can upset world record-holders Jamaica at the
 London  Olympics, although they need luck and have to take care
of the basics to have a chance.  Britain’s 4x100-meter relay team lost at the European
Championships earlier this month when they failed to pass the
baton, and had similar trouble at the 1996, 2000 and 2008 games.
Jamaica, led by Olympic champion sprinter Usain Bolt, set a
world record last year in Daegu,  South Korea .  “If we execute our race and we’re in contention, you don’t
know what could happen,” Ellington, 26, said in an interview.
“The Jamaicans could drop the baton. Man-on-man the Jamaicans
should walk all over us, but if they mess up their changes we
can beat them.”  The south Londoner is targeting a relay bronze medal in the
games six months after trying to sell his sponsorship rights for
30,000 pounds ($47,000) in an auction on  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  to fund his
training. That followed a nine-centimeter tear to his hamstring
that threatened his career and led to backers deserting him.  The money-raising ploy didn’t work as the winning bid
turned out to be a hoax. On the track, too, he faces a daunting
task when the games start July 27. Jamaica features Bolt, a
three-time Olympic gold medalist, and Yohan Blake, who beat Bolt
over 100 meters in qualifying last month.  They’re the 4x100 meter relay Olympic champions and set a
record of 37.04 seconds last year in South Korea.  France 
followed in 38.20, and St. Kitts and Nevis took bronze. Britain
didn’t finish after Darvis Patton of the U.S. collided with
anchor Harry Aikines-Aryeetey.  Bad Transfers  Things didn’t get any better for Britain at the European
Championships in Helsinki after the team bungled a baton change-
over on July 1. It didn’t reach Ellington after a transfer from
Christian Malcolm to Dwain Chambers faltered. The Netherlands
won, followed by Germany and France.  Britain will need to complete the Aug. 11 relay final in
37.9 seconds to win a medal in London, Ellington said, a pace it
hasn’t run since the 2007 World Championships in  Osaka ,  Japan .
The nation’s best-ever time was 37.73 seconds in the 1999 World
Championships.  Jamaica is the 1-4 favorite at bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc (PAP) ,
meaning a successful 4-pound bet would bring in 1 pound plus the
original wager. The U.S is second favorite at 10-3 followed by
Britain at 25-1.  Goal  “If we run how we should run, we should get a bronze medal
and because it’s a relay there are more chances of things
happening like batons dropping, people running out of their
lanes,” said the sprinter.  Ellington goes into the games with some local knowledge: He
runs for Newham and Essex Beagles Athletic Club after they
allowed him to use their facilities in view of his financial
struggles to fund training. Newham is home to the 80,000-seat
Olympic Stadium and Pringle Crisp-shaped Velodrome.  Before he agreed on a sponsorship deal with  The King of
Shaves Co. , a male grooming product maker, Ellington used to end
training early to earn money coaching junior competitors. Now,
with funding, he also has ambitions as a solo athlete at the
games after winning the 200-meter British heats last month.  He says he wants to run the distance in 20.2 seconds and
reckons that should get him to the final with Bolt. That would
still make him about a second slower than the Jamaican’s world
record time of 19.19. Still, he’s not daunted.  “If I didn’t think I could be here then I would have
stopped a long time ago,” he said. “The only thing that kept
me going was believing that I could make it to the  Olympic Games 
and fulfill my potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 