-- Burberry Leads Luxury Stocks Lower as Slowing Sales Fuel Concern
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-07-11T11:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/burberry-cites-challenging-market-as-revenue-trails-estimates.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  led luxury-goods
stocks lower after reporting sales that missed analysts’
estimates for a second straight quarter, fueling concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing growth in China are finally
taking a toll on high-end demand.  Burberry, the U.K.’s largest luxury company,  fell  as much
as 6.9 percent in London trading, sliding to the lowest price
since Jan. 3.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the maker of Cartier
jewelry, dropped as much as 2.1 percent, while  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  slid as much as 3 percent.  “There is a slowdown in the broader global economy and as
luxury is cyclical, this slowdown is starting to appear in the
luxury-goods quarterly reports,”  Luca Solca , global head of
European equities at CA Cheuvreux, said today in an interview
with Bloomberg Television.  Sales at London-based Burberry increased 11 percent to 408
million pounds ($634 million), trailing the 417.8 million-pound
average of six  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding
currency shifts, underlying revenue in the three months ended
June 30 also rose 11 percent, slowing from growth of 15 percent
and 21 percent in the previous two quarters.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and decelerating economic
growth in China have so far failed to reduce demand for high-end
goods. Prada SpA and LVMH both reported higher revenue in their
first quarters, with the latter saying in April that sales
growth was accelerating, led by spending by consumers from
 emerging markets .  Slowdown Caution  “The slowdown at Burberry highlights caution for peers,”
Louise Singlehurst, an analyst at Morgan Stanley with an equal-
weight  recommendation  on the stock, wrote in a note today.  Burberry fell 5.8 percent to 1,210 pence as of 12:26 p.m.
in London trading.  PPR SA, (PP)  owner of the Gucci brand, declined as
much as 3.4 percent in Paris.  Burberry, known for its plaid-lined trenchcoats, can’t
predict whether market conditions will get tougher, Chief
Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright said today on a call with 
reporters.  “We focus on what we can control and our message to our
teams is very much to ensure that we continue to outperform
irrespective of” political change in the U.S., the  Middle East 
and China or “uncertainties” in Europe, Cartwright said.
Burberry hasn’t changed its full-year forecast for pretax profit
of about 440 million pounds, she said.  Licensing Dip  The quarter was affected by the closure of some licenses,
Burberry said. Underlying licensing revenue fell 5 percent,
though is still expected to be “broadly unchanged” for the
year, it said. Sales growth was driven by Burberry’s own stores,
which now account for about 70 percent of revenue.  So-called retail-wholesale sales rose 18 percent, excluding
currency shifts, in the Asia-Pacific region and 16 percent in
Europe during the quarter. Growth was 2 percent in the Americas,
which was affected by the planned closure of some wholesale
accounts, and 9 percent in the rest of the world, Burberry said.  Underlying  retail sales  increased 14 percent, or 6 percent
at stores open at least a year, according to Burberry, which
opened six mainline stores and closed two in the period. The
company said it plans to increase average retail selling space
by 12 percent to 14 percent in the year ending March 31,
shifting from smaller to larger format stores.  Italy and  Korea  remained weaker markets, while sales growth
at so-called mainline stores in the U.K.,  France ,  Germany  and
the Greater  China  region was strong in the period, Burberry
said. Like-for-like sales in mainland China climbed by a mid-
teen percentage, led by Beijing, Cartwright said.  Chinese Opportunity  Burberry continues to see “an enormous amount of
opportunity” in China and may increase its store numbers there
to as many as 100 from 63 now, Cartwright said.  Men’s tailoring and non-apparel performed strongly in
Burberry’s largest stores during the first quarter, as did new
merchandizing strategies in soft accessories, the company said.
Burberry raised average selling prices at its biggest stores in
the period, without saying by how much.  Wholesale  revenue  climbed by an underlying 9 percent,
Burberry said, adding that some deliveries, mainly in Europe,
were brought forward from the second quarter. The performance is
consistent with the company’s guidance of mid-single-digit
percentage growth in underlying wholesale revenue for the six
months ending Sept. 30, Burberry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  