-- Canadian Banks Seen Superior by Regulator Surviving Global Shock
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/canadian-banks-seen-superior-by-regulator-surviving-global-shock.html
Canadian banks, ranked the soundest
by the  World Economic Forum,  can withstand major economic
disruptions because they moved more quickly than their
competitors to raise capital buffers, the country’s banking
regulator said.  “They could withstand a lot of pain, in part because we’ve
kept the  capital requirements  high,” Julie Dickson said in an
interview yesterday from her office in Ottawa. “They are
extremely well situated and certainly even stronger than they
were going into the crisis in 2008.”  Dickson, head of the Office of the Superintendent of
Financial Institutions, said she hasn’t noticed any signs that
creditworthiness of the nation’s banks has diminished in recent
months as concerns mounted over the European debt crisis and
signs of weakness in the  U.S. economy  grew.  The regulator played a role in keeping the country’s
financial system strong, requiring banks to hold a higher level
of capital than stipulated by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , an arm of the  Bank for International Settlements ,
based in Basel, Switzerland.  The committee has urged global banks to start implementing
by January measures known as Basel III that raises capital
requirements, and to finish implementing the standards by 2019.
Dickson has asked Canadian banks to meet the 2019 goal next
year.  The steps help further buffer a banking industry that
recorded a fraction of the writedowns taken by lenders and
brokers worldwide during the financial crisis.  Top Spots  Canadian banks held four of the top 10 spots in Bloomberg
Markets magazine’s annual ranking of the world’s strongest
banks, released in May. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
placed third, followed by  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  in fourth,
 National Bank of Canada (NA)  in fifth and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  in
sixth.  Dickson said her concern is complacency.  “If you get into a comfort zone, which I describe as
complacency, that’s not a good idea,” Dickson said.  The biggest risk to the country’s financial system right
now is growing  household debt , said Dickson, adding Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s efforts to tighten mortgage rules will
help manage the problem even if it slows growth.  Flaherty implemented changes on July 9 including shortening
the maximum length of government-insured mortgages to 25 years
from 30 years to quell demand for homes.  Market Impact  The new mortgage rules, coupled with steps taken by the
banking regulator to tighten mortgage lending standards, have
the same impact in the real estate market as a 1.5 to 2
percentage-point increase in  interest rates , said  David Tulk ,
chief Canada macro strategist at TD Securities in Toronto. The
changes will reduce growth by 0.1 percentage points this year
and 0.2 points in 2013, Tulk said.  The regulator released guidelines on mortgage lending last
month that will require lenders to limit the size of loans
secured by their homes, take “reasonable steps” to verify
borrowers’ incomes and establish standards for acceptable levels
of  consumer debt . Banks are supposed to implement the new rules
by the end of the current fiscal year.  “The way to look at that is short-term pain for long-term
gain,” Dickson said, adding she’s more concerned about the
impact highly indebted households could have on the economy than
bank solvency. “When it comes to the Canadian housing market,
the bigger issue there is the impact on individual Canadians.
The banks can withstand a lot.”  Unknown Crisis  While there is a lot of experience dealing with the impact
of housing market corrections, Europe’s crisis poses more of an
unknown for  Canada ’s banking sector, she said.  “They can withstand a lot of pain but it is very difficult
to quantify the kind of stress” that may occur in Europe,
Dickson said. “They are extremely well situated to handle any
major disruption and certainly this European thing has been
there with us for a few years now so people have had a lot of
time to think through this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  