-- Canada May International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-07-11T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/canada-may-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s international merchandise trade report for May
from  Statistics Canada .  Canada’s merchandise imports increased 0.4% while exports
were relatively unchanged in May. As a result, Canada’s trade
deficit with the world widened from $623 million in April to
$793 million in May.  Imports rose to $39.7 billion, on the strength of energy
products. Overall, prices were up 1.5% as increases were
recorded in most sectors.  Exports remained at $38.9 billion in May; the increase in
volumes counterbalanced the decrease in prices. Higher exports
of machinery and equipment nearly offset the decline in most
sectors.  Imports from the United States rose 1.8% to $25.0 billion
in May. After four consecutive monthly decreases, exports to the
United States edged up 0.2% to $28.2 billion. Canada’s trade
surplus with the  United States  decreased from $3.6 billion in
April to $3.2 billion in May.  Imports from countries other than the United States
declined 1.9% to $14.7 billion and exports were down 0.7% to
$10.7 billion. Canada’s trade deficit with countries other than
the United States narrowed from $4.2 billion in April to $4.0
billion in May.  Energy products sector leads the increase in imports  Imports of energy products increased 3.7% to $4.3 billion
in May, on the strength of crude petroleum. Imports of crude
petroleum rose 7.2% to $2.7 billion in anticipation of temporary
shutdowns for maintenance. Overall, volumes were up 3.9%.  Imports of automotive products, up for a third consecutive
month, increased 0.8% to $6.9 billion in May. Prices were up
1.4%. Higher imports of trucks and other motor vehicles, which
rose 4.0% to a record high of $1.8 billion, led the sector’s
increase.  Imports of machinery and equipment decreased 1.3% to $10.7
billion, as volumes fell 2.4% and prices increased. Lower
imports of other machinery and equipment (-2.6%), primarily
telephone equipment, contributed the most to the sector’s
decline.  Imports of other  consumer goods  decreased 1.7% to $5.0
billion. The main contributor to the decline was apparel and
footwear, as volumes fell 8.8%.  Machinery and equipment sector nearly offsets widespread
decreases in exports  Exports of machinery and equipment grew 8.7% to $7.3
billion, on the strength of volumes (+8.0%). The gain in the
sector nearly offset the decline in overall exports. Leading the
increase were exports of aircraft, engines and parts, up 46.0%
to $1.5 billion, the highest level since December 2010.  Exports of energy products fell 4.3% to $9.2 billion, the
result of lower volumes and prices. Exports of crude petroleum
declined 5.5% to $5.7 billion, the fourth consecutive monthly
decline since the record high in January. In May, petroleum and
coal products, primarily diesel fuel and motor gasoline,
decreased 4.3% on lower volumes. At the same time, coal and
other bituminous substances declined as a result of a 12.0%
decrease in prices.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada’s
international balance of payments (BOP), which also includes
trade in services, investment income, current transfers as well
as capital and financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are
available on both a BOP and a customs basis for the United
States,  Japan  and the  United Kingdom . Trade data for all other
individual countries are available on a customs basis only. BOP
data are derived from customs data by making adjustments for
factors such as valuation, coverage, timing and residency. These
adjustments are made to conform to the concepts and definitions
of the Canadian System of National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a BOP basis, seasonally
adjusted and in current dollars. Constant dollars are calculated
using the Laspeyres volume formula.  New aggregation structure  Statistics Canada will introduce the North American Product
Classification System (NAPCS) for merchandise import and export
statistics. The new structure will replace the classification
structures known as the summary import groups (SIG) and the
summary export groups (SEG) and the higher level aggregations
(major groups, subsectors, sectors and sections) that have been
in use for several decades.  Revised data based on NAPCS for the reference period of
January 1988 to August 2012 will be disseminated on October 18.  The first regular release of data based on NAPCS will be on
November 8 for the September reference month.  Readers interested in this upcoming change can find more
detailed information on our web page dedicated to classification
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/concepts/consult-napcs-scpan-eng.htm )
consultation and notification.  Revisions  In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an
ongoing basis for each month of the current year. Current year
revisions are reflected in both the customs and BOP based data.  The previous year’s customs data are revised with the
release of the January and February reference months as well as
on a quarterly basis. The previous two years of customs based
data are revised annually and are released in February with the
December reference month.  The previous year’s BOP based data will be revised with the
release of the January, February, March and April 2012 reference
months.  Factors influencing revisions include late receipt of
import and export documentation, incorrect information on
customs forms, replacement of estimates produced for the energy
sector with actual figures, changes in classification of
merchandise based on more current information, and changes to
seasonal adjustment factors.  Revised data are available in the appropriate CANSIM tables,
free of charge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  