-- Cartier Watch Runs a Month Without Winding While Needing No Oil
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-07-11T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/cartier-watch-runs-a-month-without-winding-while-needing-no-oil.html
Cartier, the jeweler whose customers
have included the tsar of  Russia  and actress  Elizabeth Taylor ,
is working on new mechanical watch technology designed to enable
timepieces to function for longer and be more accurate.  The Paris-based unit of Cie. Financiere Richemont SA has
developed a prototype called the ID Two concept watch that uses
less energy than standard mechanical timepieces and can function
for 32 days without winding, compared with two to seven days for
a typical watch, Cartier said today at a press briefing in La
Chaux-de-Fonds,  Switzerland .  Watchmakers are experimenting with new materials and
technologies to improve the functioning of their timepieces and
get an edge over competitors. Geneva-based  Patek Philippe  has
said it expects about 90 percent of its timepieces in 10 years
to use internal components made from silicon.  Cartier (CFR) ’s ID Two
requires no lubrication with oil and the watch incorporates
parts made from carbon crystal and a ceramic material.  “Some of the elements will become basic, some will become
exclusive to certain watches,” Chief Executive Officer Bernard Fornas said in an interview. “It depends on the technological
advances --- no lubrication is a phenomenal technological
revolution because it brings more precision and reliability.”  Vacuum-Sealed  The prototype’s vacuum-sealed case cuts air friction and
lowers power loss, while the mechanism uses half the energy of a
standard mechanical watch, in which about 75 percent of the
energy can be lost, according to Cartier.  The ID Two technology also improves a timepiece’s
durability and will enable new functions to be developed.
Cartier plans to introduce the new features gradually in its
watches over the coming three to five years, according to
Fornas, who will step down at the end of the year. He will be
replaced by Stanislas de Quercize, the current head of
Richemont’s Van Cleef & Arpels brand.  Cartier continues to gain market share because consumers
are sticking to established brands in difficult economic times,
Fornas said.  “Things are not too bad,” he said, when asked about the
Swiss watch industry’s double-digit export growth so far this
year. “Don’t forget the emerging countries are still there to
buy.”  Chinese Consumers  Chinese consumers are buying at a faster pace outside  China 
at present, though this may change, Fornas said.  Demand from Chinese nationals “holds very well but
sometimes mainland China is lower because they go abroad, they
know that there will be a better buy” in other countries,
Fornas said. “Growth today is bigger outside than inside”
China.  Swatch Group CEO Nick Hayek said this year that demand in
China has slowed at the high end, while Richemont CEO Johann Rupert said growth has slowed in some coastal cities.  Fornas took over as CEO in 2002 after heading Richemont’s
Baume & Mercier watch brand and following a career that included
posts at  Procter & Gamble Co . and perfume-maker Guerlain.  Cartier generated about 4.3 billion euros ($5.26 billion)
in revenue last year, or just under half of Richemont’s sales,
according to Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich.
Richemont doesn’t disclose the brand’s revenue.  Cartier dates to 1847, when Louis-Francois Cartier took
over the jewelry workshop where he was an apprentice. The
company became one of the first to make a wristwatch, with a
piece made in 1904 for Brazilian aviator Alberto Santos-Dumont.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 