-- Centrotherm Seeks Bankruptcy Protection as Solar Founders
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-07-11T08:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/centrotherm-seeks-bankruptcy-protection-as-solar-firms-founder.html
Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG (CTN) , a
German solar manufacturing equipment-maker, sought  bankruptcy
protection , at least the 14th U.S. and European company to
founder amid a global oversupply of photovoltaic modules.  The Blaubeuren-based company filed for Chapter 11-type
protection in Ulm’s district court to start insolvency
proceedings, Centrotherm said in a statement late yesterday. For
three months, it will be shielded from creditors while its
management tries to restructure, the company said. Centrotherm
plummeted as much as 81 percent in  Frankfurt  today to its lowest
level since it started trading in October 2007.  Centrotherm “continues to be able to manage its operations
itself,” Chief Executive Officer Robert Hartung said in a
separate statement. “Since we remain solvent, we can both
process customer orders to schedule, and also pay our
suppliers.”  Solar companies in the U.S., Germany and  France , including
 Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the biggest solar-cell maker, have failed in
the past year after struggling against lower-cost Chinese
competitors and a glut. The global supply of photovoltaic panels
is exceeding demand this year while at least 20 gigawatts of
manufacturing capacity will close, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance data.  Centrotherm sells production lines used to make
polysilicon, ingots, wafers, cells and panels. Sales took a hit
as solar manufacturers delayed or canceled investment plans to
expand production after panel prices plunged  45 percent  in the
past year, slashing margins at the top five manufacturers,
according to BNEF.  Cut Costs  The activities of Centrotherm Management Services GmbH and
Centrotherm Cell & Module GmbH are to be prospectively bundled
within the parent company as part of the reorganization,
Centrotherm said in the statement. All other subsidiaries in
 Germany  and abroad will continue to operate as before and not
participate in the insolvency protection proceedings, it said.  Centrotherm will have to cut costs and adjust capacity “to
secure our company’s continued existence in the future,” Jan von Schuckmann, a board member responsible for restructuring,
said in the statement. “This will allow us to maintain
Centrotherm’s competitiveness in a difficult market situation.”  The company named insolvency lawyer Tobias Hoefer to the
board in a bid to oversee the restructuring.  Centrotherm’s insurers stopped covering merchandise
deliveries last month and banks closed its credit and guarantee
lines, according to a June statement. The company in May
reported a 42.9 million-euro ($53 million) loss before interest
and tax in the first three months of 2012 and said it sees no
improvement in the first half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net 
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  