-- Centrotherm Drops After Bankruptcy Protection: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-11T07:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/centrotherm-drops-after-bankruptcy-protection-frankfurt-mover.html
Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG (CTN) , a
German solar-equipment maker, fell to a record after it sought
 bankruptcy protection , joining at least six other local
companies that have foundered amid a glut in panels.  Centrotherm collapsed 80 percent to 44.2 euro cents by 9:27
a.m. in Frankfurt trading, the lowest level since it was listed
in October 2007. The Blaubeuren-based company submitted an
application to the district court in Ulm to begin insolvency
protection proceedings. The company will be shielded from
creditors for three months while its management tries to
restructure, it said in a statement late yesterday.  Centrotherm “continues to be able to manage its operations
itself,” Chief Executive Officer Robert Hartung said in a
separate statement. “Since we remain solvent, we can both
process customer orders to schedule, and also pay our
suppliers.”  Solar-cell and panel makers, Centrotherm’s clients, are
under pressure after governments in Europe and the U.S. trimmed
subsidies, adding to a glut of the devices that has already cut
margins at the top five manufacturers. Solar companies in the
U.S.,  Germany  and  France  have foundered in the past year,
including  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the biggest solar-cell maker.  Centrotherm will have to cut costs and adjust capacity “to
secure our company’s continued existence in the future,” Jan von Schuckmann, a board member responsible for restructuring,
said in the statement. “This will allow us to maintain
Centrotherm’s competitiveness in a difficult market situation.”  The company sells production lines used to make
polysilicon, ingots, wafers, cells and panels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net 
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  