-- McGraw-Hill Education Plans $600 Million Debt as Split Nears
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-07-11T14:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/mcgraw-hill-education-plans-600-million-debt-as-split-nears-1-.html
McGraw-Hill Education Inc., the
textbook-publishing company that’s being split off from its
parent, will have about $2.4 billion in assets and $600 million
in debt, according to a regulatory filing.  The textbook spinoff will sell $400 million of bonds,
borrow $200 million with a term loan and take out a $350 million
revolving  credit line , McGraw-Hill Education said today in the
filing. The publishing company, which would have lost $63
million in the quarter ended in March, will also pay a dividend
of as much as $500 million to  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)   McGraw-Hill Cos., the owner of  Standard & Poor’s , said
Sept. 12 it will break into two companies, one focused on
financial information and the other on educational publishing.
The company remains on track to complete the split by the end of
the year, it said today in a statement.  “As we get ready to launch McGraw-Hill Education, we are
very well positioned to take advantage of new opportunities
created by the rapid expansion of digital products and
services,” Lloyd “Buzz” Waterhouse, who was named president
of McGraw-Hill Education in June, said in the statement.  McGraw-Hill Cos. stockholders will receive one share of the
new education business for every three shares they hold,
according to the filing. The publishing company, which plans to
pay dividends, would have made $162 million last year on $2.29
billion of revenue.  Getting rid of the slow-growth education business will
boost McGraw-Hill Cos.’s stock price,  Peter Appert , an analyst
at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San Francisco , wrote in a report last
month. Investors will value the financial-information company
more highly without the volatility of the publishing business,
said Appert, who has the equivalent of a “buy” rating on the
stock and says it may climb to $54.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  