-- Chesapeake Told to Pay $100 Million Over Lease Claims
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-07-11T20:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/chesapeake-told-to-pay-100-million-over-texas-lease-claims-2-.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  was ordered
to pay more than $100 million to three Texas lease holders who
claimed the second-largest U.S. gas producer reneged on
agreements to purchase mineral rights.  The Texas energy companies sued Chesapeake in November 2008
for failing to complete the purchase of three gas leases the
Oklahoma City-based producer began negotiating for in June of
that year, before energy prices plunged by as much as 50
percent.  A U.S. judge in Houston originally sided with Chesapeake
and ruled the company didn’t have to pay because the lease
contracts weren’t final. The Texas leaseholders appealed to the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit in  New Orleans ,
which agreed with the landowners in February and sent the case
back to Houston for trial, where it was assigned to a new judge.  “The evidence in this case indicates that the closing did
not occur because Chesapeake –- the buyer –- declined to
attend,” U.S. District Judge Gray Miller said in a 10-page
ruling yesterday. “Clearly, the Fifth Circuit believed, having
considered all of Chesapeake’s arguments, that Chesapeake
breached the contract.”  Judgment Recipients  The order awards $6.6 million to Preston Exploration Co.
and $88.5 million to PEC Partnership, both of The Woodlands,
Texas, and $5.7 million jointly to T.S.C. Oil & Gas Inc. of
 Dallas  and Frank Willis III. The judge subtracted from these
sums the 10 percent deposit the leaseholders previously received
from Chesapeake, and then added more than $18 million in pre-
judgment interest to the awards, plus attorneys’ fees.  The lawsuit is one of hundreds of similar claims filed in
federal and state courts in Texas,  Michigan ,  Pennsylvania  and
other states alleging Chesapeake breached contracts to purchase
oil and gas leases.  Chesapeake has appealed a $19.7 million judgment in a
separate Texas case involving mineral rights held by the family-
owned Peak Energy Corp., based in Plano, Texas. Oral arguments
were heard today by the federal appellate court in New Orleans.  “We believe the court erred, will post the required bond
and will appeal the judgment,” Jim Gipson, a spokesman for
Chesapeake, said in an e-mail. “We had already established a
reserve for the case. If we must perform under the agreement, we
will receive an assignment of the leases originally contemplated
to be conveyed.”  The case is Preston Exploration Co. LP v. GSF LLC, 4:08-
cv-03341, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  