-- Chile Traders Forecast Faster Pace of Rate Cuts on Lower CPI
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-07-11T13:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/chile-traders-forecast-faster-pace-of-rate-cuts-on-lower-cpi-1-.html
Chilean traders and investors
forecast a faster pace of  interest-rate  reductions on estimates
inflation rates will continue to fall, according to a central
bank survey published today.  Chile ’s central bank will keep rates at 5 percent in
tomorrow’s meeting of policy makers before cutting to 4.75
percent by October and 4.5 percent by January, according to the
bi-weekly survey posted on the bank website. Traders in the June
26 survey forecast rates wouldn’t reach 4.5 percent until July
next year.  Chile’s government this week reduced its 2012 inflation and
economic growth forecasts as easing commodity prices reduce
consumer-price pressures and export revenue in the world’s top
copper producer. Traders in today’s poll estimate inflation will
be 2.5 percent in a year, compared with 2.7 percent in the
previous survey.  “The extremely low (or negative) inflation data that have
accumulated in the past four months stem from phenomena that
aren’t very transitory like the fall in global fuel values,”
CorpResearch analysts including Sebastian Cerda wrote in a July
6 note to investors. “The central bank still has space for a
reduction of the monetary policy rate in coming months.”  Chile’s peso was little changed at 492.88 per  U.S. dollar 
at 8:35 a.m. Santiago time from 493.06 at yesterday’s close. The
peso will trade at 500 per dollar in three months, according to
today’s survey.  Inflation has fallen in the past four months, reaching 2.7
percent in June. Policy makers target 3 percent inflation, plus
or minus one percentage point over two years.  Chile’s Budget Office this week updated economic forecasts
for 2012, reducing growth estimates to 4.7 percent from the 5
percent projection made in October. The government estimates the
year will end with inflation at 2.7 percent, down from its
previous forecast of 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  