-- Chilean Inflation-Linked Bond Yields Rise to Highest in 2012
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-07-11T18:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/chilean-inflation-linked-bond-yields-rise-to-highest-in-2012.html
Chile’s five-year inflation-linked
bond yields rose to their highest level this year on concern the
central bank will refrain from lowering its target lending rate
tomorrow even as consumer prices fell last month.  The yields on  five-year  inflation-linked bonds rose five
basis points to 2.53 percent, the highest level since Dec. 2 on
a closing basis. Five-year breakeven inflation, a measure of the
average annual pace of future consumer price increases implied
by bond yields, slowed to 2.52 percent.  The five-year swap rate in unidades de fomento, the Andean
country’s inflation-linked accounting unit also known as UF,
advanced to 2.15 percent, matching the highest since May.  “There were some large sell orders on five-year UF bonds
at the auctions today,” said Andres de la Cerda, a money-
markets trader at Bice Inversiones in Santiago. “It’s very
expensive to maintain positions in UF. If you buy a bond today
and sell it at the same yield in a month you will have lost
money.”  Consumer prices unexpectedly declined 0.3 percent in June,
making it less attractive for investors to hold inflation-linked
assets. Policy makers will hold their target lending rate at 5
percent tomorrow and cut the benchmark to 4.75 percent by
October, according to a biweekly survey of traders and investors
posted on the central bank’s website.  The peso gained 0.2 percent to 492.10 per  U.S. dollar  at
2:22 p.m. in Santiago. The currency strengthened to a six-year
high against the euro today.  The currency has risen 1.3 percent versus the dollar this
week, beating other commodity-related currencies such as the
Australian dollar and the South African rand as well as major
Latin American counterparts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  