-- China Rebound to Help Peru Reach Economic Targets, Velarde Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-11T09:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/china-rebound-to-help-peru-reach-economic-targets-velarde-says.html
Peru  may reach or exceed its
economic growth targets for this year, bolstered by domestic
demand and a rebound in  China  in the third quarter, the
president of the Peruvian central bank said.  Inflation in  South America ’s sixth-largest economy is no
longer a problem, allowing the government to keep  interest rates 
on hold for a while, Julio Velarde said in an interview in
Shanghai today.  “I believe we are going to grow close to 6 percent,”
Velarde said. “I am optimistic the slowdown in China will be
only in the second quarter and the third quarter it will recover
and there won’t be a meltdown in Europe.”  Peru’s economy expanded at the slowest pace in more than
two years in April as weaker demand for metals and manufacturing
exports offset a surge in construction. Growth will be 5.8
percent this year and 6.2 percent in 2013, which is close to
potential, the central bank said in a June 15 report.  The price of copper, Peru’s top export, is down about 21
percent in the past year as the slowdown in China, the biggest
consumer of industrial metals, crimps demand. Metal prices are
poised to rebound, Velarde said.  “Some mining projects of copper have been delayed around
the world so we will probably have in the next two years good
prices -- unless there is a bigger slowdown, of course, in the
world economy,” Velarde said.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ’s $4.8 billion Minas Conga copper and
gold project in Peru has been suspended because of opposition
from farmers on the potential environmental effects.  China Slowdown  The Chinese government has been “acting pretty strongly”
in trying to revive an economy that grew in the first quarter at
the slowest pace in almost three years.  China announced on July 5 that it was cutting interest
rates, the second reduction in a month, amid concern Europe’s
debt crisis will curb exports. The Shanghai Composite Index fell
to a six-month low yesterday after a government report showed
imports rose less than anticipated in June while export growth
slowed.  China’s inbound shipments increased 6.3 percent from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said in a statement yesterday,
compared with the 11 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 32 economists. Overseas sales gained 11.3 percent.  Slowing Chinese trade is a reflection of  Europe ’s economic
problems as well as the government’s efforts to shift more
toward domestic consumption, according to Velarde, who said he
is meeting with financial authorities later today.  A Chinese statistics bureau report on July 13 is expected
to show the economy expanded 7.7 percent in the second quarter,
the slowest pace since 2009, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Economic Rebound  “Of course we are concerned about the slowdown in China,”
Velarde said. “We hope the measures they have been taking will
allow the Chinese economy to recover at a stronger pace in the
third quarter as many analysts are expecting.”  Velarde is part of a delegation of Peruvian government
officials that are on a roadshow across  Asia , including visits
to  Hong Kong  and  Singapore .  Peru posted its first trade deficit in more than three
years in April as exports dropped 12 percent. China is the top
destination for Peru’s overseas sales and accounted for 17
percent of total shipments in the first quarter, according to
Comexperu.  Peru’s central bank kept borrowing costs unchanged in June
for a 13th month. Consumer prices climbed 4.1 percent in May
from a year earlier. The monetary authority targets annual
inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  Inflation will be between 2.5 percent and 2.8 percent this
year, said Velarde. Peru won’t cut borrowing costs unless
Europe’s debt crisis and slowdowns in the U.S. and Chinese
economies worsen, he said. The central bank will leave the
overnight rate at 4.25 percent on July 13, according to all 12
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Domestic demand is still pretty strong,” Velarde said.
“If we see the international situation getting worse we may
consider a reduction or if we see a rebound because the European
situation is resolved, we may go in the other direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan in  Shanghai  at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  