-- China’s Economy Needs Spending Power, Not Steel Factories
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-11T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/china-s-economy-needs-spending-power-not-steel-factories.html
Expect some “sky is falling”
headlines on Friday when China releases its most recent figures
on  economic growth , estimated to clock in at an annualized 7.7
percent, the slowest rate in three years.  The more important issue is what China’s leaders should, or
can, do about it.  China has produced a tattoo beat of disquieting news since
March, when Premier  Wen Jiabao  lowered the government’s growth
target for 2012 to 7.5 percent, down from the 8 percent target
in place since 2005. Real estate prices, trade growth,
construction and luxury watch sales are all declining. The
government has issued stern edicts for officials to cut back on
flashy cars, banquets and other perks.  Overseas, the global economic slump and the persistent
crisis in  Europe  have left China’s mighty export engine revved
up but with fewer places to go. Increasing exports to the U.S.,
which just displaced the European Union as China’s biggest
foreign market, risks even greater trade tensions in a U.S.
election year.  As a result, Wen is focusing on homegrown methods to boost
growth, such as promoting domestic investment. This strategy
risks repeating the excesses of the 4 trillion  yuan  ($586
billion at the time) stimulus package of 2008, which fueled
inflation, pushed credit beyond sustainable levels and led to a
property bubble. It also favors large, and often inefficient,
projects by state-owned enterprises over small and medium-sized
companies: Witness the government’s decision in May to approve
an $11 billion steel plant, for an industry in which there is
already excess capacity.  Public Goods  A better approach would be for China’s government to help
its people and their economy by putting more money into public
goods. According to World Bank data for 2008, China spent only
about 1 percent of its gross domestic product on health, 3.7
percent on education, and 4.7 percent on pensions and other
forms of social protection. The averages among members of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are 6.3
percent, 5.4 percent and 15.2 percent, respectively. With more
than $3 trillion in foreign reserves and a relatively light
public debt burden,  China  is in a better position than most to
shoulder such expenditures.  Beyond that, China needs to rely more on domestic
consumption -- a point Bloomberg View has argued. To some
extent,  this is already happening : In the first quarter of 2012,
domestic consumption accounted for 43 percent of GDP growth,
versus 28 percent a year earlier. Rather than trying to support
this trend artificially with cheap credit, China should put in
place the kind of structural reforms that will create real
spending power.  One promising area is labor market liberalization. Wages
are on the rise as demographic trends shrink China’s labor
force. Revising or eliminating China’s notorious residential
registration system, known as hukuo, would enable more rural
workers to migrate legally to the cities, improving
productivity, spurring  consumer spending  and reducing
inequality.  Another option is to enable ordinary Chinese savers to
access investments other than low-paying  bank deposits . This
would allow them to achieve market returns, alleviating concerns
about retirement and freeing up spending money. The government
recently took a small step in this direction by slightly
widening the band for deposit rates. Unfortunately, the positive
effects of that step were undermined by two cuts to China’s
benchmark rate over the last five weeks.  Pilot Program  More broadly, the state has the power to spur competition
and economic growth by liberalizing the terms under which
entrepreneurs and private companies can buy land and access
financing. A pilot program started in Wenzhou this March
supports the creation of various new private funding mechanisms,
including village banks, small lending companies and the
issuance of securities. Opening the market to foreign banks
would also expand financing opportunities -- according to the
 International Monetary Fund , they hold less than 2 percent of
assets in China, the lowest share among major  emerging markets .  After the Bo Xilai scandal and with a changing of the guard
ahead, China’s leaders are even more stability-minded than
usual. Nonetheless,  they’ve managed to take some important steps 
over the past six months toward transforming their economy, such
as widening the band for the yuan’s exchange rate against the
dollar and relaxing rules for foreign direct investment.
Initiatives such as changing deposit rates and promoting small-
business lending might not capture the public imagination like
an $11 billion steel plant, but they’ll ultimately make more of
a positive difference.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why outsourcing is  (mostly)
good ;  Caroline Baum  on the  presidential outsourcing debate ;
 Edward Glaeser  on why  Australia ’s  mineral wealth does little  to
create jobs;  Michael Kinsley  on the  glories of outsourcing ;  Ezra
Klein  on  Obama’s tax gamble ; Laurence Kotlikoff on  Social
Security’s solvency .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 