-- China Slowdown Seen Forcing Wen’s Hand on Property Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-12T04:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/china-slowdown-seen-forcing-wen-s-hand-on-property-curbs.html
China ’s weakest growth in three
years may pressure Premier  Wen Jiabao  to further ease the
government’s crackdown on a property industry that accounts for
more than a quarter of final demand.  Gross domestic product expanded 7.7 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier following an 8.1 percent increase in
the first quarter, according to the median estimate of 38
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News before a report tomorrow.  The slowdown may test Wen’s pledge to sustain controls
aimed at cooling home prices as he seeks to buoy growth ahead of
a once-in-a-decade leadership transition later this year.
China’s efforts to prevent a property bubble limit its policy
options as the  European debt crisis  curbs  exports  and contrast
with the  Federal Reserve ’s attempts to jump-start the U.S.
housing market amid a five-year slump.  “It will be extremely hard to stimulate a strong rebound
in the economy without involving the property sector,” said
 Mark Williams , Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London . “They may have to look again at their property tools.”  While China’s leaders probably want growth of around 8.5
percent for the world’s second-biggest economy, they may fail to
exceed 8 percent without contributions from real estate, said
Williams, who previously worked for the U.K. Treasury. “It
would only take a shock from Europe for things to suddenly look
a lot worse,” he said.  Widened Discounts  Leaders have vowed to maintain curbs on the property market
even as they reduce broader  borrowing costs . When cutting
 interest rates  last week, the central bank widened discounts
permitted on most loans to 30 percent of the benchmark while
leaving those for mortgages unchanged, effectively ending
preferential prices for homebuyers.  South Korea’s central bank today in a surprise move cut
borrowing costs for the first time in more than three years
after the  Finance Ministry  last month lowered the nation’s
growth forecast. The  Bank of Japan  unexpectedly increased its
asset purchase program for a third time this year, while cutting
the size of a credit loan facility.  China’s stocks fell today as lower profit forecasts from
companies including Cosco Shipping Co. to Dongfeng Automobile Co.
underscored concern the nation’s slowing economy is hurting
earnings. The  Shanghai  Composite Index dropped 0.3 percent at
the 11:30 a.m. local-time break.  Raising Threshold  Wen has tolerated some piecemeal measures to support
property. They include the introduction in May of home subsidies
in the eastern city of Yangzhou, discounts on mortgages for
first-home buyers in Beijing and raising the tax threshold on
purchases of some homes in Shanghai. About 30 Chinese cities
have issued “fine-tuning” policies since the second half of
2011, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Property-generated demand for goods including electric
machinery and instruments, chemicals and metals account for more
than a quarter of China’s final domestic demand, according to an
estimate by UBS AG.  “Significant loosening in the  property market  looks
unavoidable in order to entice developers to pick up
investment,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Hong Kong-based
Oscar Choi wrote in a July 11 research note. “Potential
powerful measures” include lower down-payment ratios and wider
coverage for a public housing fund that provides low-interest
mortgages, they said.  Investment Growth  Promoting  investment  growth is now the key to stabilizing
China’s economic expansion, Wen said in a statement July 10. The
remarks followed comments he made two days earlier on an
inspection tour in the eastern province of Jiangsu that the
government would intensify fine-tuning of policies.  In the U.S., minutes of a June meeting of Fed policy makers
said that the housing sector remains “depressed overall” even
after some improvements in sales, construction and prices.  A few members said the central bank will probably need to
take more action to boost the labor market and meet its
inflation target, according to the record of the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s June 19-20 gathering released yesterday in
Washington.  China is already loosening restrictions on lending to local
government financing vehicles that borrowed record amounts after
the global financial crisis, confirming Wen’s determination to
stabilize growth through infrastructure investment, said Shen Jianguang, an economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong
Kong .  ‘Pointless’ Strategy  Wen is pursuing the strategy as excess capacity pervades
some industries and residential developments sit empty. The risk
is that the focus on building more infrastructure exacerbates
China’s reliance on investment-led growth because “investment
is pointless without end demand from either consumption or
exports,” said Cullen Thompson, a managing partner in New York
at Bienville Capital Management LLC.  The nation has ample room to build more infrastructure and
fixed-asset investment projects because its capital stock per
worker is only 6 percent of that in  Japan , said  Michael Buchanan ,
chief Asia-Pacific economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Hong
Kong. Still, the increase to 190 percent from about 150 percent
since 2008 in the ratio of total credit to gross domestic
product will constrain the pace of any easing, Buchanan said.  The government has signaled any stimulus this year will be
on a smaller scale than in 2008, when policy makers unveiled a 4
trillion- yuan  plan ($586 billion at the time). Even so,
authorities may be following a similar playbook as they
accelerate construction approvals, including permission in May
for 134 billion yuan of new steel factories.  ‘Drinking Poison’  “The current slump is largely caused by the over-stimulus
in 2009 and now they are repeating the same strategy: Quench
thirst by drinking poison,” said Junheng Li, founder and senior
equity analyst at researcher JL Warren Capital LLC in New York.
“With even more limited policy flexibility and declining
returns on investment, obviously the results will be worse.”  Tomorrow’s data may also show industrial production growth
picked up to 9.8 percent in June from a year earlier, while
retail sales slipped to 13.4 percent, according to surveys of
economists. Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households is
estimated to slow to 20 percent in the first half from a year
earlier, another survey showed.  New- home prices  rose for the first time in 10 months in
June, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of the nation’s
biggest real-estate website. Beijing’s Haidian district sold a
residential land plot at a record price July 10, according to
Bacic & 5i5j Group, the city’s second-biggest real estate agent.  Developers’ Shares  Shares of property developers listed in China increased the
most in four months on July 6, the day after the rate cut, with
 China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest listed developer on the mainland,
climbing to the highest since November 2010.  Wen’s rhetoric is at odds with the gains. China must
“unswervingly” continue its property controls and prevent
prices from rebounding, Wen said in a July 8 report by the
official Xinhua News Agency. Local governments that introduced
or covered up a loosening of curbs on residential real-estate
must be stopped, and “we cannot allow prices to rebound, or all
our efforts will come to naught,” he said.  With this year’s leadership transition, the Chinese
government “will not ignore growth risks,” Barclays Plc said
in a research note July 5.  “China’s priorities have been to contain property prices
and that has limited its ability to aggressively stimulate the
economy thus far,” said  Andy Mantel , founder and chief
executive officer of Pacific Sun Advisors, an asset manager in
Hong Kong.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  