-- Citigroup Lets Clients See Fund Data After Peregrine
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-07-11T16:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/citigroup-lets-clients-see-fund-data-after-peregrine.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, said it will show trading clients how the lender is
managing their funds as regulators probe missing customer cash
at  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and Peregrine Financial Group Inc.  Customers using New York-based Citigroup to buy and sell
futures and over-the-counter derivative products can now see how
much client funds the bank holds, Christopher Perkins, global
head of OTC clearing, said today in a phone interview. Clients
can use a Citigroup website to monitor the composition of the
funds and where they’re being held, he said.  Citigroup is responding to allegations surrounding MF
Global and Peregrine, which filed for bankruptcy after
shortfalls in client accounts. This has raised scrutiny of how
regulators ensure that banks and brokerages separate and protect
customer cash when trading in futures.  “It’s almost impossible for regulators to come up with
rules that prevent malfeasance and fraud,” Perkins said. “You
can come up with the best rules in the world but if people
violate them, you’ve still got a problem. The best way to
mitigate these kinds of threats to client money would be through
enhanced transparency.”  Customers of Citigroup’s futures-trading business were
unable to see this information until now, Perkins said.
Citigroup, run by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , had
about $9 billion in segregated customer assets at the end of
April, the sixth-largest among U.S. futures brokerages,
according to the  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission .  Suicide Attempt  Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price
and date. Investors often trade the products as bets on price
fluctuations.  The CFTC sued futures brokerage Peregrine this week,
alleging a $200 million shortfall in client funds. The  Cedar
Falls , Iowa-based firm filed for bankruptcy yesterday in
Chicago. The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation is probing the
company in the wake of what police said was a suicide attempt by
founder Russell Wasendorf Sr.  The parent company of MF Global, which had been run by
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-CEO and U.S. Senator  Jon Corzine , filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31
with debt of almost $40 billion after making $6.3 billion in
bets on sovereign debt. The failure left a $1.6 billion
shortfall in what should have been protected customer accounts.
The brokerage’s trustee James Giddens found last month that the
New York-based firm used customer funds to pay margin calls tied
to the bets.  “It was spurred on by client demand following recent
events,” Perkins said. “It was a no brainer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 