-- Clean Energy Investment Rises 24%, Spurred by China Surg
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-07-11T12:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/clean-energy-investment-rose-24-in-second-quarter-bnef-says.html
Investment in clean energy rose 24
percent to $56.9 billion in the second quarter compared with the
first, led by a surge in expenditure in  China , Bloomberg New
Energy Finance said.  Spending in China jumped 92 percent in the period to $18.3
billion as several large solar photovoltaic parks and wind farms
secured hundreds of millions of dollars in financing, New Energy
Finance said today in an e-mailed statement.  China is deemed the most attractive market for renewable
energy projects by the consultant Ernst & Young and led the
world in wind turbine installations last year, placing third
behind Germany and  Italy  for solar photovoltaic projects. On
July 2, it quadrupled its goals for solar plans by 2015.  “These figures underline the pivotal role China is playing
in the clean energy sector,” New Energy Finance Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Liebreich  said in the statement. “Its torrent
of supply-side investment was one of the main reasons why
renewable energy costs have been plummeting; we are now seeing
China creating enough demand to start mopping up some of the
resulting over-capacity.”  While investment rose in the quarter, renewable energy
companies have struggled, with the WilderHill New Energy Global
Innovation Index falling 15 percent to 115.25 in the second
quarter. Shares in  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the biggest wind
turbine maker, on July 9 touched a 13-year low on a report in
the Jyllands-Posten newspaper that it may need to sell new
shares to raise capital for a restructuring program.  Seeking Protection  Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG (CTN)  yesterday said in a statement
that it was seeking bankruptcy protection, becoming at least the
14th U.S. or European company to founder in an oversupplied
market for solar panels.  The quarterly renewable investment figure is higher than
the first three months of the year, while still falling 18
percent from the same period a year ago, the report said. the
figures include spending on small-scale projects for the first
time, with year-ago data adjusted to account for the change,  Spending in  Europe  gained 11 percent to $20 billion in the
quarter, and in the U.S., expenditure rose 18 percent to $10.2
billion. Global spending on solar power increased 19 percent to
$33.6 billion, and wind expenditure jumped 47 percent to $21.6
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  