-- Clinton Presses Laos for More Studies on Mekong Dam in Visit
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-11T09:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/clinton-lands-in-laos-to-discuss-mekong-dam-war-legacy.html
Hillary Clinton  pushed Laos for more
studies on a $3.6 billion hydropower dam on the Mekong River
opposed by neighboring countries in the first visit by a U.S.
Secretary of State in 57 years.  The trip is part of a broader sweep Clinton is making
through  Asia  as the U.S. increases its engagement with the
world’s fastest growing economies, in part to counter  China ’s
growing clout. Laos, a landlocked nation of 6 million people
bordering China, plans to expand its generating capacity and
sell electricity to its neighbors.  Laotian Prime Minister Thongsing Thammavong assured Clinton
that the Xayaburi power project wouldn’t proceed without
approval from neighboring countries, according to a State
Department official who wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record. Laos plans to hold an international conference about the
project to ease concerns, the official said.  The dam remains an area of contention as the U.S. seeks to
broaden its engagement with Laos, which is still struggling with
unexploded ordnance left over from the  Vietnam War . Clinton
discussed cooperation on the deadly material as well as
accounting for U.S. personnel who remain missing, according to a
joint statement. Laos is the  smallest economy  among members of
the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  Dam Studies  The Xayaburi dam’s approval may pave the way for seven
others that Laos plans to build on the Mekong. The government
has aimed to convince its neighbors by showing them studies it
commissioned from Compagnie Nationale du Rhône and Switzerland-
based Poyry Energy AG.  “Both the reports of Poyry and CNR indicated that the
project has created a negligible impact in respect of
environmental and social considerations,” Xaypaseuth
Phomsoupha, director-general of Laos’s Ministry of Energy and
Mines, told reporters in Bangkok on June 20.  While Laos is building access roads and other
infrastructure around the dam site, construction on the river
itself won’t start “in the absence of the sign-off from our
neighbors,” he said.  Vietnam  has recommended a 10-year delay for all hydropower
projects over environmental concerns on the river, which winds
through Myanmar,  Thailand  and  Cambodia  from its source in
China’s Tibetan plateau. About 60 million people along the
Mekong depend on the river and its tributaries for food, water
and transportation.  Thai Financiers  In 2010, Thailand made an initial agreement to buy 95
percent of the electricity from the Xayaburi plant, which will
have a capacity of 1,285 megawatts.  Ch. Karnchang Pcl (CK) , Thailand’s third-biggest construction
company by market value, owns a 57.5 percent stake in the
Xayaburi project.  PTT Pcl (PTT) , Thailand’s biggest company, has a 25
percent stake and  Electricity Generating Pcl (EGCO)  owns 12.5 percent.  In her meetings with Thongsing and Deputy Prime Minister
Thongloun Sisoulith, Clinton discussed environmental protection,
Laos’s entry to the  World Trade Organization  and the
reintegration of ethnic minority Hmong people who fled to
Thailand in 2009, according to the statement. The U.S. resettled
130,000 Hmong who fled to Thailand from 1975 to 1996, according
to the State Department.  Unauthorized by Congress, U.S. planes dropped the
equivalent of one plane-load of bombs over Laos every eight
minutes, 24 hours a day, between 1964 and 1973, according to the
non-profit Virginia-based advocacy group,  Legacies of War .  Unexploded Bombs  Intended to stop communist ground incursions and disrupt
North Vietnamese traffic along the Ho Chi Minh Trail, the
bombings left  Laos  the most heavily bombed country per capita in
history. One ton of bombs was dropped for every man, woman, and
child in Laos at the time.  Today, an estimated one third of land remains unusable
because of unexploded ordnance, making it unavailable for food
production or development, according to Legacies of War. In the
40 years since the war ended, 20,000 people have been killed or
maimed by dormant explosives hidden in the soil.  Clinton’s visit demonstrates that she “recognizes that
bringing along the less developed countries of the lower Mekong
region is key for stability and development in the region,”
Brett Dakin, head of Legacies of War’s board of directors, said
in an e-mail. “However,” he said, “Laos will not reach its
full potential as long as much of its land is still contaminated
with unexploded bombs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in  Phnom Penh  at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  