-- Knicks Set to Match Lin Contract, Nets End Talks for Howard
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-12T06:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/clippers-griffin-nets-williams-sign-for-more-than-95-million.html
The New York Knicks are ready to
match the Houston Rockets’ offer to Jeremy Lin, while the
Brooklyn Nets have given up on signing the Orlando Magic’s
 Dwight Howard .  Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  said “absolutely” when asked if
the team would bring back Lin. The point guard has signed a 
$28.8 million offer sheet with the Rockets, who dumped him
last season.  National Basketball Association teams were allowed to 
start signing free agents yesterday after the league set 
the salary cap at $58.04 million per team.  “Lin has always been a big part of what we’re trying to do
as we move forward,” Woodson told reporters. “You can’t lose
your starting job based on injuries. Jeremy was our starter
before he got hurt. He’s not going to be punished for that.”  Lin had surgery in April to repair a meniscus tear in his
left knee. He missed the Knicks’ opening-round playoff series
with the Miami Heat, which New York lost 4-1.  Lin, responding to a Tweet asking him about the reports
that he was unhappy with the Knicks, said, “Why do u guys
believe everything? No quotes from me = probably not true.”  The Harvard University point guard revitalized the Knicks
when the team pulled him from the bench to fill in for injured
players. Lin already had been let go by the Golden State
Warriors and Rockets.  Kidd, Novak Next  The Knicks will try to sign  Jason Kidd  and  Steve Novak 
today, Woodson said, adding he was unsure of the status of
Landry Fields, who signed a three-year deal worth $18.7 million
with the Toronto Raptors, the New York Times reported.  The Knicks signed Marcus Camby, J. R. Smith and James White
yesterday.  The Nets signed  Deron Williams  to a contract, which ESPN
said is worth $98 million over the next five seasons, and
reached an agreement with Brook Lopez.  With the Nets dropping out of contention for Howard, the
Magic may turn their attention to a trade with the Los Angeles
Lakers or Rockets, ESPN said.  The 6-foot-10 Howard is a three-time NBA defensive player
of the year and has averaged 18.4 points and 13 rebounds over
eight seasons in Orlando.  The Nets also got forward Reggie Evans from the Los Angeles
Clippers, who have the right to swap second-round picks with
Brooklyn in the 2016 NBA draft.  The NBA champion Miami Heat signed  Ray Allen  and Rashard Lewis to join  LeBron James ,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh .  The Clippers signed free agent guard  Jamal Crawford , a 12-
year veteran who played last season with the Portland Trail
Blazers. Crawford, who ended the season ranked first in free-
throw percentage, connected on 93 percent of his free throws, 38
percent of his field goals and 31 percent of his 3-point goal
attempts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  