-- Coca-Cola Femsa Falls on Morgan Stanley Trade: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-07-11T20:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/coca-cola-femsa-falls-on-morgan-stanley-trade-mexico-city-mover.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL) ,  Latin America ’s
largest bottler of the soft drink, plunged the most in three
years after executives at companies the soda maker bought out
last year sold a portion of their stakes.  The shares fell 8.2 percent to 163.32 pesos at the close of
trading, the biggest decline since February 2009.  The surge in selling volume reflects moves by some former
owners of bottlers acquired by the company in 2011 to trim their
stakes, said Jose Castro, head of  investor relations  at Coca-
Cola Femsa. Coca-Cola Femsa agreed to acquire three Mexican Coke
bottlers in 2011, paying for them with shares.  “What we are seeing today is certain family members
monetizing the shares,” Castro said in a telephone interview
from  Mexico  City.  During the first minute of trading, Morgan Stanley executed
a trade for 2.25 million shares at 166.93 pesos, 6.2 percent
below yesterday’s close. Daily trading volume increased to 5.4
million shares, almost seven times the three-month average.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment.  Investors selling multi-million share blocks of thinly-
traded stocks should expect to receive a below-market rate, said
Carlos Ponce, an analyst with Grupo Financiero Ve Por Mas SA.
Coca-Cola Femsa’s volume yesterday was less than 1 percent of
America Movil SAB, Mexico’s most-traded stock.  Share Rally  The bottler’s stock rallied 34 percent this year through
yesterday, probably making the sellers more willing to accept a
lower price, according to Ponce.  “With the accumulated profit, they probably decided they
were willing to do it with this discount,” Ponce said. “It’s a
company that was looking a bit pricey.”  The  shares  climbed on July 4 to a five-year high of 13.7
times trailing earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  