-- Colombia Rate Cut More Likely Than Rise, Central Banker Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-07-11T16:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/colombia-rate-cut-more-likely-than-increase-central-banker-says.html
The Colombian central bank’s next
move is more likely to be an  interest-rate  cut than a rise,
board member Cesar Vallejo said. The peso pared gains and
interest rate swaps fell.  “There’s more chance of a reduction than an increase,”
Vallejo said in an interview in Bogota yesterday, citing turmoil
in European markets and the weak global economy. “That doesn’t
mean we’re going to cut rates at the next meeting.”  The peso reversed earlier gains, falling 0.1 percent to
1,787.90 per dollar at 11:29 a.m. in Bogota. The yield on three-
month  interest-rate swaps  fell 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.97 percent. The yield has fallen 28 basis
points since March 3, indicating traders expect an interest rate
cut within the next three months.  Colombia  held its  benchmark interest rate  at 5.25 percent
for a fourth straight meeting last month, and at least one
member of the central bank’s seven-person policy committee voted
for a cut. Vallejo said Colombia’s economy is growing close to
its long-run potential, meaning that any change in borrowing
costs would be a form of “fine-tuning.”  Central Bank Meeting  Central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said last week that
policy makers will “very probably” cut their 2012 growth
forecast from the current range of 4 percent to 6 percent, as a
slowing global economy reduces demand for the Andean nation’s
exports. Policy makers next meet to discuss the benchmark rate
on July 27.  A recovery in public-works spending and “dynamic”
internal demand sustained by consumer-credit growth and high
levels of  consumer confidence  will prevent the economy from
cooling too fast, the 69-year-old Vallejo said.  Colombia’s economy grew 4.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, its slowest pace since 2010, as a rally in
the peso hurt farmers and manufacturers, while spending on
public works fell.  The peso has appreciated 8.4 percent this year against the
dollar, the second-biggest gain among 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, behind the Zambian kwacha. Exports grew 1.2 percent
in May from a year earlier, down from 4 percent in April and
16.1 percent in March.  “The whole board agrees that a weaker  exchange rate  would
be desirable,” Vallejo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  