-- Cooked Heart, Weimaraner Draw Ovations at Aix Festival
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-07-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/cooked-heart-weimaraner-draw-ovations-at-aix-festival-review.html
Losing your heart to somebody else’s
wife -- nothing could be more trivial in an opera. Losing your
heart, having it cooked and eaten by your beloved -- we had to
wait for George Benjamin for that twist.  “Written on Skin,” the U.K. composer’s new opera, had its
world premiere at the  Festival d’Aix-en-Provence , one of five
sponsors, including the  Nederlandse Opera  and  Covent Garden ,
that commissioned it.  On opening night, Benjamin was greeted with a standing
ovation.  His compatriot Martin Crimp based the libretto on the
legendary love life and grisly end of Guilhem de Cabestanh, a
13th-century troubadour. The Provencal legend of the eaten heart
also appears in Boccaccio’s “Il Decamerone” and Ezra Pound’s
“Cantos.”  Crimp, who is known for his enigmatic plays and hailed by
many people as Harold Pinter’s successor, has renamed the three
protagonists.  The troubadour has morphed into a scribe of illuminated
manuscripts simply called The Boy. The noble lady who falls for
him, Seremonda or Soremonda in the legend, and her vengeful
husband are now Agnes and The Protector.  Modern Angels  The 15 short scenes -- the opera lasts 100 minutes -- are,
from time to time, interrupted by three angels in modern dress.
Musing on parking lots and airports, they are supposed, we’re
told by the author in the program, to remind us of the
historical distance between the Middle Ages and our time.  Another peculiarity of the text is that the characters talk
about themselves in the third person and sometimes recite the
stage directions.  The crucial scene, in which Agnes unwittingly eats the
heart of her lover, starts with the husband singing: “Woman and
her Protector -- night. A room. A balcony. A long, white table.
What has he placed in front of her?”  Fortunately, Benjamin’s music is more compelling than
Crimp’s stilted alienation effects.  The 52-year-old composer might not have been born with
theater blood in his veins: “Written on Skin” is only his
second opera. The first, based on another medieval legend,
lasted little more than half an hour.  Yet, like his teacher Olivier Messiaen, he knows how to
create sensuous and haunting soundscapes.  Cow Bells  The violent conflicts notwithstanding, the singers mostly
communicate in a quiet conversational style. The drama erupts in
the orchestra, which has been enriched with unusual instruments
such as cow bells and a glass harmonica.  The general impression, though, is that of an eerie calm
not unlike Debussy’s “Pelleas et Melisande.”  Benjamin wrote the vocal parts in close collaboration with
the three protagonists. No wonder Christopher Purves (The
Protector), Barbara Hannigan (Agnes) and Bejun Mehta, a
countertenor (The Boy), are all excellent.  Director Katie Mitchell and Vicki Mortimer, the set
designer, have found an intriguing solution for the two sides of
the story: The medieval world is framed by an ultramodern, neon-
lit printing office peopled with mysterious, slow-moving extras.  The composer himself conducts the  Mahler Chamber Orchestra .  “Written on Skin” is in repertory through July 14. In
autumn, the production will travel to Amsterdam (Oct. 6-23) and
Toulouse (Nov. 23-30) and later to London, Florence, Vienna,
Munich and Paris.  Rating: ****.  Preening Pooch  The second highlight of the festival is Marc-Antoine
Charpentier’s 1688 opera “David et Jonathas,” brilliantly
conducted by William Christie and imaginatively directed by
Andreas Homoki. Rating: ***.  The production of Mozart’s “Le Nozze di Figaro,” on the
other hand, is a disappointment.  The most impressive character, apart from Kyle Ketelsen’s
ebullient Figaro, is a well-trained Weimaraner who accompanies
the Count into his wife’s bedroom. On opening night, the dog was
the first to appear at the curtain calls, impassively receiving
the thunderous applause. Rating: *.  The Festival d’Aix-en-Provence, whose main sponsor is
 Vivendi SA (VIV) , runs through July 27. Information:
 http://www.festival-aix.com  or +33-4-3408-0217.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art auctions,
 Jason Harper  on autos and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Aix-en-Provence at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 