-- Corn Drops From 10-Month High as Rally Curbs Demand; Soy Falls
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-07-11T20:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/corn-drops-from-10-month-high-on-concern-rally-will-curb-demand.html
Corn futures tumbled from a 10-month
high on speculation that a drought-fueled rally in prices will
curb demand. Soybeans fell from a four-year peak on forecasts
for rain that may boost yields.  Ethanol  output  in the U.S. fell 4.2 percent last week to
the lowest in almost two years, the government said today, and
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  has halted production at two distilleries.
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  predicted that 2012 meat and
poultry output will be 0.7 percent smaller than forecast last
month. Corn prices through yesterday surged 42 percent since
mid-June as crops withered under the worst drought since 1988.  “Demand is shutting down, led by the ethanol slowdown,”
Chad Henderson, a market analyst at Prime Agricultural
Consulting Inc. in Brookfield,  Wisconsin , said in a telephone
interview. “People are already liquidating the hog-breeding
herd and dairy cows. Physical consumers can’t use corn and turn
a profit at these prices.”  Corn futures for December delivery fell 1.9 percent to
close at $7.04 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade,
the third drop in four sessions.  Earlier, the grain reached $7.48, the highest for the most-
active contract since Sept. 13. Today, the USDA cut its domestic
production estimate by 12 percent, a month after predicting a
record harvest. The U.S. is the world’s largest grower and
exporter.  Crop conditions  as of July 8 were the worst for that date
since the drought of 1988, and areas of moderate to extreme
drought have expanded to 53 percent of the Midwest, government
data show.  Soybean Weather  Soybean  fields  from  Louisiana  to southern  Ohio  will get 1
inch (2.5 centimeters) to 4.5 inches of rain in the next five
days, according to the  National Weather Service . As much a 1
inch may help crops in the northern and western Midwest
beginning next week, the government said.  The USDA said today that dry weather may cut yields by 7.7
percent, leaving output at 3.050 billion bushels this year,
compared with 3.205 billion estimated in June.  “Some of the weather models are wetter into next week, and
that set off selling in soybeans,” which can produce new
flowers and boost yields in July and August,  Richard Feltes , a
vice president at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in Chicago, said in
a telephone interview. “It’s a classic run-up in prices into a
key USDA report, and people sold on the news.”  Soybean futures for November delivery fell 1 percent to
$15.225 a bushel in Chicago. Earlier, the price rose as much as
2.4 percent to $15.75, the highest since July 2008.  Demand Cuts  U.S. corn usage in the year that begins Sept. 1 may reach
12.72 billion bushels, down 7.7 percent from the forecast in
June, the government said today. Demand for soybeans was cut 4.6
percent to 3.105 billion bushels from a month earlier.  “Trade action today suggests much of the U.S. crop-yield
erosion is already accounted for by USDA,” Feltes said.
“Dismal chart action today could mark a near-term top as some
fund-longs opt to lock in profit amid a belief that necessary
corn rationing is under way.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  