-- Cubist, DuPont, Audemars, Baidu: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-11T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/cubist-dupont-audemars-baidu-intellectual-property.html
Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST) , a maker
of antibiotic medicines, sued Hospira Inc. for patent
infringement over plans to market a generic version of Cubicin,
a drug used to combat the MRSA flesh-eating bacterium.  Hospira, based in Lake Forest, Illinois, has applied to the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  for permission to sell a copy
of Cubicin before the 2020 expiration of Lexington,
Massachusetts-based Cubist’s patent 8,129,342, according to a
complaint filed July 9 in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Cubist contends in court papers that Hospira lawyers
wrongly claim the patent is “invalid, unenforceable and/or will
not be infringed by the commercial manufacture” of generic
Cubicin.  The injectable antibiotic is being used for patients with
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, which
doesn’t respond to conventional medicines.  MRSA infections are commonly spread by direct contact with
skin infections or items such as towels or bandages that touched
infected skin, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention website.  Cubist asked a judge for a ruling of infringement and an
order to stop Hospira from selling the generic version of the
drug until it loses patent protection.  Tareta Adams, a Hospira spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. v.  Hospira Inc. (HSP) ,
12-cv-859, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  DuPont Hid Failure of GAT Soy for Years, Monsanto Says in Trial  DuPont Co. (DD) , the most valuable U.S. chemical company, didn’t
tell investors for years that efforts to develop its own
herbicide-tolerant soybean seeds had failed, Monsanto Co. told a
jury at the start of a patent trial.  DuPont, which knew as early as 2006 that its GAT soybeans
didn’t grow as well as Monsanto’s Roundup Ready beans, didn’t
make the information public until 2009, George C. Lombardi, an
attorney for Monsanto, said yesterday at the start of a patent
trial in Monsanto’s hometown of St. Louis. DuPont ended up
adding the Roundup Ready trait to make the product work, a
patent infringement worth as much as $1 billion, he said.  DuPont claims there was no patent infringement because
 Monsanto (MON)  obtained the Roundup Ready patent only by withholding
information from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Lombardi said DuPont’s concerns about “significant
stunting” in its GAT soybeans increased through 2008 even as it
repeatedly told investors that the product would be on the
market in 2009.  “For years, they told the world GAT was going to work,”
Lombardi, a Chicago-based lawyer with Winston & Strawn LLP, told
the jury in Monsanto’s opening arguments. “When it failed, they
relied on the Roundup Ready product in a stack.”  The Roundup Ready trait, introduced by Monsanto 16 years
ago, allows crops to survive applications of Monsanto’s Roundup,
the world’s best-selling weedkiller.  The gene is engineered into more than 95 percent of
soybeans, largely through licensing agreements, generating $22
billion of revenue over eight years for Monsanto and the more
than 200 seed companies that license the technology, Lombardi
said. The technology drove $6 billion in soybean seed sales for
DuPont’s Pioneer unit in that time, he said.  DuPont, based in Wilmington, Delaware, claims Monsanto uses
monopoly power to stifle innovation, restricting use of the
Roundup Ready trait while making it difficult for  competitors  to
develop a competing trait. Those antitrust claims have been
split off into a separate case, with a trial scheduled for
April.  The case is Monsanto Co. v. E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co.,
09cv686, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
 Missouri  (St. Louis).  Fordham Law Gets WIPO Grant to Research Smartphone Patents  Fordham University ’s law school received a grant from the
World  Intellectual Property  Association to conduct research on
the acquisition and use of patents in the smartphone industry.  The research will be conducted through Fordham Law’s Center
on Law and Information Policy, according to a university
statement.  A report, to be finished at the end of 2012, will come from
research to be conducted by Professor Joel Reidenberg; Jamela
Debelak, who heads the center; Daniel Gross, post-graduate
fellow from Fordham’s law school class of 2011, and two law
school students.  A workshop discussing the findings will be presented by the
center and WIPO, a United Nations Agency.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Obama Campaign Gets Order Barring Use of ‘Rising Sun’ Trademark  The  Obama presidential campaign  persuaded a federal court
to order a website that sells election-related materials to quit
using the campaign’s “rising sun” trademark.  In a July 9 ruling, U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan
ordered Washington-based  Demstore.com  not to use the mark and to
refrain from any actions likely to make the public believe the
store is affiliated with the campaign.  The campaign sued in June, complaining it was damaged
because it depends on sales of authorized merchandise as a
fundraising technique for President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
campaign.  The campaign said that when people make even a “relatively
small” purchase of trademarked merchandise through the official
website, it obtains the buyer’s contact information and uses it
“to reach out to that individual repeatedly to seek further
donations and further opportunities to promote the campaign.”  The Obama campaign was represented by Barry J. Reingold,
William C. Rava and Jeremy L. Buxbaum of Seattle’s Perkins Coie
LLP.  The case is Obama for America v. Demstore.com, 12-cv-00889,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  Fake Audemars Piguet Luxury Watches Seized at Laredo, Texas  U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection ’s Import Specialists
Enforcement Team seized a shipment of fake watches valued at
$28.7 million, the agency said in a  statement .  The goods were seized at the Port of Laredo,  Texas . The
seized merchandise included 10 boxes of 1,120 fake versions of
watches made by  Audemars Piguet , the oldest continuously running
family owned Swiss watchmaker.  Another part of the shipment was 28 boxes of other watches
that customs said was shipped to facilitate the importation of
the infringing fakes.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  No Jimi Hendrix Music in Film, Producer Tells Rolling Stone  “ All Is By My Side ,” a film about the life of  Jimi
Hendrix , won’t include any of the late musician’s music, Rolling
Stone  reported .  Instead of Hendrix’s music, Andre Benjamin, who plays the
Seattle-born musician, will perform cover versions of others’
music Hendrix once performed, Rolling Stone reported.  Producer Sean McKittrick told Rolling Stone the film will
focus on Hendrix’s days as a backup musician and his discovery
in London, with an emphasis on the early stages of his career.  In June, Experience Hendrix LLC, which handles the Hendrix
estate, said that no film could be made about his life without
the full participation of the rights holders, according to
Rolling Stone.  Baidu Copyright-Infringement Trial Begins in Beijing Court  A copyright lawsuit against Chinese search-engine company
 Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  began yesterday in a Beijing court,  China Daily 
reported.  The suit, brought by Chinese author Han Han, is over the
company’s Baidu Wenku, a free online library through which books
and be read and downloaded, according to China Daily.  Han and China’s Writers union are asking the court to order
the Beijing-based search engine to close down Baidu Wenku, to
offer a printed apology and to award 760,000  yuan  ($119,000),
according to China Daily.  Han and more than 40 other writers have claimed that Baidu
made their works available as free downloads without
authorization, China Daily reported.  University of New Brunswick Won’t Sign with Access Copyright  One Canadian university has opted out of the license
agreement with the  Access Copyright , Canada’s copyright
licensing agency, CBC News  reported .  The University of  New Brunswick  said it didn’t follow the
lead of many other Canadian universities and sign an accord with
Access Copyright because it was worried about possible negative
effects on academic freedom and student fees, according to CBC.  John Teskey, who heads the university’s library system,
said that the license may not be so useful in the era of
electronic journals, CBC reported.  Without the license, UNB students and faculty members have
limits on what they can photocopy and distribute in class,
according to CBC.  New Zealand Library Group Concerned about Trade Agreement  New Zealand librarians are concerned that a proposed trade
agreement banning parallel importing could raise the cost of
acquiring books for their libraries, the New Zealand Herald
reported.  In addition to raising the cost of books, the Trans Pacific
Partnership agreement, presently under negotiation among 11
nations in the Asia-Pacific regions, could slow down the speed
at which books come into libraries, the Library and Information
Association of New Zealand Aotearoa  said , and the newspaper
reported.  The association, which represents 450 New Zealand
libraries, is joining with library organizations in the other
nations negotiating the agreement to express concerns about its
effect on library operations, according to the Herald.  The group is also concerned about a provision in the
agreement that would extent copyright from 50 years after an
author’s death to 70 years, saying it could have a negative
effect on libraries’ digitization programs, the newspaper
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 