-- Davey Indicates U.K. May Maintain Clean Energy Subsidies
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-12T10:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/davey-indicates-u-k-planning-to-maintain-clean-energy-subsidies.html
U.K. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey 
criticized arguments against renewable-energy policies as
“dangerous” for the country’s economy, a sign that he’s
resisting pressure from within the government to reduce
subsidies for the industry.  “Too often, we are told that those who go low-carbon first
will sacrifice their competitiveness,” the Cabinet minister
said in a speech in  London  yesterday. “This is misleading and
dangerous.”  Davey, who’s planning to announce changes to subsidy levels
for renewable energy from wind to biomass later this month, said
he’ll consider evidence given about how best to shape the so-
called green economy. He said the industry is worth 122 billion
pounds ($189 billion) to the U.K., contributing 5 billion pounds
to exports last year and perhaps enough to halve the trade
deficit before the next election.  The comments ease concerns that the government will slash
support for wind power in a review of outlays under the
 Renewable Obligation Certificate  program due to be published
before Parliament rises for its summer recess on July 17.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , a Conservative
coalition member, has called for the government to move slower
on low-carbon initiatives, saying they’re hurting industry.  Labour’s Challenge  Opposition lawmakers in the  Labour Party  say the government
is sending mixed signals on its commitment to renewables,
holding back investment.  Caroline Flint , the Labour lawmaker who
shadows the energy department, challenged Davey to rule out a 25
percent cut in support for onshore wind farms.  “The message from this government is that Britain is
closed for green business,” said in Parliament today during
Davey’s monthly question and answer session with lawmakers.  Davey said he’d announce the results of the consultation on
subsidies “shortly” and that “it will be a good
announcement” for the industry. He declined to give details of
the plan, noting only that under the current government “there
has been a large increase in investment in renewable energy,
creating over 20,000 jobs.”  The bulk of Davey’s speech last night was about  climate
change  and the U.K.’s strategy for the annual United Nations
 global-warming talks , starting in November in Qatar. He didn’t
mention the ROC program.  Davey, whose Liberal Democrat party has put clean energy at
the heart of its policies, voiced support for the industry and
rejected suggestions that there’s a trade off between economic
growth and pollution limits.  ‘Going Green’  “The real danger is not going green, but being outpaced by
our competitors,” Davey said, noting that  South Korea  is
spending 2 percent of gross domestic product on “green growth”
initiatives.  “Around the world, the countries who are most competitive
are the ones who are investing the most in low-carbon,” he
said.  His comments embraced research from the  Confederation of
British Industry , which last week said the U.K. may earn 20
billion pounds a year from clean-energy products. The business
lobby group criticized the government for sending mixed signals
regarding its support for renewable, both encouraging investment
and cutting subsidies for solar installations.  Planned Reduction  The government already has said it’s considering a 10
percent reduction in subsidies for onshore wind developments.
The industry’s lobby group said it’s concerned ministers may
make a political decision to make a deeper cut.  Gaynor Hartnell, chief executive officer of the Renewable
Energy Association, said she would be “surprised if the
government departed from” its proposal to cut the subsidy to
0.9 ROCs.  “Clearly an evidence based approach is what’s needed to
maintain confidence of the industry,” she said in a telephone
interview. “This government must know this country needs
onshore  wind energy  to meet climate targets.”  Davey cited the CBI’s research about the value of
renewables for the economy and said ministers would pay careful
attention to the recommendations during a consultation on the
subsidy levels.  “The critical thing for me is that we must follow the
evidence,” Davey said in response to a question after the
speech. “When we are trying to attract investment to the
country, investors can rely on the government not to act
capriciously and to focus on the evidence. And that is what we
are going to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  