-- Delaware Court Explains Martin Marietta-Vulcan Ruling
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-11T17:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/delaware-court-explains-martin-marietta-vulcan-ruling-1-.html
The Delaware  Supreme Court  expanded
on a May 31 ruling from the bench, concluding in a written
opinion that a lower court properly found  Martin Marietta 
Materials Inc. couldn’t proceed with a hostile takeover of rock-
crushing rival Vulcan Materials Co.  “It is undisputed that the confidentiality agreements in
this case were true confidentiality agreements,” violated by
Martin Marietta Materials, the justices said in a 42-page
explanatory opinion released yesterday.  The agreements “did not categorically preclude Martin from
making a hostile takeover bid for Vulcan,” the justices wrote.
“What they did was preclude Martin from using and disclosing
Vulcan’s confidential, nonpublic information.”  After amicable merger talks broke off, Raleigh, North
Carolina-based Martin Marietta in December offered to exchange
half a share for each share of Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan
in a $4.7 billion deal that would have created the world’s
largest producer of sand, gravel and crushed stone.  The companies sued each other over the hostile bid, and in
an opinion May 4 after a non-jury trial, Delaware Chancery Court
Judge Leo Strine Jr. decided that Martin Marietta didn’t comply
with confidentiality provisions and said it couldn’t pursue
Vulcan for four months.  Martin Marietta appealed and the Delaware Supreme Court
agreed with Strine after a May 31 hearing.  In explaining that ruling, the justices said Martin
Marietta’s argument “rests upon a somewhat intricate (and
fragile) structure,” in the face of “unambiguous terms” of
the contract.  Vulcan spokeswoman Meghan Stafford and Martin Marietta
spokeswoman Andrea Calise didn’t immediately return phone and
e-mail messages seeking comment on the opinion.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials Inc. v.  Vulcan
Materials Co. (VMC) , CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  