-- Delta Fined About $1 Million by U.S for Safety Violations
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-07-11T19:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/delta-fined-about-1-million-by-u-s-for-safety-violations.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  was fined
almost $1 million by U.S. regulators for failing to perform
repairs on two aircraft.  The second-largest U.S. airline made 20 flights on a  Boeing
Co. (BA)  737 with a chip in its nose cone after being notified of the
issue by a Federal Aviation Administration inspector on Feb. 25,
2010, the agency said today in an e-mailed release.  Atlanta-based Delta also made 884 flights between May 25,
2010, and Jan. 3, 2011, on an Airbus SAS A320 that had a broken
cockpit light, the FAA charged. Airlines are allowed to defer
such repairs for no more than 10 days, according to the release.  In the agency’s release, FAA Acting Administrator Michael Huerta said that for safety’s sake “operators must follow the
proper procedures to maintain their aircraft.”  Delta never operated either aircraft unsafely, Ashley Black, an airline spokeswoman, said in an e-mail statement.  “Once Delta verified the concerns of the FAA, Delta
initiated immediate and necessary actions to ensure that the
aircraft were in full compliance with the regulatory
requirements,” Black said.  The FAA inspector spotted the damaged nose cone in  San
Antonio  prior to the plane’s departure to Atlanta, according to
a May 25 document notifying the airline of the agency’s
findings. The agency released the document in an e-mail.  Maintenance Manuals  The damage was deep enough that the underlying fiberglass
was visible, according to the document. The jet’s flight crew
had earlier conducted an inspection of the plane’s exterior and
missed the damage, the FAA charged in the document.  Delta maintenance workers told the inspector they didn’t
have to repair the chip. Only after returning to his office
three days later did the FAA inspector discover that Delta’s
maintenance manuals required that the damage be sealed,
according to the document.  The investigation found that the airline’s maintenance
crews failed to spot the damage in two additional inspections
during the period, it said.  The plane flew to destinations including Mexico City, Miami
and  Washington . The proposed fine is $687,500, according to the
release.  In a separate case, the airline failed to repair a light
located over the co-pilot’s seat in the cockpit during a seven-
month period, according to a separate letter to Delta.  The proposed fine in that case is $300,000, according to
the agency.  Fines are often lowered before final resolution is reached.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  