-- Deripaska Didn’t Need Cherney to Build Rusal, Lawyer Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-11T17:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/deripaska-didn-t-need-cherney-to-build-rusal-lawyer-says.html
Lawyers for  United Co. Rusal (486)  Chief
Executive Officer  Oleg Deripaska  denied their client had been a
“struggling student” who relied on  Michael Cherney  to build
his metals business two decades ago, in a $1 billion lawsuit
between the two men.  Deripaska was “a proper businessman” with employees,
partners, a trading unit and lawyers in Russia and Cyprus, his
attorney, Thomas Beazley, said in opening statements today. When
they met in the early 90s, Cherney “had none of that.”  Cherney, who lives in Israel, says Deripaska was his
partner and never honored a deal to give him a share of Rusal,
the world’s biggest aluminum producer. In court filings,
Deripaska calls Cherney a “life-long criminal” who extorted
money from the company.  “The idea that he’s some sort of struggling student with a
summer job is just wrong,” Beazley said of Deripaska. Cherney
“wasn’t a proper but non-conventional businessman as he has
presented himself.” The true nature of the relationship was
that Cherney provided “krysha” or protection, Beazley said.  Cherney lawyer  Mark Howard  told the court on July 9 that
Deripaska is “seeking to rewrite history.” The allegations
about Cherney are to distract attention from the court case, he
said.  The trial, which will last into next year and feature as
many as 70 witnesses, will focus attention on Russia’s so-called
“aluminum wars” of the 1990s, when the fight for market share
involved criminal gangs and violence. Deripaska said in court
papers he was forced to pay Cherney for protection after
attempts on his life.  Proceedings will stop after this week and begin again in
September when the first witnesses are scheduled to be called.  The case is Cherney v. Deripaska,  High Court  of Justice,
Queen’s  Bench Division , Commercial Court 06-1218.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  