-- Diller-Backed Aereo Can Keep Operating While Networks Sue
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-12T00:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/diller-backed-aereo-can-keep-operating-while-networks-sue.html
Aereo Inc.,  the online television
service backed by  Barry Diller , won’t be shut down while U.S.
television networks pursue a copyright lawsuit against the
company, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in Manhattan today
refused to grant a preliminary injunction that would have put
New York-based Aereo out of business while the litigation
proceeds.  “Plaintiffs have not shown a likelihood of success on the
merits” of the case, Nathan said in her ruling. She conducted a
two-day hearing in May to determine whether to issue the
preliminary injunction.  Aereo subscribers register online and get access to a
remote antenna that captures over-the-air TV broadcast signals
and routes them to devices such as the iPhone, iPad and AppleTV.
Networks including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC
sued Aereo in March, saying it infringed copyrights and should
be shut. The networks said Aereo hadn’t paid for the right to
offer their programming over the Internet. Plaintiffs also
include  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting.  “Today’s decision is a loss for the entire creative
community,” a group of networks said in a joint statement e-
mailed by Fox spokesman  Scott Grogin . “The judge has denied our
request for preliminary relief -- ruling that it is OK to
misappropriate copyrighted material and retransmit it without
compensation.”  Aereo Chief Executive Officer and founder Chet Kanojia said in a statement the ruling “shows that when you are
on the right side of the law, you can stand up, fight the
Goliath and win. This isn’t just a win for Aereo, it’s also a
significant win for consumers who are demanding more choice and
flexibility in the way they watch television.”  TV Broadcasts  “This case is not over by a long shot,” CBS said in an e-
mailed statement from spokeswoman Shannon Jacobs. “We intend to
immediately appeal this decision to the Second Circuit and seek
expedited consideration. We also intend to seek damages and a
permanent injunction before this court.”  NBC said in a statement that the court “clearly
determined” that Aereo is harming broacasters and content
creators.  “We intend to appeal in order to ensure that local and
national broadcasters can continue to serve the
communities across the country that rely on them for local and
national news, sports and entertainment,” NBC said.  Aereo said consumers have the right to watch TV shows using
individual antennas and that the service doesn’t infringe
copyrights. The service began in March in  New York , where
subscribers get access to TV station broadcasts for $12 a month.
David Hosp, a lawyer for Aereo, told the judge in closing
arguments at the hearing that transmission to an Aereo customer
is a private performance not, as the networks claimed, a public
performance, which requires a license under copyright law.  Advertising Revenue  “The plaintiffs have failed to demonstrate they are likely
to succeed in establishing that Aereo’s system results in a
public performance,” Nathan said in her opinion.  The networks said the advertising revenue that sustains
their business could decline if a service like Aereo isn’t
stopped. If viewers gave up their regular TV service for Aereo,
they would no longer be counted in the ratings that determine
what networks charge for airing commercials, the networks
argued.  Nathan said in her opinion that the networks hadn’t proved
they would be harmed by Aereo “during the pendency of this
litigation.”.  Aereo received a boost before its service began operating,
when Diller’s digital media company  IAC/InterActive Corp. (IACI)  led a
$20.5 million round of financing for the startup. Diller, who is
on Aereo’s board, once ran Fox Broadcasting.  “I’m happy the judge denied the injunction, and now we can
really begin telling television consumers they have an
alternative,” Diller said in an e-mailed statement.  Ivi Inc., another service that streams TV broadcasts to
subscribers online, was shut down last year by a federal judge
in New York. Oral arguments in its appeal to overturn the
injunction were heard in May.  The cases are American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, 12-1540,
and WNET v. Aereo, 12-1543, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  