-- Dimon Risk Reputation on Line as JPMorgan Faces Analysts
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-07-11T02:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/dimon-risk-reputation-on-line-as-jpmorgan-faces-analysts.html
Jamie Dimon  will seek to restore
investor confidence this week after a trading loss wiped out $39
billion of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s market value and marred his
reputation as one of the industry’s best risk managers.  In a departure from his customary earnings-day conference
call, Dimon will meet analysts for two hours on July 13 at the
bank’s  New York  headquarters to field questions about the loss
and what he’s doing to contain the damage. The firm also is
being probed over the possible gaming of U.S. energy markets and
was subpoenaed in global investigations of interest-rate fixing.  There has been a “sudden change of perception in the
company,” said  Nancy Bush , an analyst and contributing editor
at SNL Financial LC, a research firm based in Charlottesville,
Virginia. “I’ve been watching banks for 30 years now and when
they lose the luster, it is extremely hard for them to get it
back, particularly when you have someone who was built up and
lionized like Dimon.”  Bush said the 56-year-old chief executive officer did an
“admirable job of saying nothing” when he appeared before
Congress twice last month to testify about the trading loss,
which stemmed from bets on  credit derivatives  at the firm’s
chief investment office in  London . “But I don’t know if that
can go on,” Bush said.  JPMorgan intends to reclaim millions of dollars in stock
from executives involved in the trading loss, including former
Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, and may disclose those
details as early as July 13, when the company announces second-
quarter results, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people
familiar with the firm’s plans.  Projected Loss  The trading blunders will cost the company just over $5
billion in the quarter, in which the bank is expected to report
a profit, according to the newspaper. Future losses on the trade
are projected to stay below $1 billion and the remaining
position could turn profitable if the market turns in the
company’s favor, the newspaper said. The firm is confident that
the losses have been capped as 80 percent to 90 percent of the
position has been closed, the people said.  The bank also is expected to report that its internal
investigation found that the risk failures were isolated to the
CIO, according to the report.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan
spokesman, declined to comment.  Dimon said last month that the bank probably will seek to
reclaim pay from executives.  ‘Corrective Action’  “We will take proper corrective action and it is likely
there will be clawbacks,” he told the Senate Banking Committee
on June 13.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, kicks off the
industry’s second-quarter earnings season and may report a
profit of 76 cents a share, excluding accounting adjustments,
according to the average  estimate  of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  “Nobody on the Street is going to care what net income
is,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the Philadelphia
Federal Reserve and an analyst with FBR Capital Markets Corp. in
Arlington, Virginia. “We only care about core earnings, how big
the loss was, how big can the loss grow, how far have you
unwound the trade and then what was the contribution to profits
from the CIO.”  Moshe Orenbuch, a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst in New
York, said the meeting will help him determine the likelihood
that JPMorgan might run into similar trouble again.  ‘Some Explaining’  “He’s got some explaining to do about, first of all, what
has transpired, what the size of the loss is, is there any
remaining volatility and how should we be confident the problem
won’t recur,” Orenbuch said yesterday in an interview with  Tom
Keene  on Bloomberg Radio. Losses incurred since the period ended
June 30 should be disclosed on the conference call, he said.  Second-quarter results also will be hurt by weak trading
and investment-banking  revenue  and shrinking margins on lending,
Orenbuch said in an earlier interview. That will be mitigated by
improving consumer-credit quality, strong mortgage volume and
the release of reserves set aside to cover bad loans, he said.  “It’s kind of not the worst and not the best,” said
Orenbuch, who estimates a $4 billion trading loss at the CIO and
earnings per share of 68 cents. “They’ve had  weaker  operating
quarters in the back half of last year.”  Dimon said last month that the bank would be “solidly
profitable” for the quarter even after the trading loss.  JPMorgan probably offset some of the loss with securities
sales as well as gains from a so-called debt-valuation
adjustment, said Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales
Partners LLC. Peabody estimated that DVA gains, which are paper
profits that boost earnings when the cost of a company’s debt
falls, will be $500 million. Orenbuch projected $760 million.  ‘Smoke and Mirrors’  “It’s all smoke and mirrors,” said FBR’s Miller. “That’s
why nobody’s going to care about” net income, he said.  JPMorgan said May 10 that it already took $800 million in
profits from securities sales in the CIO to mitigate the trading
loss. Peabody’s earnings-per-share estimate of 95 cents includes
the accounting adjustment, a $3 billion loss on the London
trading book and a $2 billion gain on securities sales. The
total trading loss could be as big as $5 billion, he said.  Investors “want to know what happened, they want to know
what Dimon knew and when he knew it,” said SNL’s Bush. “I
don’t know if he’s going to be able to tell them that, because
there’s always the consideration of what  lawyers  are going to be
listening for and what they will jump on.”  “You can imagine plaintiffs’ lawyers are licking their
chops,” she said.  Buyback Question  Investors also will be watching to see if JPMorgan
reinstates its $15 billion share-repurchase program, which was
suspended May 21 until the company could get a better handle on
the trading loss,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysts including
 Richard Ramsden  wrote in a June 26 note. “JPM could re-initiate
its buyback program this year, particularly if it has been
largely successful at exiting the CIO position,” the analysts
wrote, referring to the bank’s stock ticker.  JPMorgan’s market value has plunged $38.9 billion since
April 5, when Bloomberg News first reported the company had
amassed an illiquid book of credit derivatives at the CIO in
London. The stock has  dropped 10 percent  since mid-2004, when
Dimon joined JPMorgan as president and chief operating officer
in its merger with Bank One Corp, compared with a 54 percent
decline of the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   “In five years, if the stock is not $100, I will eat my
hat,” the New York Times quoted Dimon saying at an executive
meeting about a week before the July 1 merger, when the stock
closed at $38.17 a share. It settled yesterday at $34.25.  Back-Patting  “He’s incessantly patting himself on the back because he
didn’t burn the place to the ground,” said  Janet Tavakoli ,
founder of Tavakoli Structured Finance Inc. in  Chicago .
“Where’s the price appreciation? You’d have been better off in
T-Bills.”  JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are the first of the six
biggest U.S. banks to announce second-quarter results, and
analysts estimate they will post the highest earnings of the
group. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, which reports an hour
after JPMorgan, may say net income climbed 13 percent to $4.47
billion, or 81 cents a share, according to the average estimate
of analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  