-- Dimon May Get Questioned Over Hedging, Whalen Says
-- B y   L a u r a   J .   K e l l e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-07-11T17:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/dimon-may-get-questioned-over-hedging-whalen-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  will probably be pressed by analysts this
week over whether money-losing bets by the bank’s chief
investment office were really intended as hedges, said Tangent
Capital Partners LLC’s  Christopher Whalen .  Dimon is scheduled to hold a meeting with analysts July 13
to discuss how the New York-based bank lost billions of dollars
on credit-derivatives positions so large and market-moving that
a key trader involved, Bruno Iksil, became known as the  London 
Whale. Dimon told lawmakers last month that the “poorly
conceived” bets were intended to help protect the bank before
they “morphed,” boosting risks.  “We’re going to ask him to finally say, was this hedging,
or were you principal trading with the Whale in London,”
Whalen, Tangent’s senior managing director, said today in an
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara
Eisen. “Or maybe we’ll ask him something else.”  JPMorgan hasn’t yet said how large a loss it took from the
derivatives bets. Citing unnamed sources, the Wall Street
Journal reported July 10 that the positions will probably cost
just over $5 billion in the quarter.  Whalen, who expects Dimon to disclose the size of the
trading loss during the meeting, said every manager makes
mistakes.  “All managers are fallible,” he said. “Regardless of how
good of an operator you are, you really don’t know what the kids
are doing down there in the trading room.”  Dimon called the transactions a “tempest in a teapot” on
April 13 after Bloomberg News was first to report them.  “When he engaged Bloomberg and started talking about the
tempest in a teapot, he dug a hole,” Whalen said. “They’re
trying to get out of that hole, and get back to the point where
they can control the news story.”  JPMorgan stock has been battered in the nine weeks since
Dimon revealed the company expected at least $2 billion in
losses from the trades. The  shares  dropped 15 percent since May
10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura J. Keller in  New York  at 
 lkeller12@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  