-- DirecTV Customers Lose Viacom Channels as Fee Talks Fail
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-11T20:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/directv-customers-lose-viacom-channels-as-fee-talks-fail.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s 26 channels, including
MTV, Nickelodeon and  Comedy Central , went dark for almost 20
million DirecTV subscribers just before midnight yesterday as
the companies failed to reach a new programming fee agreement.  Viacom demanded the networks be dropped and wouldn’t
respond to a new offer sent on July 9, El Segundo, California-
based DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite TV service, said in an
e-mailed statement.  “We have been very willing to get a deal done, but Viacom
is pushing DirecTV customers to pay more than a 30 percent
increase,” Derek Chang, DirecTV’s executive vice president of
content, strategy and development, said in the statement sent
late yesterday  New York  time. “Viacom sent us a letter last
night that outlined our obligations to remove the channels by
midnight or face legal action.”  The standoff marks the latest fee tussle between a pay-TV
provider and program supplier. Such fights have blacked out
millions of subscribers in recent years, including 14 million
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  customers who lost access to  AMC Networks
Inc. (AMCX)  last month. Viacom said on its blog that its programs
amount to 20 percent of the audience at DirecTV. DirecTV cited
falling ratings at Viacom’s channels.  “It has been inconceivable that any distributor could drop
Viacom’s networks, mostly because of Nickelodeon,” Todd Juenger, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York, wrote
in a note in June. “But ratings are down, often significantly,
at networks representing 71 percent of Viacom affiliate fees.”  Viacom, based in New York, fell 0.3 percent to $46.73 at
the close in New York. The Class B stock has gained 2.9 percent
this year. DirecTV declined 1.1 percent to $48.15 and has
climbed 13 percent this year.  Failed Extension  Philippe Dauman, Viacom’s president and chief executive
officer, said he “will not negotiate in public,” speaking on
his way into a session at the Allen & Co. conference today in
 Sun Valley ,  Idaho .  Robert Mercer , a spokesman for DirecTV, said in a telephone
interview yesterday that the 26 channels include nine high-
definition versions of the 17 Viacom networks carried by the
company.  The parties had been negotiating for several months and
extended their seven-year agreement past the original June 30
expiration while talks continued, Viacom said. During that time,
Viacom allowed its channels to stay on DirecTV.  DirecTV dropped Viacom’s channels about 10 minutes before
midnight with no warning, Viacom executive Mark Jafar said in a
 blog post . He said DirecTV “refused to engage in meaningful
conversation.”  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  “We are deeply disappointed that DirecTV dropped Viacom’s
channels before our midnight deadline this evening, severing our
connection with its nearly 20 million subscribers nationwide,”
Jafar said. “We proposed a fair deal that amounted to an
increase of only a couple pennies per day, per subscriber, and
we remained willing to negotiate that deal right up to this
evening’s deadline.”  In its own posting,  DirecTV (DTV)  said Viacom demanded a 30
percent increase in fees over the term of a new contract,
amounting to more than $1 billion in additional costs. Viacom
said its fees account for less than 5 percent of the satellite
service’s programming expenses, and that DirecTV “enjoyed way
below market rates for Viacom’s networks for a very long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  