-- DirecTV CEO Says Talks With Viacom Continue
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-12T00:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/directv-ceo-says-talks-with-viacom-continue.html
DirecTV (DTV)  Chief Executive Officer Mike White said talks are continuing with  Viacom (VIAB)  Inc., even as the
two sides remain “pretty far apart” in a dispute over
programming fees.  “We’re happy to do a fair deal,” he said today from the
Allen & Co. conference in  Sun Valley ,  Idaho . “We’re talking.”  Viacom’s 26 channels, including MTV, Nickelodeon and  Comedy
Central , went dark for almost 20 million DirecTV subscribers
just before midnight yesterday after the companies failed to
reach a new programming-fee agreement. DirecTV said that Viacom
demanded the networks be dropped from its service, which ranks
No. 1 in the U.S. satellite-TV market.  The standoff marks the latest fee tussle between a pay-TV
provider and program supplier. Such fights have blacked out
millions of subscribers in recent years, including 14 million
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  customers who lost access to  AMC Networks
Inc. (AMCX)  last month. Viacom said on its blog that its programs
amount to 20 percent of the audience at DirecTV. The satellite
provider, meanwhile, cited falling ratings at Viacom’s channels
as an issue in the dispute.  “It has been inconceivable that any distributor could drop
Viacom’s networks, mostly because of Nickelodeon,” Todd Juenger, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York, wrote
in a note in June. “But ratings are down, often significantly,
at networks representing 71 percent of Viacom affiliate fees.”  $1 Billion  White said Viacom is demanding a fee increase of more than
30 percent, amounting to more than $1 billion in additional
costs over five years.  “We offered a hefty increase,” he said today in the
interview, without being specific. “We always said we’ll pay a
fair price consistent with other large distributors.”  Viacom, based in  New York , fell 0.3 percent to $46.73 at
the close in New York. The Class B stock has gained 2.9 percent
this year. DirecTV, up 13 percent this year, declined 1.1
percent today to $48.15.  Viacom President and CEO Philippe Dauman, questioned at the
Allen & Co. conference, said he wouldn’t negotiate in public.  “As you can see, we have negotiated with every other pay-
TV operator, without problems,” Dauman said. “Our record
speaks for itself.”  The parties have been talking for several months and
extended their seven-year agreement past the original June 30
expiration while discussions continued, Viacom said. During that
time, Viacom allowed its channels to stay on DirecTV.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  DirecTV dropped Viacom’s channels about 10 minutes before
midnight with no warning, Mark Jafar, a Viacom spokesman, said
in a  blog post . He said El Segundo, California-based DirecTV
“refused to engage in meaningful conversation.”  “We are deeply disappointed that DirecTV dropped Viacom’s
channels before our midnight deadline this evening, severing our
connection with its nearly 20 million subscribers nationwide,”
Jafar said. “We proposed a fair deal that amounted to an
increase of only a couple pennies per day, per subscriber, and
we remained willing to negotiate that deal right up to this
evening’s deadline.”  Viacom today also began limiting the number of programs it
lets people watch for free at its websites, after DirecTV
created a navigation tool to help customers find the shows
they’ve lost, according to Meghan McLarty, a DirecTV
spokeswoman.  Channel Bundling  White said he isn’t looking to break up Viacom’s bundle of
channels and buy them individually, even though his customers
would prefer not to pay for networks they don’t watch.  “Consumers ask us to do that all the time,” he said. “I
don’t think that’s likely because I don’t think the media
companies in general would be willing to do that.”  The sluggish economy and online services such as  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC also may make satellite customers less likely
to pay higher rates, White said.  “In this economy, consumers are struggling,” he said.
“Their incomes aren’t growing at those rates, and it’s tough
for the average consumer. That’s what we care most about.”  Viacom said its fees account for less than 5 percent of the
satellite service’s programming expenses, and that DirecTV
“enjoyed way below market rates for Viacom’s networks for a
very long time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  