-- Dollar-Funding Stress Eases, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-11T15:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/dollar-funding-stress-eases-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market forward indicators
suggest strains in short term dollar funding eased.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.45610 percent, down from 0.45760 percent
yesterday, according to the British Bankers’ Association. The
Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend, narrowed
to 28.9 basis points from 29.1 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 29.4 basis points from 32.3
basis points yesterday, according to the second rolling three
month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed 1.44 basis points to 24.06 31.13 basis points.
The gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking
sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations
for dollar Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $35.8 billion to $972.5 billion in the week ended July 4,
according to Federal Reserve data.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market decreased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 52 basis points below Euribor, compared to 57.5
basis points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, was little
changed. The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another
held at 39 basis points from 38 basis points.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 34 basis points, from minus 34.2
basis points yesterday. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  