-- Drought-Fueled Corn Rally Squeezing ADM Profit: Chart of the Day
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-07-11T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/drought-fueled-corn-rally-squeezing-adm-profit-chart-of-the-day.html
A widening drought in the U.S.
Midwest is eroding the profit outlook for Archer Daniels Midland
Co. by boosting costs for the world’s largest corn processor,
according to Topeka Capital Markets Inc.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that ADM’s share price dropped
12 percent since June 15, as the worst crop conditions since the
drought of 1988 sent corn futures in Chicago up 42 percent.
Decatur, Illinois-based ADM uses the grain to make more than two
dozen products including ethanol, sweeteners and animal feed,
and the company has businesses that store and transport the
commodity for customers including farmers.  “Corn is a major cost component to ADM’s income
statement,”  Ian Horowitz , a New York-based Topeka analyst, said
in a July 9 telephone interview. “Higher prices should mean
lower margins and earnings.” In a report yesterday, Horowitz
said corn will “need to move higher” with the U.S. crop headed
for “a growing season on par with the 1988 disaster.”  Ethanol refiners were losing more than 20 cents a gallon in
mid-June, compared with a loss of about 13 cents on May 1, ADM
Chief Executive Officer Patricia Woertz said during an investor
presentation on June 19. Corn prices have risen 27 percent since
then, touching a nine-month high of $7.33 a bushel on July 9.
About 40 percent of the crop was in good or excellent condition
as of July 8, down from 77 percent on May 20, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show.  Horowitz lowered his rating for ADM shares to hold from buy
on June 20. Similar reductions were made this month by Ken Zaslow at BMO Capital Markets and by David Driscoll at Citigroup
Global Markets Inc., who both cited concern over corn costs. The
estimate of ADM’s adjusted earnings, based on the average of 14
analyst forecasts, fell to $3.08 a share for the 12 months
through June 2013, down 7 cents in the past four weeks, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Like others in the agriculture industry, we are
monitoring the drought and the weather forecasts very closely,”
Jackie Anderson, an ADM spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-
mail. The company declined to comment on the recent share-price
decline or rating cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  