-- Dump Moody’s as Credibility of Ratings Crumbles, BTIG Says
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-07-11T16:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/dump-moody-s-as-credibility-of-ratings-crumbles-btig-says-1-.html
Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  shares may drop as the
market’s indifference to its downgrades prods bond issuers to
stop paying for ratings, according to  Mark Palmer , an analyst
for BTIG LLC, a trading firm in New York.  As Moody’s cut its ratings on banks worldwide, the company
was fired by Denmark’s Nykredit Realkredit A/S and the mortgage
unit of  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the country’s biggest bank. Investors
continued to buy the lenders’ bonds after the decisions, which
may show other issuers that they can stop paying fees to the New
York-based company, Palmer wrote in a report today.  “The Danish banks’ firing of Moody’s is not likely to be
an isolated incident, but could presage a trend in which
frustrated issuers end their dealings with the rating agency,”
Palmer said. “If the market continues to yawn in response to
these firings, as we expect, this will encourage even more
issuers to follow suit.”  Moody’s also faces the risk that investors will win
lawsuits over its inflated ratings for mortgage bonds that were
blamed for fueling the housing bubble, Palmer said. The report
was his first on the ratings company. He said investors should
sell the stock and that it could fall to $28, which is 24
percent below Moody’s stock price of $36.94 at 11 a.m. in New
York.  ‘Ruined Brand’  Michael Adler , a spokesman for Moody’s, had no immediate
response to the report. The company’s ratings unit, the second-
largest in the world behind  Standard & Poor’s , generated 86
percent of its $888.4 million of  operating income  last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Last month, the cost of protecting financial debt declined
following Moody’s downgrades of 15 global investment banks,
showing the ratings company has little credibility with
investors, Palmer said. The company’s “ruined brand” is
starting to put its continued relevance in doubt, he said.  “The reasons for that recalibration may have more to do
with politics and the existential threat to the company than
what’s really going on with the companies being analyzed,”
Palmer said today in a telephone interview.  Palmer said he hadn’t spoken with Moody’s management about
the report. “That’s going to be an interesting conversation,”
he said.  Dodd-Frank  Moody’s has gained power over the century since John Moody
published his first ratings in 1909 as regulators and funds
around the world embedded its scores in rules, Palmer said.
After the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act mandated the removal of references
to ratings in financial regulation, pension managers may follow
suit, reducing Moody’s influence, Palmer said.  Moody’s  net income  rose 13 percent to $571.4 million last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings may
increase another 6 percent to $605.3 million this year, the
average estimate of four other analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The regulatory and litigation risks to the ratings industry are
fading,  Peter Appert , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San
Francisco , wrote in a report today.  Appert has the equivalent of a “buy” rating on Moody’s
and says its stock may climb to $47 as it maintains its market
share amid rising worldwide bond issuance.  David Einhorn , who runs the New York-based Greenlight
Capital Inc. hedge fund and is known for betting against Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. before the investment bank’s 2008
collapse, said in a May 2009 speech that he was shorting Moody’s
because ratings were “shunned” by investors. The stock has
climbed 37 percent since then.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is Moody’s  biggest
shareholder  with a 13 percent stake valued about $1 billion.
Buffett told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in 2010
that Moody’s sales are unaffected by investors’ opinions about
ratings, calling the business a “natural duopoly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  