-- Heating Oil Gains on Refinery Shutdowns, Brent Crude Strength
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-07-11T20:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/heating-oil-gains-on-refinery-shutdowns-amid-supply-decline.html
Heating oil futures gained amid
speculation that refinery upsets and planned unit shutdowns will
reduce inventories.  Futures rose as PBF Energy Inc. has reported a series of
flaring and malfunctions this month at its Delaware refinery.
Exxon shut a unit at its Beaumont, Texas, plant for unplanned
work and BP Plc’s Whiting,  Indiana , refinery will shut a crude
unit next month for as long as two months of maintenance.
Distillate  inventories  are 17 percent below a year earlier,
according to Energy Department data.  “A few refinery glitches are lending support and with
Whiting, you might see tightness in product markets going
forward,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Heating oil for August delivery climbed 4.23 cents, or 1.6
percent, to settle at $2.7618 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Heating oil and gasoline widened gains as the premium for
 Brent crude  over U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate oil may
increase the cost of European fuel imports.  “Heating oil seems to be leading the market,” McGillian
said. “It’s following Brent. Gasoline is not as strong because
there’s only six more weeks of driving season.”  Brent’s premium to WTI for August delivery widened to
$14.42 from $14.06 yesterday, the largest gap since June 13.  The Energy Department reported that distillate  inventories 
rose 3.1 million barrels last week to 120.9 million, the biggest
gain since January.  Distillate Demand  Distillate  demand  slid 16 percent to an average 3.24
million barrels a day, the lowest level since the week ended
March 16 when inventories also sank 16 percent. The decline may
reflect delays in exporting diesel because of Tropical Storm
Debby, which moved through the  Gulf of Mexico  last month.  “This could have been the aftermath of Tropical Storm
Debby impacting some shipping,” said  David Pursell , a managing
director at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. LLC in Houston.  Gasoline  use  fell 0.9 percent to 8.92 million barrels a
day, department data show. Demand over the past four weeks was
3.9 percent below a year earlier.  Total fuel consumption  slid
5.4 percent to 18.5 million barrels a day, a five-week low.  U.S. gasoline  supplies  rose 2.75 million barrels to 207.7
million even as refiners reduced  output  of the motor fuel 0.8
percent to 9.32 million barrels a day. Supplies have climbed
five of the past six weeks, increasing 3.8 percent to the
highest level since April 27.  Summer Demand  “We only have a couple of weeks in July and August for
summer demand to improve,” said  Sander Cohan , a global
transportation fuels analyst and principal with Energy Security
Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “We have plenty of
product.”  East Coast stockpiles of gasoline rose 2.1 percent from a
seven-week low to 53.4 million barrels. Supplies are 4.2 percent
lower than a year earlier. The region’s supplies of reformulated
gasoline, or RBOB, fell 5.3 percent to 14.6 million barrels, 8.8
percent below a year earlier.  “RBOB continues to be tight in the Northeast, and that is
supportive of prices,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  August-delivery gasoline gained 2.2 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to settle at $2.7689 a gallon on the exchange. The August
contract’s premium over September narrowed for the first time
since June 27, dropping 0.56 cent to 12.67.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.2
percent yesterday to $3.383 a gallon, according to AAA. Gasoline
reached a year-to-date high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  