-- ECB to Ensure Lenders Have Enough Liquidity, Visco Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-07-11T12:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/ecb-to-ensure-lenders-have-enough-liquidity-italy-s-visco-says.html
The  European Central Bank  will
continue to guarantee sufficient liquidity for lenders and keep
up the fight against market fragmentation among the 17 countries
that share the euro,  Bank of Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco said.  “The ECB can’t but continue to pursue these objectives,”
Visco said today in a speech in  Rome  at the annual meeting of
the Italian Banking Association.  The ECB cut rates to a record low on July 5 on concern the
euro area is slipping deeper into a recession. The central bank,
headed by  Mario Draghi , agreed in June to help nations in
distress by acting as a buying agent for sovereign bonds
purchased by government-run bailout funds. The rate cut, to 0.75
percent, is an indication of the ECB’s intention to guarantee
“adequate monetary conditions” in the euro area, Visco said.  “It followed other measures adopted last month designed to
continue to ensure necessary liquidity for the banking system
and fight the effects of the fragmentation of monetary and
financial markets,” he said.  Visco said it was necessary for euro-region nations to
build a fiscal union and sacrifice some national control over
budget policy to strengthen the single currency.  The chances of the monetary union fracturing are
“remote,” though fears of a breakup “are conditioning the
thinking of international investors,” and leading to surging
borrowing costs in  Italy , he said.  Unjustified Spread  “The difference in yields between Italian and German
government bonds is by far greater than what is justified by the
fundamentals of our economy,” he said. Italy’s 10-year bond
yields 5.9 percent, 4.6 percentage points more than the
equivalent German bund.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti , speaking at the same meeting,
said that European leaders were making progress in resolving the
region’s debt crisis, even if it wasn’t reflected in the
country’s borrowing costs.  “The fact that the results are slow in coming, is really a
reason of frustration for us,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  