-- Hedge Funds Trail Vanguard as Elliott Returns Atypical
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/hedge-funds-trail-vanguard-as-elliott-returns-atypical.html
Before they discovered  hedge funds ,
pension funds and endowments typically held portfolios with 60
percent in equities and 40 percent in bonds. Many would be
better off if they had stuck with the old formula.  Hedge funds have trailed both the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and a Vanguard index fund with the same 60/40 mix over the
past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
balanced fund beat the main Bloomberg hedge-fund index in six of
the last seven calendar years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “People hear about the top-performing hedge funds and they
assume those results hold true for the whole industry,” George Sauter, chief investment officer for Vanguard Group Inc., said
in a telephone interview. “It turns out that on average hedge
funds are about average.”  Hedge funds are lagging behind after amassing a record $2.1
trillion in global assets from investors attracted by the
returns of top managers such as Paul Singer’s Elliott Management
Corp. and Seth Klarman’s Baupost Group LLC. The industry’s
underperformance has contributed to an estimated $4 trillion in
unfunded liabilities at U.S. pensions and prompted investors
such as the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  to
question whether every manager is worth the standard fees of 2
percent of assets and 20 percent of profits.  ‘Fewer Opportunities’  While there is no evidence that hedge funds are falling out
of favor, their scale is making it more difficult for the hedge-
fund industry as a whole to produce better results than other
asset classes, said Simon Lack, a former executive at New York-
based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and author of the 2012 book “The
Hedge Fund Mirage” (Wiley, 187 pages, $34.95).  “You have more money chasing fewer opportunities,” Lack
said in a telephone interview.  The main  Bloomberg hedge fund index , which is weighted by
market capitalization and tracks 2,697 funds, fell 2.2 percent a
year in the five years ended June 30. The  Vanguard Balanced
Index Fund (VBINX) , which has a 60/40 split of equities and bonds,
gained 3.5 percent annually and the  S&P 500 Index  gained 0.2
percent a year.  The Vanguard fund also beat the HFRX Global Hedge Fund
Index, a measure of hedge fund performance with a longer
history, every year since 2003.  “People aren’t looking at returns for the past few years
and extrapolating,” said Don Steinbrugge, managing partner of
Agecroft Partners LLC, a Richmond, Virginia-based firm that
advises hedge funds and investors.  Protecting Capital  Investors still expect hedge funds to outperform in the
long run as low bond yields and a slow-growing global economy
limit the gains from stocks and bonds, Steinbrugge said in a
telephone interview. Hedge funds continue to make sense for
investors because over time they have boosted returns and
protected investors in difficult markets, he said.  From the end of 2000 through 2002, when the  S&P 500  Index
fell 17 percent annualized and the Vanguard Balanced Index Fund
lost 6.3 percent, hedge funds returned 6.7 percent annually,
according to data from Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Hedge funds also beat the balanced fund in 2008, the second
quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2011, periods when
stocks tumbled, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Hedge funds
lost 19 percent in 2008 compared with a decline of 37 percent
for the S&P 500 Index and 22 percent for the balanced fund.  ‘Really Worked’  “In 2008 hedge funds really worked,” Goran Hagegard,
managing director at Greenwich Associates, a financial
consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview.  An April study commissioned by the industry’s trade group
found that hedge funds outperformed a mix of stocks and bonds
from 1994 to 2011. The HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index
returned 9 percent a year over that period compared with 7.4
percent a year for the balanced fund.  Hedge funds provide investors “with diversification
benefits even during the most difficult macroeconomic
environments,” according to the report, which was done by the
Centre for Hedge Fund Research at Imperial College in  London  for
the Alternative Investment Management Association, the trade
group, and KMPG International, an accounting firm.  The study’s results were based on a hedge-fund index that
gives equal weight to funds regardless of size, because
investors allocate money to funds of different sizes, said
Robert Kosowski, one of the study’s authors, in an interview.  Asset-weighted indexes better reflect the actual returns
achieved by investors, Lack and Steinbrugge said. Since 1998,
HFR’s asset-weighted index trails the performance of its equal-
weighted index by about 1.6 percentage points a year.  Strong Correlation  A May paper on hedge fund performance from 2007 to 2011
written by two researchers at Vanguard came to a different
conclusion, saying that many hedge fund categories were
“strongly correlated with a 60/40 portfolio of stocks and
bonds.”  Vanguard is the largest mutual-fund company, with $1.8
trillion in U.S. mutual-fund assets. The firm popularized index
investing and does not offer hedge funds.  Comparing the performance of hedge funds to a balanced fund
is fair because 60/40 was the normal portfolio of institutional
investors “before they embarked on adding alternatives,”
Daniel Wallick, an investment strategist at  Valley Forge ,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard wrote in an e-mail.  Alternative
investments  include hedge funds, private equity and real estate.  Macro Funds  “A diversified hedge-fund portfolio should beat a 60
percent equity 40 percent fixed-income portfolio,” Steinbrugge
wrote in an e-mail.  Macro hedge funds , which try to anticipate global economic
trends, returned 4.4 percent a year in the five years ended June
30, beating the balanced fund, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Multi-strategy hedge funds returned 0.9 percent a
year over the same stretch. Long-short equity funds, whose
managers can bet on rising and falling stocks, lost 2.2 percent
annually. Funds that allocate money to other hedge funds lost
2.8 percent.  A 2006 paper written by four academics, including David
Hsieh, a professor of finance at the Fuqua School of Business at
of  Duke University  in Durham,  North Carolina , found that as more
money flowed to hedge funds from 1995 to 2004, the industry’s
outperformance or alpha diminished substantially.  Total hedge fund assets reached $2.1 trillion as of March
31, more than four times their level in 2000, and eight times
the 1996 total, data from Chicago-based  Hedge Fund Research 
shows.  Hsieh, in an e-mail, said there isn’t enough evidence to
show that the lower returns were caused by the growing asset
levels. Lower returns, he wrote, “are mostly a function of the
markets that the hedge funds are exposed to.”  ‘Huge Issue’  David Swensen , the chief investment officer of  Yale
University ’s $19.4 billion endowment, said the fees charged by
hedge funds are also a drag on their returns. Swensen, speaking
at a Bloomberg conference in January, said that hedge funds’
traditional fees of 2 percent of assets and 20 percent of
profits “are a huge issue,” and unmerited except for
extraordinary performance.  “If you’re going to engage in the game where you’re
charging enormous fees, you have to be in the top 5 percent to
10 percent to win on a risk-adjusted basis,” he said.  The best hedge-fund managers have outperformed the S&P 500
Index over long stretches of time. Elliott Management, the $20
billion firm founded by billionaire investor Singer, returned 14
percent a year compared with 11 percent for the index since
1977, according to the firm. The New York-based fund has had
nine losing quarters in its 35-year history.  Klarman, Singer  Klarman, founder of Boston-based Baupost, which manages $24
billion, returned 18 percent a year since 1983. The S&P 500
gained about 10 percent annually during that period.  Among investors stuck with a less stellar manager,
unhappiness over the mismatch between fees and performance is
growing, said Chris Vogt, portfolio manager and global head of
hedge funds at  Allstate Corp (ALL) , a Northbrook, Illinois-based
insurer with $1.5 billion invested in hedge funds. Hedge funds
on average charge a fee of 1.63 percent of assets plus 18
percent of profits, according to HFR data.  “There is going to be more and more pressure on those who
haven’t consistently performed,” Vogt said in a telephone
interview. “If we have another flat year of performance, fees
are going to have to come down even further.”  ‘Eaten Alive’  Joseph Dear, the investment chief of the $238 billion
Calpers, the biggest U.S. pension fund, said in May he wasn’t
willing to pay hedge-fund managers the standard fee if they
don’t beat the market.  Holland Timmins, chief investment officer of the $25
billion Texas Permanent School Fund, said in January the fund’s
returns were being “eaten alive” by hedge-fund fees.  Citigroup, in a June report, concluded that “lingering
concerns” about recent hedge-fund performance would not stop
institutional investors from putting more money into them. The
industry could attract an additional $1 trillion by 2016,
Citigroup predicted, as public and private pension funds need
strong investment returns to meet their long-term obligations.  In the U.S., public pensions faced more than $4 trillion in
unfunded liabilities as of October, according to Joshua Rauh of
 Northwestern University . That gap, along with low  interest rates 
and low equity-market returns, the Citigroup report found, will
drive investors to boost contributions to hedge funds.  Lack, the hedge fund critic, said investors should allocate
less money to hedge funds, demand lower fees and have more
modest expectations for returns.  “The likely outcome is that returns will be disappointing
but the industry will grow anyway,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  