-- Medicaid Insurers Turn Targets After Amerigroup: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-11T20:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/medicaid-insurers-turn-targets-after-amerigroup-real-m-a.html
The takeover of  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  at
the richest premium for a managed care company in 15 years is
turning Medicaid insurers from  Centene Corp. (CNC)  to Molina
Healthcare Inc. into the industry’s next targets.  WellPoint (WLP)  Inc. agreed this week to buy Amerigroup for $4.9
billion, creating the largest private provider of Medicaid
coverage for the poor. The offer was 47 percent higher than
Amerigroup’s average price in the prior 20 days, the biggest
premium since 1997 for a health maintenance organization
acquisition greater than $1 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Centene, which operates Medicaid plans from  Texas 
to Ohio, and Molina, in states such as California and Utah, are
also ripe for takeovers, said Oppenheimer & Co.  States are already turning to private insurers to help
manage Medicaid benefits, and President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care law -- upheld by the U.S.  Supreme Court  last month -- may
add as many as 17 million patients. For potential suitors,
Centene offers the fastest sales growth among U.S. managed care
firms and Molina trades at the biggest discount to analysts’
2015 revenue estimates, the data show.  WellCare (WCG)  Health Plans
Inc., which is cheaper based on earnings, may also lure bids
from health insurers, said Susquehanna International Group LLP.  “There definitely will be more M&A activity in the
industry now,”  Frank Ingarra , the head trader at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based NorthCoast Asset Management LLC, which manages
$1.4 billion, said in a telephone interview. “The Supreme Court
upholding President Obama’s decision put these companies more in
play. You have more and more people entering Medicaid. That’s
creating an opportunity for them to get more dollars.”  Richest Premium  Laura Hart, a spokeswoman for Long Beach, California-based
Molina, and Jack Maurer, a spokesman for Tampa, Florida-based
WellCare, wouldn’t comment on acquisition prospects. Deanne
Lane, a spokeswoman for St. Louis-based Centene, didn’t return
phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  Today, Centene rose 1 percent to $34.74, and Molina
advanced 1.4 percent to $26.58. WellCare gained 1.3 percent to
$64.06, the highest since April.  WellPoint, the second-biggest U.S. health insurer, is
paying $92 a share in cash for  Virginia Beach , Virginia-based
Amerigroup. The 47 percent premium is the highest since  Cigna (CI) 
Corp. offered a 50 percent premium for Healthsource Inc. in 1997
and is almost double the industry average of 25 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The deal will make Indianapolis-based WellPoint the biggest
private provider of Medicaid coverage with 4.5 million members.
WellPoint approached Amerigroup about the acquisition and made a
high offer to preempt any other bidders, a person familiar with
the deal said this week.  Medicaid Expansion  “The premium you pay is different with Medicaid expansion
coming through,”  David Windley , an analyst for Jefferies Group
Inc. in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in a phone interview. “The
Medicaid space is an area that is growing. States are moving
more populations to managed care and the dual-eligible
populations are also attractive,” he said, referring to people
who qualify for both Medicaid and Medicare, the assistance
program for the elderly.  Starting in 2014, Obama’s health-care law orders states to
open Medicaid to people making as much as  133 percent  of the
federal poverty level. While the Supreme Court last month upheld
the Affordable Care Act, it also said the administration can’t
strip current funding from states that don’t comply with the
expansion. Republican governors in  Florida ,  South Carolina ,
 Louisiana  and Texas have already vowed not to participate.  ‘More Positive’  There may still be an estimated $370 billion in contract
opportunities related to the expansion of Medicaid, according to
a July 10 report from analysts at Wedbush Securities Inc.  “The Affordable Care Act and the decision around that was
more positive than negative in terms of expanding Medicaid,”
Michael Wiederhorn, a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer,
said in a phone interview. “My thought is that most will
continue to opt in and expand the Medicaid business, which will
be advantageous to Medicaid HMOs.”  Centene, which began offering a health plan in Wisconsin 28
years ago, and Molina, founded by Chief Executive Officer Mario  Molina (MOH) ’s father in 1980, are the next likely targets after
Amerigroup, said Wiederhorn.  “These companies have huge growth profiles going
forward,” he said. “They’re going to drive revenue and that
will eventually translate into earnings. They’re just scratching
the surface right now.”  Fastest Growth  Analysts project that by 2015 sales at Centene, which has a
market value of $1.8 billion, will have risen faster than every
other managed care provider in the U.S., according to  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s revenue may total $12
billion that year, versus $5.3 billion in 2011, the data show.  Molina offers acquirers access to Medicaid plans at the
industry’s least expensive valuation. As of yesterday, the $1.2
billion company  traded  at 0.13 times estimated sales for 2015,
the least expensive multiple among managed care companies, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Still, Centene and Molina have recanted profit forecasts
after encountering higher-than-expected costs in some parts of
the country. On June 11, Centene said earnings may be $1.45 to
$1.65 a share this year, compared with a previous estimate of
$2.64 to $2.84. Molina, which has been increasing its health
plans in Texas, said that sales generated in some parts of the
state aren’t enough to cover the cost of providing services and
withdrew its 2012 earnings guidance on June 6.  WellCare may be a more attractive target because of its low
valuation, said Chris Rigg, a New York-based analyst for
Susquehanna. The $2.8 billion company had a price-earnings ratio
of 8.6 as of yesterday, lower than 81 percent of its peers, and
its stock has  outperformed  Centene and Molina this year, the
data show.  Aetna, Cigna  “People are focused on Centene and Molina, but WellCare is
probably a more likely takeout candidate,” Rigg said. “Centene
and Molina have stumbled in new markets in the last few weeks,
which is depressing earnings.”  WellPoint’s takeover of Amerigroup may compel  Aetna Inc. (AET) 
and Cigna, the nation’s third- and fifth-largest managed care
companies by market value, to also acquire Medicaid providers as
the number of people eligible for coverage rises, said Thomas Carroll, a Baltimore-based analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Without a deal, Cigna’s sales are projected to climb at
half the pace of Centene’s over the next four years, and Aetna’s
growth will lag that of Cigna, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Buyers’ ‘Conundrum’  “The whole Medicaid managed care pie is getting bigger,
and the  insurance industry  is seeing that one slice of the
health insurance world as being a big growth area,” Carroll
said in a phone interview. Aetna and Cigna need to “either
explain to investors why they aren’t doing it, or start thinking
about the fact that they are going to do it.”  Cynthia Michener , a spokeswoman for Hartford, Connecticut-
based Aetna, and Matthew Asensio, a spokesman for Bloomfield,
Connecticut-based Cigna, declined to comment on whether the
companies are interested in acquisitions of Medicaid providers.  Aetna has said this year that valuations for Medicaid
companies are too high for takeovers, and Cigna has said that
Medicaid plans aren’t at the top of its acquisition list.  “The conundrum is the management teams have been fairly
vocal that they’re not interested in buying Medicaid assets at
the current prices, let alone the price WellPoint is paying for
Amerigroup,” Susquehanna’s Rigg said. “That said, the
strategic rationale for acquiring a Medicaid plan is in place.”  The July 9 announcement of WellPoint’s takeover of
Amerigroup boosted other Medicaid insurers’ stocks. Centene
climbed 20 percent, the most since October 2006. Molina rose 18
percent, while WellCare surged the most in four years with its
18 percent increase.  “The general consensus on the Street is that these
companies will all eventually fall to the consolidation that is
likely coming as a part of health-care reform,” said Carroll of
Stifel Nicolaus. “Amerigroup is just the first one to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 