-- Egypt Court Stands Against Mursi as Generals Gain Upper Hand
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-07-11T16:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/egypt-court-stands-against-mursi-as-generals-gain-upper-hand-2-.html
Egypt ’s highest court confirmed the
dissolution of parliament after it was briefly reinstated by
President Mohamed Mursi, dealing a blow to the authority of the
newly elected leader. Mursi said he would respect the decision.  The constitutional court halted Mursi’s most significant
decision since his election win about two weeks ago, effectively
banning parliament from meeting again. The legislature held a
brief session yesterday after Mursi’s July 8 decree that
reinstated it.  The court had ruled in June that the law governing the
parliamentary vote was unconstitutional, prompting the ruling
Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, or SCAF, at that time to
dissolve the chamber and assume legislative powers. Egypt’s
power struggle between the Muslim Brotherhood, the military and
the judiciary has escalated in the past week.  “The new constitutional court ruling is putting us in a
legal maze,” Khaled al-Anani, a political analyst at Durham
University in the U.K., said by phone today. “Mursi is trying
to solidify his position by reinstating the parliament, but his
decision came too soon given the polarization of revolutionary
forces and their division over the Brotherhood, while the SCAF
want to preserve their interests and privileges.”  Back to Tahrir  Mursi said he would respect yesterday’s court ruling,
“because we are a nation” of law, in a statement carried today
by the state-run Middle East  News Agency .  “It’s a big setback for the president,” Yasser el-Shimy,
Cairo-based analyst for the  International Crisis Group , said by
phone yesterday. The court ruling might give SCAF the upper
hand, he said, adding that politics is “being played in the
court system due to the lack of negotiation between all the
political actors.”  Mahmoud el-Khodeiry, a parliamentarian with close ties to
the Brotherhood, the country’s biggest Islamist organization,
said in an interview on Misr 25 TV that the ruling “doesn’t
concern us, and doesn’t prevent us from convening unless force
is used to do so.” The Brotherhood’s political arm, the Freedom
and Justice Party, controls almost half of the seats in the
disputed assembly.  New Constitution  Mursi, who comes from the ranks of the Brotherhood, was
elected president with a slender majority last month. His decree
that was struck down by the court had also stipulated another
parliamentary ballot would be held within 60 days of the
approval of a new constitution in a referendum. The charter has
yet to be drafted.  “We’re likely to see more legal challenges moving
forward,” said el-Shimy. “Egypt will likely be stuck in the
coming period in legal wrangling and it’s not going to be
resolved until a constitution is written with clear guidelines
on the respective authority of each branch of government.”  Members of the court are “from the old regime” and
“naturally don’t want the Muslim Brotherhood to be in
control,” said al-Anani. As a state institution that ought to
be independent, the court has exceeded its jurisdiction by
ruling on sovereign matters, he said.  The newly elected president will make his first foreign
trip today to  Saudi Arabia  where he may try to strengthen ties
with the kingdom’s rulers, who have been traditionally allied to
Egypt’s deposed leader  Hosni Mubarak . Saudi Arabia, the world’s
largest oil exporter and the region’s biggest economy, can help
Egypt’s struggling economy and has pledged almost $4 billion in
aid.  Saudi Visit  Mursi’s trip to the Saudi capital,  Riyadh , follows an
invitation from  King Abdullah , the Egyptian state-run Middle
East News Agency said, citing Saudi ambassador to Cairo Ahmed
Qattan. Qattan said he expected the visit to boost Saudi
investments in Egypt, it reported.  “Mursi wants to send the message: ‘Don’t be afraid of us.
We want to work with you and put our past disagreements aside,”
 Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings Doha Center,
said by phone. “It shows the Brotherhood’s pragmatism on
foreign policy. Everyone knows that the relationship between
Saudi Arabia and the Emirates and the Brotherhood is very tense
and Gulf financial support is going to be important for Egypt’s
economic recovery so it deserves additional attention.”  Egypt needs at least $5 billion in long-term financing for
strategic food commodities and development projects to create
jobs, Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said during a meeting
with a delegation from the  Islamic Development Bank  earlier this
month, according to a statement.  Shares Rise  Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  increased for a second day,
rising 1 percent at 11:45 a.m. in Cairo. The yield on the
country’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due 2020 was little changed
at 6.26 percent, near the lowest level since November.  Presidential spokesman Yasser Ali didn’t respond to calls
to his mobile phone seeking comment on developments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  