-- Egypt’s Record Debt Offering Plan on Track Amid Power Struggle
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-07-11T13:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/egypt-s-record-debt-offering-plan-on-track-amid-power-struggle.html
Egypt  will offer 15 billion Egyptian
pounds ($2.5 billion) of debt by July 16 amid a power struggle
between the president and the military. Dollar bonds were little
changed.  Egypt will sell  six-  and 12-month securities valued at 2
billion and 3.5 billion pounds tomorrow, respectively, according
to central bank data on Bloomberg. It will seek bids for 2.5
billion pounds and 3.5 billion pounds of  three-  and  nine-month 
notes on July 15. The government has raised the targeted 29
billion pounds from debt sales so far this quarter.  Borrowing costs have stabilized after the central bank cut
a key reserve ratio for banks and added 28-day  repurchase
agreements  to the seven-day contracts it already offers. The
funds made available to the market in the last two weeks helped
lower yields on  one-year notes  to 15.87 percent at last week’s
auction from 15.97 percent at the end of June, near the highest
level since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2006.  “We’re seeing a positive trend in yields,” said Khalil El
Bawab, head of fixed-income at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE. “For that to continue we need to see foreign inflows or
fresh funding, which are largely dependent on the perception of
 currency risk . The reserve ratio cut freed up funding for banks
but on its own it’s not enough to sustain the decline in
yields.”  Court Ruling  The nation’s highest court yesterday overturned a decree by
newly-elected President Mohamed Mursi that reinstated
parliament. The decision, which reaffirmed a June ruling,
effectively returns legislative authority to the military until
a new parliament is elected. Mursi is yet to appoint a prime
minister.  Egypt plans to raise a record 175 billion pounds from debt
sales in the three months ending September and has relied on
local banks to buy debt as foreigners exited the market amid
unrest that followed President  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster last year.
The central bank cut the local-currency reserve ratio for
lenders twice this year to 10 percent.  The pound, subject to a managed float, was little changed
at 6.0625 a dollar at 2:32 p.m. in Cairo. The yield on the 5.75
percent dollar bonds due April 2020 held at 6.26 percent,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The government will also sell 2 billion pounds and 1.5
billion pounds of three- and seven-year bonds on July 16, the
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  