-- Lehman, Dynegy, Kodak, Ocala Funding, Cocopah: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-07-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/lehman-dynegy-kodak-ocala-funding-cocopah-bankruptcy.html
Claims for so-called soft dollar
accounts against the brokerage unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. don’t qualify as customer claims and thus aren’t eligible
for payments of as much as $500,000 each from the fund
maintained by the Securities Investor Protection Corp., a
bankruptcy judge ruled.  Soft dollar accounts are a creature of the so-called safe
harbor established by Section 28(e) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. It protects a  money manager  by providing that there
is no breach of fiduciary duty for paying a higher commission
than another broker-dealer would have charged, so long as
conditions are met.  Under the section, part of commissions, known as soft
dollar commission credits, may be used only as the law permits.
Among other things, the credits can be used to pay for research
and other services provided to the customer by the broker.  Originally, there were 113 claims for soft dollar credits
asserted to have status as customer claims against the Lehman
broker,  Lehman Brothers Inc . If they were valid customer claims,
SIPC would be obliged to pay as much as $500,000 for each
account even if the liquidation of the Lehman brokerage didn’t
generate enough to cover the claims in that amount.  James Giddens, the trustee liquidating the Lehman brokerage
under the Securities Investor Protection Act, objected to all
the soft dollar claims. Originally, 24 customers disagreed with
Giddens’ determination. Ultimately, about 15 went to court
asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James M. Peck  in Manhattan to
decide if the soft dollar claims qualify as customer claims.  In yesterday’s 18-page opinion, Peck ruled that soft dollar
claims aren’t customer claims and are only permissible as
general unsecured claims. As general claims, the soft dollar
claims will only be paid after customer claims are satisfied
from the pool of customer property and expenses of the Lehman
brokerage’s liquidation are paid. Giddens has made no
distributions so far on general unsecured claims.  Peck said that they don’t qualify as customer claims
because the soft dollars are prohibited from being used to
purchase securities. Peck issued his decision after briefs were
filed and the parties argued in his court on May 17.  Creditors with soft dollar claims include funds affiliated
with  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  and Oppenheimer
Funds Inc.  The Lehman holding company and the brokerage subsidiary
began their bankruptcies in New York in September 2008. The
Chapter 11 plan for the Lehman companies other than the broker
was confirmed in December and implemented in March, with a first
distribution in April. The Lehman brokerage is yet to make a
first distribution to non-customers.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding for the brokerage operation is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Filings  Taylor Bean’s Ocala Funding Files to Sue Freddie Mac  Ocala Funding LLC, a subsidiary of previously bankrupt and
fraud-ridden  Taylor Bean  & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., filed a
Chapter 11 petition yesterday in Jacksonville, Florida, to mount
a lawsuit against  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (FMCC) , known as
 Freddie Mac .  The bankruptcy is designed to recover $805 million in
transfers by Ocala to Freddie Mac that were allegedly fraudulent
conveyances.  Ocala’s principal creditors -- Deutsche Bank,  BNP Paribas
Mortgage Corp. (BNP)  and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. -- have
an agreement to carve up the assets and future lawsuit
recoveries under a liquidating Chapter 11 plan that is to be
court approved in about five months.  Although wholly owned by Taylor Bean, Ocala was intended to
be a bankruptcy-remote entity that would purchase  mortgage loans 
made by Taylor Bean and in turn sell the loans to Freddie Mac.
According to a court filing by Ocala, Taylor Bean’s former
Chairman  Lee Farkas  caused Ocala to make $805 million in
improper transfers to Freddie Mac to cover up a fraud he was
conducting at Taylor Bean.  Last year, Farkas was sentenced to 30 years in federal
prison after being convicted on 14 counts of conspiracy and
bank, wire and  securities fraud  in what prosecutors said was a
$3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage assets.  Ocala contends the $805 million in transfers were
fraudulent and can be recovered in bankruptcy. Ocala also
intends to sue Deloitte & Touche LLP, which was the outside
auditor for what was once the largest independent mortgage
originator in the U.S. The trust for Taylor Bean’s creditors
already sued Deloitte.  Deutsche Bank and BNP are owed $1.75 billion while FDIC is
owed $900 million, according to a filing in bankruptcy court.  In addition to the lawsuits, Ocala’s assets include real
estate plus about $140 million in several accounts subject to
claims. Ocala also has a $1.6 billion claim against Taylor Bean.  Taylor Bean filed for Chapter 11 protection in August 2009
and implemented a liquidating Chapter 11 plan in August 2011.
Taylor Bean’s bankruptcy came three weeks after federal
investigators searched the offices of the Ocala, Florida-based
company, which managed an $80 billion mortgage-servicing
portfolio.  The Taylor Bean petition said assets and debt both exceed
$1 billion. Ocala’s petition likewise states that assets and
debt are both more than $1 billion.  For details on the Taylor Bean plan, click here for the
July 15, 2011, Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Ocala bankruptcy is In re Ocala Funding LLC, 12-04524,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville). The parent’s case is Taylor Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., 09-07047, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District
of Florida (Jacksonville).  Cocopah Nurseries Files Bankruptcy to Buy Water for Plants  Cocopah Nurseries of Arizona Inc., a grower of palm trees,
citrus, dates and other crops, filed a Chapter 11 petition on
July 9 in Yuma, Arizona, to keep the water flowing.  The nursery was at loggerheads with its two secured lenders
about debt restructuring. Running out of cash to buy electricity
and water needed to keep the plants alive, Cocopah filed for
 bankruptcy protection  owing $70 million to RaboBank NA and $65
million to  Wells Fargo NA. (WFC)   The company blamed bankruptcy on the decline in retail and
commercial construction. Sales dropped to $23 million in 2011
from $53 million in 2006.  Cocopah, based in Indio, California, has 14,000
noncontinguous acres in Arizona and 9,000 noncontiguous acres in
California. The acreage contains about 250,000 palm trees under
cultivation.  The company filed the Chapter 11 petition on learning that
RaboBank was going to state court to seek the appointment of a
receiver. Cocopah blamed some of its difficulties on
disagreements between the two lenders, which have separate
collateral.  The case is In re Cocopah Nurseries of Arizona Inc.,
12-15292, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Arizona (Yuma).  Updates  Dynegy Merger Has Formal Approval by Bankruptcy Judge  Power producer Dynegy Holdings LLC was given formal
authority from the bankruptcy judge yesterday to merge with
parent  Dynegy Inc. (DYNIQ)  around the time the two companies implement
their Chapter 11 reorganization plan.  The Dynegy parent filed its own Chapter 11 petition on July
6 to assist in implementing the settlement hammered out with
creditors of Dynegy Holdings in the subsidiary’s bankruptcy
begun in November. Through the merger and reorganization plan,
creditors of Dynegy Holdings will own 99 percent of the combined
companies’ stock. The Dynegy parent will be the surviving entity
in the merger.  As part of the settlement already approved by the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Poughkeepsie, New York, the Dynegy parent is
to receive 1 percent of the merged companies’ stock and warrants
for another 13.5 percent. The stock and warrants will go into a
trust, which Dynegy intends to benefit the parent company’s
existing stockholders.  The order signed by the judge yesterday sets down rules
under which the Dynegy parent can change who receives property
from the trust. For details about the parent’s bankruptcy, click
here for the July 6 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The plan approval process is going ahead, now that the
court has approved the explanatory disclosure statement. The
confirmation hearing for approval of the plan is set for Sept.
5. The disclosure statement tells unsecured creditors of Dynegy
Holdings with claims totaling about $4.2 billion why they can
expect a recovery between 59 percent and 89 percent. For details
on the newest version of the Dynegy plan, click here for the
June 20 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The plan going out for approval by creditors is the latest
version of a reorganization originally worked out before the
Dynegy Holdings Chapter 11 filing in November. Creditor
objections resulted in appointment of an examiner, who issued
report saying a restructuring last year involved fraudulent
transfers with actual intent to hinder and delay creditors.  Two settlements followed before there was global agreement
on a new plan structure, which required the Dynegy parent to
place itself into bankruptcy as well.  The Dynegy parent’s petition listed assets of $11.4 billion
and liabilities of $5.1 billion. None of Dynegy’s operating
subsidiaries not already in bankruptcy filed bankruptcy along
with the parent.  The $1.05 billion in 8.375 percent senior unsecured notes
of Dynegy Holdings LLC traded yesterday for 66.5 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  In addition to the Dynegy parent, the companies in Chapter
11 are Dynegy Holdings and four of its units. The subsidiaries
of Dynegy Holdings aren’t being reorganized under the plan.  The existing Chapter 11 case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC,
11-38111, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Poughkeepsie). The new case for the parent is In re Dynegy
Inc., 12-36728, same court.  Kodak Retirees Fight Proposal to End Health Benefits  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  retirees started a lawsuit so the
bankruptcy court can decide whether the company has the
unilateral right to end unvested retiree health benefits.  Kodak filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in January and
submitted papers in February to end health benefits for former
employees who retired after 1991. The company contended that it
had the unilateral right to terminate the benefits because they
were voluntary and not vested.  When several employees objected, the bankruptcy judge
called for a separate official committee to represent the 56,000
retirees. In the lawsuit begun on July 9, the committee asked
the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan to decide if the company
must abide by the process in the  Bankruptcy Code  for terminating
retiree health benefits, whether vested or not.  According to the committee, Kodak has said throughout that
it intends to terminate retiree health benefits, even though it
withdrew the request filed in February to end the benefits
immediately.  The dispute with retirees comes amid Kodak’s program to
sell digital-imaging technology by August.  Kodak’s $400 million in 7 percent convertible notes due in
2017 traded yesterday for 17.3 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Kodak, based in Rochester, New York, filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in January, listing $5.1 billion in assets and
$6.75 billion in debt. Liabilities for borrowed money, totaling
$1.6 billion, included $100 million on a first-lien revolving
credit and $96 million in outstanding letters of credit.  Other liabilities include $750 million in second-lien
notes, $406.1 million in convertible notes, and $252.4 million
in senior unsecured notes. Trade debt was $425 million.  The lawsuit in bankruptcy court with retirees is Official
Committee of Retired Employees (In re Eastman Kodak Co.),
12-01747, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). Kodak’s Chapter 11 case is In re Eastman Kodak Co.,
12-10202, same court.  Daily Podcast  Jefferson County, Indian Casino, Tax Returns: Bankruptcy Audio  Jefferson County, Alabama, in effect gave itself more time
to decide whether to appeal a decision by the bankruptcy judge
cutting off its ability to divert sewer revenue away from
bondholders, as Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News
bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle discuss on their podcast. The
Indian-owned  Santa Ysabel Resort & Casino  near San Diego may
face a challenge to its right to bankruptcy reorganization, for
reasons Rochelle explains. The podcast ends with discussion of
two important new bankruptcy decisions. One counsels those
contemplating bankruptcy to ensure tax returns are filed on
time. The second finds a loophole in the automatic stay
permitting lawsuits blocking trademark infringement to proceed.
To listen, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 