-- Telefonica Latin America Luster Fades on Brazil Slowdown
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-07-12T20:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/telefonica-latin-america-luster-fades-on-brazil-slowdown.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s days of guaranteed
earnings expansion in Latin America may be over, leaving Chief
Executive Officer Cesar Alierta with few growth markets as he
tries to sell a stake in the assets to repay debt.  Revenue growth from the 15 countries including  Brazil  and
 Peru  is poised to slow to 2.7 percent in 2013 from 12 percent
last year, according to an estimate by Sanford C. Bernstein.
Telefonica Brasil SA, which made almost half of Telefonica’s 29
billion euros ($35 billion) in Latin American sales last year,
may see its 2012 profit margins drop to the lowest level since
at least 2004, Banco de Sabadell analysts predict.  Alierta’s reliance on the region to offset a decline in
earnings at its debt-battered Spanish home market may prove
risky as the region’s economy slows and competition with  Carlos
Slim ’s America Movil intensifies. Telefonica is discussing ways
to sell shares in the regional business worth at least 40
billion euros, with one option being the creation of a holding
company excluding Brazil and list it in the U.S., people
familiar with the matter said this week.  “If Brazil starts to show weakening growth, I’d be very
concerned because there would be massive consequences on both
debt and equity markets,” said  Roger Appleyard , head of global
credit research at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “As the other
countries aren’t fantastic, Brazil is key in order to create a
great story and convince any potential investors.”  Vivo Deal  Shares of Telefonica fell 3.2 percent to 9.76 euros at the
close in Madrid, extending their decline this year to 27
percent. America Movil was little changed at 17.53 pesos in
Mexico City.  Telefonica  entered   Latin America  in 1990 through  Chile  and
Argentina. Four years later the Madrid-based company added Peru
and in 1998 it won a tender for Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo
SA, which became the fixed-line unit known as Telesp in Brazil.  About $42 billion in acquisitions over two decades in the
region, which culminated in the $10 billion takeover of
Brazilian mobile operator Vivo Participacoes SA in 2010, made
Telefonica the most acquisitive Spanish company in the region.  Latin America is helping  Spain ’s largest phone company
offset a profit decline at its domestic market amid the debt
crisis. Brazil accounted for 23 percent of Telefonica’s revenue
and 25 percent of operating income before depreciation and
amortization in the first quarter. That period also marked the
first time for Telefonica, which was founded in 1924, when
earnings from Latin America surpassed those from  Europe .  Brazil Growth  Still, the growth is slowing. Macquarie estimates revenue
from Latin America will climb 5.5 percent next year, while Banco
de Sabadell projects an increase of 3.4 percent. Telefonica’s
Oibda margin in Brazil, a country with more mobile-phone
accounts than people, is poised to shrink to 36.4 percent this
year from 37 percent in 2011, according to the bank.  Economic growth in Brazil, the world’s second-largest
emerging economy, is forecast by analysts in a central bank
survey to slow to 2 percent this year. Gross domestic product
grew 2.7 percent in 2011, after 7.5 percent  expansion  in 2010.  Latin America is “an attractive market, but it’s a very
competitive market, so you have to be careful with that,” said
Will Landers, who helps manage more than $6 billion in Latin
American equities including  America Movil (AMXL)  at New York-based
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  “All the good postpaid customers already have a
phone or two, so the consumers you’re adding now are not going
to be very high-quality customers.”  Cash Restriction  Other options under consideration by Telefonica, with 57
billion euros in net debt at the end of March, include
incorporating all its Latin America units into Telefonica Brasil
and hold a secondary share sale, the people said, adding that no
decision has been made.  Telefonica hasn’t made much progress in Mexico and
 Colombia , where America Movil dominates with 70 percent and 62
percent of subscribers, respectively, compared with the Spanish
company’s 20 percent and 25 percent.  In some Latin American countries, Telefonica, as a foreign
investor, has had turbulent encounters with local governments.
 Venezuela  has limited the amount of cash Telefonica can move out
of the country. Moody’s Investors Service said in April that
Argentina’s takeover of  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ’s unit would have negative
implications for investors like Telefonica.  Even in Chile, where Telefonica leads with 39 percent of
the wireless market, and Peru, where it dominates with a 61
percent share, profit margins are shrinking as competition gets
tougher.  Chile Churn  Chile introduced regulations in January allowing users to
switch providers without changing their phone numbers, causing
Telefonica’s churn, a measure of customer turnover, to surge 70
percent from a year earlier to 2.2 percent. At the end of last
year, Peru’s phone regulator cut the fees mobile carriers are
allowed to charge to connect calls from land lines, hurting
Telefonica’s sales.  Shares of Telefonica Brasil have dropped 4.6 percent this
year, lagging gains of 11 percent by America Movil and 6.1
percent by  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , the Brazilian division of
 Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   To be sure, America Movil’s profit margins have also been
shrinking, falling to 38 percent last year from 40.6 percent in
2010, excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
The pressure has been most pronounced in the operator’s biggest
markets, including Mexico, Brazil and the U.S., due to
competition, regulatory changes and more aggressive prices.
Profitability improved last year in Colombia, Chile, Peru and
 Ecuador .  German IPO  “When we went to Brazil, many of these analysts told us
that we were wrong but now the reality shows we were actually
right,” Alierta told shareholders on May 14. “We’ll continue
to grow in Brazil, which is evidently a priority, and revenues
and profits from that country will overtake those from Spain.”  A Latin America share sale may not happen until 2013
because of regulatory issues, the people said, adding that
Telefonica will focus first on the IPO of its German wireless
unit 02. The operator is considering a sale of a 20 percent
stake in the O2 Germany business, people familiar with the
matter have said.  Separately, Telefonica said yesterday it received several
offers for the call-center unit Atento, without identifying the
bidders. The operator was seeking about 1 billion euros for the
asset, people familiar with the matter have said.  Telefonica needs Latin America to continue to grow as a
recovery in Spain is unlikely any time soon with the country
mired in its worst economic crisis in decades. With a 52 percent
unemployment rate among people under 25 years old, Telefonica is
losing market share to competitors including  Jazztel Plc. (JAZ)   “Telefonica is being forced to launch the IPO in Latin
America now and that’s not ideal,” Andres Bolumburu, a Madrid-
based analyst at Banco de Sabadell said by phone. “The tough
current market environment could imply low prices, though next
year could be even worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  