-- Mellanox Drops Most Since May in Tel Aviv on Growth Concerns
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-07-11T09:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/mellanox-drops-most-since-may-following-decline-in-u-s-shares.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  declined
the most since May in Tel Aviv after its U.S. traded shares
slumped yesterday on concern the Israeli technology company will
report slower growth.  The  shares  dropped 6.6 percent, the most since May 20, to
276.2 shekels, or the equivalent of $69.64, at 11:32 a.m. in Tel
Aviv. Mellanox shares tumbled 6 percent to $69.03 yesterday in
the U.S.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the second-biggest maker of
processors for personal computers, said second-quarter sales
fell as slower growth in China and a worsening economic climate
in Europe reduced demand for the chipmaker’s products.     Asia
accounted for 31 percent of Mellanox’s revenue in 2011, while
Europe represented 15 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for a fourth day
yesterday on concern technology companies’ corporate profits
will drop.  “Investors are making a connection between Mellanox and
Advanced Micro Devices, and concluding it means Mellanox’s sale
will also be weak,” Brian Freed, vice president of equity
research at Wunderlich Securities Inc., said by phone yesterday
from Memphis. “In a market driven by fear, a connection like
that will cause people to make a call to sell the stock.”  Server Sales  Slowing global server sales, which fell 2.4 percent in the
first quarter, driven by a 14 percent decline in western Europe,
are forecast to result in revenue declines for International
Business Machines Corp.,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
three of Mellanox’s  largest customers , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  AMD’s second-quarter sales dropped to $1.41 billion in the
second quarter, trailing the mean estimate of $1.43 billion
forecast by 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company,
whose sales beat analysts’ predictions in the first quarter,
projected higher sales in April, citing growing demand for
personal computers.  The earnings report came after the  European Central Bank 
last week cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low and
China also reduced borrowing costs, adding to signs that global
demand for products may weaken.  Increasing caution in internet technology spending in  North
America  and an uncertain economic situation in Europe is
expected to hurt personal computer sales in the second quarter,
according to a Bloomberg Industries report  yesterday, which
cited the IDC PC Forecast Tracker.  Mellanox will probably say on July 18 that second-quarter
revenue was $128 million, compared with $63.4 million in the
year-earlier period, according to the mean estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  