-- Vodafone to Buy Telstra’s N.Z. Unit for NZ$840 Million
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-07-12T11:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/telstra-to-sell-n-z-unit-to-vodafone-for-669-million.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the biggest
mobile phone operator in  New Zealand , agreed to buy  Telstra
Corp. (TLS) ’s local unit for NZ$840 million ($668 million) as it
challenges fixed-line leader Telecom Corp. of New Zealand Ltd.  The agreement includes TelstraClear Ltd.’s voice and data
services, network infrastructure and customers in New Zealand,
Melbourne-based Telstra said today in a statement. The cash
purchase is expected to close before the end of the year subject
to regulatory approval, Vodafone said in an e-mailed statement.  Vodafone, which is seeking to win customers as the nation
expands high-speed Internet services with a new fiber network,
is paying about 6.3 times TelstraClear’s total earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in the year ended
June 2011. That compares with the 5-times-earnings average of 68
deals for integrated phone companies announced in the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The deal premium paid for TelstraClear highlights the
importance of this asset to Vodafone New Zealand,” Justin Diddams, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney, said in a
report today. “We see Telecom New Zealand facing increased
competition from Vodafone,” wrote Diddams, who has neutral
ratings on Telstra and Telecom.  TelstraClear has about 16 percent of the fixed-line
residential Internet market, while Vodafone has a 13 percent
share, with both companies trailing the 49 percent held by
Telecom Corp., according to Citigroup.  Newbury, England-based Vodafone approached the Australian
company about a potential sale of the unit, Telstra said last
month.  Number Two  “We see these businesses as very complementary,” Russell Stanners, chief executive officer at Vodafone New Zealand, said
on a conference call today. “What you see is the leader in
mobile teaming up with the clear number two in fixed.”  TelstraClear had sales of A$516 million ($525 million) in
the 12 months ended June 2011, with earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization of A$84 million. On a
valuation that excludes TelstraClear’s inter-company
transactions, Vodafone is paying 7.8 times Ebitda.  Telstra shares fell 0.3 percent to A$3.85 at the close of
trading in Sydney, trimming their gain this year to 16 percent.
Telecom gained 2.2 percent to NZ$2.58 at the close of Wellington
trading. Vodafone shares droppped as much as 1.8 percent and
were down 1.3 percent as of 12.45 p.m. in London  Telstra Charges  Auckland-based Telecom said it’s “well positioned” to
grow, even if rivals combine.  “Telecom New Zealand is in an extremely strong position to
compete no matter if this acquisition goes through or not,”
Acting Chief Executive Officer Chris Quin said in a statement.  Telstra is exiting New Zealand as it focuses on winning
mobile and Internet customers in its home market.  “The transaction is consistent with Telstra’s overall
strategy and capital management framework,” Telstra CEO David Thodey said in the statement.  Telstra will return about NZ$490 million in cash to
 Australia  via a dividend before the deal is completed.  As part of the transaction, Telstra agreed with Vodafone
New Zealand to ensure service continuity for its customers, the
Australian company said.  TelstraClear was formed when Telstra bought  British
Telecommunications Plc (BT/A) ’s New Zealand unit, Clear Communications
Ltd., in 2001.  Separately, Telstra will take impairments of about A$130
million each in the 2012 and 2013 fiscal years because of
unrealized currency losses, it said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  