-- Emerging Stocks Fall to Two-Week Low on Fed Minutes, Earnings
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-07-11T21:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/emerging-stocks-fall-to-2-week-low-on-corporate-earnings-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
dragging the benchmark index to a two-week low, as Federal
Reserve meeting minutes disappointed investors looking for a
stronger signal of stimulus to fight the global slowdown.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 0.2 percent to
932.38 in  New York , retreating for a sixth straight day, the
longest losing streak since May 18. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slumped
1.2 percent after UBS AG put VTB Group on its list of least-
preferred stocks. Embraer SA, a Brazilian aircraft maker, sank
7.3 percent to push the Bovespa lower after saying its backlog
of orders declined in the second quarter.  Technology companies sank the most among industry groups in
the developing-nations gauge after  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the
U.S. chipmaking-equipment provider, said  sales  won’t reach the
previous outlook as demand in  Europe  and  China  ebbs. Federal
Reserve minutes from a June meeting today showed comments of
members that strains in global markets stemming from Europe’s
debt crisis had increased since their April meeting. More action
may be necessary to boost the labor market and meeting its
inflation target, a few members said.  “Talks that indicate more easing and stimulus is not
enough to satisfy the markets today the possibility of easing
has already been anticipated,”  Dave Lutz , head of exchange-
traded fund trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said
by phone from Baltimore yesterday. “We’ll probably see a sharp
sell-off and get back to our lows until there is more action.”  The developing-nation  gauge  has climbed 1.7 percent this
year, compared with a 3.1 percent gain in the MSCI World Index.
Shares in the emerging-markets index traded at 10.1 times
estimated earnings, compared with MSCI World’s multiple of 12.2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Further Action  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on June 20 it will
expand its Operation Twist program to extend the maturities of
assets on its balance sheet, and it stands ready to take further
action as needed.  The minutes show policy makers considering the risk that
further easing might pose. Some members of the committee noted
that excessive purchase of Treasuries could “at some point,
lead to deterioration in the functioning of the Treasury
securities market that could undermine the intended effects of
the policy.”  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, rose for the
first time in five days, adding 0.5 percent to $38.40.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 4.6 percent to 26.62.  Russia Stocks  Russia’s Micex Index snapped a two-day advance, led lower
by VTB Group. Russia’s second-largest lender slipped 3 percent
after being added to UBS’ least-preferred stock list. UBS cited
the bank’s reliance on revenue from trading.  Embraer led the Bovespa lower after tumbling the most in 11
months in  Sao Paulo . The aircraft company said late yesterday
that the value of orders it has received but hasn’t yet
fulfilled fell to $12.9 billion as of June 30, from $15.4
billion at the end of 2011. The benchmark gauge dropped 0.6
percent.  The  WIG20 (WIG20)  slid 1.2 percent in Warsaw.  Sygnity SA (SGN) , a Polish
software producer, dropped 7 percent, the most since Sept. 12,
after Chief Executive Officer Norbert Biedrzycki quit.  South
Africa ’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  weakened 0.8 percent.  The Turkish lira strengthened for a second day against the
dollar, gaining 0.5 percent, after the nation’s current-account
deficit shrank more than expected.  Applied Materials said yesterday that net sales won’t reach
the previous outlook, while Hyundai Department Store Co. said
investors may have to lower expectations for earnings of
retailers.  Emerging-Market Growth  Growth in emerging-market economies probably slowed in the
second quarter as the euro region’s debt and banking crisis
hurts business confidence around the globe, HSBC Holdings Plc
said, citing a purchasing-managers’ survey.  The HSBC  Emerging Markets  Index, which is compiled by
London-based Markit Economics and tracks conditions at more than
5,000 reporting companies, fell to 53 from 53.6 in the previous
three months. The rate of expansion was weaker than the average
for the past three years, HSBC said.  “Earnings forecasts are declining and are likely to have
somewhat further to fall,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by
Geoffrey Dennis said in a report dated July 9. “Given the macro
worries of the second quarter, it may be no surprise that many
skeptical investors -- faced with further earning declines and
disappointments -- are not impressed by cheap valuations.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 364, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  