-- Leon Black, McQueen’s ‘Le Mans’ Car; Jane Austen’s Ring
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-07-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/leon-black-mcqueen-s-le-mans-car-jane-austen-s-ring.html
Billionaire  Leon Black  was the
anonymous buyer of Edvard Munch’s “The Scream” for $119.9
million at Sotheby’s, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
people close to the private equity manager.  At the May 2 evening sale in  New York , the 1895 pastel-on-
board set a record for a work of art sold at auction. It was
consigned by Norwegian businessman Petter Olsen, whose father,
Thomas, was a friend, neighbor and patron of the artist.  A major art collector, Black in 2009 paid $47.6 million at
Christie’s in  London  for Raphael’s chalk drawing “Head of a
Muse.” At the time it set an auction record for a work on paper
and became the priciest work at auction that year. Black is a
trustee of the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  Charles Zehren , a Black spokesman, declined to comment.  ‘Le Mans’  A Ford GT40  Le Mans  racer is estimated to sell for more
than $8 million at classic-car auctions in  California .  The works Gulf/Mirage, finished in trademark powder blue
with a marigold stripe, was raced by Jacky Ickx at Daytona and
Le Mans trials in 1968. It was later used as the camera car in 
Steve McQueen’s 1971 film “Le Mans,” said RM Auctions, who will 
be offering the Ford in its Monterey sale on August 17-18.  Ferrari Target  The GT40 was created by Ford in the early 1960s to beat
Ferrari at long-distance sports car races, after the U.S. auto
giant failed to buy the Italian company in 1963.  “They’re fabulous motor cars,” said Adrian Hamilton,
chairman of the Hampshire-based dealer  Duncan Hamilton & Co. ,
who sold this same Gulf/Mirage works example for about 25,000 
pounds in 1983. “The values are vastly different from Ferraris. 
Italian racers have an extra excitement and flair.”  An apple-green 1962 Ferrari 250 GTO made for the race
driver Stirling Moss sold in a private transaction for a record
$35 million in May. The Ferrari 250 Testa Rossa in which the
U.S. driver Phil Hill won the 1958 Le Mans 24-Hour race was sold
by the French collector Pierre Bardinon for about $25 million in
May, according to  anamera.com , which tracks classic car prices.  The RM sale also includes a 1967 GT40 Mk.I, one of 31 road
cars produced. Lacking a Le Mans history, and a Steve McQueen
connection, this is estimated at $2.3 million to $2.7 million.  Trophy Art  Sotheby’s (BID)  and Christie’s International raised a record
657.8 million pounds ($1 billion) from their summer auctions in
London as international buyers invested in a trophy-status art.  The world’s two biggest auction houses held sales of
Impressionist and modern, contemporary and historic pieces.  “A lot of new people are coming in and some of them are
getting carried away,”  Philip Hoffman , chief executive of the
London-based Fine Art Fund, said in an interview. “The art
world is still small, though. $1 billion is a rounding error in
the financial markets.”  Christie’s had the edge, tallying 389 million pounds from
its sales. Sotheby’s events generated 268.8 million pounds,
including 41.4 million pounds from the Gunter Sachs collection
in May. Phillips de Pury & Co. added 27.5 million pounds at its
June sales of contemporary art.  Joan Miro ’s 1927 abstract “Peinture (Etoile Bleue)” was
the season’s most expensive individual work, fetching a record
23.6 million pounds at Sotheby’s.  Mainland China  Chinese bidders were particularly active at decorative art
sales, underlining a preference, for the moment at least, for
traditional European pieces over cutting-edge contemporary.  A mainland Chinese collector gave 1.6 million pounds for an
18th-century English automaton clock -- with a flailing trunk
and flapping ears -- at Sotheby’s on June 4. The piece had been
made more than 200 years earlier to be sold in  China .  An 18th-century Italian inlaid marble casket was another 
Asian purchase, selling for 657,250 pounds at Christie’s the 
following evening.  “I’m doing more work with Asian clients,” said the
London-based art adviser Tania Buckrell Pos. “There’s a social 
cache to owning art, a bit of keeping up with the Jones’s.”  Gallery Opening  The New York and Cologne contemporary-art dealer  Michael Werner  will be opening a gallery in London on Sept. 27.  Werner, who represents  Georg Baselitz ,  Sigmar Polke  and
Peter Doig, has acquired the first and second floors of an 18th-
century house at 22 Upper Brook Street. Fellow New Yorkers Pace 
Gallery,  David Zwirner  and Per Skarstedt are also planning to 
open spaces in the center of the U.K. capital in the fall.  Werner’s space will inaugurate with a show of new works by
the Scottish artist Doig, whose 1990 painting “White Canoe”
sold for a record 5.7 million pounds at Sotheby’s in 2007.  Jane Austen  One of the summer’s most hotly contested auction lots was
an item of jewelry that had once belonged to  Jane Austen .  Sotheby’s July 10 auction included a gold ring that had
been worn by the author of “Pride and Prejudice,” valued at
20,000 pounds to 30,000 pounds. Of simple design set with a 
turquoise, the ring was being sold for the first time after 
being handed down through generations of female descendants.  Austen died, unmarried, in 1817. The lot was battled over
by eight bidders before falling to a telephone bid of 152,450 
pounds with fees from an unidentified private individual.  Stuffed Ostrich  Taxidermy, with its echoes of  Damien Hirst , is one of the 
hotter collecting areas. On July 19, Christie’s will offer an 
18th-century Italian stuffed ostrich in a walnut and glass 
case, complete with an extra section to accommodate the bird’s 
head. It is estimated at 15,000 pounds to 30,000 pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,
 Warwick Thompson  on London theater and  Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 