-- Leon Black’s Bid Entices NewPage Bondholders: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-07-11T14:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/leon-black-s-bid-entices-newpage-bondholders-corporate-finance.html
NewPage Corp. debtholders are
betting  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management LLC will raise its
bid to obtain control of the paper maker instead of letting the
firm emerge from bankruptcy and compete with  Verso Paper Corp. (VRS)   First-lien  bondholders  of the largest U.S. coated-paper
maker, which include BlackRock Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
turned down a deal that would have given them 83 cents on the
dollar, according to a July 3 regulatory filing from Verso,
which is controlled by Apollo. NewPage’s $1.77 billion of 11.375
percent bonds traded at 69 cents on the dollar at 9:56 a.m. in
 New York  today, above the 48 cent value that JPMorgan put on the
company if it were to emerge as an independent business.  Verso, which has  posted  net losses for nine straight
quarters, and NewPage are struggling through the fourth year of
declining demand for magazine paper. Apollo, which also owns
second-lien debt in NewPage, offered as much as 103 cents on the
dollar in May before lowering its proposal because of declining
earnings and cash at the paper maker.  “It’s too attractive an opportunity for Verso to let go,”
Amer Tiwana, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based analyst at securities
broker and research firm CRT Capital Group LLC said in a
telephone interview. “This is also a way for Apollo to salvage
an investment in both NewPage and Verso, and Apollo is smart and
will do this at any cost. It would seem we’re headed in the
direction of a higher offer and a combination of the two
companies.”  New Proposal  Under the latest proposal, the holders of the senior
secured notes would get $1.08 billion of new Verso debt, $150
million of equity and $200 million in cash. That compares with a
previous offer of $1.31 billion of new notes, $146 million of
common stock in exchange for 10 percent of the first-lien notes
and $300 million in cash, according to the filing.  The latest bid posed “significant downside risks” for its
“stakeholders,” workers and business, Miamisburg, Ohio-based
NewPage said in a July 3 statement.  Robert Mundy, chief financial officer of  Memphis ,
Tennessee-based Verso, didn’t return a phone call seeking
comment on the bids, and  Shawn Hall , a spokeswoman for NewPage,
declined to comment.  “A Verso and NewPage combination and the expected
synergies of $125 million to $150 million would allow for Verso
to pay a higher price than currently offered,” Tiwana said.
“The combination makes sense given the synergies and the
ability to rationalize capacity in a secularly declining
market.”  Paper Prices  The price of coated freesheet paper, one of the main kinds
made by NewPage, has dropped to $975 a ton, down 3.9 percent
from a year ago, according to a June report from debt researcher
CreditSights Inc.  “Demand for coated paper has been down about 5 percent
every year since 2008,”  Ed Sustar , a Toronto-based analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service said in a telephone interview. “If
you’ve got producers disciplined in managing supply, they should
generate free  cash flow . Both NewPage and Verso should be able
to coexist and survive.”  Moody’s rates Verso B2, five levels below investment grade,
while  Standard & Poor’s  maintains a B grade on the company.
Ratings on NewPage were withdrawn by both firms after the paper
maker filed Chapter 11 protection in September.  “NewPage went into bankruptcy with way too much
leverage,” Sustar said. “Given the secular decline of coated
paper, it needs a strong balance sheet.”  Bankruptcy Filing  NewPage listed $3.4 billion of assets and $4.2 billion in
debt when it filed for  bankruptcy protection . The company had
been unprofitable since 2006, as reduced demand from magazines
and advertisers weighed on prices for coated paper and the cost
of materials such as wood and pulp increased, according to an
Aug. 15 regulatory filing.  Bondholders would recover a significant amount in a
liquidation, Scott Colyer, chairman and chief executive officer
of Advisors Asset Management Inc. in Monument,  Colorado , said in
a telephone interview. “There should be plenty to cover the
first-lien bonds, even if the company’s assets were worth half
of what they filed for.”  The company, which had been part of MeadWestvaco Corp., was
bought by New York-based Cerberus Capital Management LP for $2.3
billion in 2005 and issued $900 million in  junk bonds  to fund
the purchase. In the last quarter before NewPage filed for
bankruptcy, its interest expense of $96 million topped its $24
million of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Exchange  Apollo, the New York-based buyout firm, purchased Verso, a
former unit of International Paper Co., for $1.4 billion in
August 2006. Its  stock  has fallen 87 percent to $1.51 since the
buyout firm took it public in 2008, Bloomberg data show. In May,
Verso reduced its debt by exchanging $104.7 million of secured
bonds for $157.5 million of subordinated notes, a trade S&P
considered to be tantamount to defaulting on the debt.  “Verso is almost assured of bankruptcy at some point in
time, unless they figure out a way of their mess,” Colyer said.  Verso’s $271.6 million of first-lien 11.75 percent bonds
due in January 2019 last traded at 81.5 cents on the dollar to
yield 16.5 percent on July 3, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Its $396 million of 8.75 percent second-lien notes due in
February 2019 fell 1.5 cents today, to 42 cents on the dollar to
yield 29 percent, Trace data show. The second-lien bonds are off
a year low of 34.5 cents on June 5.  ‘Stronger Business’  “Verso second-liens and subordinated bonds are moving
higher because there’s upside to a merger because total leverage
will fall and there’s a strong chance through this deal they’ll
try to be taken out through a discounted exchange,”  Rahul Gandhi , a London-based analyst at debt researcher CreditSights
Inc., said in a telephone interview.  Black, who worked at junk-bond firm Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc., spent most of the last decade buying companies with
billions of dollars in debt and selling them at a profit,
including a $30.7 billion takeover for Harrah’s Entertainment
Inc., the world’s biggest casino operator, and Realogy Corp.,
the biggest broker of residential real estate in April 2007.  A combination with NewPage would create “a stronger
business in the global coated and supercalendered paper
industry” due to cost savings, Verso said in the July 3 filing.
Verso said it withdrew a May 30 term sheet that did not reflect
NewPage’s latest earnings and cash balance.  “Is it quite likely that Verso comes back with a fatter
offer? The answer is yes,” Colyer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 