-- Terror Arrests Rise as U.K. Clamps Down Ahead of Olympics
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-07-11T14:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/terror-arrests-rise-as-u-k-clamps-down-ahead-of-olympics-1-.html
U.K. military and civil authorities
are intensifying efforts to eliminate the threat of terrorist
attacks during the  Olympic Games , producing arrests, court
hearings and rulings tied to security for the event.  Police have arrested 14 people in the last two weeks
throughout the country in two separate counter-terrorism probes
as part of a 66-day operation to prevent a terrorist attack
during the 17-day Olympics, which begin on July 27.  “Obviously one cannot know how much the security forces
are doing and what their tactics are, but there is a real
threat,” said  David Bentley , an associate fellow in
international law at  Chatham House . “There is always the
problem of when to move. If you move too fast, you might catch
two or three but lose the bigger picture.”  Three men from Birmingham, central  England , appeared in a
 London  court yesterday and are to be held in custody for three
weeks. The men face charges of “engaging in conduct” from May
1 to July 4 “in preparation for an act or acts of terrorism
with the intention of committing such acts,” the U.K.’s  West
Midlands Police  said in an e-mailed statement this week.  The men -- Jewel Uddin, 26; Omar Mohammed Khan, 27; and
Mohammed Hasseen, 23 -- allegedly manufactured an improvised
explosive device and bought firearms, according to a  statement .  Terror Act  Three others, previously detained in connection with a
separate investigation that produced a series of arrests last
week, appeared in court today, according to the  Crown
Prosecution Service . They also face charges under the Terror Act
and are still in custody, U.K. prosecutors said in a statement.  At a separate hearing, a judge yesterday rejected an
attempt by residents of a London apartment complex to block
installation of a ground-to-air missile system on the roof of
their east London building during the Olympics.  The British government’s air-defense plan for London during
the competition includes a series of ground-based missile sites
across the city and two high-velocity missile sites overlooking
the Olympic park as a “last line of defense.”  “They do not need to ask you, do not need to consult you,
but can take over your home and put a missile on the roof, a
tank on the lawn and soldiers in the front living room,” David
Enright, a lawyer representing the residents, said outside the
London court yesterday. “We have always believed an
Englishman’s home is his castle, not a forward operating base.”  Worst Case  “We are pleased the high court has found in our favor,”
according to the ministry’s statement. “We have always said we
are planning for the worst case scenario, not the most likely.”  Howe & Co., the firm representing the residents, said today
they will  drop  the lawsuit and take the matter to Parliament.  An additional 9,500 police officers will be deployed in
London on the busiest days of the games, the capital’s
 Metropolitan Police Service  said. The U.K. Ministry of Defence
is contributing as many as 13,500 personnel for security during
that time, ministry spokesman Craig Mowat said in an e-mail.
That’s 4,000 more than the number of British soldiers currently
in  Afghanistan , according to NATO.  In May, when an Islamic cleric known as Abu Qatada was
denied bail while he fights extradition to  Jordan  on terror
charges, a U.K. government lawyer said the Olympics will stretch
law enforcement resources.  “During the preparation of the Olympics and the
Paralympics there will be a very high level of demand on these
resources,” Robin Tam said at the May hearing. “As a matter of
logical inference, if  Abu Qatada  were to abscond other resources
would have to be diverted find him.”  Olympic Park  A man charged with terrorism-related activities challenged
a court order banning him from traveling through the Olympic
Park in east London this week. The man, identified by
authorities as CF, breached the order five times since he was
tagged using GPS monitoring in April, according to documents
filed at a U.K. court.  The man was deported to Britain from  Somaliland , in east
 Africa , in 2011 and has been under official surveillance since
May of last year. He is charged with suspicion of committing,
preparing, or instigating terrorist acts.  In a separate incident, police closed a major highway in
central England for more than four hours last week for what
proved to be a false alarm. Police stopped a bus and shut the
road it was traveling on after passengers said they saw vapor
escaping from a bag. That turned out to be a “health-
improvement aid for smokers.”  Sky News  initially reported the
incident to be a counter-terrorism operation.  “The first thing we must consider is that there is a thing
called randomness” said Bentley. “There may be something going
on, but a mere small cluster of cases doesn’t prove anything.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  