-- Terry Lied About Racial Abuse Comment, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-07-11T14:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/terry-lied-about-racial-abuse-comment-prosecutor-says.html
Chelsea captain  John Terry 
fabricated a story about making a racist comment to save his
reputation after a video of the incident was posted on the
Internet, a prosecutor said today.  Lawyer Duncan Penny said Terry concocted a story with
teammate  Ashley Cole  in the locker room immediately after the
video surfaced showing the England national team player calling
Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand a “f---ing black
c---” during a game last year.  “You knew you crossed the line and you regretted it,”
Penny told Terry during cross examination on the third day of
the trial in  London . “For someone in your position it’s
difficult to think of a more serious accusation to be made
against you.”  Terry is fighting a charge of a racially-aggravated public
order offense for using threatening, abusive or insulting words
or behavior. The case shook British soccer minutes after
Chelsea’s 1-0 defeat to QPR on Oct. 23, 2011. Fabio Capello quit
as coach of  England ’s soccer team in February after the Football
Association stripped Terry of the national team captaincy
following an appeal by Chelsea to delay the trial until after
the end of the Premier League soccer season.  Terry testified yesterday he used the words only to repeat
something he thought Ferdinand shouted at him.  ‘My Emotions’  “When he’s accused me of that, I couldn’t control my
emotions,” Terry said at the trial in London yesterday.  Cole, called to testify after Terry, denied Penny’s claim
that he summoned Ferdinand to the Chelsea locker room to
“smooth things over” because of the problems Terry would face.  Cole said he was conflicted when he made his statement
about the incident to officials because of his friendship with
Ferdinand, and his older brother Rio, who plays at  Manchester
United  and was an England teammate of Terry’s.  “I had to do it because someone had to,” Cole said.  Terry said  Rio Ferdinand  didn’t answer when he tried to
call him to discuss the matter.  Judge Howard Riddle will hear closing statements tomorrow.
If convicted, Terry could be fined as much as 2,500 pounds
($3,900) and may face sanctions from English soccer’s governing
body. The exchange followed the two players running into each
other going for the ball and turned into an argument after
Ferdinand felt Terry tried to cheat to win a penalty kick.  The men exchanged profanities and then Ferdinand said he
gestured at Terry, cursed again, and referenced an affair Terry
had with former teammate  Wayne Bridge ’s ex-girlfriend.  Sexual Gesture  “You shagged your teammate’s missus,” Ferdinand recounted
in testimony two days ago. He repeated the phrase at Terry while
making a gesture indicating sex, he said.  Cole said he was about a car length away from Terry when he
shouted back at Ferdinand but didn’t hear what the defender
said. He said he saw “with my own eyes” Ferdinand use the word
“black” or “Bridge’s” -- the name of his former teammate.  The defense has argued lip-reading can’t be relied upon.
Cole said the case shouldn’t have made it to court at all.  “I think we shouldn’t be sitting here personally,” he
said at today’s hearing.  Almost the entire Chelsea team and former Blues manager
 Jose Mourinho  provided statements in support of Terry, stating
they never heard him use racist language.  Didier Drogba , the
 Ivory Coast  national whose charity Terry said he’d donated to,
wasn’t among the names read out in court as providing supporting
statements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  