-- Ethanol Plants Cut Output on Rising Corn Costs, Ample Stockpiles
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-07-11T16:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/ethanol-plants-cut-output-on-rising-corn-costs-ample-stockpiles.html
Ethanol producers reduced production
to the lowest level in almost two years as a drought increased
corn costs and inventories remained ample.  Output fell 4.2 percent last week to 821,000 barrels a day,
the Energy Department reported, and the Agriculture Department
decreased its harvest forecast. Corn for December delivery has
risen more than 30 percent in a month as the worst Midwest
drought since 1988 has taken hold. Inventories were 19.5 million
barrels, near the one-year average.  “Ethanol margins are under severe pressure with the corn
crop under stress and significant ethanol inventories
available,” said Mike Breitenbach, an analyst and trader at
Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in  New York .  Denatured ethanol for August delivery fell 0.3 cent to
$2.465 a gallon at 12:09 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade.
Futures have gained 12 percent this year.  Farmers will harvest 12.97 billion bushels this year, down
12 percent from a June prediction of 14.79 billion, the
Agriculture Department  predicted . About 4.9 billion bushels will
go to make ethanol, down from 5 billion estimated in June and
5.02 billion used in 2011.  Companies are losing 18 cents on each gallon of ethanol
made, assuming one bushel of corn makes at least 2.75 gallons of
the biofuel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If margins persist at this level, ethanol plants will be
under severe economic pressure to cut production,” Breitenbach
said.  Ethanol Mandate  Based on USDA forecasts, production in 2013 would be 13.4
billion gallons, less than the 13.8 billion required by federal
law mandating ethanol use. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency  manages  the program.  “We’re going to have a tough time meeting the mandate,”
said  Terry Reilly , an analyst at Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
in Chicago. “Eventually EPA will have to change the mandate.”  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the third-biggest U.S. ethanol
producer, last month shut output at its plants in Linden,
Indiana, and Albion, Nebraska, citing “economic reasons.”  Nedak Ethanol LLC said June 15 that it temporarily
suspended production at its Atkinson, Nebraska, mill because of
poor margins.  Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc. (GPRE) , the fourth-biggest U.S.
ethanol producer, slowed output at two of its “smaller plants”
by 30 percent in February, Jim Stark, a company spokesman said
in an e-mail.  “The fact that Valero shut capacity is interesting because
they have a balance sheet and good assets,” said  Ian Horowitz ,
an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc. in New York. “You’ll
either see more capacity shutdown of slowdown.”  Poet LLC, in  Sioux Falls ,  South Dakota , is the largest U.S.
ethanol producer, followed by  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  in
Decatur, Illinois.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 