-- EU Banks Raised $116 Billion in Capital, EBA Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-11T15:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/eu-banks-raised-116-billion-in-capital-eba-says.html
European (BEBANKS)  banks increased their
capital reserves by 94.4 billion euros ($116 billion) by a June
deadline, the  European Banking Authority  said, as it seeks to
boost confidence in the region’s financial system.  Banks raised about 72 billion euros by selling shares,
holding on to profits and converting lower-quality capital to
common equity, the EBA said in a statement. The rest came from
adjusting models lenders use to measure the risk of liabilities.  “This is not the silver bullet, the situation is still
fragile,” Andrea Enria, chairman of the EBA, said in an
interview in  London  today. “But banks needed more capital and
we gave quite a boost with this exercise.”  The EBA told European banks in December to raise 114.7
billion euros in fresh capital. The agency required banks to
keep a core Tier-1 capital ratio of 9 percent and hold
additional reserves, called a sovereign buffer, to protect
against falling bond prices among euro-area nations.  Four banks, including  Dexia SA (DEXB) ,  Bankia SA (BKIA)  and WestLB AG,
have since been involved in “such deep restructuring” that
they were no longer considered part of the program, bringing the
final capital shortfall to 76 billion euros, the EBA said. The
agency didn’t give figures for individual lenders.  The December figure also included six Greek banks, which
had a shortfall of 30 billion euros. The Greek lenders’ capital
needs will be addressed through the International Monetary Fund
bailout, the EBA said.  Bank Recapitalization  The figures show that bank recapitalization is
“progressing well,”  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services chief, said in an e-mailed statement. The
exercise will boost the ability of lenders to finance the real
economy, he said.  While banks shrank their assets by about 22.6 billion
euros, the exercise didn’t affect commercial and consumer
lending, according to the EBA, which previously stated it
wouldn’t allow banks to meet their targets by cutting loans.  “If we hadn’t done this then banks would’ve tried to beef
up their capital by reducing assets more,” Enria said.  Lenders tapped public funds where private measures weren’t
enough, the EBA said. Three Portuguese banks took around 6
billion euros in capital from the state, while  Italy ’s  Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  was stabilized with 2 billion
euros from the government to meet the EBA’s target, the
regulator said.  Bankia requested aid of 23.5 billion euros in May, three
months after the lender reported a profit of 309 million euros
for 2011.  Spain ’s ruling People’s Party yesterday called former
Chairman  Rodrigo Rato  to testify before parliament, abandoning
its attempts to shut down an inquiry into the blackhole in the
bank’s balance sheet.  “Bank funding is still very difficult” in the European
Union, Enria said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  