-- EU Seeks to Ease Licensing Rules That Block Online Music Stores
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-11T10:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/eu-seeks-to-ease-licensing-rules-that-block-online-music-stores.html
The European Union proposed changes
to ease licensing rules that prevent Internet music stores,
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes, from selling digital music across
the 27-nation bloc.  Royalty-collection societies could be forced under the
draft rules to transfer their revenue-gathering activities to
rivals if they lack the technical capacity to license music to
Internet services in multiple countries.  Music copyright licenses are granted on a national basis in
the EU so consumers can only download music from an iTunes store
in their home country. The EU has sought to promote pan-European
licensing for years, and the commission issued an antitrust
decision in 2008 against national agencies that collect
royalties on behalf of artists.  Under current rules, European consumers “have less access
to innovative services,” EU Internal Market Commissioner  Michel
Barnier  said today. “It’s not surprising that young consumers
look elsewhere than the legal” online music stores.  Collection societies also face more oversight and must
report quickly to musicians on the royalties they’ve collected
under the draft rules, which need the support of EU governments
and lawmakers before becoming law.  Apple rolled out iTunes stores in Poland,  Hungary  and 10
other European countries last year, seven years since arriving
in  Germany , the U.K. and  France . Obtaining licensing rights from
publishers and royalty-collecting societies was an obstacle to
opening stores in all EU nations, it said in 2009.  Most royalty revenue comes from music played on radio and
television, according to the  International Confederation of
Societies of Authors and Composers . Digital music accounts for
1.7 percent of the 7.5 billion euros ($9.2 billion) the French
group, known as CISAC, collected in 2010 and doesn’t offset the
royalties lost as recorded-music sales fall, according to its
 statement  this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  