-- EU’s New Crisis Model Gives Spain More Time for Cuts
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-07-12T09:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/eu-trials-new-crisis-model-in-spain-trading-budget-cuts-for-time.html
European leaders are testing the
latest version of their debt crisis strategy in Spain, granting
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy more time to reduce the  budget
deficit  in exchange for deeper spending cuts.  Rajoy yesterday announced 65 billion euros ($80 billion) of
austerity measures in a renewed effort to meet European Union
budget targets after he was granted a one-year extension on the
deadline to meet EU limits.  “Europeans are learning from past mistakes,” said
Christian Schultz, a senior economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London  and a former European Central Bank official. “The stick
is necessary but the carrot is also good.”  Europe ’s concession to recession-wracked Spain has raised
expectations in Ireland and  Portugal  that they can win more time
to rein in their  budget  deficits after  Germany ’s hardball
tactics in Greece spurred a rebellion against bailout politics
there.  Spanish bonds rose for a third day today. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year debt instead of the
benchmark German bunds dropped 4 basis points to 527 basis
points at 11:15 a.m. in  Madrid .  IMF Role  “People can see that they are serious,” said Javier Morillas, professor of international economics at San Pablo CEU
University in Madrid. “I don’t think these are the last
measures we’ll see, and they certainly aren’t the last
cartridges Rajoy has left.”  Rajoy’s budget package came as Spain finalizes the
conditions of a 100 billion-euro bank rescue bank that will
allow International Monetary Fund officials to intervene in the
process of restructuring the banking system and tightens
scrutiny over spending plans.  European leaders also held out the prospect of buying
Spanish debt to trim yields as long as Rajoy complies with their
conditions, which include transferring powers from the  Economy
Ministry  to the Bank of Spain and bolstering the central bank’s
independence.  Rajoy is also seeking additional cuts from the 17 regional
governments, which control health and education. Even as Spain’s
own access to  capital markets  is narrowing, the central
government is planning to help states fund themselves on
markets. Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro meets regional
finance chiefs today at 4 p.m. in Madrid to discuss the plan.  Pay cuts and holiday restrictions for public workers will
save 6.3 billion euros a year, Deputy Budget Minister Antonio
Beteta said yesterday.  Greek Recession  With the extra year, Spain has until 2014 to bring its
deficit within the EU’s 3 percent limit. European finance
ministers agreed to loosen the 2012 deficit goal to 6.3 percent
of GDP from 5.3 percent. Still, ministers urged Spain to step up
budget cuts.  Even after the concessions on the timing, Europe’s demands
may end up pushing Spain deeper into recession like  Greece ,
which has been in recession since 2008. The Spanish program
brings the fiscal tightening for this year to about 65 billion
euros, Schultz estimates, after three previous packages.  “Just when you think reason and pragmatism are returning,
European policymakers resort to type,” said Dario Perkins, an
economist at Lombard Street Research Ltd. in London, in research
note. “Significant fiscal tightening was the last thing the
economy needed.”  Voter Backlash  Rajoy is already facing a backlash from Spanish voters with
 unemployment  at 25 percent and the economy sliding deeper into
its second recession since 2009. Miners who’ve been striking for
the past seven weeks clashed with police outside the industry
ministry in Madrid yesterday as they demanded the government
reinstate subsidies they say are needed to keep their industry
alive.  Spain ’s two largest unions, Comisiones Obreras and Union
General de Trabajadores, called a day of demonstrations for July
19 to protest, saying the cuts target the poor and the middle
class without affecting companies or the wealthy.  The premier also scrapped a mortgage rebate, reversing a
policy he implemented in December at his second Cabinet meeting
to enact an election promise. At the same time, he had raised
pensions to meet another pledge. Yesterday, he said he’d present
parliament’s pension committee with a bill to make retirement
benefits more sustainable.  Even with the new targets, Spain needs to cut the deficit
by 2.6 percent of GDP as the economy shrinks. The deficit
overshot last year as the economic downturn bit into tax revenue
and regions unearthed undeclared bills. The government forecasts
a contraction of 1.7 percent this year and Rajoy said today the
slump would continue next year.  “We have very little room to choose,” Rajoy told the
national parliament in Madrid. “I pledged to cut taxes and now
I’m raising them. But the circumstances have changed and I have
to adapt to them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  