-- Ex-Penn State President Spanier Sues School Over E-Mails
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-11T15:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/ex-penn-state-president-spanier-sues-school-over-e-mails.html
Former  Pennsylvania State University 
President  Graham Spanier  sued the school for access to e-mails
from 1998 through 2004 that he claims are relevant to an
internal probe sparked by allegations of sexual abuse against
Jerry Sandusky.  Penn State  has refused to grant Spanier access, citing a
request from Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly’s office,
according to the complaint filed in state court in Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania. The complaint was made public yesterday on the
court’s  website  along with other filings, including a response
from the university. A hearing in the case is set for Aug. 17.  Sandusky, 68, a former Penn State assistant football coach,
was convicted last month on 45 criminal counts tied to abuse of
boys over a 15-year period. The results of a special
investigation into the school’s handling of the scandal by  Louis Freeh , the former Federal Bureau of Investigation director, is
scheduled to be released tomorrow.  Spanier believes “that access to these e-mails would
refresh his recollection significantly and allow him to assist
the university fully in its investigation,” according to the
complaint.  In its response, Penn State said that the case is without
legal merit and should be dismissed. Spanier’s request is an
attack on the attorney general’s directive not to disclose the
e-mails it obtained during the probe, Penn State said.  Spanier, appointed president of the university in  State
College , Pennsylvania, in 1995, was formerly chancellor of the
University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Spanier, a sociologist and
marriage and family therapist, was fired in November along with
football coach  Joe Paterno  amid allegations that school
officials were aware of Sandusky’s conduct as early as 1998.  The case is Spanier v. The Pennsylvania State University,
2012-2065, Court of Common Pleas of Centre County Pennsylvania
(Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  