-- Fed May Extend Pledge to 2015, Deutsche Bank’s Hartnett Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-07-11T16:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/fed-may-extend-pledge-to-2015-deutsche-bank-s-hartnett-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  may keep its key
interest-rate at almost zero until 2015, a year longer than
policy makers announced in January, according to Deutsche Bank
AG’s Tom Hartnett.  The U.S. central bank has maintained its  target rate  for
overnight loans between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008, as the economy recovers from the worst recession
since the Great Depression. The Fed also bought $2.3 trillion of
bonds in two monetary stimulus programs that have become known
as quantitative easing from December 2008 until June 2011 to
spur growth and prevent deflation.  Policy makers are likely monitoring housing and stock
prices and are unlikely to pursue more easing through securities
purchases, Hartnett, managing director and head of rates for
 North America  at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York, said
yesterday in an interview, citing the firm’s trading views.  “From a Fed reaction function, what we’re really looking
at are the two things that matter to household balance sheets,
which are  home prices  and the stock market,” he said. “Those
are the two big assets on anyone’s balance sheet.”  Contracts to buy previously owned homes rose 5.9 percent in
May, matching a two-year high reached in March, the National
Association of Realtors reported last week. Purchases of new
U.S. houses rose in May to a two-year high, the Commerce
Department said June 25. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
stocks has climbed 7.8 percent this year including reinvested
dividends.  Record Low  “The hurdle is reasonably high for quantitative easing,”
Hartnett said. “If stocks hang around here and the economy
muddles along, it’s hard to see a case where the Fed would
act.”  The yield on Treasuries due in 10 years will likely climb
to about 2 percent at the end of the year, Hartnett said. If the
economy undergoes an unexpected shock, or so-called tail risk,
the yield may fall below 1 percent, he said.  The U.S. 10-year  yield  was little changed at 1.50 percent
at 10:43 a.m.  New York  time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. It touched 1.49 percent, the least since June 4, after
reaching an all-time low of 1.44 percent on June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  