-- Filling Treasury Jobs Delayed Over IRS Whistleblower Concerns
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-07-11T21:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/filling-treasury-jobs-delayed-over-irs-whistleblower-concerns.html
Senator  Charles Grassley  said he’ll
block the confirmation of two assistant secretaries of the
Treasury until the Internal Revenue Service improves its program
to reward whistleblowers who inform on tax cheats and scofflaws.  Grassley, an Iowa Republican who wrote a 2006 law
overhauling the IRS whistle-blower program, said in a  statement 
that he won’t approve the nominations of Mark Mazur and  Matthew Rutherford  until he gets answers to a June 21  letter . He sent
the letter about the program to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman .  “I rewrote the statute in 2006 to encourage whistle-
blowing on big-dollar tax cheats,” Grassley said in a statement
today. “However, nearly six years since those changes were
enacted, Treasury has yet to issue much needed regulations and
IRS has paid less than a half dozen awards under the new
program.”  Grassley cited a June 19 Bloomberg News report that the IRS
had received 1,300 claims against more than 10,000 companies
since 2006, and issued three awards. The following day, IRS
Deputy Commissioner for Services and Enforcement Steven T.
Miller sent a  two-page memo  to senior agency officials ordering
them to work closely with whistleblowers and pledging a
“comprehensive review” of the agency’s guidelines and
procedures for handling whistle-blower complaints.  Grassley said in today’s statement that he is waiting for
promised replies from Geithner and Shulman. “Until I receive
those responses, I will object to proceeding with the
nominations of Mr. Rutherford and Dr. Mazur,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  