-- Finland May Get Bank Shares as Collateral, Urpilainen Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-07-12T08:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/finland-may-get-spain-bank-shares-as-collateral-urpilainen-says.html
Finland  is in talks to get shares in
Spanish banks in exchange for the Nordic country’s contribution
to a bailout agreed last month, Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said.  “We’ve discussed the option of bank shares,” Urpilainen
said in an interview on state-owned broadcaster YLE TV1
yesterday. “There are several different alternatives and it’s
still impossible to say what the concrete model for collateral
will be.”  Finland wants the collateral in exchange for loans to Spain
paid from  Europe ’s temporary rescue fund to shield its taxpayers
from losses. Urpilainen only has a few weeks in which to strike
a deal as the first installment of Spain’s rescue is due to be
paid this month. Euro-area finance ministers this week decided
 Spain  will get the first 30 billion euros ($36.7 billion) in
July.  “The collateral talks with Spain are ongoing and the
timetable is challenging,” Urpilainen said.  Spain’s 10-year bonds rose today, pushing the yield on the
securities down 7 basis points to 6.509 percent. Similar-
maturity notes out of Finland also gained, with the yield
dropping 2.6 basis points to 1.477 percent. One basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Other euro members “have no alternative but to accept”
Finland’s collateral demand, she said. “Finland participates
only on the condition that it gets collateral.”  Greek Lessons  The Nordic country, one of only four AAA rated nations left
in the euro area, threatened to hamper efforts to provide a
second bailout for  Greece  last year by insisting on collateral.
Finland was the only nation to win security in exchange for
loans from the temporary fund, or the European Financial
Stability Facility, a vehicle that doesn’t give its creditors
preferred status. Talks with Greece took more than two months.  “We’ve gained more experience and so these negotiations
should be easier than the talks with Greece,” Urpilainen said.
“In the Greek talks, we spent months with external experts
honing the deal and I’d like to take advantage of all that work
in these negotiations, if at all possible.”  In last year’s collateral model, the countries agreed that
sovereign bonds will be transferred from Greek banks to a
trustee, which will sell them and invest the proceeds in bonds
with high credit grades and maturities of 15 to 30 years.
Finland has received 570 million euros of the total 925 million
euros so far, Urpilainen said.  Seeking Assurances  The minister is seeking assurances for about 40 percent of
the loan Finland guarantees for Spain, an amount that is based
on a  risk assessment  by  Standard & Poor’s , Urpilainen said.
Finland’s share of the Spanish bailout is about 2 percent.  Voters in Finland, which kept its deficit within the
European Union’s 3 percent threshold even as its economy
contracted 8.5 percent in 2009, rewarded groups critical of
Europe’s rescue mechanism in April 2011 elections, when the
anti-euro “The Finns” party become the nation’s third-largest.  “Finland’s stance is strict and that’s understandable
given Finland has complied with all jointly agreed rules,”
Urpilainen said.  Top Rating  Inside the euro area, Finland shares its top  credit rating 
with  Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The other
countries in the monetary union are  Austria ,  Belgium , Cyprus,
 Estonia ,  France , Greece, Ireland,  Italy , Malta,  Portugal ,
Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.  Finland has already paid for the privilege of receiving
collateral after agreeing to forgo any profits the EFSF may
generate. Finland also agreed to make its contribution to the
permanent European Stability Mechanism up front as a condition
for receiving collateral.  The ESM’s preferred creditor status and the rules on
private-sector burden sharing in the event of default mean the
fund is less likely to incur losses, Urpilainen has said.  Even so, European Union leaders agreed to forgo priority
status in Spain’s bailout. Finland is contesting the wording of
that agreement, saying some payments from the ESM may protect
taxpayer-funded contributions. Finland has also said it expects
collateral in exchange for any aid commitments that don’t give
it preferred creditor status.  Negotiations with Spain must end this month, Urpilainen
said.  “The talks are still very much unfinished and it’s
impossible to say when a result might be reached,” Urpilainen
said. “There is no light yet at the end of the tunnel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  