-- Five Ways Romney Can Own ’Outsourcer-in-Chief’
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-07-11T14:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/five-ways-romney-can-own-outsourcer-in-chief-.html
Faced with an 8.2 percent
 unemployment rate  less than four months before the election,
President  Barack Obama  is trying to deflect attention from his
record by undermining Republican opponent  Mitt Romney ’s major
selling point: that he’s an experienced businessman who knows
how to create jobs.  The Obama campaign is running ads claiming Romney is a
“pioneer of outsourcing,” a reference to his work at private-
equity firm  Bain Capital . One such ad closes with the question:
“Does Iowa really want an outsourcer-in-chief in the White
House?”  Never mind that  academic studies  have found private
equity’s effect on employment to be mixed. Or that there’s “no
evidence to support the claim that Romney -- while he was still
running Bain Capital -- shipped American jobs overseas,”
according to  FactCheck.org , a project of the Annenberg Public
Policy Center of the  University of Pennsylvania  that monitors
accuracy in journalism and politics. Or that a similar ad
received four Pinocchios (contains whoppers) from the  Washington 
Post’s Glenn Kessler (aka “ The Fact Checker ”), who called it
“misleading, unfair and untrue.”  Facts aren’t the issue here. Image is. Romney needs to
seize the day and start wearing his outsourcing stripes as a
badge of honor instead of  accusing Obama  of the same. Often it’s
as simple as a choice of words. Since the Romney campaign has
been slow to respond to the baseless attacks, I’d like to offer
Mitt a few of my own suggestions on how to change
“outsourcing” from a pejorative to a positive.  1.   Cheap Goods Guarantor  Mitt, you have been accused of failing to connect with the
common man. Which is why you need to get off your Jet Ski and
get behind a shopping cart at Wal-Mart, the perfect milieu for a
teaching moment.  While you’re cruising the aisles, grabbing a pair of jeans
here and a box of Cheerios big enough to feed your immediate
family there, you can explain how a market economy works; how
companies compete with one another to provide the goods and
services that consumers want at a price they are willing to pay.
For that reason, business strives to become more efficient,
replacing labor with machines. Often it behooves companies to
produce low-end products in  developing countries  where labor is
cheap. This is called “outsourcing.”  It’s also called Wal-Mart, and it ensures that American
consumers have a wide variety of affordable goods to choose
from. Their paychecks go further. Increased demand translates
into additional output and jobs.  The same holds true for services: outsourcing  call centers 
or back-office operations to  India , for example. Companies pass
on savings in the form of lower prices to consumers. A 2003
 study  by the McKinsey Global Institute -- Mitt, this is right up
your alley -- found that offshoring creates wealth for everybody
except those who lose their jobs in the short run.  When Iowans realize that “outsourcer-in-chief” is
synonymous with “cheap goods guarantor,” they’ll be clamoring
to have you in the Oval Office.  2.   Made for Big Business  To encourage domestic hiring, Obama has proposed a tax
credit for “insourcing,” for companies that bring jobs back to
the U.S. This is just plain silly, and you can explain why. Any
attempt to offer more favorable tax treatment for new jobs than
existing ones creates a range of unintended consequences,
including an incentive for companies to game the system. Of
course, if the goal is to create  government jobs , such a tax
break would generate a whole new class of paper pushers to
monitor, administer and enforce the program.  “Made in America” is the equivalent of “Made for Big
Business.” It’s tantamount to mercantilism, a system that
favors producers over consumers.  Small businesses , the real job
creators and the ones you claim to want to help, aren’t going to
assume a long-term expense in exchange for a short-term subsidy.  3.   Real-World Model  In a much-cited  study  on the effect of private equity on
employment, the University of Chicago Booth School of Business’s
 Steven Davis  and co-authors found that the decline in existing
jobs at buyout targets is offset by the creation of new jobs at
new establishments. The net change from leveraged buyouts is
insignificant.  Mitt, you’re a numbers guy. The paper’s authors created a
data set of private-equity transactions from 1980 to 2005 and
analyzed 3,200 firms and 150,000 establishments before and after
acquisition. The same public that bought into some bogus, model-
driven number of “ jobs created or saved ” from Obama’s $831
billion fiscal stimulus in 2009 -- and a promise of full
employment by now -- will appreciate hard data from someone like
you.  4.   Walk With Giants  All the angst about outsourcing is nothing more than a
failure to understand the benefits of free trade. Just ask your
economic adviser, Greg Mankiw. Back in 2004, when Mankiw was
chairman of President  George W. Bush ’s  Council of Economic
Advisers , he created a kerfuffle when he said outsourcing would
“prove a plus for the economy in the long run.”  He was right. But what you teach in “Ec 10,” Harvard’s
introductory economics course, isn’t necessarily what you say as
the president’s top economic adviser. In his  retelling  of his 15
minutes of fame on his blog, Mankiw cites  Adam Smith ’s “The
Wealth of Nations”: “It is the maxim of every prudent master
of a family, never to attempt to make at home what it will cost
him more to make than to buy.”  Smith was right, Mankiw writes. “Few propositions command
as much consensus among professional economists as that open
world trade increases economic growth and raises  living
standards .”  Yet when the economy is going through a tough time, free
trade is always the first culprit. I think Americans are ready
for a candidate with a horizon longer than the next election.  5.   Comparative Advantage  Last year, on NBC’s “Today” show, Obama tried to explain
why companies were reluctant to hire in the face of record
 profits . The president said companies were becoming more
efficient, substituting ATMs for bank tellers.  This is the oldest myth in the book, that automation kills
jobs. Yes, the automobile made buggy makers obsolete, and the
Industrial Revolution put farmers out of work. But innovation
and new technology raise living standards, lower prices and
create new classes of higher-paying jobs. It’s the way societies
advance and become rich. If the true goal is to create jobs, not
wealth, just call a halt to progress.  Obama managed to spend 12 years as part of the University
of Chicago Law School faculty without ever learning how an
economy works. This is an area where you have a clear
comparative advantage, Mitt. Use it, to explain why outsourcing
isn’t a dirty word, or lose it in November.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on Washington’s  inability to
move on  and  Israel ’s debate over  Jewish settlements ;  Mark
Buchanan  on living cells as a model for a  stable financial
system ;  Margaret Carlson  on  presidential vacations ;  Peter Orszag 
explains why states will eventually  expand Medicaid ;  Alex
Marshall  on health care and the  rising bar for government
services .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  