-- French Bank Legislation Seen by December Keeping Universal Model
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-07-11T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/french-bank-legislation-seen-by-december-keeping-universal-model.html
French President  Francois Hollande ’s
legislative proposal to overhaul the finance industry will aim
to keep lenders’ retail and investment-bank operations under the
same roof, while isolating the riskiest businesses, said an
official working on the plan.  The blueprint, to be ready by year end, may maintain the
universal banking model represented by the country’s biggest
institutions,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , the official, who asked not to be named under
government ground rules, said in an interview.  To follow through on Hollande’s campaign promise to split
up banks, French officials are studying the work of a U.K. panel
chaired by  John Vickers  that called for firewalls between
consumer and investment banks and the so-called Volcker rule
in the U.S. that would ban commercial lenders from proprietary
trading.  “Finance will have to service the real economy,”
Socialist Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said July 3 in his
first policy speech. “That’s why we will separate banks that
are useful to investment and jobs from their speculative
activities.”  Colette Cova, a spokeswoman at the French Banking
Federation in Paris, declined to comment when reached by phone.  The French plan will come after recommendations of a
European panel headed by European Central Bank policy maker
Erkki Liikanen that is charged with looking at whether banks
should build internal firewalls to protect taxpayers and
customers when failure of one part threatens to cascade
throughout the company.  Studying Separation  The Liikanen panel, whose report is due in September, is
considering “prohibiting banks from carrying out some
activities or requiring banks to put certain activities (e.g.
taking deposits from retail customers) into separate legal
entities,” according to a Feb. 22 European Commission
statement.  Hollande, who defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy  in May, promised in
his campaign to split retail banks from riskier practices.  France ’s first Socialist president since 1995 wants to
limit the excesses of investment-banking activities such as
proprietary trading without damaging the economy, said a French
banker who asked not to be named because his talks with
government aides are private.  Officials are leaning toward a type of Volcker rule, named
for  Paul Volcker , former chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve,
because the U.K. approach risks curbing lending, he said.  French bank representatives have criticized the planned
split, telling the government they already face burdens
including Solvency II rules for insurance businesses and Basel
capital requirements, the official said.  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said July 7 the bill
would “protect the economy from the volatility of markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  