-- From Rum to Cocaine, States Lose Long War on Smuggling
-- B y   P e t e r   A n d r e a s
-- 2012-07-11T14:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/from-rum-to-cocaine-states-lose-long-war-on-smuggling.html
The agents moved in to seize
the illicit shipment, but the traffickers turned on them,
shooting the senior officer and destroying his vehicle.
With the local courts hopelessly compromised and corrupt,
the outraged authorities wanted to extradite the
perpetrators. But this only made them more defiant and
violent, and they were never caught or prosecuted.  This may sound like Tijuana or Juarez in recent years,
but the year was 1772, and the place was near Providence,
 Rhode Island . The ringleader of the attack,  John Brown  -- a
prominent local merchant whose business interests included
smuggling and slave trading -- helped found the university
that bears his name (and happens to be my employer).  The famous incident came to be known as the  Gaspee
Affair , in which a British customs vessel, the HMS Gaspee,
was stormed, looted and torched late at night by an armed
group of local citizens in retaliation for cracking down on
their illicit trade (though exactly what cargo they were
smuggling was never determined).  Today, local residents proudly point to this
historical episode as Rhode Island’s opening salvo in
sparking the American Revolution. A plaque on South Main
Street near downtown Providence, commemorates the event.
Gaspee Street is a few blocks away. Of course, most
Americans no longer have such a sanguine view of illicit
trade, and law-enforcement officials, like the British
imperial authorities before them, are increasingly
preoccupied with fighting it.  Drug War  Which brings us to Mexico and President  Felipe Calderon ’s crackdown on drug trafficking. At first glance,
Mexico’s deteriorating situation (some 50,000 drug-war-
related deaths since 2006) wouldn’t seem to have much in
common with late colonial America. But, in fact, there are
some striking parallels that offer lessons for Mexico’s
escalating drug war.  The most important illicit trade in colonial America
was the smuggling of West Indies molasses to produce rum --
the drug of choice at the time and  New England ’s top export
(probably more important for the local economy than illicit
drug exports are for Mexico today). Not unlike the
situation in Mexico before Calderon launched his offensive,
British authorities tolerated smuggling for many decades
through a combination of neglect, incompetence and
corruption.  The earlier corruption-plagued decades of the 18th
century actually had a pacifying effect. Institutionalized
bribery made bullying less necessary in port cities such as
Boston, Providence and Newport, Rhode Island -- just as was
the case not long ago in Mexico’s border cities.  Both crackdowns provoked a violent backlash. Starting
in the 1760s, bullying -- in the form of mob riots, the
burning of customs vessels, and the tar-and-feathering of
informants -- became increasingly common as bribery became
a less dependable way of doing business. Then, as now, the
authorities were overconfident. Instead of imposing order,
there was more disorder. In tightening its grip, Britain
ultimately lost its grip entirely.  Militarized Mistakes  And both efforts became increasingly militarized. The
Royal Navy was unleashed against colonial smugglers because
civilian customs agents had proven too corrupt and
unreliable.  Benjamin Franklin  was among the many who
denounced this punitive move.  As he sarcastically wrote: “Convert the brave, honest
officers of your navy into pimping tide-waiters and colony
officers of the customs. Let those who in the time of war
fought gallantly in defense of their countrymen, in peace
be taught to prey upon it. Let them learn to be corrupted
by great and real smugglers; but (to show their diligence)
scour with armed boats every bay, harbor, river, creek,
cove, or nook throughout your colonies; stop and detain
every coaster, every wood-boat, every fisherman...O, this
will work admirably!”  Although much has obviously changed since Franklin’s
time, his basic criticism of drafting the military for
anti-smuggling police work still holds true. Like
Calderon’s army-led crackdown, the British Navy’s efforts
led to growing opportunism and abuse by heavy-handed
officials, generating local anger and resentment.  Fortunately, the parallels end there. Despite their
extreme violence, Mexican traffickers are far less of a
threat to the Mexican state than colonial smugglers proved
to be to the British.  Mexico  isn’t a failed state and
traffickers aren’t insurgents -- they lack political
aspirations and want to be left alone.  But the surest way to politicize Mexico’s drug war and
turn drug trafficking into a political cause would be for
the U.S. to escalate its already considerable on-the-ground
involvement. The more Mexico’s drug war looks like an
American-orchestrated crackdown with direct U.S. military
participation, the more Mexicans will view it as a foreign
imposition -- risking a nationalist backlash that would
erode public support and breed the type of local hostility
that became all-too-familiar to British administrators in
the colonies.  More constructive -- and with less collateral damage -
- would be to focus on strengthening Mexico’s fragile
judicial system, curbing the illicit flow of U.S. firearms
across the border and reducing America’s seemingly
insatiable drug habit.  (Peter Andreas is a professor of political science and
the interim director of the Watson Institute for
International Studies at  Brown University . This essay
partly draws from his book, “Smuggler Nation: How Illicit
Trade Made America,” forthcoming from  Oxford University
Press . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Peter Andreas at
 peter_andreas@brown.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  