-- GE Can’t Find French Workers as Skill Gap Means 10% Unemployment
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-07-11T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/ge-can-t-find-french-workers-as-skill-gap-means-10-unemployment.html
Clara Gaymard, the head of General
Electric Co.’s French unit, has been looking in vain for workers
for a factory that makes valves for the oil and nuclear
industries in Conde-sur-Noireau in western  France .  “The plant has 360 employees, 100 of whom will retire in
the next four to five years, and we can’t find welders and
cutters to replace them,” she said in an interview.  GE’s experience helps tell the tale of what ails the French
labor market. While jobless claims rose to a 2.92 million at the
end of May, the highest in more than 12 years, a  survey  released
by the country’s employment body showed at the same time that
between half and two-thirds of French companies are unable to
recruit the engineers, cooks and other employees they need.  The mismatch of skills and available jobs has left 10
percent of the working-age population without employment, posing
one of the biggest challenges for the government of President
 Francois Hollande . It reflects France’s inability to adapt its
educational and vocational training systems to business needs,
like neighboring  Germany  has done.  “Without delay, France must improve its vocational
training system to more efficiently meet job offers,” Hollande
said at a “social summit” in Paris on July 9.  The employment rate of  French youth  in 2011 was 29.9
percent, compared with  Germany ’s 48 percent and below the 39.3
percent average for countries in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, according to a report by the Paris-
based group. The youth unemployment rate in France was 22
percent, more than double Germany’s 8.6 percent.  Elitist Education  The French education system looks down on vocational
training, perpetuating the notion that intellectual jobs are
more worthy than manual work, said  Jerome Frantz , chairman of
the French Federation of Mechanical Industries, which represents
companies that make parts for everything from  machine tools  to
trains and wind turbines.  “For years, there has been a deep hatred in the education
system regarding manufacturing, which was ideological,” he said.  The result: GE’s Gaymard can’t find the workers she needs.  “People don’t want to work in manufacturing anymore, as
they’ve been told for a decade that industry is dead and that
plants were going to  China ,” Gaymard said during the June 13
interview in Paris.  Frantz’s federation started an advertising campaign last
month to lure jobseekers to manufacturing. The body is seeking
about 40,000 people a year over the next five years to replace
retiring workers and expand.  Jobs Available  “We’re grooming 25,000 people per year in our training
programs, so we have a gap of 15,000,” Frantz said at a press
conference in Paris on June 26.  The shortfall comes even as French industrial payrolls
shrank by more than 800,000 in the past 10 years to 3.29 million
amid an economic slump, according to  Insee , the national
statistics office.  In the first quarter, jobs in the  construction industry 
rose by about 5,800 to 1.45 million after falling for three
years, and services payrolls gained 18,800 to 11.4 million.  Sodexo, the world’s second-biggest provider of catering
services, including to groups such as U.S. marines in  Iraq , has
said it wants to hire 5,000 people this year, from cooks and
handymen to technicians.  Eiffage SA (FGR) , France’s third-largest builder plans to hire
more than 3,800 people this year to replace retirees. The
company’s CEO, Pierre Berger, said the task isn’t easy.  Minimal Mobility  “We’re struggling to find skilled and thorough workers,
team leaders and engineers,” he said in an interview on June 25.
Finding people willing to work with their hands has become
exceedingly difficult, Berger said.  “Working in construction isn’t viewed as modern,” he said.
“Working with one's hands in this country isn’t recognized
except in  luxury goods  and for arty Parisian craftsmen.”  The inability of companies to hire skilled workers thrown
out of jobs by the contracting industrial base stems partly from
the lack of mobility among factory hands, said  Marc Ferracci , a
professor at the Paris-Est Marne-la-Vallee University, who co-
authored a report last year on vocational training for research
center Institut Montaigne.  “French employees are rarely willing to move, compared
with the U.S. and the U.K., because the French housing market
lacks fluidity,” he said in an interview.  Hiring Difficulties  About 43 percent of companies in the national employment
body’s survey of about 410,000 said they face hiring
difficulties, up 5 percentage points from a year earlier. The
report was conducted in the fourth quarter of 2011 and published
in May.  The shortfall for home nursing and cleaning jobs was the
highest at 67 percent; it was 62 percent for engineers, 61
percent for cooks, and 58 percent for hospital nurses.  Unlike in Germany, coordination in France between
vocational training and employers is minimal, said Ferracci.  “In Germany, not only do vocational training firms have an
obligation to provide details on their job placements, but
trainers’ pay is partly dependant on how many trainees find a
job at the end of their session, which forces them to build
classes around well-identified needs,” Ferracci said.  While France spends a bigger piece of its national income
on education than Germany -- 6 percent compared with 4.8 percent,
according to OECD figures -- it gets less bang for its buck, he
said.  In-House Training  Pole Emploi , the French national employment agency, needs
to improve its statistics on companies’ requirements by jobs and
areas, Ferracci said. The agency needs to focus on unskilled
labor, as is done elsewhere in  Europe , he said. Universities
also should publish their placement records, like it’s done in
the U.K. and Scandinavia, he said.  “Once you allow students in France to know the placement
rate and even the wages stemming from different higher-education
courses, I can ensure you that the system will regulate
itself,” Ferracci said.  Companies are now starting to train unskilled workers in-
house because of the shortage of skilled labor. Eiffage signs up
400 to 500 youths a year on the minimum wage to train them.  GE “had to fight to get a training center” to groom
workers for its plant in western France, which makes nacelles
for  jet engines , as it couldn’t find skilled workers, Gaymard
said.  Sapin’s Acknowledgement  Labor Minister Michel Sapin acknowledges that the country’s
education system and training aren’t nimble enough to adapt to
the demands of the jobs market.  “There’s a problem with advising and training youth,”
Sapin said in a June 19 interview while he was attending the
Group of 20 summit in  Mexico . “We must reinforce all programs,
especially apprenticeships.”  GE’s Gaymard concurs.  “The two pillars that definitively need to be reformed are
the ability to react quickly to adjust to the world and demand,
whether up or down, and the ability for life-long training of
employees so that they can adapt.” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  