-- Gerhardt, Kocziszky Say Aid Talks Create Hungary Rate-Cut Room
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-07-11T14:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/gerhardt-kocziszky-say-aid-talks-create-hungary-rate-cut-room.html
Hungarian Monetary Council members
Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky comment on the outlook for
interest rates and the country’s expected agreement with the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  on financial
assistance.  They spoke in an interview in Budapest today.  On Hungarian interest rates:  Ferenc Gerhardt:  “The fact that the date for the IMF/EU/ECB talks has been
set gives hope that things will improve. We want to put in place
an  interest rate  environment that gives incentives ahead of the
start of a growth cycle.  ‘‘Naturally there can be a rate cut this month, the
possibility is there. I really wish the president didn’t have to
say at the time of the first rate cut that it was a close
decision. I would like this decision to have as much support as
possible because this would show strength.  ‘‘It must be stressed that this should be a very gradual
process, cutting interest rates by 200 basis points to 300 basis
points in one step is nonsense. If our benchmark rate were
between 12 percent and 15 percent, the pace would be 50 basis
points. However our rate is half that. The Monetary Council has
to gradually react to changing risk and economic conditions.  ‘‘Safety is above all else. The country couldn’t handle
another 8 to 10 forint decline in the  exchange rate .  ‘‘If we really strive for growth, the interest rate in the
 euro zone  should be around 1 percent and interest rates in
countries outside the euro zone should be between 4 percent to
5.5 percent.’’  Gyorgy Kocziszky:  ‘‘Interest rates have been on hold since January, which in
itself means a tightening of sorts since our risk premia and the
exchange rate have become more favorable.’’  On IMF-EU negotiations:  Gyorgy Kocziszky:  ‘‘Financial markets and serious economists see negotiations
starting on July 17. When does a marriage really start? Perhaps
when it does it’s already over.’’  On inflation:  Gyorgy Kocziszky:  ‘‘The June inflation data are part of the inflation path
and absolutely fits the picture. We continue to believe that
we’ll meet the inflation target by the end of 2013.  ‘‘The issue of economic growth has become significantly
more accentuated, whereas until recently fiscal aspects had more
weight. Inflation is still a holy cow, however it’s no longer a
fetish.’’  Ferenc Gerhardt:  ‘‘We look beyond the bad news, such as  oil prices  and one-
time tax increases.  ‘‘We’re aware that the reasons behind the gradual increase
of the inflation forecast aren’t natural factors, but rather
government measures such as taxes and changes in commodity
prices.  ‘‘The ECB’s policy shows that the bank took a counter-
cyclical step. What it says is that inflation is fine but growth
is more important and therefore it cut interest rates. The same
applies to the  United States ,  Japan  or  India .’’  On the transaction tax:  Ferenc Gerhardt:  ‘‘The ECB will tell whether the transaction fee infringes
upon the independence of the central bank.  ‘‘Let’s make it clear that this won’t influence the rate
policy of the Monetary Council. This is a fee that somebody
should pay and the decision whether it will be the central bank
or someone else has yet to be made.’’  Gyorgy Kocziszky:  ‘‘We shouldn’t get ahead of the ECB opinion, the execution
decree or the assessment of what kind of burden this will
mean.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  