-- Germany May Turn to Labor Programs as Crisis Worsens, Union Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-07-11T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/germany-may-turn-to-labor-programs-as-crisis-worsens-union-says.html
Germany ’s industrial workforce is
bracing for a global slowdown by mulling some measures last used
during the financial crisis to save jobs, said  Berthold Huber ,
chairman of  Europe ’s largest manufacturing union.  “The experience from 2008 has taught us that an economy
can slump within the shortest period of time and as a union, we
need to be prepared for that,” Huber, chairman of  IG Metall ,
said in an interview in  Frankfurt  on July 4. “For such an
event, we need crisis measures. Germany won’t be able to fully
decouple from an economic downward trend in Europe.”  German  unemployment  has been pushed higher over the past
three months, ending a two-year drop that has taken the jobless
rate to the lowest since the country’s reunification. With
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis damping global growth and curbing
demand for German goods, Huber said  IG Metall  is already in
talks with manufacturers to gauge the need for special measures.  The measures, which would have to be approved by lawmakers,
include a lengthening of the period of time people can work
short hours, tax measures to boost domestic demand and increased
investment on research and development, according to Huber,
whose union represents some 2.25 million workers at companies
including  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Siemens AG. (SIE)   Germany limited the increase in unemployment during the
crisis with a state-sponsored program introduced in 2009 that
allowed companies to put workers on shorter working weeks to
reduce costs while the government paid part of the remaining
wage. The short-term work program lost significance as demand
for staff increased, the Labor Agency has said.  Cost Cuts  Companies across Europe are looking for ways to lower costs
as the region’s economic slump shows signs of deepening. Euro-
area  unemployment  jumped to 11.1 percent in May, a record, with
 Spain ’s at 24.6 percent and  Portugal ’s at 15.2 percent. In
Germany, the comparable adjusted jobless rate was at 5.6
percent, according to the European Union’s statistics office.  While Germany’s economic expansion helped the euro area
avert a slump in the first quarter, Europe’s largest economy has
since shown increasing signs of slowdown. German business
confidence fell to the lowest in more than two years in June and
investor sentiment slumped the most in 14 years. German
manufacturing output also declined last month.  European leaders have focused on budget cuts to fight the
region’s turmoil, undermining consumer demand and exports. The
International Labour Organization, ILO, said in a report on July
11 that policy makers risk putting 4.5 million more people out
of work unless they recalibrate their crisis-fighting measures
toward promoting employment in the 17-member area.  “Savings programs by themselves won’t lead us out of this
crisis,” said Huber, who sits on the board of companies
including  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Siemens. “Europe needs to promote
science and development as well as productivity growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  