-- Winston & Strawn, Gibson Dunn, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-11T11:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/gibson-dunn-skadden-arps-fried-frank-business-of-law.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the most valuable U.S.
chemical company, didn’t tell investors for years that efforts
to develop its own herbicide-tolerant soybean seeds had failed,
 Monsanto (MON)  Co. told a jury at the start of a patent trial.  DuPont knew as early as 2006 that its GAT soybeans didn’t
grow as well as Monsanto’s Roundup Ready beans and didn’t make
the information public until 2009, George C. Lombardi, an
attorney for Monsanto, said yesterday at the start of a patent
trial in  St. Louis . Monsanto is suing DuPont for adding the
Roundup Ready trait to make its product work, a patent
infringement it said is worth as much as $1 billion.  “For years, they told the world GAT was going to work,”
Lombardi, a Chicago-based lawyer with Winston & Strawn LLP, told
the jury in Monsanto’s opening arguments. “When it failed, they
relied on the Roundup Ready product.”  DuPont claims there was no infringement because St. Louis-
based Monsanto got the Roundup Ready patent fraudulently.
Monsanto intentionally withheld information about the genetic
sequence that made its Roundup Ready technology work from the
 U.S. Patent and Trademark Office , said Leora Ben-Ami, a DuPont
lawyer. That makes that patent invalid and unenforceable, she
said.  “Monsanto didn’t want people to know what was inside the
bag, what was inside the seed,” Ben-Ami, a New York-based
lawyer with Kirkland & Ellis LLP, told the jury. “Monsanto
didn’t want people to know how the seed was made.”  The Roundup Ready trait is engineered into more than 95
percent of soybeans, largely through licensing agreements,
generating $22 billion of revenue over eight years for Monsanto
and the more than 200 seed companies that license the
technology, Lombardi said. The technology drove $6 billion in
soybean seed sales for DuPont’s Pioneer unit in that time, he
said.  The Roundup Ready trait, introduced by Monsanto 16 years
ago, allows crops to survive applications of glyphosate,
marketed by Monsanto as Roundup, the world’s best-selling
weedkiller. DuPont’s GAT seeds were developed to tolerate
glyphosate and other weedkillers.  DuPont in 2008 developed hundreds of seed lines as it got
ready to begin selling GAT soybeans that included the Roundup
Ready trait, Lombardi said. That violated the companies’ 2002
licensing agreement that prohibited combining the Roundup Ready
trait with a second trait that also allows plants to tolerate
glyphosate, he said. It also violated the company’s patent,
Lombardi said.  Monsanto sued in 2009 to block the combination.  The case is Monsanto Co. v. E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co.,
09cv686, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
 Missouri  (St. Louis).  For more, click here.  Deals  Intel Invests $4.1 Billion in ASML to Speed Technologies  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor maker,
agreed to invest as much as $4.1 billion in Dutch chip-equipment
maker  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  in an effort to shave two years from the
time to adopt new production techniques.  Intel is being advised by Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, with
co-counsel in the Netherlands NautaDutilh NV.  Morrison &
Foerster LLP  advised Intel on due diligence and antitrust
matters. ASML is represented by De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek NV
and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP .  The Gibson Dunn team is led by Palo Alto partner Russell Hansen and includes Palo Alto partner Lisa Fontenot. Also on the
team are  New York  partner Benjamin Hershkowitz and Los Angeles
tax partner Paul Issler. NautaDutilh’s team was led by corporate
partners Leo Groothuis and Gaike Dalenoord, Gibson Dunn said.  On behalf of Morrison & Foerster, San Francisco corporate
partners Robert S. Townsend and Jaclyn Liu led the firm’s deal
team, which also included antitrust partner W.  Stephen Smith  in
Washington. Additional Morrison & Foerster attorneys working on
the deal include technology transactions partner Paul E. Jahn,
antitrust partner Jonathan S. Gowdy and executive compensation
partner Michael T. Frank in Palo Alto.  De Brauw partners Martin van Olffen and Arne Grimme advised
ASML.  Skadden partners included Richard Ely, international
corporate and finance transactions, and  James McDonald ,
corporate finance, both in  London .  The U.S. company said yesterday it will take an initial 10
percent stake in ASML for about $2.1 billion, and later another
5 percent for about $1 billion, pending shareholder approval.  For more, click here.  Thomson Reuters Agrees to Acquire FX Alliance for $620 Million  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) , the financial news and information
provider, agreed to buy  FX Alliance (FX)  Inc. for about $620 million
to gain access to more than 1,300 clients.  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP and Shearman &
Sterling LLP advised  Thomson Reuters  while Kirkland & Ellis LLP
represented FXall.  The Fried Frank team included corporate partners David Shine, Tiffany Pollard and Abigail Bomba; IP and technology
partner Henry Lebowitz; and tax partner Joel Scharfstein.  Shearman & Sterling didn’t immediately respond to a request
for the name of the partners involved.  The Kirkland team includes partners David Fox, Joshua Korff
and Joshua Zachariah, and associates Dvir Oren and Jordan Koss.  Thomson Reuters, based in New York, offered $22 a share in
cash, a 40 percent premium to FXall’s closing price July 6,
according to a statement released by the company.  FXall’s trading platform provides access to foreign
exchange markets to asset managers, corporations and  hedge
funds . Thomson Reuters said it expects to complete the deal by
the third quarter.  “Teaming up with FXall is very complimentary to our
strength in terms of their clients,” Yvonne Diaz, a spokeswoman
for Thomson Reuters in London, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s about serving the market more completely.”  For more, click here.  Moves  Jones Day Hires Private-Equity Team in Paris from DFi Avocats  Jones Day  hired Daniel Schmidt and Florence Moulin from DFi
Avocats, along with two associates, the law firm said. The group
will join the private-equity practice in the Paris office on
Sept. 3.  “This team brings with it excellent skills and experience
in the structuring of, and related services to, investment funds
and will work in close coordination with our private equity,
mergers and acquisitions, tax, real estate and public law
teams,” Sophie Hagege, partner-in-charge of Jones Day’s Paris
office, said in a statement  Schmidt has more than 25 years experience in both the
transactional and tax aspects of private-equity investment
funds, leveraged buyouts, venture-capital deals, equity
financing and capital-markets transactions, the firm said.
Before co-founding DFi Avocats in 2011, he was a partner at
 Proskauer Rose  LLP, where he led the Paris private-equity
practice, according to Jones Day.  Moulin advises companies on issues involving France’s
financial-markets regulator and the marketing of financial
products. She also advises on the legal and tax structuring of
investment vehicles and fund regulations, the firm said. Before
co-founding DFi Avocats, Moulin was a private-equity lawyer at
Proskauer Rose.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 35 offices
worldwide.  White & Case Hires Former Dewey M&A partner in Beijing  White & Case  LLP hired  China  mergers and acquisitions
partner Tao Lan in Beijing to help strengthen the firm’s global
M&A practice and increase its capabilities in China. He joins
from Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP and was previously a partner at  King &
Wood , the firm said.  Lan has experience advising Chinese state-owned enterprises
and multinational corporations on M&A activities in sectors
including telecommunications, manufacturing, banking, facility
and hotel management, and media. He also has advised Chinese  oil
companies  on acquisitions in  Africa , Central  Asia  and Southeast
Asia, the firm said.  White & Case’s China M&A team recently advised Nestle SA on
its $1.7 billion acquisition of 60 percent of confectionery
maker Hsu Fu Chi International Ltd. and Haier Group Corp. on its
purchase of Sanyo Electric Co.’s washing machine, consumer
refrigerator and white-goods sales businesses in Japan and four
countries in Southeast Asia.  “We are finding that our Chinese clients seeking outbound
investment opportunities require partners on the ground in China
with both language skills and the ability to readily connect
with our large, global network of M&A lawyers,” said Xiaoming Li, head of the firm’s China practice. “Tao Lan adds further
depth to this offering, and we are very pleased to have him on
board.”  White & Case LLP has 38 offices across 26 countries.  Greenberg Traurig Adds to Israel Practice in New York, Tel Aviv  Greenberg Traurig  LLP announced additions to its Israel
Practice with attorneys joining the Tel Aviv and New York
offices.  Scott Mortman joined the Tel Aviv office as a shareholder
in the corporate and securities practice. He was previously a
partner in the New York office of Mayer Brown LLP, the firm
said.  Ephraim Schmeidler, who focuses his practice on mergers and
acquisitions, venture capital and securities offerings, joined
the New York office in the corporate and securities practice as
of counsel. He previously was an attorney at Blank Rome LLP, the
firm said.  “Our plan to attract talented attorneys to serve Israel
Practice clients from Tel Aviv, the U.S. and other locations has
quickly become a reality,” said Gary M. Epstein, chairman of
Greenberg Traurig’s global corporate and securities practice,
co-chairman of its Israel practice and managing shareholder of
the Tel Aviv Office.  Mortman focuses his practice on technology, energy and the
environment, corporate law, governmental affairs, litigation and
international dispute resolution. Most recently, he served as
director of global business development for Better Place Inc.,
an Israel-based electric-vehicle services company. He also
advised the Israeli government on matters relating to
international trade and foreign investment.  Greenberg Traurig has about 1,750 attorneys in 35 offices
in the U.S.,  Latin America , Europe, the  Middle East  and Asia.  Ballard Spahr Adds Business Lawyer in Atlanta  Stephen A. Opler, a transactional attorney whose background
is in accounting,  investment banking  and private equity, joined
Ballard Spahr LLP as a partner in Atlanta. He joins the the
business and finance department and its M&A/private equity,
securities, and transactional finance groups from Carlton
Fields, where he was a shareholder, the firm said in a
statement.  Ballard Spahr opened the Atlanta office in 2008, when it
acquired the intellectual-property firm Needle & Rosenberg.
Since then, the office has grown to include 34 attorneys with
experience in litigation, real estate, consumer financial
services, public finance, and mergers and acquisitions, the firm
said.  During his 26-year career, Opler has served as interim
general counsel to an international private-equity investor and
was a co-founder of One Georgia Bank. As an attorney, he has
represented clients in the broadcast, manufacturing, financial,
and professional services industries in matters involving
investments, mergers and acquisitions, and general corporate
issues, the firm said.  Ballard Spahr has more than 500 lawyers in 13 offices in
the U.S.  News  Financial Services Workers Aware of Wrongdoing, Law Firm Finds  Almost one-third of Britain’s financial-services workers
are aware of illegal behavior at their companies, and many fear
reporting it, a survey by the securities-litigation law firm
Labaton Sucharow LLP found.  Of 500 senior professionals questioned last month, 30
percent in the U.K. and 22 percent in the U.S. said they had
witnessed or had “first-hand” knowledge of wrongdoing, the law
firm said today in a statement. Almost four in 10 believe their
competitors  break the law  to get ahead, the firm said.  The study focused on corporate ethics, the regulatory
landscape and individuals’ willingness to report illegal
behavior, the New York-based law firm said. It comes amid U.S.
and U.K. probes into whether banks rigged the London interbank
offered rate and follows a record 290 million-pound ($450
million) fine for  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   “It is shocking that four years after the global economic
crisis began there continues to be a fundamental lack of
integrity in the financial services industry,”  Dominic Auld , a
lawyer at Labaton Sucharow, said in the statement.  The survey shows that 30 percent of workers believe their
compensation or bonus plans put pressure on them to compromise
ethical standards or break the law, the firm said. An equal
number said regulators and law enforcement agencies don’t
effectively deter such behavior, the report said.  Almost all respondents said they would report illegal
activity if they had whistle-blower protection. Only about one-
third in the U.K. and half in the U.S. knew the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office’s
SFO Confidential program provided such protections, the firm
said.  The six-day online survey queried directors, senior
managers, managers, senior analysts and financial analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 