-- Glaxo, Shionogi Say HIV Drug Beats Gilead Atripla in Test
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-07-11T13:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/glaxo-shionogi-say-hiv-drug-beats-gilead-atripla-in-test.html
An experimental treatment for HIV
developed by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Shionogi & Co. (4507) 
reduced the virus in more people than  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s
Atripla, suggesting it may supplant the world’s best-selling
AIDS medicine as the preferred front-line therapy.  After 48 weeks of treatment, 88 percent of patients
receiving a combination of dolutegravir and two other drugs in a
study had undetectable levels of virus in their blood, compared
with 81 percent of those getting Atripla, London-based Glaxo and
Shionogi of  Osaka ,  Japan , said in a joint statement today. The
difference was primarily the result of more patients on Atripla
dropping out because of side effects, they said.  The study, dubbed Single, is the second of four late-stage
trials to be reported this year that Glaxo plans to use in
filing for regulatory clearance of dolutegravir. If approved,
dolutegravir would be the second in a new class of HIV medicines
called integrase inhibitors that work by blocking the virus’s
ability to replicate.  “It looks like it’s a very effective treatment,” said
 Graham Cooke , an infectious diseases researcher at  Imperial
College London  who wasn’t involved in the trial. “Atripla is a
very good drug, and we use it a lot, but it has a side-effect
profile that causes a problem for a significant number of
patients.”  Doubled Estimate  The results mean peak sales may reach $5 billion, double an
earlier estimate, James Gordon, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said in a report. He raised his estimate of the probability
of regulatory approval to 100 percent from 50 percent.  “Glaxo announced surprisingly good data,” Gordon wrote.
“This news is unexpected as we had thought the most likely
outcome” was that dolutegravir would be shown to be
statistically equal to Atripla.  Among the 414 patients getting the dolutegravir-based
combination, 2 percent quit the trial because of side effects,
compared with 10 percent of the 419 who received Atripla.  Forty-one percent of patients on Atripla had nervous-system
side effects, compared with 15 percent of those getting
dolutegravir, the companies said. The rate of gastrointestinal
side effects was the same for both drugs.  Integrase Inhibitor  Atripla brought in $3.2 billion of revenue last year for
 Foster City , California-based Gilead. Merck & Co.’s raltegravir,
marketed as Isentress, is the only approved integrase inhibitor.
Gilead last month applied for U.S. regulatory approval of its
own drug in the class, elvitegravir.  In the first of the four late-stage trials, Glaxo said in
April that dolutegravir on its own suppressed the HIV virus in
88 percent of study participants, compared with raltegravir,
which quelled the disease in 85 percent.  “It’s not going to be a huge success for them overnight,
but it is looking good,”  Alistair Campbell , an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in London, said in an interview today. “The
integrase inhibitor market is probably going to be quite
competitive.” He  recommends  buying Glaxo’s stock.  Glaxo rose 0.1 percent to 1,455.5 pence as of 2:44 p.m. in
London. Gilead dropped 2.4 percent to $50.34 in  New York . The
statement was published after the close of trading in  Tokyo ,
where Shionogi fell 0.7 percent to 1,100 yen.  Dolutegravir is being developed by Glaxo and Pfizer’s ViiV
Healthcare Ltd. joint venture with Shionogi. Shionogi and ViiV
will split earnings from sales of dolutegravir. As Glaxo owns 85
percent of ViiV, it will take 42.5 percent of profit from the
drug and New York-based Pfizer will receive 7.5 percent.  Dolutegravir was combined in the trial with abacavir and
lamivudine, two approved drugs made by ViiV. Glaxo, the U.K.’s
biggest drugmaker, introduced the first AIDS pill, known as AZT
or retrovir, in 1987.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  