-- Gold 22% Rally to Record Seen by Eric Sprott: Commodities
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-07-12T20:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/gold-22-rally-to-record-seen-by-eric-sprott-commodities.html
Gold will climb to a record by
yearend as the global economy slows from the weight of too much
debt, says Eric Sprott, the founder and chairman of Canadian
fund manager  Sprott Inc. (SII)   “I just can’t imagine the demand for gold is going down,”
he said in a July 9 interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office. “I
don’t personally see a solution to the problem that we’re in,
the financial leveraging issue that we all have where everybody
wants to shed debt and there’s no buyers.”  Sprott’s company manages funds investing mainly in gold,
silver, and precious-metals equities. He expects bullion will
rise as investors seek the safest assets while governments spend
to stimulate their economies, increasing chances that inflation
will accelerate.  Gold, which had advanced for 11 successive years, is little
changed so far in 2012. It’s 19 percent lower than the record
$1,923.70 an ounce traded on Sept. 6 in  New York  after investors
favored buying the dollar amid  Europe ’s escalating debt crisis.  The metal “should go to new highs before yearend, that
would be my guess,” said Sprott, 67. “Gold has blown away
every financial market in the world since 2000, let’s not forget
that.”  Rallying to a record would mean gold climbing at least 23
percent on the Comex in New York, where bullion for August
delivery fell 0.7 percent to settle at $1,565.30 an ounce today.
Futures gained 2.4 percent in 2012 through June, the smallest
first-half increase since 2007.  ‘Fundamental Problem’  Sprott declined to make a specific price prediction. Future
highs are “indefinable” because they will depend on decisions
by policy makers, he said.  Sprott has previously made predictions that were accurate,
or largely so. He said in May 2011 that gold might rise to
$2,000 that year. In March 2008 he said banking stocks would
collapse. Bear Stearns Cos. was sold to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
later that month and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy in September.  Governments including the U.S. don’t have the resources to
meet their obligations, Sprott said.  “We have a fundamental problem in the sovereign and
banking system in the world,” Sprott said. “Probably nobody
has any conception of how bad it is.”  Minsky Moment  Central banks can either print money, which would help
lenders, or “deal with the Minsky moment,” he said. The term
was named after the late U.S. economist Hyman Minsky, whose
Financial Instability Hypothesis argues that capitalist
economies first trigger waves of credit expansion and asset
inflation and then credit contraction and asset deflation.  “Minsky said that if you expand your economy by increasing
debt, there comes a point where the productive engine can’t deal
with the debt,” Sprott said. “I’ve thought that there will be
many, many Minsky moments for many banks and countries.”  Sprott is a qualified accountant who started his investment
career as an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co. He founded his
current company before selling Sprott Securities, now Cormark
Securities Inc., to its employees in 2002. He owns 55 percent of
Sprott Inc. according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  His company, which also offers wealth-management and
consulting services, had C$9.7 billion ($9.5 billion) under
management as of March 31, mostly through its Sprott Asset
Management unit.  Gold Equities  Sprott Inc. fell 1.9 percent to C$4.76 at the close in
Toronto, valuing it at C$807.5 million. The company has  declined 
52 percent since its May 2008 initial public offering.  Sprott has lauded gold and gold stocks since at least 2001.
The company began offering its own products for investors who
want to own bullion in March 2009. Sprott Inc.’s Sprott Hedge
Fund has returned about 391 percent since its inception in 2000,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold equities, which have lagged behind gains in the metal,
will probably “do well” when gold prices rise, Sprott said.
The stocks “can’t get a sustained recovery until gold has a
sustained recovery,” he said.  The  NYSE Arca Gold BUGS (HUI)  Index, which comprises 16 gold
mining companies, has  fallen  27 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with a 0.6 percent decline in gold in New York.
Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and Vancouver-based  Goldcorp
Inc. (G) , the world’s two most valuable miners of the metal, have
dropped 23 percent and 34 percent respectively in the period.  Gold Standard  To be sure, gold-mine production is increasing, which will
be negative for prices, said Pawel Rajszel, a Toronto-based
investment analyst at Veritas Investment Research.  “Supply is growing faster than demand can keep up with,
and as a result you are going to see prices slowly but gradually
fall,” Rajszel said. “Obviously there’s a bunch of short-term
fluctuations that can happen, but I think over the long term you
will see  gold prices  fall.”  The metal averaged $1,613 in the second quarter. It will
average $1,721 in the third quarter and $1,802 in the fourth,
according to the average of 23 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The debt crisis “should be incredible for gold,” said
Sprott. He said the world may eventually return to the gold
standard.  “Ultimately, if there’s a currency crisis, which one could
argue we are in the throes of it right now, how do sovereigns
and banks back things up? What do you back it up with?” he
said. “I can imagine that the most logical thing is gold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  