-- Google’s Nexus 7 Tablet Crushes Kindle: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-07-11T15:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/google-s-nexus-7-tablet-crushes-kindle-rich-jaroslovsky.html
It’s the most-asked question by
consumers about any new tech gadget: “Should I get this now or
is something better coming along soon?”  For buyers of Amazon’s Kindle Fire, we now have the answer:
You should have waited.  Google (GOOG) ’s new Nexus 7 is aimed directly at the Kindle Fire,
the seven-inch color tablet that was the runaway hit of the last
holiday season. The Nexus 7 obliterates every reason for buying
the current Kindle, and sets a high bar for whatever Amazon
comes up with to replace it.  The Nexus 7 is Google’s first foray into selling a tablet
under its own brand. It’s currently available for pre-order from
 Google Play , the company’s online store, with customer
deliveries expected to begin next week. It costs $199 for a
model with eight gigabytes of storage, same as the Kindle, or
$249 for 16 gigabytes.  The device is manufactured by Taiwan-based  Asustek (2357) , and
Google chose its partner wisely. Asus makes some of the
prettiest tablets and personal computers this side of Apple, and
the Nexus 7 is as attractive and smooth as the Kindle Fire is
chunky and clunky.  At 7.8 inches tall and 4.7 inches wide, the Nexus 7 is
compact enough to slide into a jacket pocket. A rubbery,
textured back makes it easy to grip. Like the Kindle Fire, it
works only over a Wi-Fi connection; while the screens are the
same size, the Nexus 7’s has a resolution of 1280 x 800 pixels,
compared to the Kindle Fire’s 1024 x 600.  More and Better  The Google tablet also has a more powerful, quad-core
processor from  Nvidia (NVDA) , twice the internal memory and better
battery. At four-tenths of an inch thick and 12 ounces, it’s
also thinner and 18 percent lighter.  Go down the list of standard tablet features, and the Nexus
7 wins every one. Camera? None for the Kindle; the Nexus has a
front-facing camera and microphone for video calls.  Bluetooth? The Kindle doesn’t have it; the Nexus 7 does.  GPS? Yes on the Nexus, along with a newly-enhanced Google
app that lets you save maps for use even when you’re offline.
The Kindle has nothing like it.  The Kindle has the Nexus beat in one significant area: the
depth and breadth of the online stores that are designed to keep
them stuffed with content. The Kindle is deeply integrated with
 Amazon (AMZN) ’s shops for e-books, music, movies and videos, which are
all far richer than the sparsely stocked Google Play store.  Amazon Alternatives  On the other hand, Amazon makes an excellent free app that
allows you to buy and read Kindle e-books on the Nexus 7. And
there’s always  Netflix (NFLX)  for movies and Spotify for music, among
many others, as long as you’re willing to manage the various
accounts and log-ins yourself. (With the Kindle Fire, a single
Amazon password is all you need.)  The Nexus 7 marks the debut of yet another iteration of the
Android operating system: version 4.1, which Google calls
“Jelly Bean.” (Who knows why Google’s sweets-themed naming
system seems so much sillier than  Apple (AAPL) ’s  big cats  for its Mac
releases?)  Google’s constant Android updates can be maddening for
consumers, who often find that even recently purchased devices
won’t run the latest software.  Still, this new version is the most polished yet. It’s fast
and smooth, without any of the herky-jerkiness in reorienting
the device from landscape to portrait, or in transitions from
one screen to another, that afflicted earlier releases.  Google Now  There is also a passel of new features, notably Google Now.
This is a neat app that, with a single finger-swipe, supplies
useful information about where you are and what you’re doing at
any given moment.  Right now, for example, it’s telling me how long it would
take to drive home given current traffic conditions, what the
weather’s like, nearby mass-transit departure times and the
closest restaurants. At an airport, it might show flight
information; in a city, nearby places of interest.  Of course, Android wouldn’t be Android without a head-
scratcher or two. For instance, you can’t view your home screen
or display all your apps in landscape mode. Google says it will
address that one by the time Jelly Bean shows up on larger,
iPad-size tablets.  And that’s the real endgame here. There’s no doubt Apple is
Google’s No. 1 enemy in its struggle to establish Android on
tablets, but no Android device has yet gained any traction going
head-to-head against the mighty iPad. So Google, which needs a
hit device to convince developers to help it dent Apple’s
enormous lead in tablet-specific apps, went smaller and cheaper.  Apple, meanwhile, isn’t standing still; if reports are to
be believed, it is working on its own smaller, cheaper iPad.  As for the Kindle Fire, in its current form you’d have to
consider it collateral damage.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  car  and  art  reviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 