-- Governors Are Warned by U.S. of Law on Maintaining Medicaid
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-07-11T18:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/governors-are-warned-by-u-s-of-law-on-maintaining-medicaid.html
Republican governors seeking to use
last month’s U.S.  Supreme Court  decision to scale back Medicaid
are being told by the Obama administration that the ruling on
the 2010 health-care law leaves states little room to maneuver.  The ruling doesn’t allow states to cut people from their
Medicaid rolls, Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said in a letter to governors yesterday. One passage of
the law, called “maintenance of effort,” prevents states from
reducing eligibility or benefits in Medicaid before new online
insurance exchanges are to be available in 2014.  “I’m glad to see Secretary Sebelius reminding the
governors that the Supreme Court only struck down a narrow part
of the law about Medicaid expansion after 2014,” U.S.
Representative Chellie Pingree, a Democrat from Maine, said in a
statement today.  President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul sought to
expand medical coverage to more than 30 million Americans by
either subsidizing a person’s purchase of insurance from a
company or by making them eligible for Medicaid. Sebelius moved
to address a potential gap, saying she would exempt some people
in states that opt out of the Medicaid expansion from the law’s
mandate that they carry insurance or pay an annual penalty.  Texas, Florida  The Republican governors of Texas and Florida, two of the
four most-populated U.S. states, along with  South Carolina ,
Louisiana and  Mississippi , have said they won’t participate in
the law’s provision that raises income eligibility for Medicaid,
which primarily provides health care to the poor. States opting
out of the expansion would leave millions without insurance,
because they won’t be poor enough to qualify for Medicaid or
wealthy enough to buy private insurance in the new exchanges.  “A very small number of affected individuals” who will
still be subject to the law’s requirement that they carry
insurance will receive a “hardship exemption” from the
mandate, Sebelius said in her letter. She didn’t say how many
people the exemption may cover. The law itself exempts from the
mandate people who don’t make enough money to file a  tax return .  “That wipes out the overwhelming majority right there,”
said  Ron Pollack , executive director of Families USA, a consumer
advocacy group in Washington that backs the health law. “I’m
not sure it has much of an impact.”  Medicaid is run by states, with the federal government
covering about 59 percent of the costs. Eligibility varies, with
states such as Texas and Florida excluding most working-age
adults who don’t have children. The federal health-care law
would expand state programs to cover everyone in families
earning as much as 133 percent of the national poverty level, or
about $30,657 for a family of four this year.  Legal Action  About 17 million people would be added to Medicaid if all
states participate, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office . The federal government would eventually cover about 90
percent of the cost.  Governors  Rick Perry  of Texas,  Rick Scott  of Florida, Nikki Haley of South Carolina,  Bobby Jindal  of Louisiana and Phil Bryant of Mississippi have said they won’t expand their Medicaid
programs. Republicans also have chaffed at the prohibition of
cutting pre-health law Medicaid requirements, saying it prevents
them from reducing costs in their states.  Maine Governor Paul LePage, a Republican, has proposed
cutting about 21,000 people from his state’s Medicaid program by
reducing eligibility for adults. His plan sparked a fight with
Pingree, who wrote Sebelius this week asking her to stop him.  A spokeswoman for LePage, Adrienne Bennett, said Maine will
submit its proposed eligibility reduction for Sebelius’ approval
within a few weeks.  If Sebelius denies the request, “this administration is
ready to take legal action,” Bennett said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  