-- Samaras Pledges Greek Budget Reforms as Doubts Rise on Goals
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-07-12T13:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/greece-to-miss-eu3-2-billion-asset-sale-goal-official-says-1-.html
Greece’s government will implement
reforms to convince the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  of the need for more time to reduce the  budget
deficit  as officials confirmed the country will fall short of
promised funds from the sale of state assets this year.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and coalition partners
 Evangelos Venizelos , the head of the Pasok party, and Democratic
Left leader Fotis Kouvelis agreed yesterday to press ahead with
reforms after an official at the state-asset sale fund said
Greece won’t be able to raise 3.2 billion euros ($3.9 billion).  “We must pursue reforms, we must convince them that the
recession is worse than expected, we must sell state assets, to
prove our credibility,” Venizelos told reporters in Athens
after the meeting. “Talks are never easy. It is important to
present the right arguments.”  Samaras’s government faces the risk of running out of money
and defaulting while seeking to qualify for 4.2 billion euros in
aid. That payment, which was due in late June as the first
tranche of a 31 billion-euro transfer, was stalled because
parliamentary elections delayed a review of  Greece ’s progress on
fiscal-austerity conditions.  Budget Hole  Greece must find ways in the coming weeks to implement a
3.2 billion-euro package agreed in March.  Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras, who July 10 had his
first meeting with euro-area counterparts, consulted in Athens
today with ministers on 11.5 billion euros in measures required
for 2013 and 2014, two government officials said, who asked not
to be identified because they are involved in the talks. The
measures need to be presented to representatives of the so-
called troika of creditors on July 23, they said.  The government has already submitted alternative budget
cuts to the troika to replace a planned 205 million-euro
reduction in wages for military, police, fire and rescue
personnel, the officials said. Those cuts would come in part
from reduced military spending, one of the officials said.  Kouvelis said after yesterday’s meeting that the government
is working on finding alternatives to measures to alleviate the
downturn. “We are in accord,” he said. The three party leaders
will meet again on July 18, Venizelos said.  2012 Target  The June 17 vote, which sparked concern Greece would leave
the euro area, also brought preparations for sales of state
companies and licenses to a halt.  The target this year won’t be met because the  Hellenic
Republic Asset Development Fund (ETE) , or HRADF, will only be able to
complete two sales in the time provided, said the official in
Athens, who asked not to be identified.  Those two projects are a contract for a state lottery and
the lease of the IBC conference center, the official said. The
pace of asset sales will be stepped up next year, with the fund
set to complete 23 projects, he said.  Samaras has pledged to accelerate state-asset sales, a
centerpiece of debt-reduction efforts, to win backing for more
time to reduce the country’s deficit and implement reforms.  Rising Unemployment  Support for his coalition government also relies on
convincing the EU and IMF to loosen some of the tougher
austerity measures that have driven the country into a fifth
year of recession. Unemployment rose to a record in April of
22.5 percent, the Hellenic Statistical Authority said today.  The sales, which are expected to raise as much as 50
billion euros up to 2022, have been held up by political
disputes and opposition from unions and complicated by
bureaucratic problems such as a lack of deeds for real estate.  HRADF Chief Executive Costas Mitropoulos said on May 17
that the program would suffer months of delays amid the second
election to choose a new government. His comment came a day
after the fund’s board decided to freeze all projects until the
June 17 vote.  Greece’s international lenders have already criticized the
slow pace of asset sales, which are designed to pay down debt.
The European Commission said in March that the 50 billion-euro
figure “remains viable, though over a much longer horizon than
envisioned initially.” The target for end-2015 is to raise 19
billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christos Ziotis in  Athens  at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  