-- Libyan Militia Stand-Off Shows Challenges for New Government
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-07-11T13:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/libya-militia-stand-off-underlines-challenges-for-new-government.html
One of  Libya 's most-powerful militia 
groups issued a 24-hour ultimatum to a rival in a stand-off 
underlining the challenges facing the country’s fledgling 
democratic institutions.  As election officials in the capital Tripoli prepare to
release full results from the country’s first free election in
more than 40 years, militia units from the city of Misrata told
a rival armed group in Bani Walid to hand over two journalists
arrested at the weekend or face attack, said Ali Al Suweli,
leader of Misrata’s largest political party, the Union for the
Homeland.  “We are not doing anything until Thursday, that’s very
important,” said Suweli in a telephone interview. “We still
have 24 hours.” In the meantime, the Misratans had moved forces
including heavy artillery to Bir Durfan, outside Bani Walid, he
said.  The standoff underlines the fragile security of post-
revolutionary Libya, where there have been clashes between rival
militias in recent weeks in Kufra and Sabha in the south,
Benghazi in the east, Zintan in the west and at Zuara on the
Tunisian border. Protesters last week closed three oil ports, to
complain at what they say is economic and political
marginalization of Libya’s oil-rich eastern province of
Cyrenaica, cutting crude exports by about 300,000 barrels a day.  Libya’s ruling National Transitional Council, which is due
to hand over power to the newly elected national assembly in the
coming weeks, has been unable to persuade the majority of
Libya’s militias to join its national army.  Last Resistance  The government “can impact security only through
developing relationships with militias,” Crispin Hawes,
director of the Mideast and North Africa program at the Eurasia
Group said in an interview. “The new national security forces
cannot go toe-to-toe with the militias and disarm them. The
militias will be absorbed when they want to be absorbed, which
is when they have got what they think they are due from the
government.”  Misrata, a coastal city 120 miles west of Tripoli, provided
militiamen who fought alongside rebel forces in last year’s
uprising. Bani Walid, 90 miles south east of the capital,
remained loyal to the  Muammar Qaddafi  and was one of the last
centers of resistance to fall to rebels during last year’s
uprising.  Suweli, whose party took the city in July 7 elections, said
he was trying to mediate a peaceful settlement after Misratan
journalists Yusuf Baadi and Abdul Fusuq were arrested in Bani
Walid on Sunday.  Prisoner Swap  Bani Walid’s leaders proposed a prisoner swap, with the
journalists exchanged for 120 prisoners-of-war from Bani Walid
still held by the Misratans, reported the Libya Herald
newspaper.  While Libyan Prime Minister Abdurahim El Keib yesterday
called for the journalists to be freed, Suweli said the
government lacks security forces capable of intervention and is
itself reliant on militias. “The government has no forces, it
has nothing it can do, it cannot go inside Bani Walid.”  In January, Bani Walid forces attacked a government unit in
the town, expelling it, and triggering a two-week standoff
between pro-government militias that was later resolved without
bloodshed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  