-- ICAP Sales Fall 9% on Euro Crisis as Spencer Downplays Libor
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-07-11T09:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/icap-first-quarter-sales-fell-9-after-euro-crisis-hurt-trading.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks, said fiscal first-quarter sales
fell 9 percent as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis hurt trading.  Full-year pretax profit will be in the middle of the 335
million-pound ($520 million) to 365 million-pound range of
analyst estimates, London-based ICAP said in a statement today.
ICAP earned 354 million pounds for the 12-month period ended in
March 2012, according to the statement.  “The sluggish global economy and euro-zone crisis are
inevitably leading to reduced trading volumes,” Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Spencer  said in the statement. “The lack of
aggressive action to resolve the euro-zone crisis is not helping
to normalize financial market activity in the near term.”  Spencer also said widening international probes into the
Libor scandal are not a “high concern” as ICAP isn’t “front
and forward” in investigations, given the company did not
participate in setting the  interest rate . ICAP said in November
that it provided information to regulators investigating whether
Libor, a  reference rate  for more than $350 trillion in
securities, was manipulated.  ICAP is cutting costs to bolster profit as the crisis
crimps transactions on its foreign-exchange and fixed-income
trading platforms. The company expects to make more than 50
million pounds of reductions by the end of this financial year,
ahead of target, and expects to make “substantially higher”
savings next year.  The shares  rose 1.8 percent to 316.7 pence at 10:10 a.m. in
London trading, giving the company a market value of about 2
billion pounds.  Libor Probe  Interdealer brokers such as ICAP act as a go-between for
banks that trade bonds, stocks, currencies, energy and
derivatives. They profit when prices fluctuate because more
traders use the products they trade.  ICAP stock  has slid about 12 percent since  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was
fined 290 million pounds for false Libor submissions by U.K. and
U.S. regulators on June 27, sparking concern that other firms
being probed will be hit by lawsuits as the scandal widens.  The company has put two employees on administrative leave
over the Libor investigation, Spencer said on a conference call
with analysts today.  The probe is “not a high priority or a high concern” for
ICAP, because the company is not on the panel of banks that
participate in setting Libor, he said. “We do not consider
ourselves front and forward in this debate,” Spencer said.  Libor is determined by banks’ estimates of how much it
would cost them to borrow from one another for different time
frames and in different currencies. The submissions aren’t based
on real trades.  Jubilee Weekend  ICAP has been questioned by regulators because it acts as a
broker for cash deposits and derivatives that Libor is supposed
to be based on, Spencer said.  Transactions on ICAP’s electronic foreign exchange and
fixed-income platforms fell 19 percent to $712 billion in the
quarter ended June 2012 from a year earlier, ICAP said.  The pace of trading slowed on concern that another European
country may follow  Greece  in restructuring its debt, regulatory
uncertainty and an abundance of holidays in the U.K., including
the Queen’s Jubilee, ICAP said.  To contact the report on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  