-- Micex Falls to One-Week Low on Slowdown Concern; Oil Stocks Drop
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-11T16:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/micex-retreats-as-urals-crude-falls-investors-await-fed-minutes.html
Russian stocks fell to the lowest
level in more than a week, led by  oil companies , as concern the
global economy is foundering crimped demand for riskier assets.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 1.2 percent to 1,405.15 by
the close in Moscow. Oil producers OAO Surgutneftegas and OAO
 Tatneft (TATN)  led the retreat, falling at least 2.7 percent. VTB Group
declined 3 percent as UBS AG added  Russia ’s second-largest
lender to its list of least-preferred stocks, citing the bank’s
reliance on income from trading.  Emerging-market (MXEF)  stocks tumbled for a sixth day on bets
 Europe ’s debt crisis will deepen a global economic slowdown and
hurt earnings. The  Federal Reserve  will release today the
minutes from its June meeting, during which policy makers
lowered their outlook for economic growth. The  European Central
Bank  cut rates to a record low on July 5 on concern the euro
area is slipping deeper into a recession.  “Everyone is waiting for the European leaders to announce
a solid rescue plan,” Michael Kart, managing partner at
Spectrum Partners, who manages $150 million in Russian equities
in Moscow, said by phone. “The market might rise if the Fed
minutes show active discussions of further monetary easing.”  A total of 32.3 billion  shares traded  on the benchmark
index today, compared with 56.3 billion yesterday, according to
the Micex’s website.  ‘Tougher Day’  Crude oil gained 1.4 percent to $85.05 in  New York  after
falling 2.4 percent yesterday. Oil and gas contribute about 50
percent of Russia’s state revenue. Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Commodity Index rose 0.8 percent to 610.60 after slumping 1.6
percent yesterday.  “Today is likely to be a tougher day, or at least until
the U.S. Federal Reserve publishes the minutes,”  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at Troika Dialog, said in an e-mailed research
report. “Before that, investors will react to another steep
fall on  Wall Street  last night.”  U.S. shares fell 0.8 percent to 1,341.47 yesterday.  Russia’s benchmark index, which has added 0.2 percent this
year, trades at 5.2 times  estimated earnings . That compares with
9.5 times projected earnings for the average company on the MSCI
Emerging Market Index, which has gained 1.7 percent this year.  Russian equities  have  the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  