-- Lincoln Survives, Is Impeached in Yale Prof’s Novel
-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/lincoln-survives-is-impeached-in-yale-prof-s-novel.html
In  Stephen L. Carter ’s latest novel,
a spy thriller/murder mystery/courtroom drama/political
potboiler set in 1860s Washington, the 16th U.S. president
survives the shooting in Ford’s Theatre only to face removal
from office by a cabal of Radical Republicans.  Vice President Andrew Johnson dies and Mary Todd Lincoln
drowns shortly thereafter.  In “ The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln ,” the Yale
University law professor casts an eye on the nation at the
ragged end of the Civil War.  The political debate cloaks a conspiracy of industrialists
and corrupt officeholders seeking to protect their own
interests.  But this isn’t “ Abraham Lincoln : Vampire Hunter.” Carter,
even in rewriting history, hews close to the realities of the
time, in all their complexity.  The hero of the tale is Abigail Canner, a middle-class
Washingtonian of immense intelligence (just ask her) whose
family is three generations removed from slavery. After
graduating from Oberlin College, she takes a job as a clerk for
the  law firm  hired to defend the president.  Carter revels in the ambiguities of post-bellum America,
where abolitionists smugly presume that every black person they
meet is a former slave, where Lincoln is hated as much by his
own party as by disgruntled white Southerners and where a
wealthy black family hires former Confederate soldiers as
bodyguards “because we won, dear.”  Mansions, Brothels  Carter sometimes bogs down in details -- he can’t resist
explaining rules of evidence -- but the streets come alive in
his vision of  Washington : a muddy conglomeration of mansions and
brothels and staid brick homes. The weather is relentlessly
terrible, the people eloquently rude.  Lincoln, no saint, turns people into set dressing for his
political ends. He speaks in tedious, homespun parables.  “Mr. Lincoln’s countrymen saw him, according to their
several prejudices, as a monster or a giant, the tyrant who had
crushed the Southern way of life or the demigod who had saved
the union,” Carter writes.  Carter’s tale comes to a conclusion as thrilling and untidy
as the actual events that unfolded during the turbulent postwar
years. The professor deploys alternative history to instruct the
reader on how much and how little impact individuals, political
movements and random accidents have on the course of
momentous events.  “The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln” is published by
Knopf (516 pages, $26.95). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  is an editor at Bloomberg news. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include an interview by  Zinta Lundborg  and
a  dining  review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Dunn in  New York  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  