-- India’s Nifty Stock Futures Drop on Earnings Concerns
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-07-11T02:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-drop-on-earnings-concerns.html
India ’s  Nifty (NIFTY)  stock-index futures
dropped on concern corporate earnings may weaken amid slowing
economic growth.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures  for July delivery fell 0.6
percent to 5,324 at 9:55 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying S&P
CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
climbed 1.3 percent to 5,345.35 yesterday. The BSE India
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, gained 1.3 percent to 17,618.35, its
highest close since March 15.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s
two biggest software exporters, release quarterly results
tomorrow, marking a start to the earnings season for the three
months ended June 30. Infosys’s dollar revenues may decline from
the previous quarter, and sales-growth guidance for this fiscal
year may be cut by 2 percentage points, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. note dated yesterday.  “Quarterly results are unlikely to be very good,” Suresh Mahadevan, managing director at UBS Securities India Pvt., said
in an interview with Bloomberg UTV yesterday. “I am still not
optimistic because the macro is very poor. The risk is to the
downside and markets could correct 10 percent to 15 percent.”  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’s biggest mortgage
lender, will today be the first Sensex company to report
quarterly earnings. The company may post a net income of 10.1
billion rupees ($182 million), compared with 8.45 billion rupees
a year earlier, according to a median of 12 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Tepid’ Growth  Profits at the 30 Sensex companies may drop 14 percent to
1,280 rupees per share in the year ending March 2013, the most
in three years,  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg show. Earnings
for 30 percent of the companies in the index missed estimates in
the March quarter, compared with 47 percent in the period ended
December, the data show.  Still, “we expect decent revenue growth, and growth rates,
while tepid, should show slight improvements compared with the
past few quarters,” Manishi Raychaudhuri and Gautam Mehta,
analysts at BNP Paribas Securities ( Asia ) Ltd., wrote in a
report today. “While it is still early days, if deficient
monsoons drive down rural consumption -- one of the very few
growth drivers for India -- the market could see a correction.”  India’s monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
annual rainfall, was 23 percent below a 50-year average since
June 1, the nation’s weather bureau said yesterday. The monsoon
may cover the entire nation by today, four days earlier than
normal, the bureau said.  Farm Output  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is counting on growth in farm
output, which accounts for about 15 percent of India’s gross
domestic product, to curb inflation that the central bank deemed
too high last month to cut  interest rates .  Singh is under pressure to support an economy expanding at
the weakest pace in nearly a decade as policy gridlock deters
investment and  Europe ’s debt crisis hampers exports. The economy
grew 5.3 percent in the quarter ended March, the least since
2003.  The Sensex has gained 14 percent this year and trades at
13.8 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index’s 10.1 times.  Overseas  investors  bought a net $59.9 million of Indian
stocks on July 9, taking their investment this year to $9.6
billion, according to the Securities & Exchange Board of India,
the market regulator. That’s a record for the period, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s
largest oil-refining complex, may move after the company hired
banks to help arrange $1.5 billion of loans, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  Steel Authority of India Ltd.  may be active after the steel
ministry said the nation’s second-biggest producer and Japan’s
Kobe Steel plan to set up a 500,000 metric-ton-per-annum iron-
nugget plant in West Bengal state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  