-- India Rupee Declines on Concern Slowdown Will Damp Stock Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-07-11T11:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/india-rupee-declines-on-concern-slowdown-will-damp-stock-inflows.html
India ’s rupee declined on concern
corporate earnings will fall as global economic growth slows,
damping demand for the nation’s stocks.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares dropped before Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. and Infosys Ltd., the country’s two
biggest software exporters, release quarterly results tomorrow.
Infosys’s dollar revenues may decline from the previous quarter,
according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. note dated yesterday. Dollar
inflows by foreigners who bought Indian debt-purchase permits at
an auction on July 4 will limit the rupee’s losses, according to
state-run  Andhra Bank . The rupee has weakened more than 7.5
percent in the past three months.  “The broad concerns about the global slowdown are
intact,” said Vikas Babu, a Mumbai-based foreign-exchange
trader at the lender. “We are seeing some foreign inflows as
the rupee is relatively cheap and this is probably a bargain
opportunity.”  The rupee declined 0.4 percent to 55.6350 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was unchanged at 12.25 percent.  Data due tomorrow will show India’s  industrial production 
rose 1.8 percent in May from a 0.1 percent gain the previous
month, according to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Wholesale prices rose 7.62 percent last month,
according to another Bloomberg News survey, compared with 7.55
percent in May. The government is scheduled to release the data
on July 16.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.37 per
dollar, compared with 56.41 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.33 from 56.31. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  