-- Industry Suppliers-Box Makers May Show Slow U.S. Growth
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/industry-suppliers-box-makers-may-show-slow-u-s-growth.html
Investors may see more signs of
slowing U.S. manufacturing growth when makers of corrugated
boxes and distributors of supplies report quarterly earnings
this month.  W.W. Grainger Inc. (GWW)  and  Packaging Corp. of America  are among
companies that offer “good insight into industrial America,”
said  Tim Ghriskey , who oversees about $2 billion as chief
investment officer of Solaris Group, based in  Bedford Hills , New
York. Data from these businesses can be particularly useful in
verifying or contradicting the pace of activity measured by the
government and third-party groups, he said.  “These types of companies are a great way of evaluating
real demand in manufacturing,” Ghriskey said.  The consensus reflects slowing expansion, with no signs of
recession, as concerns intensify that the world’s largest
economy may be faltering.  The business environment “continues to move sideways” for
 Memphis , Tennessee-based  International Paper Co. (IP) , the world’s
largest pulp and paper maker, Tom Ryan, a spokesman for the
company, said in a June 29 interview. Even so, an improving
 housing market  has made demand for durables, such as appliances,
a “bright spot,” he said.  Shipments for the box-making industry fell 0.6 percent on
an average-week basis in May from a year earlier, the second
consecutive month of year-over-year declines, based on data from
the Fibre Box Association in Elk Grove Village,  Illinois . June
numbers are scheduled to be released July 17, the day after
Packaging Corp. plans to announce earnings, followed by  RockTenn
Co. (RKT)  on July 24 and International Paper July 26.  Shipping Barometers  Packaging Corp., based in Lake Forest, Illinois, and
RockTenn, in Norcross,  Georgia , are barometers for shipping
activity, Ghriskey said. Demand for the containers they and
their competitors make -- which hold items including appliances
and food -- typically rises at about half the pace of gross
domestic product, according to Steve Chercover, senior vice
president and senior research analyst in  Lake Oswego , Oregon, at
D.A. Davidson & Co.  Box shipments have increased 1 percent this year through
May on an actual, rather than average-week, basis; the U.S.
expanded 2 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier.  “These data tie together to confirm the economy is growing
slowly,” Chercover said.  Falling Index  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
fell to 49.7 in June, the lowest since 2009, from 53.5 the prior
month, based on data released July 2. The gauge of new orders
also decreased to a three-year low of 47.8 from 60.1. Readings
below 50 signal a contraction.  Since the ISM indexes are based on a survey of more than
400 industrial companies, investors look for “hard data” to
confirm “how strong or weak the manufacturing side of the  U.S.
economy  is,” Ghriskey said.  These data come from businesses such as Grainger, based in
 Lake Forest , Illinois, and  Fastenal Co. (FAST) , which distribute
industrial supplies to a broad swath of customers, including
manufacturers and hospitals.  Fastenal’s daily net sales grew 9 percent in May at stores
more than five years old, which best represents the broader
economy. The pace was the slowest since March 2010, according to
figures from the Winona, Minnesota-based company. Meanwhile,
U.S. daily sales were up 8 percent at Grainger, compared with as
much as 12 percent in February, company data show.  Short Lead-Time  There’s a “very short lead time” in sales of products for
manufacturing, so  MSC Industrial Direct Co. (MSM)  and its competitors
tend to be a leading indicator of activity, President Erik Gershwind said in an interview. The company, based in Melville,
 New York , supplies metalworking, maintenance and repair goods --
the “stuff on or around a production floor” -- so if customers
see a slowdown coming, “they can pull back on orders very
quickly.”  Shipments probably have weakened for RockTenn, Packaging
Corp. and International Paper, so “none of these companies are
going to blow the lights out” when they report quarterly
earnings, said Chercover, who maintains “buy” recommendations
on them. The  consensus estimate  for Packaging Corp. is about 45
cents a share, up about 16 percent from a year ago.  For MSC Industrial, “activity levels remain solid, though
there’s been some leveling or moderation” recently, Gershwind
said. As a result, the company projected implied average daily
sales growth of about 10.5 percent for the fiscal fourth
quarter, which began May 27, based on the midpoint of its
guidance range. This compares with a 15 percent rise in the
three months ended May 26.  ‘Feared Worse’  The forecast came June 28 when MSC Industrial reported
third-quarter results. Its shares rose  4.3 percent  that day, the
most since November, an indication investors “feared worse,”
said Ryan Merkel, an analyst with William Blair & Co. in
 Chicago . The stock was down almost 26 percent between March 28
and June 27, so the rebound suggests investors were relieved the
company didn’t project significantly slower sales growth, he
said.  “Manufacturing output is slowing but not contracting,
which would be synonymous with a recession,” Merkel said.  ISM’s July 2 report “definitely was a negative” for these
distributors, said Derek Jose, an analyst in Independence,  Ohio ,
with Longbow Research. While shares of Fastenal, scheduled to
announce earnings tomorrow, have risen  3.8 percent  since MSC
Industrial’s financial release, there’s “still some room for it
to come down,” he said.  ‘Considerable Miss’  Grainger’s stock has “held up pretty well compared to its
peers” -- down about 1.4 percent so far this year -- so the
company would need to report “a considerable miss” in second-
quarter earnings for investors to become more pessimistic, Jose
said. Grainger is scheduled to release its financial results
July 18.  The ISM data and MSC Industrial’s comments indicate that
sales in July and August, typically weaker months on average,
“are likely to be even lower than we expected at the beginning
of June,” Jose said. Still, “sales should continue to grow,
but at a slower rate” -- one of the reasons he maintains
“neutral” recommendations on Grainger and Fastenal.  The prospect for box shipments may not be as optimistic,
based on conversations with so-called nonintegrated companies --
those that produce only boxes -- according to  Mark Connelly , a
senior analyst in New York at Credit Agricole Securities Inc.
Three months ago, box-makers in New York,  Maine , Ohio and
 Tennessee  were “hopeful,” though more recently they’ve
indicated business has weakened, he said.  Contraction Possible  While demand was strong in early 2012, it has slowed and a
contraction is possible, he added. Investors already have
discounted slower demand, as International Paper stock has
fallen about  21 percent  since March 13 and RockTenn is down
almost  28 percent .  Still, “we’re not quite at the point where investors are
pricing in a recession,” Connelly said.  If shipments were to contract more than 2 percent for a few
months, that would indicate a higher probability of another
slump, said Albert Kabili, an analyst in New York at Credit
Suisse Group AG. Sustained growth above 1 percent would give
investors more confidence in the outlook for demand and the
expansion; just as important, it would suggest the industry
could raise prices again, he said, adding this isn’t likely.  “I think we’re going to muddle along in the short term,”
Kabili said. “As a result, I don’t think we’re going to get a
price increase for the industry, which is the spark to lift
stock prices higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  