-- Internet Censorship Law Triggers Yandex Tumble
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-07-11T14:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/internet-censorship-law-triggers-yandex-tumble-russia-overnight.html
(Corrects company name to  Yandex NV (YNDX)  in first paragraph.)  Yandex NV,  Russia ’s biggest Internet
search engine, fell for a third day, leading a slump in the
nation’s New York-traded shares, on concern lawmakers are
preparing to ban access to some websites. RTS futures dropped.  Yandex retreated 2.7 percent to $18.35 yesterday in  New
York , completing the longest stretch of declines in a month. The
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian
companies listed in the U.S. lost 0.4 percent to 88.12. The  RTS
stock-index futures  expiring in September dropped 1.3 percent to
133,605.  The  Duma , Russia’s lower house of the parliament, is
scheduled to vote as soon as today on amending a law that bans
access to websites that promote criminal activity against
children such as pornography and illegal drugs. The Russian
version of  Wikipedia  said yesterday that it temporarily shut its
service in protest.  “Investors took it as a sign that Russia seeks to control
Internet and may block even those websites that have nothing to
do with any criminal activity,” Alexander Vengranovich, an
analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp said by phone from Moscow
yesterday. “People are concerned it may turn out to be a
Chinese-style control over Internet by the government.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, lost 1.1 percent
to $25.79, the lowest since June 28. The RTS Volatility Index,
which measures expected swings in the index futures, rose 0.7
percent to 31.24.  Delay Law Discussion  Yandex said the Parliament should delay its planned
discussion on banning certain websites.  “It is necessary to postpone consideration of the bill and
discuss it with the Internet industry representatives,” Ochir
Mandzhikov, Yandex’s press officer said in an e-mail from Moscow
yesterday. “The need to combat illegal content is evident for
civil society, as evident is the need for freedom of speech and
access to information.”  The Duma said it plans to vote on the law in a second
preliminary reading as soon as today. If approved in a third and
final reading and signed in effect by President Putin, the law
would give Russian authorities the right to blacklist Internet
sites without a court order.  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , the largest Russian-language  Internet
company , fell 0.3 percent to $34 in  London  yesterday, the lowest
since July 3.  ‘Spread of Pornography’  “Designed to counter the spread of pornography, drug
abuse, extremist propaganda, in its current form the amendments
leave the door open for a potentially arbitrarily wide expansion
of its scope,” Alexey Zabotkin, an analyst at VTB Capital in
Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday. ‘Tangible
legislative action to censor Internet would be perceived quite
negatively not only for Russia’s Internet stocks Yandex and
Mail.Ru, but also for the broader investment case.’’  Oil, Russia’s major export earner, declined in New York and
London after  Norway  ended a strike that threatened to halt
output by western  Europe ’s largest crude exporter.  Crude oil for August delivery lost 2.4 percent to $83.91 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Prices
have decreased 15 percent this year.  Brent oil for August settlement fell 2.5 percent to $97.84
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals
crude fell 1.4 percent to $97.89 per barrel, the lowest since
July 2.  Dividend Payments  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY) , Russia’s largest hydropower producer, gained
2.8 percent to $2.53 in New York trading yesterday, the highest
level in a week. The  stock  rose 4 percent to 86.01 kopeks, or
2.6 U.S. cents in Moscow. One ADR is equal to 100 common shares.  President  Vladimir Putin  said yesterday the company is
undervalued and the state won’t sell its stake at the current
price. Russia is committed to selling state assets and energy
companies should consider increasing dividend payments to boost
their market value, he said at a meeting with executives and
government officials.  “Even though Russia attracted interest today on the back
of Putin’s comments, until there is real solid reform progress
any such periods of optimism will be brief,”  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said by e-mail from
Moscow. “Only when investors see real progress in the reform
agenda will we able to talk about Russia pulling away from
external influences. We are a long way from that position now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  