-- Iraq Crude Production Overtakes Iran as OPEC Trims Output
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-07-11T11:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/iraq-crude-production-overtakes-iran-as-opec-trims-output.html
Iraq ’s crude production overtook
Iran’s last month for the first time in more than two decades as
Iran led a decline in OPEC output ahead of a European Union ban
on purchases from the nation, according to the producer group.  Iraq pumped 2.984 million barrels a day in June, outpacing
Iran’s 2.963 million, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’ Vienna-based secretariat said today in its Monthly
Oil Market Report. That’s the first time Iraq’s output has
exceeded Iran’s since 1988, when the countries ended their
eight-year war, statistics compiled by  BP Plc (BP/)  show.  The reduction from Iran, ahead of full sanctions by the EU
that started on July 1, led to the second monthly decline in
total OPEC production to 31.36 million barrels a day in June,
versus 31.47 million in May, according to the group’s estimates,
which are based on secondary sources including analysts and news
agencies. Falling OPEC production last month coincided with a 4
percent drop in  Brent crude  on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange, contributing to a 20 percent price decline for the
second quarter.  “Iran and  Angola  led the crude oil output decrease, while
crude oil output from Iraq,  Kuwait , and  Libya  experienced the
largest increase in June,” the monthly report said, without
elaborating on reasons for the changes.  The organization, provider of about 40 percent of the
world’s oil, maintained its official production ceiling at 30
million barrels a day at a meeting in Vienna last month.  Government Data  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter,  pumped 
9.89 million barrels a day in June, versus 9.88 million in May,
according to OPEC’s secondary sources. OPEC also publishes
official production figures for some nations as supplied by a
“direct communication” from those governments.  Saudi Arabia ’s
official production rate rose to 10.1 million in June from 9.81
million in May, the kingdom said.  Iran’s government didn’t provide June production data to
OPEC, though it listed May production at 3.76 million barrels a
day, little changed from April.  “Iran is currently producing about 4 million barrels of
oil a day,” Deputy Oil Minister Ahmad Qalebani said today,
according to the Iranian Oil Ministry’s Shana news website.
“Decrease in production in certain areas was due to periodical
maintenance, which means that the oil production capacity in the
country hasn’t decreased,” he said, according to the report.  The rising rate of Iraqi production comes as foreign
investors such as Exxon Mobil Corp. and BP Plc are developing
new fields and reworking older deposits. The country has held
several licensing rounds for oil and gas fields since the U.S.-
led invasion of 2003 ended the rule of  Saddam Hussein  and more
than two decades of stagnation caused by wars, sanctions and
underinvestment.  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  