-- Irish GDP Fell 1.1% in First Quarter After Expansion, RTE Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-07-11T18:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/irish-gdp-fell-1-1-in-first-quarter-after-expansion-rte-says.html
Ireland’s economy contracted in the
first quarter as exports and  consumer spending  declined, Dublin-
based broadcaster RTE reported.  Gross domestic product  fell 1.1 percent from the fourth
quarter, when it rose 0.7 percent, RTE said on its website
today, citing figures by the Cork-based  Central Statistics
Office . This put economic growth for 2011 at 1.4 percent, it
said, instead of a previously estimated 0.7 percent. The
statistics office, which is scheduled to release GDP data
tomorrow at 11 a.m., had previously reported an economic
contraction of 0.2 percent for the fourth quarter.  First-quarter data were “inadvertently published on our
website for a 15-minute period” this afternoon, the CSO said in
a statement on its website. “Notwithstanding this, CSO has
decided to adhere to its pre-determined release time.”  A call to the CSO press division wasn’t answered. It wasn’t
possible to leave a voice mail.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  forecast in April the
economy would expand 0.7 percent this year after it returned to
growth on a full-year basis for the first time in four years in
2011. Still, with cooling global growth eroding export demand
and Irish unemployment at the highest in almost two decades, the
economy may struggle to return to growth.  Economists forecast the economy to shrink 0.4 percent in
the first quarter, according to the median of eight estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  The GDP data will show a drop in net exports and personal
consumption, according to RTE. Government spending and capital
investment were up on a seasonally-adjusted basis. it said.  “First quarter data will most likely show the economy
falling again, and that the government’s forecast is out of
reach,” said  Michael Saunders , an economist at Citigroup Inc.
in  London , who estimates the economy may have shrunk by 0.7
percent in the first quarter. “It is not because of any
failings of the Irish government but the weakness of the euro
area economy and the U.K. economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at    eevans3@bloomberg.net  