-- COO Resignation News Report Spurs Tudou Slump: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-11T22:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/isoftstone-jumps-as-policy-bets-spur-adr-rally-china-overnight.html
Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  tumbled to the
lowest level in four months, leading declines in Chinese stocks
traded in  New York , after a newspaper reported that the chief
operating officer of the second-largest video website resigned.  American depositary receipts of Tudou sank for a fifth day,
losing 6.6 percent while shares of  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , which announced
in March a plan to acquire the  Internet company , tumbled 4.5
percent to the lowest since January. The  Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. was
little changed at 88.06 yesterday. Internet data-center operator
21Vianet Group Inc. gained the most in three weeks.  Tudou confirmed the resignation of COO Xiangyun Wang, the
 China  Business News daily said yesterday in a report. Wang is
the first senior manager to leave the company after its purchase
by Youku was announced, the report said. The acquisition
transaction whose value upon announcement was $925 million, is
currently valued at $699 million, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The departure of Tudou’s COO “in the middle of the
companies’ integration process caused doubt that there are
problems impeding a smooth management transition,” Henry Guo,
an analyst at ThinkEquity Partners LLC in  San Francisco , said by
phone yesterday. The declines reflect “investors’ concern that
the acquisition may not be completed.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose for the first time in
five days, gaining 0.8 percent to $32.69. The Shanghai Composite
Index of mainland stocks rebounded 0.5 percent from a a six-
month to 2,175.38. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was little
changed at 1,341.45.  ‘Not a Good Sign’  A call and an e-mailed message to Tudou investor relations
manager Jeremy Peruski yesterday weren’t immediately returned.  Youku’s American depositary receipts sank 4.5 percent to
$18.21, the lowest close since Jan. 10. The shares have have
declined 27 percent since the announcement of the acquisition
Tudou’s ADRs lost 6.6 percent to $27.41, the lowest level since
March 9. Its ADRs have surged 78 percent since March 11.  “The resignation of the COO isn’t as bad as if their CFO
resigned, but it’s still not a good sign,” Michael Ding, who
helps manage $2.2 billion at U.S. Global Investors, said by
phone yesterday from  San Antonio ,  Texas . “Even before this
news, there were questions about how the merger will improve
competitiveness. There’s a lot of competition in video. They’ve
both spent a lot of money already, and it’s not clear how they
can ever turn a profit.”  AsiaInfo Declines  AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA) , which sells telecommunication
software to China’s biggest wireless carriers, sank 3.6 percent
to $11.92, the biggest decline since June 20.  The Beijing-based company said it will report second-
quarter financial results on July 30 after U.S. trading closes.
The company will probably report a 78 percent decline in the
quarter to $7.2 million, according to the average  estimate  of
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  China Petroleum and Chemical Corp. ,  Asia ’s largest refiner
also known as Sinopec, rebounded from the lowest level since
September 2010 as BOCOM International recommended buying the
shares of Asia’s largest refiner.  The ADRs of Beijing-based Sinopec advanced 3.1 percent to
$85.26 in New York yesterday, trading at a 0.9 percent  premium 
above its Hong Kong stock. Each ADR represents 100 underlying
shares of Sinopec.  Sinopec was raised to buy from long-term buy at BOCOM by
equity analyst Fei Wu. BOCOM’s 12-month target price is HK$8
($1) per share.  Lower Fuel Prices  China, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, reduced
fuel prices for the third time since May yesterday, easing costs
for factories and motorists while threatening profit margins at
refiners.  China may seek ways to “promote a reasonable growth in
investment,”  Premier  Wen Jiabao   said in a statement posted on
a government website yesterday. Economists expect the government
to report tomorrow that second-quarter gross domestic product
expanded at the slowest pace in three years. Passenger-vehicle
sales in the world’s second-largest economy rose in June,
exceeding analysts’ estimates for a fourth consecutive month.  “The Chinese recognize that growth is slow, but unlike in
the U.S., there’s a lot they can do both through monetary and
fiscal measures to stimulate their economy,” Joseph Tanious, a
strategist at JPMorgan Funds, who helps oversee $394 billion,
said by phone from New York yesterday. “Once we get a little
more clarity on growth, you’re likely to see multiples expand
and stock prices move up.”  The People’s Bank of China may report new  yuan  loans,  money
supply  and foreign-exchange reserves data for June as early as
today.  21Vianet jumped 4.5 percent, the most since June 15, to
$11.52.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  