-- Italian Investors Feud Over Biggest Builder Impregilo
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-07-12T15:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/italian-families-in-showdown-for-control-of-builder-impregilo.html
The fate of  Impregilo SpA (IPG) ,  Italy ’s
biggest construction contractor with projects from Brazilian
highways to the Panama Canal, was postponed until July 17 after
the company’s two biggest investors clashed at a shareholder
meeting today.  The Gavio family, with interests in highway concessions in
northern Italy,  controls  Impregilo through a stake of just less
than 30 percent. Salini SpA, a construction company led by
Pietro Salini, also has built up a stake of almost 30 percent in
Impregilo in the last nine months and called an investor meeting
to revoke the Gavio-backed board and replace it with directors
headed by Claudio Costamagna, a former chairman of European
 investment banking  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Salini may be gaining the upper hand in the tussle after
investors rejected Gavio’s request to delay a vote on the board
revocation until September. “We will show up even more
feisty,” Salini said after today’s assembly in Milan attended
by investors representing about 81 percent of Impregilo’s
capital.  Impregilo, with a market value of 1.3 billion euros ($1.58
billion), builds tunnels, subways, dams, roads and is currently
working on the expansion of the Panama Canal. Its main highway
concession asset is a 29 percent stake in  Brazil ’s Ecorodovias,
the manager of five toll roads in the country. Gavio and Salini
have waged a proxy battle that gives minority shareholders such
as Amber Capital LP a rare opportunity in Italy to decide the
outcome. Amber owns a stake of 8.5 percent of the company.  Family Business  “I know the company better than Salini does,” Beniamino Gavio, 46, who heads his family’s business, said in a July 5
interview. “We have a long-term strategy that’s not comparable
with Salini’s. We believe the right model is concessions and
construction together.”  Impregilo shares have risen 71 percent since Salini
announced its first purchase on Oct. 4, the  best performance  in
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  in the period. Some analysts
are concerned the shares offer little upside after their recent
performance and because of the risk the power struggle may
result in a stalemate.  “It’s possible that the battle for control of the group
could be temporarily or definitively over and that investors
will go back to fundamentals,” Banca IMI analyst Bruno Permutti
wrote in a note on June 25, when he cut his  recommendation  on
the stock to “hold.”  Share Buyback  At the center of the shareholders’ tussle are proposals of
unlisted Salini to sell Impregilo’s highway concessions, pay a
special dividend of as much as 800 million euros and merge the
two construction businesses, targeting 7.5 billion euros of
revenue by 2015. “It’s a unique opportunity for Impregilo and
Salini to tie up,” Salini, 54, CEO of the namesake company,
said in an interview on July 10. “It’s a sound proposal for
Impregilo.”  Gavio opposes a combination and wants Impregilo to keep
investing in highways. He’s proposed a share buyback of up to
300 million euros and an extraordinary dividend of at least 100
million euros, if the company has enough cash. Impregilo has an
offer of 763 million euros for its 19 percent stake in
Ecorodovias.  Gavio’s  Autostrada Torino-Milano SpA (AT)  bought out partners in
IGLI, Impregilo’s largest shareholder, in March after seven
years of co-management.  Mandatory Bid  If Salini gets control of the board, Gavio probably has
enough shares to veto any extraordinary operation such as a
merger of the two construction companies. Both Gavio and Salini
have ruled out a full bid for Impregilo, which could cost about
1 billion euros, and have said they don’t want to sell their
stakes. Obtaining a 30 percent stake would require a bid for the
entire company, according to Italian law.  “I won’t make a bid,” Gavio said. “When there were
conditions for a bid I couldn’t do it” because of governance
clauses with other partners. “The fear of a stock slide now is
there. ”  Gavio said a buyback would be “a lifeline for the market
and partly for the sustainability of the stock.” CA Cheuvreux
raised its recommendation on the stock to “outperform” from
“underperform” on July 10, saying the “aggressive buyback”
and extraordinary dividend will support the shares.  Italian Capitalism  The two families have spent the last two months in a war of
words and legal actions. Salini argues that Impregilo’s board
should be replaced because it hasn’t created enough  shareholder
value  and it hasn’t respected the company’s corporate mission.
Gavio counters that his rival is seeking control of the board in
order to push through a merger that would use proceeds from the
Ecorodovias stake sale as a guarantee for bank financing.  The Gavios and Salinis are examples of Italy’s family-style
capitalism. Gavio, whose roots are in Tortona, an agricultural
town between Milan and Turin, said he has a “family
responsibility” to keep the business going and has a
“completely different business approach, lifestyle and
mentality” from Salini’s.  The Salini family is embroiled in legal disputes over
control of the business, which Pietro Salini controls. The Rome-
based company is Italy’s third-largest construction contractor.  “Families are much more complicated than companies,”
Salini said. “The family issue would not be a problem. In the
end, decisions will be taken unanimously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  