-- Mitsubishi Wins SkyWest Jet Sale in Blow to Bombardier
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-07-12T13:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/mitsubishi-wins-regional-jet-order-from-skywest.html
Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp. won an
agreement to sell 100 regional planes to U.S. commuter carrier
 SkyWest Inc. (SKYW)  in an endorsement of Japan’s first passenger jet at
the expense of Canada’s  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)   Deliveries of the planes, which have as many as 90 seats,
will start in 2017 under the accord announced yesterday at the
Farnborough air show outside London. SkyWest’s commitment,
valued at $4.2 billion at list prices, pushed Mitsubishi’s
orders and commitments for the jet to 230.  “It is a major boost for the MRJ program, which has
struggled with delivery delays and weak orders, potentially
positioning the MRJ for additional orders in the U.S. market,”
 Cameron Doerksen , an analyst with National Bank Financial in
Montreal, said in a note to clients.  SkyWest is the largest operator of Bombardier regional
jets, making the agreement “a negative” for the Montreal-based
plane and train maker, Doerksen wrote. Bombardier, the world’s
third-largest aircraft manufacturer, builds the CRJ regional-jet
family, with models seating as many as 100 people.  The MRJ is scheduled to make its first flight in late 2013.
Tokyo-based Mitsubishi has been working to reassure potential
customers about the plane after a one-year delay and has said it
is targeting airlines in  North America  and  Asia  as Europe’s debt
crisis damps optimism about sales there.  SkyWest Shares Surge  SkyWest jumped 14 percent to $7.85 yesterday in  New York ,
for its biggest daily gain since March 2009. Raymond James &
Associates Inc. raised its rating on the shares of the  St.
George , Utah-based carrier to outperform from market perform.  Bombardier’s widely traded Class B  stock  fell 1 percent to
C$4 in Toronto yesterday, paring a decline of as much as 3.2
percent. Mitsubishi parent  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  fell
1.3 percent to 312 yen at the market close in  Tokyo .  The Mitsubishi announcement won’t preclude Bombardier from
bidding for new business from SkyWest, which has indicated it
may seek to replace a “large portion” of its 512 50-seat
regional jets, wrote Doerksen, who has an outperform  rating  on
the stock.  “SkyWest has a need for a much broader fleet replacement
and we believe Bombardier remains positioned for an order from
SkyWest, especially for its Q400 turboprop,” he said.  Bombardier Discussions  Bombardier is in talks with SkyWest over a potential
regional-jet order that could include “hundreds of planes,”
Marc Duchesne, a spokesman for the planemaker, said yesterday in
a telephone interview from Farnborough.  “For us the CRJ is the ideal plane for SkyWest,” Duchesne
said. “It’s already part of their fleet. It’s an existing plane
that we can deliver in the coming quarters.”  Bombardier will separately announce an order for Q400
turboprops at the air show today, said Duchesne, who declined to
give details.  SkyWest Chief Financial Officer Michael Kraupp didn’t
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on a potential
Bombardier jet purchase. The airline operates regional flights
for carriers that include  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   The MRJ will be equipped with engines from United
Technologies Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney unit, which are similar in
design to power plants under development for Airbus SAS’s
A320neo narrow-body jet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in Farnborough, England, at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  