-- J&J-Pfizer Drug Seen as Long Shot Against Alzheimer’s
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-07-11T20:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/j-j-pfizer-drug-seen-as-long-shot-against-alzheimer-s.html
When 70-year-old  Bill Price  signed
on in 2006 to become one of the early testers of the Alzheimer’s
drug bapineuzumab, he held high hopes the injections would stop
the disease that was starting to claim his memory.  Intended to eliminate plaques in the brain that are a
hallmark of the illness, bapineuzumab is a project of  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Elan Corp. (ELN)  The three companies are
racing  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  to market the first broadly available
drug designed to target a cause of Alzheimer’s, rather than just
its symptoms.  For Price, the drug was a disappointment. He left the trial
early after experiencing headaches and hallucinations, side
effects that may have been due to brain swelling. Such drawbacks
aren’t the only issue facing bapineuzumab. Early data suggests
that even if it shrinks plaques, the drug may not greatly aid
cognition. Price is hopeful the study’s final data will show
that other patients were helped though he was not.  “I see the handwriting on the wall,” Price, a former
teacher who lives in Opelika,  Alabama , said in a telephone
interview. “I’m desperately trying to do whatever I can to keep
the disease in check. I feel the onslaught.”  While details of late-stage data on the two drugs aren’t
scheduled to be reported before  October , the therapies will be
discussed among researchers and geriatric specialists at next
week’s  Alzheimer’s Association International Conference  in
 Vancouver , according to  William Thies , the chief medical and
scientific officer of the Chicago-based Alzheimer’s Association.  Shared Urgency  Patients, doctors, drugmakers and investors share Price’s
sense of urgency. If the drugs work well, they could be paired
with recent testing advances to alter the landscape of health
care in the U.S., curbing an illness that may affect 16 million
Americans by 2050, an increase from 5.4 million now, according
to U.S. health officials. In 2012, the  cost  of care for those
with the disease will be $200 billion, the association said.  “ Alzheimer’s disease  ends your dignity, separates you from
all your resources and torments your family,” Thies said in a
telephone interview. “There is more and more concern that we
can’t afford the end stage that we are going to experience in
the middle of the century. Its impact on various segments of the
economy is becoming clearer and clearer as the cost it presents
to Medicare and Medicaid goes up.”  Industry Spur  The treatments may help reinvigorate an industry grappling
with patent losses estimated to wipe out $171 billion in sales
by 2015, according to research group IMS Health, based in
Norwalk,  Connecticut . The market could quickly exceed $10
billion a year, said David Heupel, a  Minneapolis , Minnesota-
based portfolio manager with Thrivant Financial for Lutherans,
in a telephone interview.  “In large-cap health care, that’s about as big as it
gets,” Heupel said.  If the drugs fail, it may be years before the next
promising therapy comes into focus.  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst at the ISI group in  New York ,
gives only a 25 percent chance of approval for bapineuzumab from
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, New York-based Pfizer and
Elan, based in Dublin. Indianapolis-based Lilly’s solanezumab
has a 15 percent chance, he said.  J&J rose less than 1 percent to $67.90 at the close in New
York, while Pfizer dipped less than 1 percent to $22.34. Elan’s
American depositary receipts fell less than 1 percent to $13.68.  Research Strategy  The drugs are based on one of the first research strategies
designed to combat the disease.  After autopsies of Alzheimer’s victims showed an
accumulation of beta amyloid plaques in their brains, drugmakers
began focusing on that as a potential  cause . Since then, other
contributing factors have surfaced, including the
overdevelopment of a different protein, known as tau.  Bapineuzumab and solanezumab “represent a crucial test of
the current dogma,”  Jordan Holtzman , a professor of medicine at
the  University of Minnesota  in Minneapolis, said by telephone.
“If they fail to show a significant benefit, it would be
imperative for the pharmaceutical industry to search for new
models.”  The only therapy on the immediate horizon that has shown
success against the illness in mid-stage human trials is  Baxter
International Inc. (BAX) ’s Gammagard, an expensive, relatively scarce
treatment derived from donated blood plasma that replaces
antibodies in people whose immune systems can’t protect them
from infection.  Gammagard Results  It’s not clear precisely how Gammagard, on the market for
years, works against Alzheimer’s. Early results suggest it may
raise the level of antibodies to beta amyloid in the blood and
spinal fluid of patients. The Deerfield, Illinois-based company
is betting the result will be to slow or stop the disease and a
final-phase study may be completed next year.  Another approach targets the tau protein that was first
characterized in 1975. By the mid-1980s, it was thought to play
a role in some brain disorders. It wasn’t until the 1990s,
though, that evidence began to accumulate that tau deposits more
closely reflected a patient’s mental state than beta amyloid
plaques.  In its healthy form, tau helps supply nutrients to cells in
the  brain . When damaged, it becomes tangled, chopping off the
supply lines and becoming part of the mass of plaques seen in
the brains of people with the disease.  Singapore’s TauRx  A closely held company, TauRx, based in  Singapore , is
developing drugs based on the tau model. TauRx’s tau aggregation
inhibitors have been tested in Phase 2 clinical trials, and the
company plans to make an announcement about its Phase 3 clinical
trials later this year, said Claude Wischik, the executive
chairman and co-founder of the company, in a telephone
interview.  Other theories are being explored, including malfunctioning
mitochondria, the part of cells that convert nutrients into
energy. The brain may also start using insulin inefficiently,
leading some to speculate the condition is “diabetes of the
brain.” Others are examining whether the coating that protects
nerves in the brain, called myelin, has been damaged.  Even if bapineuzumab and solanezumab are found in the
latest studies not to work, they shouldn’t be dismissed, said
 Randall Bateman , a professor of neurology at Washington
University School of Medicine in  St. Louis .  The findings may just be a reflection of bad timing, while
the brain-swelling that chased Bill Price away from the trial
may be an immune reaction that must be monitored but will likely
dim over time, Bateman said in a telephone interview.  ‘Too Late’  The drugs may have been given “too late, after other
degenerative processes have already begun or there’s too much
damage done,” he said  It’s like treating a heart-attack patient with a
cholesterol-lowering  statin , he said: While that may prevent
future damage, it doesn’t reverse trauma that already occurred.  Trials are being planned to evaluate whether earlier
intervention will help people who are at  added risk  for
Alzheimer’s due to family history or because they carry certain
biomarkers for the disease without showing impairment. Those
trials will be discussed at the Vancouver meeting, he said.  The impetus for the newer studies is that it’s still not
clear when it’s best to begin treatment, said Bateman, who is an
investigator in the planned clinical trials. Brain changes that
presage Alzheimer’s begin about 15 years to 20 years before
patients become symptomatic.  Very Valuable  The trials involving bapineuzumab and solanezumab “will be
very valuable whether the drugs work or not,” said Thies of the
 Alzheimer’s Association . “If they work, that leads us
relatively quickly to a therapeutic. There would be great
pressure to treat people as early as possible, to stabilize them
at the highest quality of life possible, and lower costs because
they won’t need as much care.”  If they don’t work, “it rapidly tells us that maybe we
need to change the way we are using these medications or the
kinds of medications we are testing.”  Price, who taught English as a second language on an Indian
reservation in  Arizona  before retiring to Alabama, has an early
stage of the disease, he said. He is still able to drive, help
shop and prepare meals and contribute to his family.  If an effective treatment is found quickly, he and others
with a similar stage of the disease are most likely to benefit.
If not, he says he will try to participate in other clinical
trials.  “I feel like before I go into oblivion, I want to help
other people and maybe even help myself if it’s not too late,”
Price said. “I want to help find an answer to the Alzheimer’s
dilemma.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  