-- J&J to Improve Drug Marketing Reviews in Lawsuit Accords
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-11T21:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/j-j-to-improve-drug-marketing-reviews-in-lawsuit-accords.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest health-products maker, will provide more corporate
oversight of its units’ drug manufacturing and marketing
practices to resolve investor lawsuits alleging directors
ignored wrongdoing, according to court filings today.  J&J officials agreed to create a board-level group to
oversee subsidiaries’ compliance with regulatory rules and to
adopt updated risk-management policies as part of the settlement
of claims filed against directors in federal court in  Trenton ,
New Jersey.  The corporate-governance changes are designed to force
directors to “take responsibility for identifying and
addressing problems” before they spin out of control, attorneys
for J&J investors said in court papers.  J&J is in talks to resolve investigations of the marketing
of its Risperdal antipsychotic drug and other medications,
company officials said. The company has agreed to pay as much as
$2.2 billion to settle, people familiar with the accord said on
June 11.  A J&J spokesman, Al Wasilewski, said in an e-mailed
statement that the settlement resolves the Trenton litigation
and is subject to court approval.  He said the company “has a long commitment to compliance,
quality and good corporate governance” and “continues to deny
the claims” in the lawsuit while agreeing to the settlement to
“eliminate the burden” of further litigation.  Risperdal Sales  The U.S. government has been probing Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company marketed
the drug for unapproved uses, J&J has said in U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission filings. The company also has said in
securities filings that it is negotiating with the U.S. to
resolve the investigation.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, disclosed in
August that it agreed to a settlement involving a misdemeanor
criminal charge related to Risperdal marketing. It wasn’t clear
from the filing whether J&J or one of its units would plead
guilty.  Investors sued J&J in 2010 with so-called derivative claims
that directors ignored “red flags” about the company’s
marketing practices for Risperdal and other drugs and production
miscues that led to recalls of products such as children’s
Tylenol.  Recalls in 2010  J&J recalled more than 40 types of medicines in 2010
because of contamination and incorrect labeling. U.S. lawmakers
began investigating J&J after a recall of batches of children’s
Tylenol forced the company to suspend operations at a
Pennsylvania plant.  “Plaintiffs filed suit in light of the tsunami of
regulatory and legal difficulties overtaking J&J,” investors’
lawyers said in today’s filing. “Plaintiffs believed the J&J
board and senior management should be held responsible for not
stopping widespread wrongdoing that had seriously harmed J&J’s
business.”  The shareholders contend J&J’s decentralized corporate
setup, which allows subsidiaries such as its Janssen unit
freedom to operate independently from corporate headquarters,
meant directors weren’t getting information in a timely fashion
on the units’ missteps.  ‘Recipe for Disaster’  The “decentralized approach to compliance and quality
control resulted in a lack of accountability, a structural
excuse for plausible deniability among senior management and
J&J’s board, and ultimately, a recipe for disaster,” investors’
lawyers wrote.  U.S. District Judge Freda Wolfson in Trenton threw out
investors’ derivative claims against J&J directors in September
2011 but allowed them to refile amended suits against the
drugmaker. Any recovery under derivative suits is returned to
the company’s coffers rather than distributed to shareholders.  The corporate-governance settlement resulted from “good-
faith settlement negotiations” and relied, in part, on policy
changes vetted by  Harvey Pitt , ex-head the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, investors’ lawyers said.  One of the changes requires the board’s new Regulatory,
Compliance and Government Affairs Committee, which must consist
solely of independent directors, to “provide an annual report
to J&J shareholders” about the units’ regulatory compliance
efforts, according to the filing.  Another benefit of the oversight changes is that “critical
information will no longer be confined to the level of J&J
subsidiaries,” shareholders’ attorneys added.  The provisions are designed to force directors and
executives to “take ownership of regulatory and legal issues
before they become major problems,” the lawyers added.  The case is In re Johnson & Johnson Derivative Litigation,
10-cv-2033, U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey 
(Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 