-- Jakartans Choose Governor in Race That Focuses on Infrastructure
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i n ,   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-07-11T12:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/jakartans-choose-governor-in-race-that-focuses-on-infrastructure.html
Residents in Jakarta,  Indonesia ’s
capital city, cast their votes today to elect the next governor,
who will be expected to find solutions to the city’s traffic
congestion and other problems that may impede economic growth.  About 7 million people voted today at more than 15,000
polling stations to pick the capital’s new governor, according
to data from the Jakarta provincial election committee.  “The gubernatorial election can go in one round if a
candidate won 50 percent plus 1 vote,” said Suhartono, a member
the Jakarta provincial election committee.  The new governor will face traffic problems, flooding and
regular power outages. Indonesia will need $53 billion through
2020 to build railways, airports and seaports, Bambang Susantono,
deputy transport minister said April 17. The government can fund
as much as 20 percent of the required investment, he said.  Six pairs of candidates ran for the spot, including current
governor Fauzi Bowo, who is backed by the nation’s biggest party,
Democrate.  Improving the city’s administration will be a challenge for
the new governor, said Marco Kusumawijaya, executive director of
the Jakarta-based Rujak Centre for Urban Studies. The current
administration failed to tackle the city’s lingering
transportation and flooding problem, he said.  “They’re outdated and incompetent,” Kusumawijaya said in
a phone interview. “The duty for the next governor would be
updating the bureaucracy and to make them work with the
public.”  “I don’t mind another candidate who’s not a citizen of
Jakarta but I think they have to fight hard in this election,”
said a father of two Koesbini, 63, who moved to Jakarta in 1975
from Sulawesi island. “I see they have some good track
records.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  