-- Kidney Broker Sentenced to Prison as Donor Recalls Doubts
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/n-y-man-gets-30-month-term-in-first-u-s-organ-case.html
Seconds before the anesthesia kicked
in at the start of a 2008 surgery in a Minnesota hospital, Elahn
Quick said he was no longer certain he wanted to sell his
kidney. By then, it was too late.  “Before I finished the conversation, I was gone,” Quick
testified yesterday in federal court in Trenton,  New Jersey .  In the first criminal organ-trafficking case in the U.S.,
Quick took the witness stand at the sentencing of Levy Izhak
Rosenbaum, a Brooklyn, New York, man who pleaded guilty to
brokering black-market sales of human kidneys to three
Americans. After hearing Quick’s account of how Rosenbaum paid
him $25,000 for a kidney, U.S. District Judge Anne Thompson
sentenced Rosenbaum to 2 1/2 years in prison.  “It’s a kind of trading in human misery,” Thompson said
of the black-market kidney trade. Rosenbaum “charged a fee”
for kidneys while using “a complicated web of transactions” to
finance his trade, she said. “He corrupted himself.”  The sentencing marks the final chapter in a first-of-its-
kind case that culminated with Rosenbaum’s arrest in July 2009.
He was one of 44 people charged as part of a  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation crackdown on  money laundering  and political
corruption in New Jersey. A cooperating witness in that probe
brought authorities to Rosenbaum, 61, and his unrelated kidney-
selling scheme.  Guilty Plea  Rosenbaum, an Israeli immigrant, pleaded guilty last year
to violating a 1984 U.S. law banning the sale of human organs.
He admitted that he charged sick Americans as much as $160,000
for a kidney. Prosecutors said he’d been selling kidneys since
1999.  Defense lawyers yesterday urged Thompson to sentence
Rosenbaum to probation and community service. They and a former
Rosenbaum client who bought a kidney told the judge that he was
“an angel” who helped save the lives of people close to death
from  kidney disease . They said he earned little from his decade-
long kidney scheme.  “Saving a life should not end up in a jail sentence,”
Richard Finkel, an attorney for Rosenbaum, told the judge.  Prosecutors called for a stiff prison term.  “Rosenbaum is a profiteer who saw an opportunity in the
black-market of kidney sales,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark
McCarren said in court. Rosenbaum probably earned “hundreds and
hundreds of thousands of dollars” in profit while
“exploiting” the poor whose desperate need for cash forced
them to sell their kidneys, he said.  $25,000 Inducement  Prosecutors summoned Quick to testify to rebut defense
claims that Rosenbaum had charitable motives. A locksmith who
was born in Israel and had U.S. citizenship, Quick, 31, said he
responded to an advertisement for donors that ran in a Hebrew-
language New York newspaper. The ad directed him to call a phone
number in Israel.  “I wanted to do something meaningful in my life,” Quick
testified. “And the financial compensation” -- $25,000 -- was
an inducement as well, he said.  Quick was directed to meet a  Brooklyn  man named “Ido” who
he said was Rosenbaum’s assistant. Ido asked Quick about his
blood type and whether he was certain he wanted to go through
with the surgery. Quick said he was never warned of the risks.  Ido later brought Quick to Rosenbaum, who told Quick to
tell hospital administrators that he had befriended the
recipient’s son-in-law and had decided to donate a kidney after
learning of their plight. Rosenbaum also introduced Quick to the
kidney buyer.  University Hospital  The surgery took place at “University Hospital” in
 Minneapolis , Quick testified. In a later interview, he said it
was at the hospital affiliated with the  University of Minnesota .
Prosecutors don’t claim the hospital knew of the black-market
sale. Ryan Davenport, a spokesman for the  University of
Minnesota Medical Center , didn’t have an immediate comment on
Quick’s testimony.  On the morning of the operation, “I was pretty emotional
about the whole ordeal, crying,” Quick said. Before the
anesthesia took effect, Quick said he asked Ido, “Was it too
late to turn around?” Next he knew, he was regaining
consciousness after surgery, Quick said.  Becky Cohen, the daughter of the man who bought Quick’s
kidney, testified that the family paid Rosenbaum $150,000 for
the organ. The surgery itself was financed by family insurance.  ‘Hero’  Cohen, called to testify by prosecutors, said Rosenbaum was
a “hero” who saved her father’s life. He’d been waiting on a
U.S. kidney transplant list for five years and was undergoing
dialysis before buying the organ, she said.  “My father is doing very good today,” she testified.
“He’s a different person.”  Prosecutors also presented testimony from a doctor and
administrator from  Albert Einstein Medical Center  in
Philadelphia. Rosenbaum organized about a dozen kidney
transplants there from 1999 to 2002. The hospital didn’t know
the surgeries involved black-market kidneys, they said. Another
witness said he had a transplant there in 2001 after his family
paid Rosenbaum for a kidney.  Rosenbaum faced as many as 20 years in prison on counts of
conspiracy and organ trafficking. He agreed to forfeit $420,000
and may be deported to  Israel  after serving his sentence.  Thompson cited what she said were “incredible stories” of
Rosenbaum’s charity that were detailed in numerous letters
submitted to her by his supporters, many of whom filled the
courtroom.  The judge said the “woeful inadequacy” of the existing
transplant system, which relies on altruistic kidney donors,
didn’t excuse Rosenbaum’s crimes. As many as 80,000 people are
awaiting transplants and five to seven people die daily, Radi
Zaki, an Albert Einstein doctor, told the judge.  “This is a difficult case,” Thompson said.  The case is U.S. v. Rosenbaum, 11-cr-00741, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  