-- National League Wins All-Star Game 8-0 Against American League
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-11T04:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/national-league-wins-all-star-game-8-0-against-american-league.html
San Francisco Giants third baseman
Pablo Sandoval hit a three-run triple as the National League
defeated the American League 8-0 for its third straight victory
in Major League Baseball’s All-Star Game.  The NL got its sixth shutout since the contest began in
1933 and leads the series 43-38 with two ties. The margin of
victory at Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City last night was the
widest for an NL team and gives its champion home-field
advantage in this year’s  World Series .  “You just don’t get an eight-run lead,” said  Tony La Russa , who managed the NL team after retiring from the St. Louis
Cardinals following their World Series win last year. “I was
just lucky. I had a great time, I like the competition but
believe me, I don’t want any more dugouts.”  Sandoval’s Giants teammate Melky Cabrera was selected as
the Most Valuable Player after hitting a two-run homer in the
fourth inning to complete the scoring. Cabrera is the eighth San
Francisco player to hit a home run in the All-Star Game and the
fifth to be named MVP. The last NL player to win the MVP award
in his All-Star debut was LaMarr Hoyt of the San Diego Padres in
1985.  NL starter  Matt Cain , the Giants pitcher who threw the 22nd
perfect game in major league history on June 13, got the win
after allowing one hit and striking out one in two innings.  Verlander Loses  Justin Verlander  of the Detroit Tigers took the loss after
giving up five runs on four hits and striking out two in the
first inning for the AL, which was managed by Ron Washington of
the Texas Rangers.  Milwaukee Brewers left fielder  Ryan Braun  drove in Cabrera
with a double to open the scoring in the five-run first inning.
Sandoval added his triple and Atlanta Braves second baseman  Dan Uggla  had a run-scoring infield single.  “I just wanted to show the fans they made the right
choice,” Sandoval said in a televised interview.  Cardinals shortstop  Rafael Furcal  scored on teammate  Matt Holliday ’s single in the fourth before Cabrera hit his 388-foot
home run to left field.  It was the first shutout in the All-Star Game since the NL
won 6-0 in 1996, while the margin of victory was the highest
since the AL won 13-3 in 1983.  The New York Mets will host next year’s All-Star Game at
Citi Field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  