-- New York Cabbies May Win 17% Fare Boost as Costs Climb
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/nyc-cabbies-may-win-17-fare-boost-as-drivers-struggle-on-street.html
New York City ’s Taxi and Limousine
Commission plans to vote tomorrow on a proposed 17 percent fare
increase and cabdriver Aamir Choudhery says it can’t come soon
enough.  Choudhery, 32, works a 12-hour daytime shift for which he
said he’s lucky if he nets $150. That’s after he pays $700 a
week for his share of the lease for the cab and its medallion,
or operating license, plus gasoline and credit-card fees.  If approved, New York cab fares would still trail those in
 Tokyo ,  London  and  Las Vegas , according to the commission. The
increase also would be less than gains since 2006 in prices of
staples such as bread as well as hamburger and movie tickets, it
said. For riders, the raise would be about $2 for an average
trip, to $15, said Allan Fromberg, a commission spokesman.  “The driver is trying to survive and support his family,”
Choudhery said as he steered through midtown  Manhattan  traffic.
The Pakistani native said he supports his wife and two children
in a $1,600-a-month Queens apartment by driving seven days a
week. He’s been doing it for two years, he said.  Fleet owners object to the increase while pushing a plan to
raise what they can charge their drivers.  If approved, cab meters in September would start clicking
50-cent increments for each fifth of a mile (0.3 kilometer)
traveled, or for each minute in stopped or slow traffic, up from
40 cents. A ride between  John F. Kennedy International Airport 
and Manhattan would go to $52 from $45, plus tolls, and the
Newark Liberty International Airport surcharge would be $17.50,
up from $15.  450,000 Fares  About 600,000 people take 450,000 trips in New York’s
yellow cabs each day, Fromberg said.  Among 12 cities worldwide that Fromberg describes as having
“highly regulated taxi industries with large taxi-riding
markets,” New York’s average fare ranks fourth-lowest, ahead of
Washington, Chicago and  San Diego . Under the proposed new fares,
New York’s would be sixth highest, behind first-place Tokyo as
well as  San Francisco  and  Los Angeles , Fromberg said.  Raising the fares, says commission Chairman David Yassky,
is all about drivers such as Choudhery. They haven’t had an
across-the-board boost since 2004, when rates rose 26 percent.
In 2006, the meter-charge for cabs in slow or standing traffic
climbed to 40 cents per minute from 40 cents every two minutes.  “Is it reasonable to ask passengers to pay a little more
so that drivers can pay their rent and put food on their
families’ table? We think it is, and that’s how we approach this
issue,” Yassky said yesterday in an interview.  $12 an Hour  A driver would take home an average of $146 for a 12-hour
shift, up from the current $125, bringing the day’s net up to
what it was in 2006, before gasoline prices jumped 44 percent
and before a 5 percent fee was imposed on them for fares paid by
credit card, according to the commission.  Yassky said he expects the fare increase to pass. The
Metropolitan Taxi Cab Board of Trade, representing fleet owners,
opposes the change. The group has pressed the commission to
raise the “lease cap,” the amount of money members can charge
drivers for financing the cars and their medallions -- licenses
required to operate yellow cabs.  Fleet owners, in a statement distributed by Michael Woloz,
a lobbyist, characterized the proposed fare increase as “a
lopsided plan that has unsurprisingly been heralded by one
interest group -- the  New York Taxi Workers Alliance , which
purports to represent drivers.”  Payback Seen  Yassky and Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  are “retaliating
against the taxi leasing companies” for lawsuits they’ve
brought against a city plan to permit livery street-hail service
in boroughs outside Manhattan, Woloz said. The litigation has
delayed the city from reaping revenue from new taxi medallion
sales, threatening to open a more than $600 million hole in its
fiscal 2013 budget.  Fleet owners have done well over the years, Yassky has
said. Since 2006, those who hold New York taxi medallions have
been rewarded with a tripling of their investment, to about $1
million from $314,000 per medallion, commission figures show.  Using revenue and expense estimates presented by the fleet-
owners’ group at a May 31 public hearing, the commission has
calculated an average cab’s net income comes to $37,750 a year,
not including advertising fees from rooftop placards and back-
seat video displays on  credit-card  reading devices.  “For the smallest fleets, this is profit of $925,000 per
year,” Fromberg said by e-mail. For larger fleets of 200 cars,
the annual profit could reach $7.4 million, he said.  ‘Just Greed’  “It’s just greed,” said Bhairavi Desai, executive director
of the Taxi Workers group. “They’ve had it good for so long
they want to maintain that sense of power over the drivers.”  Drivers now pay the 5 percent credit-card banking and
processing costs -- an average $7.50 in each 12-hour shift -- a
gripe among hacks since 2007, when the city began requiring the
payment option. The fees have become increasingly burdensome as
more passengers choose the payment method each year.  The proposed changes would make fleet owners responsible
for the credit-card fees, while requiring drivers to pay the
fleet owners an additional $9 a month to offset that cost.  “Drivers don’t object to paying the additional $9 because
while we may take a bigger hit now, in the long run it will be
better as use of credit cards increases,” Desai said.  Drivers also favor a provision that would require them to
pay 6 cents for each trip into a fund for health and disability
benefits, she said.  Passengers won’t care if the fares go higher, either, said
Choudhery, who shares the leasing costs with a partner who
drives at night. They operate a Ford Escape Hybrid, which cut
his fuel bill to about $10 a day from $40, Choudhery said.  “It’s not the fares going high that they complain about so
much as they just want good service,” he said of passengers.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  