-- Obama Tops Romney in Poll With 2-1 Backing From Single Women
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-07-11T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/obama-tops-romney-in-poll-with-2-1-backing-from-single-women.html
President  Barack Obama  leads
presumed Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  among voters nationwide
with the help of an almost 2-1 advantage among single women,
according to a Quinnipiac University poll.  The survey released today shows Obama with 46 percent
support, Romney with 43 percent. Single women favor Obama over
Romney, 60 percent to 31 percent.  The president is benefiting from a “marriage gap” that
may be related to social issues, said  Peter Brown , assistant
director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute. Unmarried people overall favor Obama 54
percent to 34 percent, while married people back Romney 51
percent to 38 percent.  “Married voters are more likely to focus on the economy
and health care, while single voters are more focused on issues
such as gay rights and reproductive issues,” Brown said in an
e-mailed statement accompanying the poll, conducted July 1-8.  Married people tend to be older, more financially secure
and more conservative, Brown said. They also include a larger
proportion of Republicans and white voters, he said.  Obama, a Democrat, voiced his support for gay marriage in
May and favors abortion rights. Romney, a former governor of
 Massachusetts , said he believes marriage should be between a man
and a woman and yesterday reiterated his opposition to abortion
during a campaign stop in  Grand Junction ,  Colorado .  Married Men  Romney leads 54 percent to 35 percent among married men,
and has a seven-point advantage among married women. Obama leads
47 percent to 38 percent among single men.  Overall, men back Romney 47 percent to 40 percent; women
choose Obama by 51 percent to 39 percent.  Romney leads 51 percent to 38 percent among white voters,
while Obama is ahead 59 percent to 30 percent among Hispanic
voters, a group that could prove pivotal in battleground states
including Florida, Colorado and  Nevada .  With Romney in Houston today to address the annual
convention of the NAACP, the nation’s oldest civil rights
organization, the poll shows Obama with overwhelming support
from black voters, 92 percent to 2 percent.  “It’s not a friendly venue for any Republican, but it
could send a positive signal to the population at large,”  Mark
Jones , chairman of the political science department at  Rice
University  in Houston, said of Romney’s appearance.  Policy Disapproval  Headwinds facing Obama in his re-election quest include his
handling of the economy, which the poll found voters disapprove
of 55 percent to 40 percent. They also have negative views of
his handling of immigration policy and health care. And voters
by 49 percent to 45 percent disapprove of the job Obama is doing
overall.  Still, voters are split on whether Obama or Romney would do
a better job dealing with the economy, immigration and health
care. Also, by 56 percent to 41 percent voters say they believe
Obama “cares about their needs,” and they give him a better
likeability rating than Romney.  Congress fares poorly in the poll, with a disapproval
rating of 68 percent to 24 percent for Republicans, who control
the House, and 62 percent to 29 percent for Democrats, who hold
the majority in the Senate.  The survey of 2,722 registered voters has a margin of error
of plus or minus 1.9 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  