-- Obama Talks Tax-Cut Strategy With Congressional Democrats
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-11T21:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/obama-talks-tax-cut-bill-strategy-with-congressional-democrats.html
     July 11 (Bloomberg) --President  Barack Obama  and top
congressional Democrats met today at the White House as they
seek a unified approach for their fight with Republicans on tax
cuts and promoting job creation.  The closed-door session was held after Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, blocked a vote today on
Obama’s proposal for a yearlong extension of Bush-era tax cuts
for families with incomes of up to $250,000 a year. Democrats
also blocked a vote on a Republican alternative Obama has said
he would veto that would also extend expiring tax cuts for top
earners.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the Senate’s No. 2
Democrat, said the party’s lawmakers would back Obama’s stance
on the tax cuts, even if that meant letting all the tax cuts
expire at the end of the year as a last resort.  “That’s the whole idea behind this: Dec. 31 is a day of
reckoning, and the president’s made it clear that if they send
an extension of the Bush tax cuts in total to him, he will veto
it -- period,” Durbin said after returning to the Capitol.  With the November presidential election approaching, Obama
is focusing on taxes as the encouraging  job gains  at the start
of the year have stalled. June ended the worst quarter for
private-sector hiring in more than two years, and last month’s
8.2 percent  unemployment rate  was no better than in March.  Party Unity  Reid, seeking to build unity among Democrats for the
president’s plan, has pledged to schedule a vote soon. Obama
campaign strategist  David Axelrod  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  met with Senate Democrats at the Capitol yesterday to
make the case for Obama’s proposal, which would let rates rise
for married couples with an adjusted gross income of more than
$250,000 and individuals earning more than $200,000.  Any opposition by Democratic lawmakers, including those
from states such as New York and  New Jersey  where a greater
share of taxpayers would be affected by Obama’s threshold, may
complicate the party’s efforts to emphasize differences with
congressional Republicans and Republican presidential candidate
Mitt Romney before the Nov. 6 election.  “Generally, everybody agrees that we should do everything
we can to protect the 98 percent and recognize that this, what
we’re doing, will help greatly toward the debt that we have, the
deficits that have,” Reid told reporters yesterday.  Tax Debate  Obama is arguing that extending the tax cuts for top
earners, as advocated by Romney and Republicans in Congress,
would add to the deficit without giving a boost to the economy.
Republicans counter that Obama’s plan would raise rates for
small businesses.  “I don’t believe that there will be many, if any,
Democratic senators voting to extend the Bush tax cuts,” Durbin
said.  Both extensions were proposed as amendments to legislation
providing tax credits for small businesses. Reid said the
extensions should be debated at another time, while Republicans
are saying Democrats in tight re-election contests are afraid to
go on record opposing any tax-cut extensions.  “There is great public support  for the president’s
positions,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said. “I
can’t predict to you how individuals will vote, but I know that
Democrats, to a person, support extending middle-class tax
cuts.”  Obama Meeting  Besides Reid and Durbin, the White House said Obama met
with Senators  Charles Schumer  of New York and  Patty Murray  of
Washington, as well as House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
California, and Representatives Steny Hoyer of Maryland, Jim Clyburn of South Carolina, Steve Israel of New York and  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland.  If Congress doesn’t extend the current law, all the tax
cuts passed during former President  George W. Bush ’s first term
and extended by Obama and Congress in 2010 would expire at the
end of the year. The top  tax rate  for ordinary income will
increase to 39.6 percent from 35 percent. The top tax rate on
 capital gains  will increase to 23.8 percent from 15 percent, and
dividends would be taxed as ordinary income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  