-- Obama Aides Promote Business Break as Part of Tax-Cut Package
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-07-11T14:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/obama-aides-promote-business-break-as-part-of-tax-cut-package.html
Obama administration officials
offered a new argument today for why Congress should extend the
Bush-era tax cuts for middle-income Americans, tying it to a tax
break for small businesses.  President  Barack Obama ’s support for legislation to let
small businesses write off as much as $250,000 in capital
investments in 2013 was one of a half-dozen actions the
administration highlighted to demonstrate support for business.  Without an extension of the tax cuts before year’s end, or
passage of a separate measure by Congress, the expensing limit
for small businesses would decline to $25,000, according to a
fact sheet released by the White House.  The other initiatives announced by Small Business
Administrator Karen Mills, Acting Office of Management and
Budget Director Jeffrey Zients and National Economic Council
Director  Gene Sperling  do not require legislation.  With less than five months until the presidential election
and the national  unemployment rate  stuck at more than 8 percent,
Obama has been promoting his plans to spur hiring.  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an  Ohio Republican , said Obama is repackaging measures already
in the works to try to offset concerns of small business owners
that they would face higher taxes under the president’s plan.  Republicans have long supported small business tax relief
for buying equipment and machinery, Buck said. “The idea that
we’d have to pair that with a tax increase on small businesses
is both ridiculous and counter-productive,” he said.  Loan Maximum  The administration announced it will raise the maximum loan
amount in the SBA’s Small Loan Advantage program, to $350,000
from $250,000; shorten the application for disaster loan
payments; and streamline the application for surety bond
guarantees under $250,000, replacing the five forms needed now
to apply for surety bonds.  Obama will direct agencies to make contract payments to
prime contractors in 15 days rather than 30. The administration
also said it will adjust regulations for the New Markets Tax
Credit to help community development entities draw private
investment.  “We will take whatever actions we can” to help small
businesses, Sperling said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  