-- Mondi Buys Nordenia to Extend Consumer Packaging Business
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-07-11T13:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/mondi-buys-nordenia-to-extend-consumer-packaging-business-2-.html
Mondi Group (MND) , Europe’s largest maker
of office paper, agreed to buy Nordenia International AG to
boost its consumer packaging business.  Mondi will buy 93.4 percent of Nordenia from Oaktree
Capital Management LP for 240 million euros ($294.4 million) in
cash and will take on 398 million euros of debt and liabilities,
implying a value for the whole company of 655 million euros,
Mondi said in a statement today. The cash payment will be funded
from a new 250 million euro two-year bank facility,
Johannesburg-based Mondi said.  Consumer packaging, which includes re-closable bags, stand-
up pouches and laminates, makes up about 60 percent of Greven,
Germany-based Nordenia’s revenues, while hygiene components
contribute about 40 percent.  “This deal significantly reduces the chance of a special
dividend at the end of fiscal 2012,” Mohamed Kharva, an analyst
at Nedgroup Securities Ltd., said by phone from  Cape Town .
“They do have sufficient  cash flow  to finance debt.”  Today’s transaction was larger than expected considering
Mondi’s consumer packaging business has been relatively small,
Kharva said.  The purchase is expected to lift Mondi’s earnings
“immediately” and bring savings of more than 15 million euros
a year by 2014, the company said. The company plans to complete
the deal in the last quarter of this year.  ’More Cautious’  While Mondi has become “more cautious” on the pulp side
of its business, the company is “very focused” on corrugated
and consumer packaging and has been looking for opportunities in
these areas, Chief Executive Officer David Hathorn said in a
conference call today.  When the transaction is complete, Mondi will reorganize its
 Europe  and International division into four businesses: uncoated
fine paper, packaging papers, fiber packaging and consumer
packaging. Nordenia will form part of the consumer packaging
unit.  Mondi shares fell 0.9 percent to 70.70 rand at 3:14 p.m. in
Johannesburg trading, in-line with the 0.8 percent slide in the
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index. (JALSH)  Mondi’s  credit-rating  outlook
was changed to stable from positive at Moody’s Investors
Service, while Nordenia was placed under review for an upgrade,
Moody’s said in a statement today. Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services also revised its outlook to stable from positive, while
affirming its BBB- long-term corporate credit rating.  “The stable outlook reflects our view that Mondi will be
able to sustain credit metrics commensurate with our rating,
despite weakening operating conditions in Mondi’s main
markets,”  Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  