-- Top Rupiah Forecaster Sees 6% Drop on Trade Gap: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-07-11T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/top-rupiah-forecaster-sees-6-drop-on-trade-gap-southeast-asia.html
The best rupiah forecasters predict
the currency will weaken as much as 6 percent by the end of this
quarter, inflating costs at companies that import raw materials
and widening the nation’s trade deficit.  Morgan Stanley, which had the closest estimates in the past
six quarters as measured by Bloomberg Rankings, expects 10,000
per dollar.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-best, forecasts
9,750, while third-ranked JPMorgan Chase & Co. sees 10,000. That
is more pessimistic than the 9,400 median for 24 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, near yesterday’s close of 9,415.  The rupiah has dropped by almost 10 percent in the past
year, pushing up import costs for companies including  PT Kalbe
Farma (KLBF) ,  Southeast Asia ’s largest drug maker. The country recorded
a second consecutive trade shortfall in May as exports fell by
the most since September 2009. It may post its first full-year
current-account deficit since the Asian financial crisis in
1997-98, according to DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  “The trade balance deterioration would be fine in a world
in which risk appetite is much stronger,”  Ray Farris , global
head of foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Suisse in  Singapore ,
said in an interview yesterday. “The strength of domestic
demand is now weighing on the current-account deficit in a world
in which risk appetite is not good. That combines to argue for a
soft currency.”  China ’s Premier Wen Jiabao warned July 8 that the downward
pressure on his economy is still relatively large, while the U.S.
reported payroll data on July 9 that trailed estimates. Much of
 Europe  is mired in recession, with the International Monetary
Fund forecasting in April that euro-area economies will contract
0.3 percent in 2012.  Export Taxes  Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest economy, recorded a
 trade deficit  of $486 million in May, following April’s $765
million shortfall. That’s the first back-to-back deficit since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in February 2008. Exports fell
8.5 percent in May from a year earlier, while  imports  surged
16.1 percent, the statistics bureau said on July 2.  Kalbe Farma, a Jakarta-based company which imports about 90
percent of the raw materials it uses to make drugs, expects the
rupiah to range between 9,300 and 9,500 this year, Corporate
Secretary Vidjongtius, who like many Indonesians goes by only
one name, said in a July 2 interview. A weaker level would swell
costs, he said.  PT Bayu Buana (BAYU) , a travel operator, has budgeted
for the rupiah as low as 9,500.  “If it goes beyond that then our targets are threatened,”
Corporate Secretary Henry Paul Lumoindong said in a July 5
interview in Jakarta.  New export taxes on commodities has weighed on Indonesian
overseas sales,  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. in Singapore, wrote in a July 10 report.  Fragile Scenario  Bank Indonesia  Governor Darmin Nasution told parliament
last week that pressure on the rupiah would subside this half
because European authorities have begun to address their credit
crisis, adding that the scenario is “fragile.” The central
bank, which has intervened repeatedly to support the currency
this year, expects the rupiah to trade between 9,100 and 9,300
for the rest of 2012, he said.  Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc, the fourth-best
forecaster, has the sixth-most optimistic quarter-end estimate.
It expects the currency to trade at 9,400, compared with a
previous projection of 9,155.  Indonesia ’s  foreign-exchange  reserves have declined almost
15 percent to $106.5 billion since reaching a record-high of
$124.6 billion at the end of August, central bank data show. The
economy expanded 6.3 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, not far behind 2011’s growth of 6.5 percent.  ‘Fundamentals Sound’  “Indonesia’s fundamentals are sound enough not to worry
about capital outflows,” Erik Lueth, a senior regional
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland in Hong Kong, said in a July
6 interview. “The central bank has sufficient reserves for all
debt falling due this year so even in the worst-case scenario,
it could always lend out its reserves.”  Indonesia is on track to register a current-account deficit
of 0.9 percent of gross domestic product this year, analysts at
DBS led by  David Carbon  wrote in a July 6 report. The country is
susceptible to capital flight, Stewart Newnham and Yee Wai Chong,
Morgan Stanley analysts based in Hong Kong, wrote in a report
last month.  Capital Flight  Foreign funds piled into Indonesian assets as the world
economy recovered from 2008’s global credit crisis, almost
tripling their holdings of  government bonds  in the two years
through Sept. 9, 2011, to a record high of 251.23 trillion
rupiah ($26.6 billion), finance ministry data show. That has
been pared to 230.05 trillion rupiah as of July 6. Offshore
investors have bought a net $8.8 billion of local stocks since
the end of 2007, exchange data show.  Global funds sold $825 million more local stocks than they
bought in May, the biggest monthly net sales since August, and
pulled 4.4 trillion rupiah from sovereign  debt , according to
exchange and finance ministry data.  In response, Bank Indonesia offered its first dollar-term
deposits last month to increase the domestic supply of
greenbacks. The monetary authority aims to attract $2 billion
how kept in offshore banks, Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah said
in late May.  One-month implied volatility for the currency, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, has fallen
to 8.25 percent from a 2012 high of 17.5 percent on May 30.  “If the government was really serious about having a
strong currency, they would have acted more forcefully,” Wee- Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 Hong Kong , said in a phone interview yesterday. “The market is
too complacent. The volatility market is not pricing in any
chance of depreciation in the rupiah, which is too optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  