-- Top U.S. Senate Democrats Pledge Unity on Obama Tax Plan
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-11T22:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/top-u-s-senate-democrats-pledge-unity-on-obama-tax-plan.html
U.S. Senate Democratic leaders say
their members will support President Barack Obama’s latest push
to extend most of the Bush-era tax cuts, brushing aside talk of
dissension in their ranks.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has said he will schedule
a vote soon on Obama’s plan to extend the tax cuts for families
earning up to $250,000 a year while letting them expire for
those making more than that threshold. Reid and other
congressional Democrats met with the president at the White
House today.  Republicans want to extend the tax cuts for all income
levels for one year beyond their Dec. 31 expiration. They plan
to offer their proposal as an amendment to a small-business tax
credit measure the Senate is considering this week.  Reid and Senator  Max Baucus , chairman of the Senate’s tax-
writing Finance Committee, dismissed suggestions that some
Democrats may cause problems for Obama’s plan by insisting
instead on a proposal by Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York to
extend the tax cuts for families with income up to $1 million.  “Oh, we’ll work that out,” Baucus said yesterday in an
interview in Washington. “That’s background noise.”  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, said he agreed with the case
Obama made this week to keep most of the tax cuts first enacted
in 2001 and 2003.  Emphasizing Differences  Any opposition by Democratic lawmakers, including those
from states such as New York and  New Jersey  where a greater
share of taxpayers would be affected by Obama’s threshold, may
complicate the party’s efforts to emphasize differences with
congressional Republicans and presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
before the Nov. 6 election.  In December 2010, three current Senate Democrats --  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia,  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska and  Jim Webb  of
Virginia -- voted against letting the tax cuts expire for
families earning more than $250,000 a year, as did Connecticut’s
 Joe Lieberman , an independent who caucuses with Democrats.  That same month, Obama agreed with congressional
Republicans to extend the tax cuts for all income levels for two
years.  Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican,
today sought consent to schedule two votes as part of the debate
on the small business bill: one on Obama’s tax plan and the
other on the Republican proposal to extend all of the tax cuts.
“The Senate should make it clear which policy it supports,” he
said.  Reid Objects  Reid objected, saying he didn’t want to divert attention
from the small business measure.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, told reporters yesterday the
chamber will vote on Obama’s plan “as soon as we can,” and
predicted widespread support.  “We have a pretty clear position in our caucus,” Reid
said. “Generally everybody agrees that we should do everything
we can to protect the 98 percent and recognize that this, what
we’re doing, will help greatly toward the debt that we have, the
deficits that have.”  Following today’s White House meeting, Senator  Dick Durbin 
of Illinois, the chamber’s No. 2 Democrat, predicted Democrats
will have the votes to block the Republican proposal to extend
all the Bush-era tax cuts.  Last Resort  “I don’t believe that there will be many, if any,
Democratic senators voting to extend the Bush tax cuts,” Durbin
said. He said he and other Democrats will back Obama’s pledge to
veto a full extension of the cuts, saying they would be willing
to let the cuts expire as a last resort.  “Dec. 31 is a day of reckoning, and the president’s made
it clear that if they send an extension of the Bush tax cuts in
total to him, he will veto it -- period,” Durbin said.  U.S Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Obama campaign
strategist  David Axelrod  met yesterday with Senate Democrats
during a closed-door lunch to make the case for Obama’s tax
proposal.  “I think the vast majority of people are comfortable with
$250,000,” Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a
North Dakota Democrat, said afterward.  Geithner made the argument that Obama’s approach helps
create a more “balanced” package of revenue combined with
spending cuts than a $1 million threshold would yield, Conrad
said.  Election Year  Still, Republicans say some Democrats may balk at
supporting a tax increase for high earners in an election year.  “When Democrats look at the facts in their particular
state, they get nervous about voting for something just on
political grounds, when there are a lot of people in their own
state who can be hurt by it,”  Arizona  Senator  Jon Kyl , the
Senate’s second-ranking Republican, said in an interview.  Republicans say they welcome a debate over taxes, adding
that their position would be most helpful to small businesses.  “We’re perfectly happy and anxious to have the debate
about the appropriate  tax policy ,” McConnell told reporters. He
added that a one-year full extension would reassure “the
markets and the American people that they’re not going to get
hit with a whopping tax increase at the beginning of the year”
while giving Congress time to tackle a tax code overhaul.  Capital Investment  The Senate voted 80-14 yesterday, with 60 votes required,
to advance the Democrats’ $28.5 billion small business proposal,
S. 2237, which would extend write-offs for  capital investment 
and give a 10 percent tax credit to companies that add workers
to their payrolls.  House Republicans’ proposal, H.R. 9, which passed in that
chamber in April, would provide a tax deduction of as much as 20
percent to businesses with fewer than 500 employees.  If Congress doesn’t act, the tax cuts passed during former
President  George W. Bush ’s first term and extended by Obama and
Congress in 2010 would expire at the end of this year. The top
 tax rate  for ordinary income would increase to 39.6 percent from
35 percent. The top rate on  capital gains  would increase to 23.8
percent from 15 percent, and dividends would be taxed as
ordinary income.  A one-year extension of the tax cuts for all income groups
would reduce projected federal revenue by $426 billion, and tax
cuts for those above the $250,000 threshold make up $68 billion
of that total, according to an analysis by the nonpartisan Joint
Committee on Taxation that was provided to Senate Finance
Committee Republicans.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  