-- Orban Taxing Central Bank Lifts Yields Before Bond Auction
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-07-12T07:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/orban-taxing-central-bank-sends-yields-higher-before-bond-sale.html
Hungarian bond yields are climbing
from eight-month lows before an auction today on concern that
plans to tax the central bank undermine its independence and
threaten International Monetary Fund bailout talks.  The government is offering 44 billion forint ($188 million)
of bonds maturing in 2015, 2017 and 2022, according to data from
the Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg. The yield on the
existing notes due 2017 rose to 7.85 percent yesterday from 7.69
percent on June 29, the lowest since October. The premium over
benchmark German bunds widened yesterday to 760 basis points, or
7.6 percentage points, from 714 on June 29 and 509 a year ago,
generic data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lawmakers led by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s Fidesz party
approved on July 9 levying a tax on financial transactions that
would also apply to the central bank and the state Treasury to
help compensate for a reduction in payroll taxes. Magyar Nemzeti
Bank President Andras Simor told reporters in Budapest on July 2
that the move would violate central bank independence by
limiting the use of its assets and is illegal. Hungary won’t
alter the levy even at the  European Central Bank ’s request and
will only accept IMF conditions for aid that serve the national
interest, Orban said in a HirTV interview on July 10.  The IMF and European Union probably “will have troubles
with the financial transaction tax, causing further delays to
backstop negotiations only a week after the central bank
independence issues have been resolved,” Peter Attard Montalto,
a London-based analyst at Nomura International Plc, wrote in a
July 10 research report.  Sell Off  Orban’s cabinet requested aid from the IMF and the EU in
November after the forint weakened to a record low against the
euro and government yields jumped to the highest in more than
two years.  The international lenders refused to start negotiations on
concern a law passed in December that allowed the government to
nominate policymakers without consulting the central bank
threatened its independence. The EU agreed to begin talks last
week after Parliament amended the legislation.  Hungarian assets will face a “sell off into September” as
investors realize how long it will take to reach a deal,
Montalto said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  The forint, which rallied 10 percent against the euro in
the first half of this year, is the third-worst performer
worldwide so far this month after  Romania ’s leu and the Sudanese
pound, dropping 1 percent in July to 288.9 per euro by 9:26 a.m.
in Budapest. The five-year bond yield rose three basis points to
7.877 percent today.  Tough Talk  “Once market conditions have improved and the forint is
off the dips, the government is not shy starting new
conflicts,” Daniel Lenz, a Frankfurt-based emerging-market
strategist at DZ Bank AG, wrote in e-mailed comments yesterday.  The first round of aid negotiations between the EU, its
most-indebted eastern member and the IMF will take place between
July 17 and 25, Mihaly Varga, the minister in charge of the
talks, said in a televised interview on July 9, adding that the
negotiations will be “tough.”  “I doubt that the government really takes a U-turn on its
whole strategy” of acquiring aid, Lenz said. “It still seeks
an IMF loan, given that the euro-zone crisis and stressed market
conditions could prevail for a long time.”  Hungary  sold five-year debt at an average yield of 7.84
percent, the lowest cost in almost two months, at the last
biweekly auction on June 28 after the IMF acknowledged the
government’s progress toward starting bailout negotiations. The
auction yield rose as high as 9.63 percent at the end of 2011.  The Economy Ministry didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment on how the transaction tax will affect IMF
talks and Hungary’s market perception.  Irritating IMF  Credit-default swaps on Hungary’s debt rose two basis
points to 511 basis points today, within 20 basis points of the
lowest level since October, reached on July 3, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Hungary will probably reject any request from international
lenders to introduce taxes on real estate or other personal
assets, Varga said in the televised interview, adding that the
transaction levy on the central bank doesn’t limit its monetary
policy independence.  “The financial transaction tax may irritate the IMF as it
is a symptom of the wider issues of distortive, unorthodox
fiscal policy,” Nomura’s Montalto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  