-- Orix Aviation in Lease-Back Talks With 787 Customers
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-07-11T08:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/orix-aviation-in-lease-back-talks-with-787-customers.html
Orix Corp. (8591) ’s aviation unit is in
talks with 787 Dreamliner customers to buy the new aircraft and
lease it back to the airlines, helping expand the finance
company’s plane fleet and market share.  Orix Aviation  is discussing 10- to 12-year lease
agreements, David Power, the unit’s chief executive officer,
said in an interview in  Tokyo  on July 5. He declined to name
specific companies or how many planes he is aiming to buy.  “The 787 we think is a super aircraft. It’s very appealing
in terms of its  fuel efficiency ,” Power said. “We’ve already
negotiated with some airlines.”  The Dublin-based unit plans to boost aircraft under lease
and management and its customer base by about 50 percent, Power
said. Orix is targeting demand for global  air travel  that  Boeing
Co. (BA) , the world’s second-biggest planemaker, predicts will spur
annual passenger traffic growth of about 5 percent over the next
two decades.  Boeing’s 787, the first  passenger jet  built chiefly of
lightweight carbon-fiber composites, lists for as much as  $227.8
million  each, according to the Chicago-based company’s website.
Earlier this year, Boeing boosted its production rate for the
jets to 3.5 a month. It’s order backlog for the Dreamliner stood
at  845  as of June 30, according to the website.  Orix Aviation doesn’t plan to order any Dreamliner planes
directly from the manufacturer, Power, 49, said.  Shares of Tokyo-based parent Orix rose 0.7 percent to 7,300
yen at the 3 p.m. close of Tokyo Stock Exchange trading. They
have climbed 15 percent this year, outpacing the Topix index’s
3.9 percent gain.  Dreamliner Customers  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  and Japan Airlines Co. are currently
the only two carriers flying the 787. ANA, which has ordered 55
of the planes, started service to  Frankfurt  and within Japan
last year. JAL has 45 orders.  Megumi Tezuka, an ANA spokeswoman, and Sze Hunn Yap,
spokeswoman for JAL, both said their airlines have no plans to
lease the 787s. ANA now has 10 Dreamliners in service. JAL has
four serving routes to  Boston , New Delhi and Moscow, Yap said.  Air India Ltd., an unprofitable state-owned carrier with 27
Dreamliners on order, said in November its board approved a plan
to seek an arrangement where it could sell and lease back the
787s as part of a restructuring program. K. Swaminathan, an Air
India spokesman, yesterday declined to comment on the plan.  250 Planes  Orix Aviation joins  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ,
Japan’s second-largest bank by market value, in expanding its
fleet to tap rising demand from airline customers seeking to
avoid the costs of aircraft ownership amid a global economic
slowdown.  Orix Aviation is seeking to increase its fleet size to as
many as 250 planes over five years and to widen its customer
base to 100 airlines in three years, from 65, Power said. The
company owns and manages 130 planes currently, according to
Atsushi Horii, a spokesman in Tokyo at the parent company.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial’s plane leasing unit is targeting
air travel demand in  Asia  and plans to boost its fleet, the
region’s largest, by about 20 percent to 400 planes. It
completed a $7.3 billion purchase of Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s aviation unit last month.  Orix Aviation also plans to expand in Asia, where Boeing
 forecasts  airlines will buy the most planes of any region over
the next 20 years. Power aims to open an office in  Singapore ,
Orix Aviation’s first outside Ireland, within the next two
months.  “To expand our customers and keep our growth we must open
a base there,” he said.  Boeing last week said Asia-Pacific airlines may take
delivery of 12,030 new planes through 2031.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Takako at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vipin Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  