-- Outsourcing the Campaign for Outsourcing
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-07-11T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/outsourcing-the-campaign-for-outsourcing.html
“Outsourcing” has become such a
dirty word that it’s hard to believe there could actually be
something called the  International Association of Outsourcing
Professionals . What next? The Society of Professional Child
Molesters?  The IAOP’s modest claim is that it is “the leading
professional association for organizations and individuals
involved in transforming the world of business through
outsourcing, offshoring, and shared services.” The group
promotes  a list  of the 100 best outsourcing companies, and even
has an annual Miss Outsourcing beauty pageant. (That last item’s
a joke. The rest is all true.)  In the campaign for the White House, President  Barack Obama 
is trying to paint  Mitt Romney  as an incorrigible outsourcer, as
if it were obvious why this is so terrible. Maybe it seems
obvious: People lose their jobs when companies transfer parts of
their operations overseas. But most economists believe in the
theory of free trade, which holds that a nation cannot prosper
by denying its citizens the benefit of cheap foreign labor.  It’s a hard sell because the victims are concentrated and
easy to identify, and the benefit is diffused through the whole
economy. That’s why so many politicians pay obeisance to free
trade in the abstract, but oppose it in the particular.  Buy, Fillet  This seems to be Obama’s approach, unfortunately. He
 accuses  Romney of outsourcing both as governor of  Massachusetts 
(letting a state contractor move its calling center operation to
 India ) and as a businessman (as part of Romney’s “buy, fillet
and throw away the guts” method of corporate acquisition at  Bain
Capital ). Romney replies that nothing he did was illegal (true,
as far as we know) and that the Obama campaign  misrepresents 
some of the facts (also true).  Obama apparently intends to skewer Romney as a businessman.
His campaign carefully confounds being a businessman with being
a crooked businessman, and many other variations on the theme:
being a ruthless businessman, a businessman who engages in
outsourcing, a businessman who doesn’t pay enough taxes, and so
on.  One of Obama’s flaws is that he can’t seem to criticize any
given situation without vilifying the people involved, whether
they are responsible for it or not. Refusing to insure people
with pre-existing conditions, for example, does not make
insurance companies evil. Under current arrangements, they’d be
crazy to take on a customer they know will cost them far more
than he or she will pay in premiums.  It’s not necessarily evil or even wrong for Romney to have
taken advantage of every opportunity to minimize his tax bill.
There is a point at which twisting yourself and the regulations
into knots in order to avoid taxes does start to seem
unpatriotic, and some of Romney’s tax shelter arrangements may
approach that point. His refusal to reveal more than a tiny part
of his financial records is suspicious. The mere fact that he
does what he can to pay as little as he can is not. Democrats
argue that he should be ashamed of Swiss bank accounts and other
foreign currency investments that amount to “betting against the
dollar.” If Romney is sincere in his belief that Obama is
wrecking the economy, then he ought to bet against the dollar.  Romney, meanwhile, is also sticking to business. He plays
down his governorship these days, for fear someone will whisper
“health-care reform” (his biggest achievement, now cleverly
turned by his own party into his biggest problem), and so he is
running almost exclusively on the non sequitur that he is
someone who knows how to run a business and therefore knows how
to run a nation.  High Priest  Romney was not just a businessman. He was a  management
consultant  and later a venture capitalist: in other words, one
of the high priests of business who never had to soil their
suits by running one. He surely knows and (one suspects)
believes that free trade and outsourcing are good things for an
economy.  But instead of a full-throated defense of these principles
and his practice of them as advantages he would bring, as a
businessman, to the presidency, he merely says that nothing he
did was illegal. Even in 2012, we don’t elect people president
on the grounds that they did nothing illegal. I hope.  Obama decries Romney’s practice of outsourcing as if he
thinks that all outsourcing is wrong, even if it can’t or
shouldn’t be made illegal. Obama proposes a heavy dinner of
grants, subsidies and tax credits to discourage outsourcing and
encourage “insourcing” -- bringing jobs from abroad back to the
U.S. -- all of which are bad ideas. Among other reasons, one
nation’s insourcing is another nation’s outsourcing, and
retaliation can quickly lead to a trade war in which everybody
loses.  Romney or Obama? “I don’t want the next generation of
manufacturing jobs taking root in countries like  China  or
 Germany .” Early in the Republican primary campaign, China was
the  one subject  Romney seemed genuinely agitated about. Imposing
tariffs on Chinese goods was on the long list of things Romney
said he was going to do on Day One of his presidency. Maybe he
still is, but he doesn’t play it up the way he used to.  Meanwhile, if Romney is a free trader at heart, faking a
bit of protectionism, Obama seems to be a protectionist at
heart, faking a belief in free trade. That quote in the previous
paragraph is  from Obama , and shows a fundamental
misunderstanding of how markets work. Trade is not a zero-sum
game. There isn’t a certain number of manufacturing jobs that
will either go to China or Germany, or come to us. We want China
and Germany to have lots of manufacturing jobs. The more they
have, the richer they are, the better off we will be as well.
Beggar-thy-neighbor policies don’t work.  It’s probably all just talk. Obama campaigns like a
crusading populist, and then governs like a consensus-seeking
moderate. This works well with an electorate that wants radical
change as long as everything important -- e.g., monthly checks
from the government -- stays the same. And Romney clearly cannot
be counted on by proponents of any side of any question.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why China should  think small 
to spur growth and why outsourcing is  (mostly) good ;  Caroline
Baum  on the  presidential outsourcing debate ;  Edward Glaeser  on
why  Australia ’s  mineral wealth does little  to create jobs;  Ezra
Klein  on  Obama’s tax gamble ; Laurence Kotlikoff on  Social
Security’s solvency .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 