-- How Raising Taxes Can Be a Winning Issue for Obama
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-07-11T22:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/how-raising-taxes-can-be-a-winning-issue-for-obama.html
There’s something unusual about the
argument currently dominating the  U.S. presidential election .
Republicans think they’ve got a winning hand arguing that
President  Barack Obama  will raise taxes. And Democrats think
they’ve got a winning hand arguing that President Obama will --
raise taxes.  Republicans spent last week arguing that the Affordable
Care Act is a giant tax increase. This week, Obama scheduled a
special statement in the East Room of the White House to
announce that he would raise taxes on the rich.  It’s true that compared with current law, Obama’s support
for extending the Bush-era tax cuts for the bottom 98 percent of
taxpayers represents a huge tax cut. But compared with the
Republican proposal to extend the cuts for everyone, which is
the relevant comparison for the election, Obama’s plan
constitutes a tax increase on the top 2 percent.  Insofar as this election can be reduced to a single policy
question, it’s this: Which is more unpopular? Raising taxes? Or
refusing to raise taxes on the rich?  Neither proposition is, on its face, a winner. In April, a
Fox News  poll  asked registered voters: “Would you agree to pay
higher federal taxes if all of the money went toward paying down
the national debt?” Sixty percent said no. That same month, the
Gallup Organization asked Americans whether their taxes were
“too high,” “too low,” or “about right.” “About right” beat “too
high” by one percentage point -- well within the poll’s margin
of error. Only 3 percent said their taxes were “too low,”
suggesting little willingness among Americans to pay more.  Popular Taxes  At the same time, polls consistently show that increasing
taxes on the wealthy is hugely popular. In the same Gallup poll,
62 percent of respondents said “upper-income people” were paying
too little in taxes. In a CNN/ORC International poll, also
conducted in April, 68 percent of Americans agreed that “the
present tax system benefits the rich and is unfair to the
ordinary working man or woman” and 72 percent said they support
changing the  tax code  “so that people who make more than one
million dollars a year will pay at least 30 percent of their
income in taxes.”  The result has been an effective stalemate on the issue.
The latest Washington Post/ABC News poll found that 46 percent
prefer Obama on taxes and 45 percent prefer  Mitt Romney  on taxes
-- again, well within the poll’s margin of error. But the
strategy the two campaigns have for breaking free on taxes
couldn’t be more different.  The Obama campaign wants to be very specific about what
will happen if we don’t raise taxes on the rich. The Romney
campaign wants to be very vague about what will happen if we
continue to keep taxes low on the rich.  Obama’s announcement on Monday was an effort to publicize
one consequence of inaction: If Republicans refuse to extend the
Bush tax cuts for only the bottom 98 percent of taxpayers,
insisting instead on extending them for the top 2 percent as
well, the resulting gridlock could trigger a tax increase for
everyone. Obama wants to saddle Republicans with two unpopular
tax positions simultaneously: Republicans are so intent on not
raising taxes on the rich that they’re willing to raise taxes on
everyone else.  In previous remarks, Obama has emphasized the sort of
budget cuts -- and tax increases -- that Republicans would have
to enact to pay for their promises.  Spread Evenly  “They haven’t specified exactly where the knife would
fall,” Obama said in June. “But here’s some of what would happen
if that cut that they’ve proposed was spread evenly across the
budget: 10 million college students would lose an average of
$1,000 each in financial aid; 200,000 children would lose the
chance to get an early education in the Head Start program.
There would be 1,600 fewer medical research grants for things
like Alzheimer’s and cancer and AIDS; 4,000 fewer scientific
research grants, eliminating support for 48,000 researchers,
students and teachers.”  “But it doesn’t stop there,” Obama continued. “Even if you
make all the cuts that they’ve proposed, the math still doesn’t
allow you to pay for a new, $5 trillion tax cut and bring down
the deficit at the same time. So Mr. Romney and his allies have
told us we can get the rest of the way there by reforming the
tax code and taking away certain tax breaks and deductions that,
again, they haven’t specified. They haven’t named them, but they
said we can do it. But here’s the problem: The only tax breaks
and deductions that get you anywhere close to $5 trillion are
those that help middle-class families.”  Here again, the message is if we don’t raise taxes on the
rich, we’ll have to raise them on you -- and cut crucial
services and popular programs, to boot.  Obama isn’t lying when he says Republicans haven’t said
where the knife will fall: Although both Romney and House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  have promised to pay for their
planned tax cuts, neither has detailed how. The reason is
obvious: The spending cuts and tax increases necessary to offset
their tax cuts are highly unpopular. That suggests the Democrats
have the stronger political argument. If refraining from raising
taxes on the rich led to more popular policies than raising
taxes on the rich, you can bet Republicans would be laying out
their specifics; instead it’s the Democrats doing so.  Still, Republicans haven’t necessarily chosen a bad
strategy. You can go far in politics being vague. And the
refrain that Democrats want to raise taxes is more readily
understood than the consequences of Republicans blocking high-
income taxes from rising. In the  New York  Times Magazine, Robert Draper  reported  what happened when a focus-group moderator for
Priorities USA, the pro-Obama super-PAC, explained to voters
that Romney and the Republicans want to cut deeply into Medicare
while cutting taxes on the rich: “The respondents simply refused
to believe any politician would do such a thing.”  As in any game of poker, once the cards are down on the
table, you usually find that one side actually holds the winning
hand. The question is whether Democrats can call the
Republicans’ bluff before November.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer on this article:
 Ezra Klein  in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 