-- Lloyds Loan Plans for U.K. Renewable Power Depend on Subsidies
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-11T17:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/lloyds-loan-plans-for-u-k-renewable-power-depend-on-subsidies.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s
second-biggest state-backed lender, may loan as much as 400
million pounds ($621 million) this year to renewable energy
projects unless the government cuts incentive programs.  The company has already completed deals for five projects
and may offer loans to an additional five to six power plants
this year, Richard Simon-Lewis, senior director for the London-
based bank’s project-finance renewable-energy team, said in an
interview in  London .  That would be comparable to last year when Lloyds was the
U.K.’s biggest lender to renewable-energy projects. Lloyds may
revise its lending plans if the U.K. changes its incentive
policies, he said. An announcement is expected within days,
according to Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s office.  Next year “could be a vintage year if the regulation acts
like the wind behind the back of developers and investors,”
Simon-Lewis said. If it doesn’t work out, the renewables
industry in the U.K. may come to a “shuddering halt.”  The government in October proposed boosting subsidies to
companies that use biomass fuel to generate power and cutting
payments for wind farms, starting in April.  If subsidies for wind are cut, the current clutch of deals
in the U.K. may be the “last flush” of onshore wind farms,
Simon-Lewis said.  If subsidy levels are “appropriate,” several large
biomass projects may need more than 1 billion pounds of
financing, he said. One to two deals will probably be closed by
year-end, and there will be a project-finance “ripple effect”
into 2013.  Biomass Power  The bank is evaluating two onshore wind farms worth more
than 100 million pounds and it’s considering biomass proposals
in a “significant way,” Simon-Lewis said.  Britain has set a target of getting 15 percent of its
energy from clean sources by 2020, up from about 3.3 percent
now. As much as 8 percent to 11 percent of the nation’s primary
energy may come from bioenergy plants, which use organic
material such as wood chips and agricultural waste to produce
power, within eight years, the government has estimated.  Lloyds, which focuses mainly on senior debt, is seeing an
“enormous” amount of interest from Asian investors in U.K.
biomass, Simon-Lewis said. The bank focuses on facilities of
more than 50 megawatts across dedicated biomass plants, biomass
conversions and co-firing projects that use both organic
material and fossil fuels to generate power.  Biomass power companies in the U.K. include  Helius Energy
Plc (HEGY) , which is developing a 100-megawatt facility in Avonmouth;
MGT Power Ltd. and Prenergy Power Ltd., which are both planning
300-megawatt plants; and  Drax Group Plc (DRX) , which already uses
biomass.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  