-- Hoyer Joins Calls for Jackson to Disclose Health Ailment
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-07-11T19:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/hoyer-calls-on-jackson-to-disclose-health-problem.html
House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer
added his voice to a group of Democratic lawmakers calling for
 Illinois  Representative  Jesse Jackson  Jr. to provide details of
the ailments that have caused his monthlong absence from
Congress.  Hoyer, the second-ranking House Democrat, told reporters
today that Jackson “would be well advised to give his
constituents as much information” as possible about the medical
condition and treatment that has kept him from  Washington .  In a July 5 statement, Jackson’s office said the
congressman and son of civil rights leader the Reverend Jesse Jackson needed “extended inpatient treatment” for a medical
condition that was “more serious” than previously thought.  “Recently, we have been made aware that he has grappled
with certain physical and emotional ailments privately for a
long period of time,” according to the statement. Jackson’s
office provided no further details about the lawmaker’s
condition except to say he was “undergoing further evaluation
and treatment at an inpatient medical facility.”  A June 25 statement from Jackson’s office said the lawmaker
had begun a medical leave June 10 because he was suffering from
exhaustion.  ‘Inappropriate’ Questions  Frank Watkins, a Jackson spokesman, had no immediate
comment.  The congressman’s father, civil rights leader Reverend
Jesse Jackson Sr., told reporters it was “inappropriate” to
ask questions about his son during the annual Rainbow PUSH
Coalition business luncheon in  Chicago  today.  Other Illinois politicians pushed back against their
colleagues’ demands for more disclosure.  “I’m calling on all my Democratic friends to back off,
give him some space,” Roland Burris, who was named to fill
 Barack Obama ’s U.S. Senate seat after he was elected president,
said in an interview at the PUSH event.  Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn , who also attended the
luncheon, said it was “important that we honor their wishes and
wish them well.”  “The congressman needs time to get better, and I pray for
him,” said Quinn, a Democrat.  ‘Appropriate Evaluation’  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California  defended
Jackson’s reticence, telling reporters that “the timing” of a
further disclosure “relates to the knowledge of his
situation.” At a news conference, Pelosi said, “hopefully he
will have the appropriate evaluation that so that he can share
that information.”  Hoyer made his comment a day after he defended Jackson’s
announcements about his absence. The Maryland Democrat told
reporters yesterday that Jackson’s office had “certainly
reported that he is ill and seeking help” and “that fulfills
that responsibility” to inform constituents.  Two days ago, the second-ranking Senate Democrat,  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, told reporters in Chicago that Jackson
should provide constituents of his Chicago district with more
information about his health.  “There reaches a point when you have a responsibility to
tell people what you’re facing and how things are going,”
Durbin said.  ‘Medical Necessity’  “If there is some medical necessity for him not saying
more at this moment, then I will defer to that,” Durbin said,
according to a transcript of the July 9 Chicago news conference.
“But he will have to soon make a report on what he’s struggling
with, the physical condition he’s struggling with.”  Yesterday, another Illinois Democrat, Representative Luis Gutierrez, told reporters in Chicago that Jackson “has a
responsibility to give us more information” about his medical
condition, the  Chicago Tribune  reported.  Jackson, 47, is in his ninth term as a House member and
survived a primary challenge in March from former Representative
Debbie Halvorson.  He is also under investigation by the House Ethics
Committee, which is reviewing whether Jackson improperly lobbied
in 2008 for appointment to a vacant U.S. Senate seat by then-
Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich .  Ethics Report  A report by the Office of Congressional Ethics, which
referred the matter to the ethics panel, said there was
“probable cause to believe” that Jackson directed Chicago
businessman Raghuveer Nayak to raise campaign money for
Blagojevich in exchange for appointment to President Barack Obama’s former Senate seat or knew that “Nayak would make such
an offer.”  On June 20, Nayak was arrested on unrelated federal charges
of paying kickbacks to doctors for patient referrals, according
to a Justice Department statement.  Jackson testified as a defense witness at Blagojevich’s
political corruption trial, denied raising money for Blagojevich
and said he refused the governor’s demand for a $25,000  campaign
contribution .  Blagojevich, convicted in June 2011 of 17 corruption counts
including bribery, extortion conspiracy and bribery conspiracy,
is serving a 14-year prison term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  