-- Ozawa Forms New Japan Opposition Party in Challenge to Noda
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-07-11T09:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/ozawa-sets-up-new-japan-opposition-party-in-challenge-to-noda.html
Former Japanese ruling party leader
Ichiro Ozawa formed a new political group today, challenging
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s stances on increasing the  sales
tax  and restarting nuclear reactors.  “I will devote all my efforts to this,” Ozawa said in
Tokyo in announcing the name of his party, which can be
translated as “The People’s Lives Come First,” and has 49
legislators. Last week he lead an exodus of about 50 lawmakers
from the  Democratic Party  of  Japan  after the lower house of
parliament approved Noda’s bill to double the five percent tax.  While the split left Noda with a reduced majority, the bill
will probably pass through the opposition-dominated upper
chamber thanks to a deal between the DPJ and the  Liberal
Democratic Party . Ozawa is likely to reach out to other
disaffected DPJ members to try and halt or delay the
legislation, analyst Koichi Nakano said.  “The question isn’t so much how many people Ozawa has as
how many more DPJ lawmakers may leave,” said Nakano, a
professor of political science at  Sophia University  in Tokyo.
“The  consumption tax  could still be in jeopardy. Ozawa can’t be
dismissed too lightly.”  Under the legislation, the tax would rise to 8 percent in
2014 and 10 percent in 2015. While Noda has insisted the measure
is essential to confronting record debt and rising social
welfare costs, opponents argue it would discourage consumption
and fail to raise government revenue.  Noda’s decision to authorize this month’s reactivation of
two atomic reactors after all 50 were taken offline following
last year’s Fukushima nuclear disaster has been met with weekly
protests in Tokyo. Polls show as many as three-fourths of
Japanese voters oppose the restarts.  No-Confidence Motion  While Ozawa today reiterated that the tax increase bill
must be stopped, he said on July 8 he isn’t targeting a no-
confidence motion against Noda, something that could trigger the
government’s downfall. His new group will have 37 members in the
lower house and 12 in the upper house.  “Realistically we can’t pass a no-confidence vote just by
ourselves,” Ozawa said on public broadcaster NHK’s “Sunday
Debate” program.  He also said he is interested in exploring an alliance with
Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto, whose One Osaka party aims to get
200 of the 480 seats in the next lower house election. Polls
show Hashimoto has become the country’s most popular politician
by calling for less central government control and spending
cuts.  Given that Ozawa has criticized the DPJ’s decision to
reduce child support payments, his overture to Hashimoto “is a
non-starter,” Nakano said. “He has nothing in common with”
the Osaka mayor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in  Tokyo  at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  