-- PC Shipments Have Sluggish Second Quarter
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-07-11T23:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/pc-shipments-have-sluggish-second-quarter.html
Global personal-computer shipments
stalled in the second quarter, a seventh straight period of
anemic growth, amid economic weakness in  Europe  and waning
demand for PCs in favor of tablets, according to  Gartner Inc. (IT)   Shipments slipped 0.1 percent to 87.5 million units,
market-research firm Gartner said in a statement today.  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  clung to its spot as the top PC seller, followed by
 Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , while Acer Inc. nudged aside  Dell Inc. (DELL)  for
the No. 3 ranking, Gartner said. Fellow industry researcher IDC
also said shipments fell 0.1 percent, compared with the 2.1
percent growth it predicted in May.  An uneven economic recovery in the U.S., slower spending in
Europe and the encroachment of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and other
tablets has caused PC demand to stagnate, according to Gartner.  “Uncertainties in the economy in various regions, as well
as consumers’ low interest in PC purchases, were some of the key
influences of slow PC shipment growth,” Mikako Kitagawa, a
principal analyst at Gartner, said in the statement.  The recent stretch of sluggish growth contrasts with
double-digit percentage gains in the previous decade, fueled by
a spree of notebook-computer buying by companies and households.
Customers now are less interested in those devices as new
technology products and services emerge, Kitagawa said.  A reflection of that was seen in the U.S., where Gartner
said second-quarter PC shipments dropped 5.7 percent to 15.9
million units. Tight government and education budgets also
contributed to the U.S. decline, Gartner said. IDC said U.S.
shipments fell an even steeper 10.6 percent, more than double
the 4.4 percent drop the research firm projected.  Ultrabooks, Windows 8  The PC market may get a boost from a major promotion for
new lightweight laptops known as Ultrabooks, supported by  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest computer-chip maker. Microsoft
Corp.’s unveiling of a new operating system, Windows 8, also may
provide a spark later this year, according to IDC.  “Consumers are delaying purchases, and vendors and
retailers are slowing down their PC activities to clear existing
inventories,” David Daoud, IDC’s research director for personal
computing, said in a statement.  Apple was the only company among the top five computer
makers to see sales rise in the U.S., the largest PC market,
Gartner said. The Cupertino, California-based company had 12
percent of the U.S. market, in third place behind Hewlett-
Packard’s 25 percent and Dell’s 21.7 percent.  PC sales in Europe rose 1.9 percent to 25.1 million units
in the second quarter. Many customers held back on purchases
because of the Euro-zone economic crisis, Gartner said.
Shipments in the Asia-Pacific region grew 2 percent to 31.8
million units.  Earlier this week, Advanced Micro Devices Inc., the second-
biggest maker of processors for PCs, reported an unexpected drop
in second-quarter sales, citing weakness in  China  and Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  