-- Pentagon to Keep 2006 Spending Power With Cuts, CBO Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-12T19:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/pentagon-would-keep-2006-spending-power-under-cuts-cbo-finds.html
The Pentagon’s basic budget for next
year will be larger than in 2006 when adjusted for inflation
even if automatic budget cuts take effect, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  The  Department of Defense ’s $526 billion request for fiscal
2013, not including war spending, reflects a reduction of $45
billion from previous plans. If automatic cuts known as
sequestration take effect in January, the funding would be
further reduced to $469 billion, the nonpartisan CBO  said in a
report released  yesterday.  “Accommodating those automatic reductions could be
difficult for the department to manage because it would need to
be achieved in only nine months -- between the cuts taking
effect and the end of the fiscal year,” the congressional
budget analysts wrote. “Even with that cut, however, DoD’s base
budget in 2013 would still be larger than it was in 2006,” when
calculated in 2013 dollars.  The CBO report buttresses the view of some independent
budget analysts, such as  Gordon Adams  of the Stimson Center in
Washington and  Todd Harrison  of the Center for Strategic and
Budgetary Assessments, that sequestration wouldn’t be the short-
term budget disaster described by Pentagon and defense industry
officials.  The independent analysts said the automatic cuts would
essentially reverse the buildup after the terrorist attacks of
Sept. 11, 2001, and the wars that followed in Iraq and
 Afghanistan .  ‘Very Ugly’  “Even with the sequester, we will be going back to roughly
2007 levels of spending in defense dollars,” Adams said last
month at a defense conference sponsored by Bloomberg Government.
“And while it’s a very ugly way to get to that level, it is not
the end of the world.”  The Congressional Budget Office’s calculation shows “the
comments from many -- but not all-- Republicans, most defense
manufacturers and the secretary of defense that they regard a
budget well above Cold War averages to be a catastrophe is
consciously constructed, misinforming hysteria,” Winslow Wheeler, director of the Straus Military Reform Project, which
says it advocates a 21st-century military strategy, said in an
e-mail.  The report isn’t good news for investors, according to
 Byron Callan , a defense analyst with Capital Alpha Partners in
Washington. “Winding the budget clock back to 2006 or 2007
means even less for industry because of increased pay and
benefits” since then, Callan said today in an e-mail. Defense
company shares also sell for much more than they did in that
era, he said.  Northrop Grumman  The uncertain prospect of automatic budget cuts “has
negatively impacted our current hiring and our investment
approach,” Wes Bush, chairman and chief executive officer of
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , said in a letter to senators the company
disclosed today in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Republican members of the Senate Armed Services
Committee asked defense contractors to comment on the budget
cuts.  Northrop Grumman, based in  Falls Church , Virginia, fell 1.3
percent to $62.02 in  New York  trading at 10:31 a.m. after
declining 6.7 percent in the past year.  Reagan-Era Buildup  The Congressional Budget Office said  defense spending  in
fiscal 2013 also would remain “larger than the average base
budget during the 1980s” in the Reagan-era defense buildup if
the automatic cuts take effect.  The defense cuts are part of $1.2 trillion in automatic,
across-the-board reductions to domestic and national-security
programs that will start in January if Congress and President
 Barack Obama  don’t act to avert them. The cuts were imposed
after talks failed last year on a bipartisan plan to curb the
nation’s soaring debt.  Even without sequestration, the Pentagon faces a shortfall
in delivering on its announced plans, the CBO said. It estimated
the Pentagon’s program for fiscal 2013 to 2017 will cost $123
billion, or 5 percent more than planned, to execute.  The costs of replacing and modernizing weapons systems
“would grow sharply during the next several years, from $168
billion in 2013 to $212 billion in 2018” in inflation-adjusted
terms, a 26 percent increase, the CBO found.  Pentagon Response  Defense Department spokesman  George Little  said the CBO’s
reports were based on several assumptions contrary to the
Pentagon’s calculations.  “In their analysis, CBO took the department’s long-term
budget plans and assumed that Congress would reject some or most
important cost-savings proposals,” Little, who didn’t discuss
the comparison with 2006 spending, said today at a Pentagon news
conference.  The budget office assumed that Congress won’t let the
Pentagon raise health-insurance fees paid by retirees “by
modest amounts,” which the Pentagon expects would save $13
billion over the next five years, Little said.  The CBO also assumed the Defense Department won’t be able
to meet “aggressive targets” for controlling the growth in
costs of weapons systems, Little said. The Pentagon is focused
on cutting costs because “if you can’t control costs, then it’s
hard to live with tough budget caps,” he said.  Little once again said the Pentagon wasn’t planning to
prepare for sequestration, which he described in a July 10
briefing as “an absurdity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  