-- Pentagon Short-Report Policy Called Outrageous by McKeon
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-11T21:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/pentagon-short-report-policy-called-outrageous-by-mckeon.html
The chairman of the House Armed
Services Committee called on Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  to
reverse a Pentagon policy that the lawmaker said limits reports
to Congress to 15 pages and amounts to an “outrageous”
encroachment on congressional oversight.  Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, a California
Republican, said committee members learned of the policy today
when they received a shorter-than-expected annual report on
China’s military might. When McKeon complained to Pentagon aides
who provided a classified briefing to accompany the report, he
said they told him of the department’s short-report directive.  The policy “reeks of obstructionism, a lack of
transparency, and is harmful to constitutionally mandated
congressional oversight and national security,” McKeon wrote
today in a letter to Panetta that he and fellow Republicans
presented at a news conference. “Mr. Secretary, this policy
must be rescinded immediately.”  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said in a statement that
Panetta seeks a “close partnership” with Congress, and that
the Defense Department works to fulfill its requirement to
inform lawmakers on issues in cost-effective way and in “the
most readable and usable format possible.”  Guidance Issued  Little said “one component” within the Pentagon issued
written guidance last summer that reports not exceed 10 pages
unless legal requirements or some other circumstances made a
longer report necessary.  “The guidance did not in any way seek to restrict
information provided to Congress,” Little said.  The Republicans said the restriction only adds to their
view that the Obama administration is withholding too much
information on defense strategy and the impact of looming
defense cuts.  “That kind of arbitrary limit to me is rather demeaning of
our oversight role,” said Representative Mac Thornberry, a
Texas Republican.  If the Defense Department’s goal is to curb verbosity, that
proved difficult on the first try: The  China  report submitted
today was 19 pages, exceeding the limit.  As for saving money, McKeon said the 19-page report cost
the Pentagon $85,000 to prepare, $12,000 more than a 69-page
report on the same topic last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  