-- Peregrine Shortfall Said to Elude Watchdogs With P.O. Box
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-07-12T01:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/peregrine-s-fall-said-to-be-tied-to-electronic-reporting-shift.html
A federal probe of Peregrine
Financial Group Inc.’s $220 million shortfall in customer funds
focuses on whether Russell Wasendorf Sr. used a post-office box
to trick regulators into thinking they were dealing with U.S.
Bancorp, a person with direct knowledge of the inquiry said.  Investigators suspect Wasendorf, the firm’s founder and
chief, doctored bank statements to inflate customer funds and
list the branch’s address as a mailbox he controlled, said the
person, who requested anonymity because the probe is continuing.
When the  National Futures Association  sent confirmation requests
to the box in 2010 and 2011, it got phony responses vouching for
the balances, the person said. Peregrine typically had about $5
million in the account, another person said.  The case surfaced on July 9 as police said Wasendorf tried
to kill himself in a parking lot at the firm’s  Cedar Falls , Iowa
headquarters amid a regulatory push to bolster industrywide
checks on funds. The weekend before the suicide attempt, he
granted the NFA permission to use a new  electronic-filing  system
that would let U.S. Bancorp directly send statements to the
self-regulator, cutting him out of the process, one person said.  Peregrine filed to liquidate in bankruptcy after the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued, claiming that client
money never made it to the bank account. For example, while
Peregrine reported a customer balance of about $207 million for
late February 2010, the account actually held less than $10
million, the CFTC said.  MF Global  Wasendorf, 64, had been resisting  instructions  by the NFA
to start filing the customer-fund reports electronically by July
19, according to a person familiar with the matter. The order
was one of several changes implemented after the implosion of
New York-based  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  to increase transparency
in how customer money is protected.  Patricia Campbell, a Peregrine spokeswoman in  Chicago ,
didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on behalf of the firm
and Wasendorf, who was in a coma after the suicide attempt. Teri
Charest, a spokeswoman for Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp,
declined to comment, as did Larry Dykeman of the futures
association. The  Chicago Sun-Times  reported on the P.O. box
yesterday.  The futures association said  this week  that Wasendorf “may
have falsified bank records” and that Peregrine held $5 million
of customer funds after reporting that it controlled $225
million in its U.S. Bancorp account.  Regulator’s Audit  The possible loss of customer money at Peregrine follows
the disappearance of client cash after last year’s bankruptcy of
MF Global Holdings Ltd., the futures broker run by former New
Jersey Governor  Jon Corzine . As much as $1.6 billion in customer
funds remain missing as trustees oversee the liquidation of the
firm. Under the Commodity Exchange Act, futures brokerages are
required to keep customer money in a separate account to protect
it from being misused by the custodians.  Peregrine started as Wasendorf & Son Inc. in 1980,
according to a timeline on the firm’s  website . It evolved into
Peregrine in 1990 and moved its headquarters to Chicago. Two
years later it was incorporated as a futures commission
merchant. The firm opened a new office in 2009 at One Peregrine
Way in Cedar Falls, according to the website.  Peregrine listed assets of more than $500 million and debt
of more than $100 million in a Chapter 7 petition filed in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Chicago. Separately, U.S. District Judge
Rebecca Pallmeyer issued an order freezing Peregrine’s assets at
the CFTC’s request, saying it appeared there was “good cause”
to believe that the firm and Wasendorf Sr. violated the federal
Commodity Exchange Act.  Positions Liquidated  Jefferies Group Inc., which cleared trades for Peregrine,
said it will hold about $125 million of cash tied to the broker
as it awaits directions from regulators. Jefferies completed
liquidation of Peregrine’s positions, except for a “small”
Canadian account that is being transferred at the request of
that nation’s regulators, according to a statement yesterday
from the New York-based company.  A Black Hawk County sheriff’s officer arrived at
Peregrine’s offices just after 8 a.m. on July 9, when paramedics
were attending to Wasendorf, according to a report e-mailed to
Bloomberg News from the sheriff’s office. A tube ran from the
exhaust pipe into his car and Wasendorf was incoherent as he was
taken from the vehicle, according to the report. He was later
airlifted to University of Iowa Hospitals in Iowa City,
according to the report.  A suicide note was found in the car that “indicated
possible discrepancies with accounts at Peregrine Financial
Group,” according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  