-- Peregrine Customers’ Claims Priced at 25 Cents on Dollar
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-12T18:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/peregrine-customers-claims-priced-at-25-cents-on-dollar.html
Customers’ claims on Peregrine
Financial Group Inc., whose founder is accused by regulators of
misappropriating more than $200 million, may fetch less than a
quarter of their value in the wake of the firm’s bankruptcy, a
trader said.  Quotes of 22 cents on the dollar to 25 cents were given to
half a dozen Peregrine customers yesterday who called CRT
Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt, said
 Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading. He is
being “deluged” by calls today, he said. By comparison,
bankrupt MF Global Inc.’s U.S. claims have always sold in the
high 70s, he said.  Peregrine filed for bankruptcy July 10 after the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued alleging the brokerage
and its founder, Russell Wasendorf Sr., “used customer funds
for purposes other than those intended by its customers, and
consequently, have misappropriated these funds.” False reports
on customer funds were also filed with the CFTC, the regulator
said.  “This is much messier than MF Global because it appears
there is fraud involved, based on the CFTC complaint,” Sarachek
said.  Wasendorf, 64, tried to asphyxiate himself July 9 in the
parking lot of Peregrine’s offices near a country club in  Cedar
Falls , Iowa, police say.  A judge ordered a freeze of Peregrine’s assets at the
CFTC’s request. The brokerage offered futures, cash, foreign
exchange and options on futures trading.  Steeply Discounted  The missing money is about half of Peregrine’s customer
funds, according to regulators. The steeply discounted prices
for claims show uncertainty about how long it will take to get
paid whatever money can be recovered, said Brian Coppola, a
trader of distressed debt at hedge fund Fulcrum Capital in
Austin, Texas.  “You have to figure out how many cents are going to come
back to the estate and how long it will take,” he said. “Even
if you can see 50 cents coming back, it could take five years.
There are going to be lawsuits that hold up the distributions.”  Fulcrum, which is looking for larger Peregrine claims, is
quoting prices in the low 20s, Coppola said. Most of the claims
up for sale now have a face value of less than $200,000, he
said.  Bank Records  Peregrine reported about $400 million in customer-
segregated funds around June 29, of which $225 million was on
deposit at  U.S. Bank , according to the  National Futures
Association . The regulator said it learned that Peregrine’s
chairman “may have falsified bank records” after finding only
$5 million on deposit.  Peregrine is being probed by the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, said Sandy Breault, a spokeswoman for the
agency’s Omaha, Nebraska, office.  MF Global (MFGLQ) ’s failure was the first time a futures
brokerage’s collapse led to the loss of customer money, which is
supposed to be segregated in separate accounts, according to
futures industry leaders. Parent company MF Global Holdings Ltd.
filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy last year with debt of
almost $40 billion after making $6.3 billion in bets on
sovereign debt and getting margin calls. A $1.6 billion
shortfall in customer funds remains.  The Peregrine bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
 Illinois  ( Chicago ). The CFTC regulatory case is U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-cv-5383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  