-- Peregrine Financial Futures Accounts by SIPC, Chief Says
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-11T19:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/peregrine-financial-futures-accounts-by-sipc-chief-says.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
futures customers won’t have their losses covered by the
Securities Investor Protection Corp. even if they were defrauded,
the fund’s chief said.  The U.S. Securities Investor Protection Act provisions make
customers of a futures commission merchant like Peregrine
ineligible for payment, SIPC Chief Executive Officer Stephen P. Harbeck said today in a telephone interview.  Harbeck said his organization, an industry fund that covers
losses from brokerage firm failures, has been told Peregrine’s
futures business is in a company separate from the registered
broker-dealer that’s covered by SIPC. Peregrine’s securities
broker traded on a so-called fully disclosed basis where the
accounts are held by a unit of Sterne Agee Group Inc., Harbeck
said.  While securities customers can look to Sterne Agee, futures
customers aren’t covered, he said. A representative of Sterne
Agee declined to comment.  “SIPC has not been informed that it is appropriate to take
action at this time,” Harbeck said.  If the information Harbeck said SIPC was given is borne out,
the collapse of Peregrine won’t unfold like MF Global Inc. and
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc., where SIPC named
trustees and paid the costs of the liquidation.  Peregrine filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy liquidation in
 Chicago  yesterday after being sued by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, which accused the firm and its founder,
Russell R. Wasendorf Sr., of misappropriating at least
$200 million.  Self-Regulator  Peregrine assets were initially frozen by the  National
Futures Association , a commodities industry self-regulator, on
July 9 after it determined the  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based firm had
only $5 million on deposit with  U.S. Bank  after claiming it had
$225 million there and a total of $400 million in customer-
segregated funds.  Wasendorf, 64, who established the company as Wasendorf &
Son Inc. in 1980, attempted suicide that same day in his car
outside its Cedar Falls offices. He was discovered by firm
employees who called for help.  Peregrine customers were told by e-mail later on July 9
that the firm was being investigated for “accounting
irregularities.” They were also told about the suicide attempt.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer yesterday granted a
CFTC request to freeze the firm’s assets and appointed Chicago
bankruptcy lawyer Michael M. Eidelman as receiver.  Court Protection  Peregrine then filed for  bankruptcy court  protection,
reporting it had more than $500 million in assets, more than
$100 million in liabilities and at least 10,001 creditors. An
initial meeting of creditors has been scheduled for Sept. 5.  The bankruptcy petition was signed for by Russell R. Wasendorf Jr., the firm’s chief operating officer. Six days
earlier, the younger Wasendorf had been given a power of
attorney to exercise in the event his father became
“incapacitated,” according to a corporate resolution filed
with the petition.  Madoff customers received payments from SIPC because the
Madoff firm was a registered broker covered by SIPC. MF Global
had securities and commodities customers under one roof. Because
commodities and futures customers of MF Global weren’t covered
by the SIPC fund, the MF Global trustee isn’t distributing any
SIPC funds to those customers.  Stanford Victims  Victims of the  Ponzi scheme  run by  Allen Stanford  were also
found to be ineligible for SIPC coverage on July 3. A federal
judge in  Washington  ruled that the Securities and Exchange
Commission, which was seeking compensation for 7,000 people who
invested in the scheme, failed to show they met the definition
of “customer” under the Securities Investor Protection Act.  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-
27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago). The CFTC case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Rochelle in  New York  at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 