-- Philippine Peso Trades Near One-Week Low After Central Bank Move
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-11T08:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/philippine-peso-trades-near-one-week-low-after-central-bank-move.html
The  Philippine peso  approached a
one-week low after the central bank took steps against
speculative inflows amid a global slowdown. Bonds gained.  Most of the region’s currency’s dropped today after data
showed Chinese imports missed estimates, adding to concern  Asia 
is not immune to a worldwide slowdown. The central bank said on
July 7 that it was prohibiting foreign funds from investing in
its special deposit accounts and may adjust banks’ reserve
requirements to manage capital flows. The peso is the best-
performing Asian currency this year, rising 4.5 percent.  “Because the peso has outperformed a lot of Asian
currencies there’s a question here as to whether it has rallied
too fast too soon,” said Sim Moh Siong, a currency strategist
at Bank of  Singapore  Ltd. “The central bank has been coming out
to warn about excessive peso strength with the latest move in
the SDA deposits.”  The peso closed at 41.872 per dollar in Manila, compared
with 41.855 yesterday, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency touched 41.950, near 41.995 reached on July 9, the
weakest level since July 2. The peso may trade between 41.50 and
42 for the rest of the week, Sim predicted.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, increased 34 basis points, or 0.34
percentage point, to 6.54 percent.  The peso’s weakness today is in line with other currencies
in the region and was also due to some extent to the new policy
on special deposit accounts, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco told reporters in  Manila  today. “What we don’t like to
see is movement caused by speculation,” he said.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 slipped one basis points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.95
percent, according to noon fixing prices from the Philippine
Dealing & Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 