-- Pimco’s Gross Holds On to Treasuries, Mortgages in Flagship Fund
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-07-11T19:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/pimco-s-gross-holds-on-to-treasuries-mortgages-in-flagship-fund.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., held
holdings of Treasuries and mortgages steady in June after saying
that U.S. securities are still the safest bet.  Gross kept the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in his $263 billion Total Return Fund unchanged at 35
percent of assets last month, according to a report on the
company’s  website . Mortgages were at 52 percent for a second
consecutive month. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly
changes in its portfolio holdings.  “Don’t underweight  Uncle Sam  in a debt crisis,” Gross
wrote in his monthly investment outlook posted on the  Newport
Beach , California-based company’s website on June 28. “Money
seeking a safe haven will find it in America’s deep and liquid,
almost Aaa rated, bond and equity markets.”  Treasury 10-year note yields approached all-time lows today
after the U.S. sold $21 billion of the securities at a record
rate and minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed
some members favor more stimulus. The benchmark rate on
everything from mortgages to corporate loans dropped as low as
1.45 percent. The record low of 1.4387 percent was set June 1.  The Total Return  Fund (PTTRX)  cut its holdings of non-U.S.
developed nations’ debt by 1 percent to 5 percent in June, the
lowest since February 2011. Gross left emerging-market debt
unchanged at 8 percent and kept investment-grade credit steady
at 13 percent for the second straight month, the smallest ratio
since March 2008. High-yield debt rose to 3 percent of holdings
in June, versus 2 percent in May, which was the least since
December 2009.  Cash Equivalent  Pimco continues to avoid the debt of heavily indebted
nations including Spain and  Portugal  in favor of U.S. Treasuries
and mortgage securities, Gross, Pimco’s co-chief investment
officer and founder, said June 29 in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Gross left the Total Return Fund’s net cash-and-equivalent
position unchanged at negative 21 percent last month. The fund
can have a so-called negative position by using derivatives,
futures or by shorting.  Gross had boosted holdings of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in May for the first time in four months. Treasuries
returned 2.54 percent this year as of July 10, while mortgages
returned 2.23 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  Market Returns  The Total Return Fund attracted $1.4 billion in June,
according to Chicago-based Morningstar Inc., as it outperformed
its peers. The sixth straight month of net deposits contributed
to $5.9 billion in new cash for the year through June 30,
overcoming last year’s withdrawals of about $5 billion,
Morningstar said July 2.  Pimco’s Total Return Fund gained 7.3 percent over the past
year, beating 74 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund’s government and Treasury debt category includes
fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and
inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.77 trillion of assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  