-- Portugal Lurches Into Austerity Trap With Creditors: Euro Credit
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-11T07:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/portugal-lurches-into-austerity-trap-with-creditors-euro-credit.html
Portugal ’s international creditors
may soon have to ease terms of the country’s bailout to prevent
the plan from derailing as the government faces setbacks in
attaining its deficit goals.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho ’s struggle to meet
deficit pledges were further hampered last week when about 2
billion euros ($2.5 billion) of planned cuts to pensions and
civil servants’ holiday pay were  ruled  unconstitutional. With
Portugal’s 10-year bond yield above 10 percent, returning to the
markets next year may be untenable, requiring more international
aid despite the premier’s insistence he won’t seek concessions.  “Lisbon’s strategy is to continue to be the good student
among bailed-out countries until it becomes clear that Brussels
and Berlin must ease the rules of the game for it to succeed,”
said  Antonio Barroso , a London-based analyst at Eurasia group.  Portugal completed the fourth review of its 78 billion-euro
bailout plan on June 4 and progress helped bring down the
 benchmark yield  from a euro-era record of 18.3 percent on Jan.
31. Now a deepening recession and the court ruling are putting
pressure on government finances, and raising doubts about the
chances of the nation reducing its deficit to within the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product
next year.  Bond Gains  Portuguese  bonds  gained almost 30 percent this year as the
government stuck to terms of the international rescue, the most
among euro-area government debt, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. In the same period, German securities returned 3.6
percent and Spanish debt declined 5.3 percent.  Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar signaled the government’s
intentions not to seek concessions yesterday in Brussels even
after euro-region finance ministers agreed to give Spain an
extra year to meet its deficit goals and eased terms of its 100
billion-euro bank bailout. The Portuguese and Spanish cases are
different and the government won’t be deterred by the court
ruling, Gaspar said.  “The  Portuguese government  is studying measures of equal
impact on the budget” to compensate for the court’s ruling, he
said.  After seeking a bailout last year, Portugal has increased
taxes, reduced spending to shrink the size of government and
sold stakes in companies, including utility EDP-Energias de
Portugal SA and power-grid operator REN- Redes Energeticas
Nacionais (RENE)  SA, to bolster public finances.  Austerity Plans  The austerity measures have deepened the recession with
Portugal’s economy forecast to contract 3 percent this year and
unemployment set to rise to a euro-era record 15.9 percent in
2013, according to government estimates. Economic growth has
averaged less than 1 percent a year for the past decade, placing
Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest performers.  Portugal has pledged to have a  budget deficit  equal to 4.5
percent of GDP this year and to trim that to the EU limit of 3
percent in 2013. The central government’s shortfall widened to
7.9 percent in the first quarter from 7.5 percent a year
earlier, leaving those goals looking optimistic. The budget gap
probably will be on the agenda, when Portugal’s creditors carry
out the fifth review of the bailout plan starting on Aug. 28.  Portugal may end the year with a deficit of more than 5.5
percent of GDP, missing the rescue plan’s target by more than 1
percentage point and prompting an easing of bailout terms, said
 Ricardo Santos , a London-based economist at  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   Deficit Slippage  “Because of the size of the slippage, however, the new
targets will have to be combined with further fiscal tightening,
putting at risk the domestic political consensus on the
program,” Santos said in a June 28 research report.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield was little changed today at
10.44 percent, while the rate on Spanish debt of similar
maturity rose 2 basis points to 6.83 percent. The difference in
yield that investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds
instead of German bunds has narrowed to 9.1 percentage points
from 10.8 percentage points on June 1.  The government’s decision last year to cut pensions and
public-sector workers’ summer and Christmas salary payments
through 2014 was central to its deficit-reduction effort. The 2
billion euros a year in projected savings are more than 1
percent of the country’s GDP. Even after the ruling, which
affects cuts in 2013 and 2014, Passos Coelho insisted that he
won’t seek easier terms.  Political Tension  The response shouldn’t be to “renegotiate everything,”
Passos Coelho said in July 9 comments broadcast by SIC Noticias.
“We must redouble our effort and attention to meet those goals
and objectives.”  His determination to stick with the current targets is
heightening political tension at home. He faced a wave of
criticism from the main opposition Socialist Party for failing
to push for concessions even after euro-area leaders agreed to
ease terms for  Spain  and to relax conditions on potential help
for  Italy .  Socialist Party leader Antonio Jose Seguro said in a June 3
interview with Diario Economico that Portugal needs at least
another year to complete the program.  The good news for Portugal is the country’s austerity trap
may prompt the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  to heed
Seguro’s calls and grant the government more time to carry out
its aid plan, even if Passos Coelho won’t ask for an extension.  “It may be that, given the impact simultaneous austerity
is having on economic activity within Europe, the EU might be
open to reassess the targets set in the bailout program to
Portugal,” said Goncalo Pascoal, chief economist at  Banco
Comercial Portugues (BCP)  in Lisbon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  