-- Putin to Visit Ukraine Amid Disagreements on Gas Price, Volumes
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-07-11T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/putin-to-visit-ukraine-amid-disagreements-on-gas-price-volumes.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
will discuss natural-gas supplies during a visit to  Ukraine  amid
disagreements between the neighbors similar to those that have
previously disrupted deliveries to the European Union.  Putin and his Ukrainian counterpart  Viktor Yanukovych ,
meeting tomorrow in the Black Sea resort of Yalta, plan to
review energy ties as the countries are preparing a new accord
to expand cooperation in the gas industry, the Kremlin said in
documents distributed to reporters in Moscow today.  While as many as 12 documents will be signed, including an
accord on nuclear energy, no agreements on gas are planned,  Yuri Ushakov , who advises Putin on foreign policy, told reporters.
 OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller will also
travel as part of the delegation, he said.  Yanukovych has refused  International Monetary Fund  demands
to raise household natural-gas tariffs for households to stem
losses at state energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy. The former
Soviet republic is seeking a discount on its existing 10-year
gas-supply agreement with  Russia , which Yanukovych calls “very
unfair.”  Gazprom made a $2 billion advance payment for transit of
gas to the EU last month to help Ukraine buy the fuel for
storage. Ukraine, which relies on Russia for more than 70
percent of its gas and serves as a transit route to supply EU
buyers, has sought to cut purchases to 27 billion cubic meters
this year while arguing the price it pays is too high.  Gazprom has said lowering volumes would violate the
contract signed after a price dispute led Russia to cut supplies
to Ukraine for almost three weeks in January 2009, disrupting EU
exports.  Gazprom Concerns  The Moscow-based gas exporter is concerned that the amount
and speed of pumping gas in Ukraine’s storage, urging NAK
Naftogaz Ukrainy to ensure sufficient volumes in its facilities
ahead of peak consumption in winter, Miller said on June 29. The
contract requires Naftogaz to buy at least 80 percent from the
annual contracted volume of 52 billion cubic meters.  Putin and Yanukovych may also discuss Ukraine’s jailed
opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko  as they “touch upon any
issues, including the most sensitive ones,” Ushakov said.  Tymoshenko was found guilty last year of overstepping her
authority as premier when signing the 2009 gas deal with Russia.
She says the case was engineered by Yanukovych to silence
opposition before parliamentary elections in October. The EU,
the U.S, and Russia have condemned her conviction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  