-- Trade Gap in U.S. Narrowed in May as Imports Decreased
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-11T21:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/trade-deficit-in-u-s-narrowed-in-may-as-imports-decreased.html
The  trade deficit  in the U.S.
narrowed in May as falling crude  oil prices  and weakening demand
for consumer goods trimmed the import bill.  The gap shrank 3.8 percent to $48.7 billion, in line with
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
from $50.6 billion in April, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . Purchases from abroad fell to the lowest
level in three months, while exports climbed to the second-
highest on record.  Slowing global growth, which led central banks from Europe
to  China  to cut  interest rates  and announce more stimulus a week
ago, may signal American companies will have a harder time
boosting overseas sales. At the same time, an increase in
imports of business equipment indicates sustained investment in
the U.S., and more inbound shipments of cars point to continued
strength in the  auto industry .  “The trade deficit will drift slightly lower because of
the decline in the price of oil,” said  Jay Bryson , senior
global economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , who was the only analyst to correctly project
the trade outcome. “Exports are holding up, but as we go
forward we are going to see pretty weak numbers given the
slowdown abroad. Our economy has slowed as well.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index erased losses in the final
hour of trading as investors weighed the  Federal Reserve ’s
latest policy minutes for evidence that the central bank may be
closer to additional stimulus actions. The 500 Index was at
1,341.45 at the 4 p.m. close in New York, down less than 0.1
percent.  Fed Minutes  A few Fed policy makers said the central bank will probably
need to take more action to boost the labor market and meet its
inflation target, according to minutes of their June meeting
issued today.  The  median  forecast in the Bloomberg survey of 70
economists called for the deficit to shrink to $48.6 billion.
Estimates ranged from $42.5 billion to $51 billion. The Commerce
Department revised the trade deficit for April from an initially
reported $50.1 billion.  Imports dropped 0.7 percent to $231.8 billion, the fewest
since February, from $233.3 billion the prior month. Demand for
crude oil plunged by $2.82 billion in May. Purchases of foreign-
made  consumer goods  like mobile phones and clothing decreased by
$375 million, pointing to a slowdown in household spending.  Wholesale Inventories  The drop in imports was also reflected in a slower pace of
 inventory accumulation  at the nation’s wholesalers in May. The
0.3 percent gain in stockpiles followed April’s 0.5 percent
increase that was smaller than previously estimated, the
Commerce Department also reported.  The trade shortfall excluding petroleum widened to $23.8
billion from $22.5 billion in April.  There were some exceptions to the glum reading on imports.
A $1.42 billion increase in imports of capital equipment like
computers and telecommunications gear indicates business
investment is holding up. Automobile and parts imports, which is
a separate category from consumer goods, also climbed to a
record.  Exports increased 0.2 percent to $183.1 billion, boosted by
sales of food and capital equipment.  After eliminating the influence of prices, which are the
numbers used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade gap
narrowed to $48 billion from $48.7 billion. The average for the
quarter so far was slightly higher than that for the first three
months of the year, indicating trade will probably subtract a
little bit from growth.  European Union  The trade gap with the European Union was the biggest since
July 2008 as U.S. imports from the region jumped more than
exports, perhaps starting to reflect the recent drop in the
value of the euro. The deficit with South Korea was the biggest
since November 2004.  The deficit with China widened to $26 billion from $24.6
billion in April. Data this week indicated it may keep growing.  China’s total imports rose less than anticipated in June,
pushing the  trade surplus  to a three-year high and adding
pressure on the government to support demand as the global
economy slows, a report yesterday showed. Inbound shipments
increased 6.3 percent from a year earlier, compared with the 11
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The trade deficit with China may remain a thorny issue as
the U.S. presses it to allow its currency, the  yuan , to rise
against the dollar and improve access to its market. President
 Barack Obama  this month expanded trade complaints against China,
accusing the nation of imposing unfair taxes on American
vehicles, mostly from General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC.  China’s View  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said promoting investment growth is the
key now to stabilizing China’s economic expansion, signaling
officials may boost spending to counter a slowdown that probably
extended into a sixth quarter.  Stabilizing economic growth is not only a pressing priority
for China now, it is also a long-term “arduous” task, Wen said
in a statement posted on a government website yesterday.  “Growth-stabilizing policies include boosting consumption
and diversifying exports, but currently, what is important is to
promote a reasonable growth in investment,” Wen said.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, on July 5
reduced benchmark interest rates for the second time in a month
in an effort to reverse a slowdown in growth.  Export Outlook  The outlook for U.S. exports may dim. The  Bank of England ,
which announced July 5 that it would restart buying bonds two
months after stopping, said output will likely remain sluggish
after contracting in the past two quarters. The  European Central
Bank  the same day cut its main rate to a record low as sovereign
debt turmoil threatens to drive the 17-nation euro economy into
a recession.  Cooling overseas demand is hurting some American companies
like  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  A pickup in the value of the dollar
against the euro, which makes U.S.-made goods less attractive to
overseas buyers, is also among reasons the biggest U.S.
motorcycle maker said first-quarter sales fell 1.1 percent.  “There is an impact with regards to the events and the
debt crisis and  consumer confidence  and potential recessionary
pressures in Europe on our business there,”  John Olin , chief
financial officer, said on a June 26 conference call. “We are
seeing the pressures of a devaluing currency” as “everything
that we send to Europe is made here” in the U.S., he said.  The dollar climbed 6.7 percent in the 12 months to June 29
against a trade-weighted basket of currencies from its biggest
trading partners, according to Fed data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  