-- Trade Deficit in U.S. Probably Narrowed on Cheaper Oil Imports
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-11T04:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/trade-deficit-in-u-s-probably-narrowed-on-cheaper-oil-imports.html
The  trade deficit  in the U.S.
probably narrowed in May as falling crude  oil prices  and
weakening demand helped trim the import bill, economists said
before a report today.  The gap narrowed to $48.6 billion from $50.1 billion in
April, according to the  median  of 70 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Separately, minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s June
meeting may shed more light on its decision to extend the
maturities of assets on its balance sheet.  A lack of hiring in the U.S. that helped prompt the Fed to
ease monetary policy may temper consumer spending, also
translating into less demand for imports other than oil. At the
same time, slowing global growth, which led central banks from
Europe to  China  to cut interest rates this month and announce
more stimulus, may trim purchases of American-made goods.  “The trade deficit should narrow a bit, reflecting a
general slowing in global growth,” said Kevin Cummins, an
economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“There is pressure on exports, particularly as areas in  Europe 
weaken. Energy prices have come off and consumers are losing
momentum, so that’ll tend to slow imports.”  The Commerce Department’s trade figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from deficits of $51 billion to $42.5 billion.  At 10 a.m., another report from the Commerce Department may
show  wholesale inventories  rose in May at a slower pace than the
prior month as businesses kept stockpiles lean while waiting for
a pickup in sales, economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted.
Stockpiles climbed 0.3 percent after a 0.6 percent April gain.  Fed Minutes  At 2 p.m. in Washington, the Fed will release minutes of
its June 19-20 meeting, at which it took additional steps aimed
at spurring growth. The central bank also said it stood ready to
take further action to put unemployed Americans back to work.  American employers added fewer workers to payrolls than
forecast in June and the jobless rate stayed at 8.2 percent as
the economic outlook dimmed, Labor Department figures showed
July 6. The struggling job market may subdue demand.  Retreating oil prices also may have kept a lid on the value
of imports.  Brent crude  traded on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  declined to $101.87 a barrel at the end of
May, down from a high this year of $128.40 on March 1. It’s
since fallen further.  The outlook for exports remains dim. The  Bank of England ,
which announced July 5 that it would restart buying bonds two
months after stopping, said output will likely remain sluggish
after contracting in the past two quarters. The  European Central
Bank  the same day cut its main rate to a record low as sovereign
debt turmoil threatens to drive the 17-nation euro economy into
a recession.  Waning Demand  Cooling overseas demand is hurting American companies like
 Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  A pickup in the value of the dollar against
the euro, which makes U.S.-made goods less attractive to
overseas buyers, is also among reasons the biggest U.S.
motorcycle maker said first-quarter sales fell 1.1 percent.  “There is an impact with regards to the events and the
debt crisis and  consumer confidence  and potential recessionary
pressures in Europe on our business there,”  John Olin , chief
financial officer, said on a June 26 conference call. “We are
seeing the pressures of a devaluing currency” as “ everything
that we send to Europe is made here” in the U.S., he said.  The dollar climbed 6.7 percent in the 12 months to June 29
against a trade-weighted basket of currencies from its biggest
trading partners, according to Fed data.  Machinery Makers  Slowing global demand has limited shares of equipment
makers. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH) ,
which includes companies like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and Deere & Co.,
dropped 11 percent in the two months ended June 29, while the
broader  S&P 500 (SPX)  index fell 2.6 percent.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, is stepping up
efforts to reverse a slowdown in growth as Europe’s turmoil
limits exports and domestic property restrictions curb its
housing market. The Asian nation on July 5 reduced benchmark
 interest rates  for the second time in a month.  The trade deficit with China may remain a thorny issue as
the U.S. presses it to allow its currency, the  yuan , to rise
against the dollar and improve access to its market. President
 Barack Obama  this month expanded trade complaints against China,
accusing the nation of imposing unfair taxes on American
vehicles, mostly from General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  