-- Rajoy Announces 65 Billion Euros of Cuts to Fight Crisis
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-07-11T09:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/rajoy-announces-65-billion-euros-in-budget-cuts-to-fight-crisis.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
announced tax increases and spending cuts totaling 65 billion
euros ($80 billion), risking a deepening recession to keep the
euro financial crisis at bay.  Rajoy’s fourth austerity package in seven months will raise
the sales levy to 21 percent from 18 percent; scrap a tax rebate
for home buyers; scale back  unemployment benefits  and study
pension cuts; consolidate local governments and eliminate the
year-end bonus for public workers. The budget measures, covering
the next two-and-a-half years, are about double those previously
announced.  The prime minister addressed Parliament in Madrid today as
European officials put the finishing touches to a 100 billion-
euro bailout for Spain’s banks. The amendments to the  budget 
come less than two weeks after it went into effect and a day
after the European Union loosened  Spain ’s deficit targets.  “I know that the measures I’ve announced aren’t
agreeable,” Rajoy said in his 70-minute speech to lawmakers.
“They aren’t agreeable but they are essential. We are in an
extraordinarily serious situation.”  Demands by bond markets and European creditors that Rajoy
put Spanish finances in order drove him further from campaign
promises that helped him win the biggest majority since 1982.  Rajoy Reversals  Rajoy, in power since December, opposed raising value-added
tax when the previous government increased the rate. He denied
in a debate he planned to cut unemployment benefits, which
amount to about 30 billion euros a year. His public support has
fallen since his victory on Nov. 20, and thousands of miners and
their supporters set off fireworks and waved banners in  Madrid 
today after marching to the capital from northern Spain.  “I said I would cut taxes and I’m raising them,” Rajoy
said. “But the circumstances have changed and I have to adapt
to them.”  Scrapping the mortgage rebate reverses a policy Rajoy
implemented in December at his second Cabinet meeting to enact
an election promise. At the same time, he raised pensions to
meet another pledge. Today he said he’d present parliament’s
pension committee with a bill to make benefits more sustainable
and address early retirement, Rajoy said.  While irking Spaniards, Rajoy’s efforts to cut the deficit
and restore economic growth have failed to convince investors he
can stem the surge in public debt. The yield on Spain’s 10-year
 bond  fell 4 basis points to 6.77 percent today. That compares to
 Germany ’s 1.31 percent.  Regions’ Cuts  Rajoy also called on the regions to make deeper cuts and
said a new law would limit pay for mayors and the services that
municipalities can offer. The government will create a mechanism
to help regions locked out of markets gain access to financing
in return for deeper budget cuts, he said.  Spain’s central government budget deficit swelled to 3.41
percent of gross domestic product in the first five months of
the year, approaching the full-year goal of 3.5 percent after
the government brought forward transfers to regional
administrations and the social-security system, which is
struggling under the burden of a 25 percent unemployment rate.  Spain won an extra year this week to bring its deficit
within the EU’s 3 percent limit as European finance ministers
agreed to loosen the 2012 deficit goal to 6.3 percent of GDP
from 5.3 percent. Still, ministers urged Spain to step up budget
cuts. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said yesterday “additional measures would have to be taken
rather soon.”  Even with the new targets, Spain needs to cut the deficit
by 2.6 percent of GDP as the economy shrinks. The deficit
overshot last year as the economic slump bit into tax revenue
and regions unearthed undeclared bills. The government forecasts
a contraction of 1.7 percent this year and Rajoy said today the
slump would continue next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  