-- Rand Gains as Foreign Bond Purchases Push Yields to Record Lows
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-07-11T14:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/rand-gains-as-foreign-bond-purchases-push-yields-to-record-lows.html
The rand advanced as foreign
investors bought South African bonds, pushing yields to record
lows, after Transnet SOC Ltd. said it planned to raise as much
as $2 billion in an international debt sale.  South Africa ’s currency climbed as much as 0.7 percent and
traded 0.2 percent stronger at 8.2020 per dollar by 4:15 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
dropped one basis point to 7.06 percent after falling to 7.04
percent in earlier trading, the lowest on record according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign investors bought a net 1.2 billion rand ($146.5
million) of South African bonds yesterday, according to data
supplied by JSE Ltd., operator of the country’s stock and bond
exchanges. That takes net purchases for the year to 54.5 billion
rand, compared with 47.4 billion rand for the whole of 2011.
Transnet’s planned $2 billion  bond issue  would cover the
company’s 14.1 billion-rand funding requirement for the year and
ease supply pressure in the local  debt market .  Transnet’s announcement of its planned bond sale “had
banks jostling for positions” in the interest-rate derivatives
market, Thando Vokwana, a fixed-income trader at FirstRand Bank
Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Persistent
offshore buying” of rand bonds also pushed yields lower, he
added.  Transnet, the state-owned ports and railway operator, will
hold meetings with fixed-income investors in  London  and the U.S.
from July 12 to 18 to test appetite for the sale, Andrew Costa,
head of bond origination at  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , said by
phone yesterday, without giving details. Standard Bank is co-
managing the sale with JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Rate Cut  Investors are adding to bets the South African Reserve Bank
will cut  interest rates  as the slowing global economy damps
demand for South Africa’s exports. The central bank has left its
benchmark repo rate at 5.5 percent since November 2010, and
meets on July 19 to set policy.  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on interest
rates, dropped one basis point today to 5.18 percent, the lowest
on a closing basis since November. The rate is 47 basis points
below the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating traders
see more than a 90 percent probability of a 50 basis point rate
cut in the next six months.  “The probability of a rate cut before year-end is very
close to fifty-fifty in our view,” Adriaan du Toit, a fixed-
income analyst at  Standard Bank  Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said
in an e-mailed research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  