-- Treasury Poised to Sell Notes at Record Amid Fed Wagers
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-07-11T16:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/treasuries-halt-gain-before-21-billion-10-year-note-sale.html
Treasury yields were at almost all-
time lows as the U.S. prepared to sell $21 billion of 10-year
securities at a record auction rate amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may announce a new round of monetary stimulus.  Yields have dropped over the past week amid worse-than-
forecast U.S. job data and concern Europe’s debt crisis is
intensifying. The Fed will release the minutes of its June
meeting today that may indicate policy makers will undertake a
third round of asset purchases to stimulate the economy under
the policy known as quantitative easing.  “There continues to be demand even with the stark lows
because of the issues in Europe and with the economy -- the need
is still there,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government
trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage
for institutional investors. “There’s a good chance of us
getting quantitative easing in August.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.51 percent at 12:15 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.49
percent, the least since June 4, after reaching an all-time low
of 1.44 percent on June 1. The 1.75 percent security due in May
2022 fell 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 102 6/32.  Benchmark yields had climbed from a five-week low after the
 term premium , a model created by the Federal Reserve that
includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation,
showed Treasuries are the most expensive ever. The gauge fell to
a  record  negative 0.95 percent today.  A Bloomberg survey of economists projects the median yield
on the 10-year note will rise to 1.9 percent by year-end, down
0.2 percent from the previous week’s survey. The low forecast is
1.4 percent and the high is 3.3 percent.  Operation Twist  The Fed bought $4.77 billion of securities due from July
2018 to June 2019 today as part of its Operation Twist program
to put downward pressure on long-term interest rates, which
policy makers on June 20 extended by $267 billion.  Primary dealers submitted offers equaling 4.02 times the
securities bought, more than the average ratio of 2.93 since the
central bank began the program in October 2011.  The Fed has purchased $2.3 billion of mortgage and Treasury
debt in two separate rounds of quantitative easing, or QE. While
policy makers refrained from introducing a third round of
purchases last month, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated it
remains an option.  “It seems as if the market is anticipating something
coming,” said Guggenheim Partners’ Rogan. “We’ve seen no
backup in rates recently at all. It’s pretty telling, even in an
auction week.”  ‘Relatively Cheap’  The 10-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 1.52
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with the record low of
1.622 percent set at the previous auction on June 13.  Investors  bid  for 3.06 times the amount of debt offered
last month, versus the average of 3.07 for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect  bidders , the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, bought 42 percent of the debt, the most this
year. Direct bidders, non-primary dealers buying for their own
accounts, purchased 20.8 percent, the highest since August.  “The auction provides a good liquidity point for foreign
and domestic investors to allocate to Treasuries, which crazily
are relatively cheap compared to other safe-haven, developed-
world, fixed-income markets,”  William O’Donnell , head U.S.
government-bond strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at RBS
Securities Inc., one of 21 primary dealers required to bid at
Treasury auctions, wrote in a note to clients. “Treasuries are
likely to remain locked in lower rate ranges as U.S. (and
global) growth disappoints.”  German Debt  Investors have poured into the world’s safest government
securities amid Europe’s debt crisis.  Germany ’s borrowing costs
dropped to the least on record today at a sale of 4.15 billion
euros ($5.1 billion) of 10-year debt. The nation sold the
securities at a yield of 1.31 percent, down from 1.52 percent at
a June 13 sale, according to a statement from the Bundesbank.  While U.S. economic growth slowed to a 1.9 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, it will quicken to 2.5 percent in the
fourth, according to Bloomberg surveys of financial companies.  Treasuries rose yesterday as concern  Europe ’s financial
woes are slowing U.S. growth led to higher-than-average demand
at a $32 billion sale of three-year notes.  The securities attracted  bids  for 3.52 times the amount
offered, compared with the average of 3.45 for the previous 10
sales. A $13 billion 30-year auction tomorrow will complete this
week’s supply.  ‘Ongoing Muddling’  A U.S. report on July 6 showed the economy added 80,000
jobs in June, less than the 100,000 projected by a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  Treasuries have returned 2.5 percent this year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. A gauge of U.S.
investment-grade and high-yield company bonds gained 6.5
percent, the data show.  “Yields look set to retest the early-June lows,” said
 Peter Jolly , head of market research at  National Australia Bank
Ltd. (NAB)  in Sydney. “There’s an ongoing muddling in Europe, and
weakening global growth is being priced into Treasuries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  