-- Rebel Advance in Eastern Congo Displaced 220,000 People, UN Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-07-11T17:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/rebel-advance-in-eastern-congo-displaced-220-000-people-un-says.html
More than 220,000 people have been
displaced in  Democratic Republic  of Congo’s North Kivu province
as clashes between rebels and the army continue to destabilize
the region, the  United Nations  said.  Hundreds of thousands of people in need of humanitarian
assistance are inaccessible because of the insecurity,  Madnodje
Mounoubai , spokesman for the UN’s peacekeeping mission in Congo,
told reporters today in the capital, Kinshasa.  UN human rights investigators are also looking into
allegations of “violations of human rights that were committed
by different parties to the conflict,” including Congolese
soldiers and rebel troops, he said. From July 4 to July 9, the
mission received reports of summary executions, kidnappings, and
pillaging, he said.  Since the beginning of the month, the rebels have increased
their control of Rutshuru territory in North Kivu, causing the
army to withdraw from strategic towns near the border with
Rwanda and  Uganda . Congo and the UN’s Group of Experts have both
accused Rwanda of supporting the rebellion, which is led mainly
by ethnic-Tutsi soldiers who deserted the army beginning in
April.  Rwanda  has denied the charge.  Congo and Rwanda fought a series of wars directly or via
rebel proxies beginning in the late 1990s until a 2009 peace
agreement. The rebels claim Congo has not lived up to the terms
of the agreement, which saw them integrated into the army. Their
movement is known as M23 after the date in March 2009 when the
agreement was signed.  Violence Denounced  There have been several reports of attacks against Tutsis
in North Kivu in the last week, according to the UN and
provincial officials. The province’s governor, Julien Paluku,
denounced the violence and called for calm in a July 9 speech,
according to the province’s website.  The UN has reinforced Goma, the provincial capital, and
attacked rebel positions on July 8 with helicopters, Mounoubai
said.  Congolese army spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Sylvain Ekenge
had his phone turned off when called for comment today.  Congo’s largest tin-ore mine is located in North Kivu, and
the province has deposits of gold, wolframite, and coltan. It is
also home to  Virunga National Park , a UNESCO World Heritage
Site, and an oil block under exploration by U.K.-based  Soco
International Plc. (SIA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  