-- Repealing, Not Replacing, Health Law Tops Republican Plan
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-07-11T15:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/repealing-not-replacing-health-law-tops-republican-plan.html
U.S.  House Republicans , united in
opposition to President  Barack Obama ’s health care overhaul,
used to pledge to “repeal and replace” it.  Now, as they prepare to vote as soon as today to kill the
law they call Obamacare -- their 33rd effort to undo all or
parts of it -- Republican leaders have dropped the word
“replace” from their promise.  The omission is the result of an election-year calculation:
They figure they stand to gain from public distaste for the 2010
measure’s central provision, the requirement that most Americans
buy health insurance, and will lose if they start providing
details about what they would do instead.  “They don’t care to replace it,”  Ross Baker , a professor
of American politics at  Rutgers University  in New Brunswick,  New
Jersey , said in a telephone interview. “They want to revert to
the status quo. Whatever plan they have is going to end up
alienating somebody, especially during a presidential
campaign.”  Renewing the debate over how to provide wider coverage
while containing health costs would divert attention from the
stagnant economy, which Republicans say is their winning issue.
Also, it runs the risk of emphasizing a patchwork of Republican
proposals that wouldn’t provide universal protection or retain
such popular features of the 2010 law as requiring insurance
policies to cover pre-existing conditions.  ‘Step by Step’  The best legislative approach is “step by step” while
going “after the problems that we can solve,” Representative
Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said in an interview. House
Republicans haven’t scheduled further votes or hearings on
health care proposals.  Achieving universal coverage is “going to be very
difficult,” Cole said.  Even so, “you do it more through
incentives than you do through penalties and this bill is full
of penalties and not incentives.”  The House won’t pursue other legislation before the
November election because “the big thing is going to be the
election,” Representative Wally Herger, a California Republican
who leads the health subcommittee of the Ways and Means
Committee, said in an interview. “Everybody is looking to the
election, everything is second fiddle to November.”  Unless Republicans win the presidency and control the
Senate majority next session, their attempts to repeal the law
will go no further than the House.  “This is another of their message weeks dedicated solely
to the politics of their base,” House Minority Whip  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat, said of the Republican efforts.  Court’s Decision  The U.S.  Supreme Court ’s June 28 decision upholding the
core of the health care law, known as the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, will energize voters who oppose it, said
Representative  Jim Jordan , an  Ohio Republican  who leads the
Republican Study Committee.  The justices, voting 5-4, said Congress can require
Americans to carry insurance or pay a penalty, which the court
said was within lawmakers’ constitutional power to tax. Hospital
company  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  rose after the ruling, as did Medicaid
insurer  Molina Healthcare Inc. (MOH)  Commercial carrier  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) 
fell as a result of the law’s regulations.  The ruling “probably helps our side,” Jordan said at a
Bloomberg Government breakfast yesterday. He said Republicans
may reignite their success from 2010 when Democrats lost control
of the House. Democrats provided all of the votes to pass the
health overhaul.  219 Bills  The Republican Study Committee has compiled a list of 219
bills that address repeal and individual pieces of a health care
overhaul. Proposals include letting seniors delay enrollment in
Medicare until age 70 without risking their Social Security
benefits; allowing the purchase of health insurance across state
lines and providing a tax deduction for the cost of health
insurance and unreimbursed  prescription drugs .  “I doubt” that all the proposals backed by Republicans
would receive votes this year, Jordan said at the breakfast.  While Republicans have crafted alternative proposals, the
party doesn’t want to advance them now because discussion of
them “diverts the debate away from the economy” and the flaws
of Obama’s health-care law, Herger said.  Republican proposals may become a target of attacks by
Democrats who “have nothing to run on so they are looking for
anything to divert the debate,” Herger said.  Boosting Jobs  Instead, House Speaker  John Boehner , Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, and Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy ,
a California Republican, are casting the law’s repeal as an
effort to boost jobs, particularly among small businesses.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said yesterday at a press
conference in Washington that he visited his home state and
“people kept asking the same question: ‘Where are the jobs?’
That’s why this week the House will vote to repeal Obamacare,
which is driving up the cost of health care and making it harder
for small businesses to create jobs.”  When asked what steps House leaders would take to replace
the law after a repeal, Boehner spokesman  Michael Steel  said in
an e-mail: “First, we need to repeal this law, which is making
it harder for small businesses to create jobs, then we can move
on to step-by-step, common-sense reforms that will actually
lower costs.”  Steel didn’t say what those steps would be.  Floor Time  Democrats criticized House Republicans for devoting several
days of floor time this week to the repeal bill, H.R. 6079,
saying they should be advancing legislation focused on  job
creation .  “I want lots of time on a jobs bill” instead of debating
a repeal that is “going nowhere,” Representative Jim McGovern,
a Massachusetts Democrat, said during a House Rules Committee
meeting July 9.  “You don’t have a plan,” Representative Alcee Hastings, a
Florida Democrat, told Republicans at the meeting.  The House passed a repeal resolution in 2011 instructing
committees that oversee health-care policy to craft legislation
that would “increase the number of insured Americans,”
including those with pre-existing conditions. It also sought
proposals to overhaul the medical malpractice system and lower
health-care premiums by promoting competition among insurers.  Punitive Damages  Since then, the House has voted to cap punitive damages for
medical malpractice at $250,000. Proponents say this would
reduce the incentive for doctors to practice “defensive
medicine” by ordering expensive tests to avoid being sued for
malpractice.  The Republican-led House passed legislation to prohibit
government funding of abortions under the health-care law. It
voted to abolish an independent board set up to propose ways to
curb Medicare spending.  Other proposals have languished in committee without floor
debate. They include a proposal by Georgia Republican Paul Broun
to raise to $10,000 the maximum amount people can contribute
each year to health savings accounts.  Illinois Representative  Judy Biggert , whose re-election is
rated a tossup by the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, said
she wished her fellow Republicans would spell out for voters
some health care alternatives they would try to enact.  Lawmakers should present their proposed changes “right
away,” Biggert said in an interview. She said Congress
“absolutely should keep” some provisions, such as one allowing
young adults to remain on their parents’ plan until age 26.  Targeting Republicans  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee yesterday
targeted several Republicans in close races, including Reid Ribble of Wisconsin, by issuing a release that accused them of
protecting their health care benefits by supporting repeal.  “Congressman Ribble will vote to give himself lifetime
guaranteed government health care, rather than having the same
health care as his constituents,” Jesse Ferguson of the
Democratic campaign committee said in the press release.  Before the Supreme Court’s decision, Dean Clancy, the
health-care policy director for FreedomWorks, wrote in a June 21
memo that Boehner “has gone out of his way to assure us” that
House Republicans “are still firmly on board with a full
repeal.” FreedomWorks is aligned with the anti-tax Tea Party
movement.  Clancy said he was told Boehner “won’t try to preserve or
re-enact the supposed ‘good’ parts of Obamacare,” such as
letting parents keep children on their plans until they’re 26.  Still, Clancy wrote that Republicans are politically
vulnerable from “their long-standing hesitation to be too
specific about what they’d do on the ‘replace’ side of the
‘repeal and replace’ agenda.”  The House repeal legislation, after this week’s vote, will
die in the Senate. Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a
Kentucky Republican, said yesterday that Republicans in that
chamber will seek a repeal vote in “the near future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  