-- Republicans Shift View of Court After Health-Care Ruling
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-11T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/republicans-shift-view-of-court-after-health-care-ruling.html
Republican voters, who in April
approved of the way the U.S.  Supreme Court  was doing its job by
better than 2-1, reversed their opinion after justices voted to
uphold President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, according to a
poll released today.  The survey by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac
University  found 54 percent of Republicans disapproving of the
high court’s performance and 35 percent approving. In April,
Republicans approved of the court by 62 percent to 23 percent.  Democratic voters’ job approval for the Supreme Court
increased to 64 percent from 44 percent in April, and their
disapproval fell to 24 percent from 38 percent.  The poll was taken July 1-8, after the Supreme Court on
June 28 upheld the law aimed at providing coverage to millions
of Americans who lack insurance.  “We didn’t ask why voters felt the way they did about the
court, but it’s obvious there is great disappointment among
conservatives that the 5-4 decision on health care went against
them,” said  Peter Brown , assistant director of the university’s
polling institute. “It is reasonable to assume that’s why the
standing of the court in the eyes of Republicans has dipped.”  The court’s job approval among all voters was 47 percent,
the lowest in four years and down from 52 percent in April,
while the percentage of those disapproving grew to 41 percent
from 31 percent. The survey of 2,722 registered voters had a
margin of error of plus or minus 1.9 percentage points.  The poll found that 51 percent of Republican voters
disapproved of the job being done by Chief Justice  John Roberts ,
who broke with the court’s conservative wing to uphold the
health-care law. Sixty-two percent of Democrats polled said they
approved of Roberts’s performance, while 19 percent disapproved.  In April 2010, after justices voted 5-4 along ideological
lines in  Citizens United  v.  Federal Election Commission  to
reverse decades of precedent and remove limits on corporate and
union political spending, 52 percent of Republicans and 47
percent of Democrats said they approved of Roberts’s
performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 