-- Tribune Judge Will Rule on Bankruptcy Exit Plan This Week
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-07-11T15:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/tribune-judge-to-rule-on-bankruptcy-exit-plan-this-week.html
Tribune Co., the biggest newspaper
publisher in bankruptcy, will learn this week whether it has won
the first of two rulings it needs to leave bankruptcy this year,
the judge overseeing the case said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey said today in a hearing
in Wilmington,  Delaware , that he has almost finished writing a
50-page opinion on Tribune’s proposal to divide ownership of the
newspaper and television company among its senior lenders,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and hedge funds Oaktree Capital
Management LP and Angelo, Gordon & Co. Carey said he plans to
issue the decision by July 13.  “You’re not going to give us a hint?” Tribune attorney
James Bendernagel asked, provoking laughter among the more than
two dozen lawyers in the courtroom. Carey declined to say how he
would rule.  If Carey approves the reorganization plan this month,
Tribune may be able to exit bankruptcy by August, or by the end
of the year at the latest, depending on how long it takes the
Federal Communications Commission to make a key second ruling,
Chief Reorganization Officer Don Liebentritt said last month.  Tribune finished the last major court hearing in its
bankruptcy last month.  License Transfer  Should Carey approve the plan, the company still would need
to win approval from the FCC to transfer its TV and radio
licenses to the new owners before it could exit bankruptcy.  Tribune, based in  Chicago , is trying for the second time to
win approval of a reorganization plan that settles legal claims
against the senior lenders that funded the company’s 2007
buyout, which some creditors said left the television and
newspaper company insolvent.  Tribune owes creditors about $13 billion. The company is
valued at more than $7 billion, Tribune said in court papers.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  