-- Romanian PM Ponta Says Referendum Will Abide by Court Ruling
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-07-11T18:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/romanian-pm-ponta-says-referendum-will-abide-by-court-ruling-1-.html
Romanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta
said a referendum to decide whether suspended President Traian Basescu keeps his job will respect a Constitutional Court ruling
requiring a majority of eligible voters to participate.  Ponta told reporters in Brussels today that he has asked
Parliament to change the rules of the referendum to abide by the
ruling and assured European Parliament President  Martin Schulz 
that the country will respect all court decisions and the rule
of law.  Ponta’s ruling coalition seeks to remove Basescu two months
after installing the country’s third Cabinet this year as
parliamentary elections in November or December approach. A
referendum on Basescu’s impeachment will be held on July 29.  Romania’s nine-judges of the court said yesterday that they
set a minimum required voter turnout for the nationwide vote
after the opposition challenged a law governing referenda,
approved by Parliament June 26 and backed by the ruling Social
Liberal Union. The court didn’t comment on whether the ruling
negates an emergency decree by the government stipulating the
same changes to the referendum, which is in force.  “In my opinion the referendum should respect the court
ruling,” Ponta said. “I assured Mr Schulz that any referendum
in  Romania  must be validated by the court, which on July 30,
will confirm the referendum results if more than 50 percent of
the voters attend.”  Basescu said today from his campaign headquarter that he
asks the government to be fair and organize the referendum
respecting the law.  “The government doesn’t need to ask the Parliament to
change the referendum rules -- it can issue an emergency decree
to cancel the existing decree and respect the Constitutional
Court ruling as the lawmakers are in holiday,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  