-- Romanian Turmoil Hurting Outlook for Leu, Boosting Debt Costs
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-11T11:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/romanian-turmoil-hurting-outlook-for-leu-boosting-debt-costs.html
The political battle between Premier
Victor Ponta and suspended President Traian Basescu will boost
Romania’s funding costs and further weaken the leu, the world’s
second-worst performing currency this month, economists and
investors from  London  to Bucharest said.  The unrest triggered by a spat between Ponta and Basescu
has raised investor concerns about the country’s commitment to
fiscal discipline next year under an international bailout. The
European Union summoned the premier to Brussels to discuss the
row, while German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who has lauded the
president for his support of austerity measures, warned Ponta of
violating the bloc’s basic principles of democracy.  “We actually somewhat reduced our positioning in Romania
due to this last week and we’re still in the process of
considering further action,” Ronald Schneider, who helps manage
about $1 billion in emerging-market debt at Raiffeisen
Kapitalanlage GmbH in Vienna, said by phone. “The key is to end
the uncertainty and whether to believe that the willingness of
the government to cooperate with the  International Monetary Fund 
is there.”  Decisive Blow  Ponta is looking for the decisive blow against Basescu two
months after becoming the third premier this year in the country
that will hold general elections in 2012. The dispute comes
after the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe,  Romania ’s main
trading party, and a cold snap pushed the economy into a second
recession in four years.  The political turmoil weakened the leu to a record low
against the euro on July 9. The currency has dropped 1.6 percent
against the euro this month, the world’s second-worst
performance behind the Sudanese pound. It sank to a record-low
4.5472 against Europe’s common currency on July 9 and traded at
4.5240 at 1:48 p.m. in Bucharest today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The cost of insuring against a Romanian default for five
years using credit-default swaps rose to 441 basis points, close
to a month-high of 448 basis points on July 9, from 407 basis
points on July 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lawmakers suspended Basescu last week, accusing him of
overstepping his duties when announcing state wage cuts in 2010
and other economic decisions. Basescu, who survived an
impeachment referendum in 2007 with the backing of 74 percent,
has seen his popularity plunge after supporting austerity
measures of the previous government headed by Emil Boc.  Policy Uncertainty  “Policy uncertainty and the risk of the IMF program
stalling will likely lead to steep challenges in foreign-
exchange funding prospects, exacerbating the downward pressures
on the leu and Romanian credit,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch
economist Mai Doan said in a note to clients this week.  The ruling coalition “has shown strong verbal commitment
to the IMF program, but it has not revealed any details about
its longer term economic strategy and fiscal discipline has yet
to be tested,” Doan said.  The power struggle prompted Merkel to back Basescu against
efforts by the ruling coalition to impeach him. Ponta said July
9 that Merkel and her party support Basescu “because they are
the only supporters of austerity in  Europe .”  Borrowing Costs  Romania’s domestic borrowing costs rose “slightly” in the
past few weeks pushed up by the debt crisis and political
tensions in the country, Ziarul Financiar reported on July 10,
citing Deputy Finance Minister Cristian Sporis. The ministry
sold 11-month Treasury bills on July 9 at an average yield of
5.53 percent, compared with an average yield of 5.29 percent for
one-year bills sold last month.  “The key for markets should be fiscal policies and
structural reforms that were undertaken over the past three
years. Policies are unlikely to be changed this year, however,
it’s next year we are worried about,” Nomura’s Peter Attard Montalto also said. “In particular we are concerned about the
loosening of policy in the 2013 budget,” which “will be
published before the November election and likely influence
Ponta’s chances of” winning elections scheduled for November or
December.  Romania’s central bank “may be less keen” to defend the
leu, which has a managed floating system, due to large IMF
repayments and the more difficult external refinancing prospects
brought about by the political uncertainty, according to the
Bofa Merrill economist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  