-- Romney Booed at NAACP During Speech Criticizing Obama
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-11T21:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/romney-trying-to-defeat-first-black-president-speaking-to-naacp.html
Mitt Romney , trying to defeat the
first black U.S. president, drew boos at times during a speech
to the nation’s oldest civil-rights group as he said his
policies would help the economic interests of blacks more than
those of the Obama administration.  “If you want a president who will make things better in
the African American community, you’re looking at him,” Romney
said, one of several lines that prompted booing during his 25-
minute address today at the national convention of the NAACP in
Houston.  Romney, who received a standing ovation from most in the
audience at the end of his remarks, was also booed when he said
he would repeal the health-care legislation that has been the
signature accomplishment of President  Barack Obama ’s tenure in
office.  “If you understood who I truly am in my heart, and if it
were possible to fully communicate what I believe is in the
real, enduring best interest of African-American families, you
would vote for me for president,” the presumptive Republican
nominee said.  Pitch for Leadership  “I want you to know that if I did not believe that my
policies and my leadership would help families of color -- and
families of any color -- more than the policies and leadership
of President Obama, I wouldn’t be running for president,” said
Romney.  He is unlikely to capture the votes of many members of the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People over
Obama, who won 95 percent of the black vote four years ago,
according to  exit polls . Still, it would have looked bad for
Romney to turn down the group’s invitation, political observers
said.  “Were he not to attend the convention, that would send a
negative signal to many swing voters,”  Mark Jones , chairman of
the political science department at  Rice University  in Houston,
said before the speech. “It’s not a friendly venue for any
Republican, but it could send a positive signal to the
population at large.”  Four years ago, Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , then the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee, told the NAACP that
he would expand educational opportunities, partly through
vouchers for low-income children to attend private school. He
also praised Obama, then a senator from  Illinois , for his
historic campaign.  Romney, in an interview after his speech with the Fox
Business Network, said of the boos directed at him: “I think we
expected that.”  Making Inroads  He also expressed confidence during the interview that he
could chip away at Obama’s backing among black voters.  “I spoke with a number African-American leaders after the
event and they said a lot of folks don’t want to say they are
not going to vote for Barack Obama but they are disappointed in
his lack of policies to improve our schools, disappointed in
urban policy, disappointed in the economy,” Romney said.  Obama isn’t speaking to the group this year; Vice President
 Joe Biden  is scheduled to do so. Asked by reporters whether
Obama skipping the NAACP meeting takes the black vote for
granted, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  noted that the
president has spoken to the group in the past.  “His commitment to the organization and the broader
community is easy to see,” Carney said.  Poll Results  Obama has overwhelming support from black voters over
Romney, 92 percent to 2 percent, according to a July 1-8 survey
by the Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute. The poll found Obama leading Romney 46 percent to 43
percent among all voters, helped by an almost 2-1 advantage
among single women.  Obama’s re-election prospects hinge partly on how
effectively he can rally black voters, whose above-average
turnout in 2008 helped him win some of the states Democrats and
Republicans views as battlegrounds in this year’s race.  North Carolina , which Obama won by three-tenths of one
percentage point, is 21 percent black, the seventh-highest share
among the 50 states. In Virginia, where Obama won by six
percentage points, the black population is 19 percent, the
ninth-highest share.  The black population also is above 10
percent in two other populous swing states:  Florida , 15 percent,
and  Ohio , 12 percent.  Home Equity  Like others in the  U.S. economy , African-American voters
have been hit hard in recent years. Because they tend to be more
dependent on home equity, black household wealth fell by 53
percent from 2005 to 2009, according to the Pew Research Center.
The  unemployment rate  for  blacks  is 14.4 percent, compared with
a national rate of 8.2 percent.  Clo Ewing, a spokeswoman for Obama’s re-election campaign,
said in a statement after Romney’s speech that the Republican’s
policies would hurt working American families while benefiting
the wealthiest.  “At the NAACP today, leaders in the African-American
community recognized the devastating impact Mitt Romney’s
policies would have on working families,” Ewing said. “He’d
gut investments in education, energy, and infrastructure, and
raise taxes on the middle class even as he gives $5 trillion in
tax cuts weighted towards millionaires and billionaires. He’d
put insurance companies back in charge, threatening the health
of more than 30 million Americans who will gain coverage because
of the Affordable Care Act.”  Massachusetts Example  Romney, 65, cited in his speech his experience as governor
of  Massachusetts  to show how he can work across party lines.  “When you are in a state with 11 percent Republican
registration, you don’t get there by just talking to
Republicans,” he said. “You have to make your case to every
single voter. We don’t count anybody out.”  While recognizing the historic nature of Obama’s election,
Romney suggested his administration hasn’t lived up to its
potential.  “If equal opportunity in America were an accomplished
fact, then a chronically bad economy would be equally bad for
everyone,” Romney said. “Instead, it’s worse for African
Americans in almost every way. The unemployment rate, the
duration of unemployment, average income, median family wealth
are all worse for the black community.”  Gay Marriage  He also called attention to his difference with Obama, 50,
on gay marriage, which the president announced his support for
in May. Polls show some black voters splitting with Obama on the
issue.  “As president, I will promote strong families - and I will
defend traditional marriage,” Romney said.  He pointed to his father, onetime  Michigan  Governor  George Romney , as a role model for his views on civil rights.  “It wasn’t just that my dad helped write the civil rights
provision for the Michigan Constitution, though he did,” he
said. “It wasn’t just that he helped create Michigan’s first
civil rights commission, or that as governor he marched for
civil rights in  Detroit  - though he did those things, too.  “More than these public acts, it was the kind of man he
was, and the way he dealt with every person, black or white,”
Romney said. “He was a man of the fairest instincts, and a man
of faith who knew that every person was a child of God.”  Patricia Kane, 56, a federal worker from  Los Angeles  who is
attending the convention and plans to vote for Obama, said
before the speech she was glad Romney came to speak to the
gathering.  “It’s pretty bold of him,” she said. “Even though we
will vote for Obama, he could be elected and we should hear what
he has to say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Houston at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  