-- Romney Says He’ll Release 2011 Tax Return When It’s Ready
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/romney-says-he-ll-release-2011-tax-return-when-it-s-ready.html
Presumed Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney , responding to criticism from Democrats over
his refusal to release tax returns from before 2010, said he
will publicize his 2011 return when it’s completed.  “The Democrats are always going to be critics,” he said
in an interview yesterday on Fox Business Network. “Tax
information is there, other financial disclosure is there.”  Romney filed for an extension on his 2011 federal income
taxes before the usual April deadline and has until Oct. 15 to
complete the return -- less than a month before the Nov. 6
election. Extensions are typical for taxpayers such as Romney
with complicated finances.  In January, he released his 2010 return and an estimated
return for 2011. For 2010, Romney paid a 13.9 percent effective
tax rate on more than $21 million in income, largely because he
receives most of his income from  capital gains  and dividends
taxed at preferential rates capped at 15 percent.  Democrats have been calling on Romney to release prior
years’ returns, citing the decision by his father,  George Romney , to release 12 years of returns during his failed bid for
the 1968 Republican presidential nomination.  “Mitt Romney talks about this great family that he comes
from, and I acknowledge it is,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said July 10. “But why doesn’t he
follow the example set by his father and release his tax
returns?”  Bain Capital  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who helped found
the Boston-based private-equity firm  Bain Capital  LLC, is worth
as much as $250 million, according to financial documents his
campaign has released. President Barack Obama’s re-election
campaign has targeted Romney’s business background in ads,
linking him to the outsourcing of U.S. jobs.  Romney said in yesterday’s interview that voters are tired
of “petty” attacks by politicians.  “The president wants to make this a campaign about
attacking wealth,” he said. “I want to make this a campaign
about helping the middle class.”  Romney declined to discuss his search for a vice
presidential nominee.  “If I did,” he said, “I would have to come after you
with my ‘Men In Black’ flashlight and erase your memory,”
referring to the movie series in which the heroes combat
disguised aliens and zap the memories of civilian witnesses.  NAACP Convention  Romney’s interview aired after he spoke earlier in the day
to the national convention of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People in Houston. He received boos at
times, and a standing ovation from most of the audience when he
finished his remarks.  “If you want a president who will make things better in
the African American community, you’re looking at him,” Romney
said, one of the lines that prompted booing during his 25-minute
address to the nation’s oldest civil rights group. He was also
booed when he said he would repeal the health-care measure that
has been the signature achievement for Obama, the first black
U.S. president.  Romney said in his interview that he thought he could chip
away at Obama’s support among black voters, four years after the
president got 95 percent of their vote, according to  exit polls .  “A lot of folks don’t want to say they are not going to
vote for  Barack Obama ,” Romney said. “But they are
disappointed in his lack of policies to improve our schools,
disappointed in urban policy, disappointed in the economy.”  The  unemployment rate  for  blacks  is 14.4 percent, compared
with a  national rate  of 8.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  