-- Baht Leads Drop in Asian Currencies on Regional Slowdown Risk
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-07-11T08:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/rupiah-leads-drop-in-asian-currencies-on-regional-slowdown-risk.html
Asian currencies fell, led by
Thailand’s baht, as data showed the region isn’t immune to the
global economic slowdown, deterring risk-taking.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares dropped for a fifth
day after a report yesterday showed Chinese imports missed
estimates. Growth in the Chinese and Singaporean economies
declined in the second quarter, according to median estimates in
Bloomberg surveys before data due July 13. The  International
Monetary Fund  will lower its 3.5 percent global-expansion
forecast for this year in its next update July 16, Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said this month.  “There is the question of how deep the current slowdown
will be and that keeps the market bullish on the  U.S. dollar  for
now,” said Choong Yin Pheng, manager for economic and bond
research at Hong Leong Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “The risk of
interest-rate cuts in Asia is keeping investors cautious” after
two reductions within a month in  China , she said.  The baht dropped 0.3 percent to 31.73 per dollar as of 3:27
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Indonesia’s rupiah slipped 0.2 percent to 9,450, Malaysia’s
ringgit weakened 0.2 percent to 3.1820 and India’s rupee
declined 0.2 percent to 55.500.  China’s economy  probably expanded 7.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, easing from an 8.1 percent pace in
the first three months this year, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Inbound shipments into Asia’s largest economy increased
6.3 percent in June from a year earlier, compared with a
forecast for an 11 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey.  Rate Meetings  Singapore may report that the city-state’s GDP expanded at
an annual rate of 1 percent, following a 10 percent gain in the
first quarter, according to a separate survey.  “Recent data are not helping to remove growth concerns,”
said  Yuji Kameoka , chief currency strategist at Daiwa Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “Investors are reluctant to take risks.”  The  Bank of Korea  holds its policy meeting tomorrow, at
which 14 of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the
benchmark rate will be held at 3.25 percent. Two expect a 25
basis point cut.  Bank Indonesia  will hold borrowing costs at
5.75 percent tomorrow, according to all 20 analysts in another
Bloomberg survey.  “The two benchmark rate cuts within a month by the
People’s Bank of China have heightened concern over the economic
downturn given the influence of Chinese growth to Asia,”
Societe Generale SA said in a note to clients today. The time is
ripe for Bank of  Korea  to turn dovish, it said.  Yuan Falls  China’s  yuan  fell 0.04 percent to 6.3685 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s reference rate
0.02 percent lower at 6.3209. Based on the forecasted 7.7
percent pace, growth in the world’s second-largest economy will
be the slowest in three years.  “We’ve seen Chinese numbers yesterday showing a very sharp
decline in imports, which raises the concern that there’s a
slowdown in the global economy, particularly in Asia,” said
Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, head of regional currency strategy at
CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso was steady at 41.872 per
dollar. South Korea’s won climbed 0.3 percent to 1,140.90,
erasing an earlier drop of 0.2 percent. Taiwan’s dollar was
little changed at NT$29.974 per dollar and the Vietnamese dong
rose 0.1 percent to 20,905.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  