-- RXR Said to Plan to Purchase 40-Story Tower in Manhattan
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-07-11T02:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/rxr-said-to-plan-to-purchase-40-story-tower-in-manhattan.html
Scott Rechler’s RXR Realty plans to
buy 450 Lexington Ave., a 40-story midtown Manhattan office
tower owned by Istithmar World PJSC, a person with knowledge of
the negotiations said.  Rechler acquired debt on the 910,000-square-foot (85,000-
square-meter) building starting about 18 months ago, and has
been working on the acquisition since, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
Istithmar will receive more than the $600 million it paid for
the building in 2006, the person said.  The acquisition would give Rechler an addition to a
portfolio that already includes the Starrett-Lehigh Building in
west Chelsea. A joint venture including RXR purchased that
property last year for about $920 million, according to data
provider Real Capital Analytics Inc. Rechler has been one of  New
York ’s most active real estate buyers since the 2008 credit
freeze that caused values to plunge.  Edmund Tagliaferri, an RXR spokesman, declined to comment.
A telephone call made after regular business hours to the New
York offices of Istithmar, a private equity investment vehicle
of the Dubai government, wasn’t immediately returned.  The agreement was reported earlier today by the Wall Street
Journal on its  website .  RXR controlled all the subordinate loans on 450 Lexington,
known as mezzanine debt, giving it an inside track to the deal,
said the person familiar with the talks.  Istithmar, a unit of Dubai World, bought several New York
properties, including the Mandarin Oriental hotel at Time Warner
Center and the W Union Square, before the real estate market’s
peak in 2007, only to have to surrender some of them when its
parent company became overextended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  