-- TSA Said to Miss Deadline for Faster Military Screening
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-07-11T19:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/tsa-said-to-miss-deadline-for-faster-military-screening.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  missed a deadline imposed by Congress to let
members of the U.S. armed forces use faster security lines at
airports, the law’s author said.  “I’m telling you the intent of the law is not being
followed,” Representative Chip Cravaack, a Minnesota
Republican, said at a House Homeland Security subcommittee
hearing today, noting the agency had 180 days to implement the
mandate. “We took  Iraq  in less time.”  The law, signed by President  Barack Obama  in January,
requires expedited screening at all U.S. airports for military
personnel in uniform, carrying military ID and signed orders,
Cravaack said.  That’s enough to gain access to U.S. military
installations, so it should be enough to board a commercial
plane, said Cravaack, a former member of the Navy and airline
pilot.  Republicans in Congress have pushed TSA to speed up checks
of many passengers, saying fliers who have lower risk profiles
shouldn’t go through the same screening procedures as passengers
whom the airlines don’t know anything about.  The TSA allows military personnel to use shorter lines with
fewer screening rules at two airports,  Ronald Reagan Washington
National Airport  and Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, said
Chris McLaughlin, the agency’s assistant administrator for
security operations.  The agency won’t expand the policy to all 35 airports in
its PreCheck expedited screening program until the end of 2013,
McLaughlin said. TSA believes it’s in compliance with the law,
he said.  “We’re working hard on a daily basis to become a smarter
agency,” McLaughlin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  