-- Saab Weighs Return to Regional-Plane Market After 13-Year Hiatus
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-11T13:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/saab-weighs-return-to-regional-plane-market-after-13-year-hiatus.html
Saab AB (SAABB)  said it’s exploring a return
to the market for regional aircraft after abandoning the segment
more than a decade ago, as higher fuel prices increase demand
for turboprops.  Saab would pursue a risk-sharing partnership with a yet-to-
be-selected company from  India , Chief Executive Officer Haakan Buskhe said in an interview at the Farnborough air show outside
London. Saab ceased production of turboprops in 1999 because of
weak demand for its Saab 2000 airliners.  “We started the investigation nearly two years ago,”
Buskhe said. “It will not be a totally new aircraft and not
totally like the Saab 2000.”  The market for propeller-driven regional airliners has
rebounded in recent years, and ATR, a joint venture between
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.,
booked record order intake in 2011.  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  has also been
studying the merits of the turboprop market after it canceled
the EMB 120 Brasilia in 2001. Turboprops use a jet turbine to
turn a propeller, and most of their power comes from the
airscrew, not the engine’s thrust.  The Indian government has expressed interest in a
nationally developed regional aircraft. Saab’s best-known
product is the Gripen fighter jet, which the company has sold to
its Swedish home as well as to  South Africa  and Thailand.
Switzerland has said it wants to buy the aircraft, which is on
flying display at the air show.  Buskhe said the Indian market alone isn’t large enough to
sustain such a program, and that the aircraft would need
international interest to succeed. Saab would also want a so-
called launch customer before moving ahead, the executive said.
Saab, based in Linkoeping,  Sweden , would only pursue a new
project if the financial situation in Europe stabilizes, he
said.  “We have a fairly strong net cash position and we will not
jeopardize that,” Buskhe said. “So if we should do that we
will do it with a strong partner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  