-- Sainsbury to Examine Potential Libor-Rigging Cost, Chairman Says
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-07-11T14:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/sainsbury-to-examine-potential-libor-rigging-cost-chairman-says.html
J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  Chairman David Tyler
said the U.K.’s third-largest grocery chain will assess whether
its borrowing costs have been affected by the attempted
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate.  “It’s the right thing for me to look at, like any
responsible company,” Tyler, 59, said in an interview at
Sainsbury’s annual meeting of  shareholders  in London today.
“It’s very unlikely we’ve been affected because most of our
funding is on another basis, but of course it’s the right thing
to check.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank, last month
was fined 290 million pounds ($451 million) in the U.K. and U.S.
for attempting to manipulate Libor, the global benchmark for
$360 trillion of securities including mortgages and other loans.
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  are among the firms regulators are
investigating.  The grocer has various agreements that are linked to Libor,
which could mean the company was undercharged or overcharged,
Tyler said. Corporate loans typically pay interest pegged to
Libor or its equivalents in other currencies, and swaps
agreements used in hedging can also reference the benchmark.  Libor and Euribor, it’s equivalent in euros, are calculated
using a survey of banks’ daily estimates of how much it would
cost them to borrow from one another for different time frames
and in different currencies.  Sainsbury said in May it ended its fiscal year on March 17
with about 2 billion pounds of debt.  “We have only heard about one bank so far. How many banks
are being investigated by the authorities both sides of the
Atlantic?” Tyler said. “We have to be careful not to rush to
judgment about exactly what’s happened on the basis of one
bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  