-- San Bernardino, California, Weighs Chapter 9 Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-07-11T01:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/san-bernardino-california-weighs-chapter-9-bankruptcy.html
San Bernardino may become the third
California city in two weeks to file for municipal  bankruptcy
protection , as it struggles with declining tax revenue, growing
employee costs and ill-timed public-works projects.  The City Council is to consider authorizing the city
attorney to file a Chapter 9 petition at a meeting late today,
said Gwendolyn Waters, a spokeswoman. A decision was possible
tonight, though unlikely, she said.  “It is an option, but I don’t know if they are ready to
make that decision yet,” Waters said in a telephone interview.  A San Bernardino bankruptcy would follow Stockton, a
community of 292,000 east of San Francisco, which on June 28
became the biggest U.S. city to file for bankruptcy. Mammoth
Lakes, a mountain resort of 8,200, filed for protection from
creditors on July 3 saying it can’t afford to pay a $43 million
judgment, more than twice its general-fund spending for the
year.  San Bernardino, a city of 209,000 east of  Los Angeles ,
faces a $45 million deficit this fiscal year, according to a
June 26  budget analysis  posted on its website. The city has
declared fiscal emergencies, negotiated for concessions from
employees and reduced its workforce by 20 percent in four years,
according to the report.  The city is facing insolvency because of accounting errors,
deficit spending, pension and debt costs, and lack of revenue
growth, according to the report.  Few Options  “Cities are running out of options,” Michael Sweet, a
partner specializing in bankruptcy at the San Francisco office
of law firm Fox Rothschild LLP, said today in a telephone
interview. “As they see pension contribution obligations and
retiree health-care costs going through the roof, revenue is at
best stable if not declining.”  San Bernardino is the seat of San Bernardino County, which
at more than 20,000 square miles, is the largest county by area
in the contiguous U.S.  San Bernardino County and neighboring Riverside County
forms a metropolitan area that had the third-highest foreclosure
rate in the U.S. in May, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an
 Irvine , California-based data provider. The area’s unemployment
rate was 11.8 percent that month, compared with 8.2 percent
nationwide, according to U.S. Labor Department data.  “The city’s reserves and discretionary funds have been
depleted, and the city faces insolvency,” San Bernardino
Interim City Manager Andrea Travis-Miller and Finance Director
Jason Simpson wrote in a June 26 memo to the council. “Simply
put, the city must now take substantial action to reduce its
spending and increase revenues.”  According to its financial statements, the city and its
agencies held $243 million of outstanding debt, including $48.6
million of taxable pension-obligation bonds outstanding. The
city’s debt per person was $1,506 or $5.37 percent of personal
income. San Bernardino had $200 million of outstanding general-
obligation bonds, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  