-- San Bernardino Third California City to Choose Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-07-12T00:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/san-bernardino-third-california-city-to-choose-bankruptcy.html
San Bernardino’s City Council voted
to become the third California municipality this year to seek
 bankruptcy protection  after officials learned they may not have
enough cash to pay workers.  The council last night voted 4 to 2, with one abstention,
to authorize a filing under Chapter 9 of U.S. bankruptcy law.
The city of 209,000, about 65 miles (105 kilometers) east of  Los
Angeles , is so broke it can’t cover its payroll, interim City
Manager Andrea Travis-Miller said.  San Bernardino would follow Stockton, a community of
292,000 east of San Francisco, which on June 28 became the
biggest U.S. city to enter bankruptcy. Mammoth Lakes, a mountain
resort of 8,200, sought court protection from creditors July 3
saying it can’t pay $43 million owed on a legal judgment, more
than twice its general-fund spending for the year.  Declining tax revenue, growing worker costs, accounting
discrepancies and an  unemployment rate  in the metropolitan area
of almost 12 percent helped propel San Bernardino toward court.  “If the employees are not paid on Aug. 15, on Aug. 16
there will be a mass exodus of city employees,” City Attorney
James Penman told the council before the vote.  “People are not going to work when they don’t get paid,”
he said. “Most of our employees will not show up to work. That
would include police, fire, refuse, everybody. The city will
virtually shut down.”  Payment Suspension  Under Chapter 9, San Bernardino could suspend payments to
creditors while it seeks court approval for a plan that balances
revenue with debt. Travis-Miller said a filing could take a
month to prepare.  Taxable Build America Bonds sold by the San Bernardino
Joint Powers Financing Authority in December 2010 and maturing
in 2030 traded today at a record average yield of almost 11
percent, up from 7 percent yesterday, before falling back to
average about 9.5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  General-obligation debt from state and local California
issuers yielded 1.02 percentage points more than top-grade
securities on average today, after reaching 1.04 percentage
points yesterday, matching the most since Jan. 12, according to
Bloomberg Fair Value indexes.  “When you’ve got headlines like this, it creates anxiety
for investors,”  Robert Miller , a senior portfolio manager in
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , for Wells Capital Management, which
oversees about $30 billion in munis, said today by telephone.  ‘Higher Rates’  Buyers of bonds sold by California issuers “are going to
require higher rates of return, especially at the local level,”
he said.  Confronting a $45 million shortfall, San Bernardino also
faces insolvency because of deficit spending, pension and debt
costs, and a lack of revenue growth, according to a June 26
 budget analysis  posted on the city’s website. Officials have
declared fiscal emergencies, negotiated for concessions from
employees and reduced the workforce by 20 percent in four years.  “Reorganization may be the only way to keep the city of
San Bernardino on life support,” said Wendy McCammack, one of
the seven council members. “This is the hardest decision this
councilwoman has ever had to make.”  A law signed by Governor  Jerry Brown  that took effect this
year requires municipalities to pursue mediation or declare a
fiscal emergency before seeking bankruptcy protection. Public-
employee unions pressed for the law after Vallejo, a city of
120,000 in the San Francisco Bay area, went bankrupt in 2008 and
asked the court to let it void labor contracts.  ‘Economic Strains’  It isn’t clear whether San Bernardino would need to go
through mediation.  “The specific municipalities that are pursuing Chapter 9
are the cases where longstanding economic strains, in many cases
reaching back to early 1990s, created the underlying fiscal
stress,” Trident Municipal Research, which tracks the $3.7
trillion muni market from  New York , said today in a note to
clients. Plunging  home prices  and the state’s fiscal challenges
drove the communities “past the tipping point into crisis,”
the firm said.  Penman, the city attorney, said during the council meeting
that former municipal employees had understated the extent of
San Bernardino’s fiscal woes in “falsified” reports over the
past 16 years. He declined to name anyone.  Mayor Patrick Morris, who took office in 2006, said it was
the first time he’d heard such allegations.  “This is a wholesale indictment of all of the officials
who have served over a number of years,” Morris said in an
interview. “It’s new information to me.”  Home Foreclosures  The city is the seat of San Bernardino County, which at
more than 20,000 square miles is the largest, by area, in the
contiguous U.S.  With neighboring Riverside County, the two form a
metropolitan area that had the third-highest foreclosure rate in
the U.S. in May, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an  Irvine ,
California-based data provider. The area’s jobless rate was 11.8
percent that month, compared with 8.2 percent nationwide,
according to U.S. Labor Department data.  The city and its agencies have $243 million of debt,
including $48.6 million of taxable pension-obligation bonds,
according to financial statements. Per-person debt was $1,506,
or 5.4 percent of personal income.  Late today,  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its  credit rating  on
the city’s lease revenue bonds 12 steps to CC, or “junk”
status, from BBB+, third-lowest investment grade, saying San
Bernardino has depleted its cash, which could impair its ability
pay its bills. It put the credit on watch for future cuts.  “Cities are running out of options,” Michael Sweet, a
bankruptcy specialist at the  San Francisco  office of law firm
Fox Rothschild LLP, said by telephone. “As they see pension-
contribution obligations and retiree health-care costs going
through the roof, revenue is at best stable if not declining.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  