-- Sands China in Talks to Delay Parcel 3 Macau Resort Deadline
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-07-12T02:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/sands-china-in-talks-to-delay-parcel-three-macau-resort-deadline.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  is seeking
more time to build a planned casino resort in Macau that has yet
to break ground less than a year from the deadline for its
completion under a government land permit.  The casino operator’s subsidiary,  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , is in
talks to get an extension of the April 2013 time limit the
government set to develop a plot called Parcel Three after
granting property to build the resort, Melina Leong, a
spokeswoman for the company said in a phone interview. The
company said in a May U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission
filing that it planned to seek the extension.  The deadline shows the hurdles facing casino operators as
they expand in Macau, where gambling industry growth is slowing
and officials control decisions on casino property. Sands rivals
 Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883) ,  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  and  MGM China
Holdings Ltd. (2282)  are also awaiting land grants or government
approvals for construction on the city’s Cotai strip.  “There is no way that Sands is going to meet the
deadline,” said Grant Govertsen, an analyst at Union Gaming
Group LLC. “It takes three years to build an integrated
resort.”  Sands  China  fell 3.5 percent to HK$22.30 at 10:40 a.m. Hong
Kong time compared with a 1.7 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index . SJM dropped 0.8 percent and MGM China declined 2.4
percent.  The newest hotel on Parcel Three would be Sands’ biggest
project after opening the $5 billion Cotai Central resort in
April in the world’s largest gambling hub.  Macau  officials in
2010 rejected Sands’ application to develop two other plots and
the company last month said it withdrew its appeal of the
decision.  Sands’s Parcel Three resort would boost the company’s
presence on Cotai, a strip of reclaimed land where casino
operators are adding resorts to draw more of the Chinese
tourists who boosted Macau’s revenue 42 percent last year.  Cotai Expansion  In a May regulatory  filing  with the U.S. Securities &
Exchange Commission, Las Vegas Sands said it would apply for an
extension as it would be unable to meet the April deadline.
Leong via e-mail confirmed the company still wants the added
time and declined to say what the status of any government
discussions were.  It’s “almost certain that the company will get the
extension,” Govertsen said.  If the extension is not approved, the company could have to
take a charge for some or all of its $96.7 million in
capitalized construction costs and land premiums as of March 31,
2012, Las Vegas Sands said in the May filing.  The company was initially required to complete the
development by August 2011 and the Macau government has already
given it one extension, according to the regulatory filing.  “There may even be some upside surprises if Sands manages
to finish the Parcel Three project by 2016,” said Govertsen.  Land-Grant Hurdles  Melco Crown Entertainment needs government approval to
start construction on its Studio City project. Hong Kong
billionaire  Stanley Ho ’s SJM and MGM China are also waiting for
land grants to build on Cotai.  The Macau government usually gives land concessions to
casino operators for an initial term of 25 years. The Sands
filing says the company is required to pay premiums for each
parcel as well as annual rent.  Sands and its competitors are expanding as growth in the
former Portuguese colony slows and China’s expansion cools.
Macau casino gambling revenue rose 7.3 percent in May, the
weakest monthly expansion since July 2009. The hub’s June casino
revenue rose 12 percent.  Cotai Central opened in April with 1,800 hotel rooms and is
set to expand eventually to 6,400 rooms, with stores,
restaurants and meeting space.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  