-- Sandfire Proves Cheaper Copper Target on Profit: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-07-12T08:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/sandfire-proves-cheaper-copper-target-on-profit-real-m-a.html
Australia ’s  Sandfire Resources NL (SFR) ,
which produces higher quality ore than the world’s largest
copper mine, is now the industry’s cheapest takeover target in
 Asia  as it starts to generate revenue.  The Perth-based company has begun to ship copper at its
DeGrussa mine just three years after its discovery and yesterday
traded at  5.6 times  estimated earnings for the current fiscal
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s lower than
every other copper producer in the Asia-Pacific region with a
market value of more than $500 million and cheaper than 86
percent of Sandfire’s global rivals, the data show.  Sandfire, which analysts project will  turn a profit  this
year for the first time since its initial public offering almost
a decade ago, may now attract interest from  Antofagasta (ANTO)  Plc and
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , according to Patersons
Securities Ltd. and StockAnalysis. Patersons said buyers would
have to pay about 40 percent more than Sandfire’s $1.1 billion
market value to control the DeGrussa mine’s ore, which has an
average  copper concentration  more than four times that of the
minerals extracted at the world’s largest copper mine in  Chile .  “Sandfire has something that’s quite special,” Simon Tonkin, a Perth-based analyst at Patersons, said in a telephone
interview. “They have some of the highest copper grades in the
world. Because they’ve got such a good asset, they should be
trading at some sort of premium. It could be a good time for
someone” to buy them, he said.  ‘Major Discovery’  Sandfire fell 1.3 percent to A$6.87 a share in Sydney
today. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index was down 0.7 percent.  Nicholas Read, a spokesman for the company at Read
Corporate in Perth, declined to comment on the prospect of a
takeover.  When Sandfire sold shares to the public in March 2004, it
described itself as looking for a “major discovery” in gold,
copper, lead, zinc or silver. Eight years, and  four additional 
share sales later, the company began copper ore production at
its DeGrussa mine, 559 miles north of Perth, in February.  OZ Minerals Ltd. (OZL) , owner of the Prominent Hill copper-gold
mine in  South Australia , bought about  19 percent  of Sandfire in
July 2010 for A$100 million ($103 million), calling it a
“strategic investment.” Nancy Bellistri, a spokeswoman for OZ
Minerals, said it doesn’t comment on takeover speculation.  DeGrussa, which was discovered in 2009, made its first
shipment of copper ore in May and has the potential to produce
nearly 80,000 metric tons of the metal used in tubes and
electrical wiring each year,  according to  Sandfire.  Analysts estimate Sandfire had revenue of  A$32 million  in
the year that ended last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales will rise to A$547 million this fiscal year,
while Sandfire will post net income of A$186 million as DeGrussa
shipments start, analysts project.  ‘Pretty Dire’  “Before this discovery, the situation was looking pretty
dire,” Gareth James, a Sydney-based analyst at Morningstar
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “They’ve got the project
from discovery to production very quickly and on budget, and
that reflects well on the company. This is a pretty decent
copper asset.”  Sandfire’s shares retreated 18 percent from their  all-time
high  in August to A$6.96 yesterday as copper prices declined.
That left Sandfire trading at 5.6 times estimated earnings for
the fiscal year ending in 2013, less than every copper producer
in Asia with a market value of more than $500 million. The
multiple compares with an average of 8.7 times for 22 copper
miners globally, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Extraordinary Deposit’  A high concentration of copper in the ore body and the
potential for more high-grade discoveries are selling points for
the DeGrussa mine, according to Peter Strachan, a resources
analyst at Perth-based StockAnalysis. DeGrussa has an average
copper grade of 5 percent during the life of the mine, compared
with an average grade of 1.18 percent in the year through June
2011 at Escondida, the world’s largest copper mine located in
Chile, according to its operator  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BLT)   With copper selling for $3.40 a pound, Sandfire will
produce the metal at a cost of $1 a pound, cheaper than 75
percent of producers, according to a June company presentation.  “It is an extraordinary deposit by grade,” said Strachan.
“It’s likely that as Sandfire goes down and does exploratory
drilling, they will find more.”  Sandfire plans to start shipping concentrate in the fourth
quarter and said in May that discussions for sales agreements
were “well advanced.” Meanwhile, larger copper producers face
declining grades of ore as their mines age. Copper production at
BHP’s Escondida fell  8 percent  last year because of lower ore
grades.  ‘Strong Argument’  Demand may increase in the second half of the year as
 China , the world’s biggest consumer of metals, boosts economic
growth with fiscal stimulus measures. Copper will climb to $3.80
a pound in 2013, according to the median of 11 analysts’
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Copper grades around the world are declining,”
Morningstar’s James said. “There’s a very strong argument for
copper going forward. In that context, you can see why people
would be interested in a copper mine in a very low-risk location
such as Australia.”  The threat to global economic growth and copper demand from
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis may be enough to deter acquirers,
according to Katana Asset Management Ltd.’s Matthew Ward.
Smaller potential buyers may also find it difficult to raise
funds to buy Sandfire, while larger suitors may prefer a bigger
project than DeGrussa with a longer life, he said.  “It’s got a fantastic grade, but the deposit as it stands
at the moment is small,” said Ward, who helps manage about A$40
million at Perth-based Katana. “Its life is limited. So who is
going to buy it?”  ‘Almost Inconceivable’  Still, Sandfire is looking beyond DeGrussa. It owns 17
percent of  White Star Resources Ltd., (WSR)  a Perth-based company with
a market value of A$7 million that’s searching for copper and
gold in northern Chile. Sandfire has also said it’s exploring in
the Northern Territory, Queensland and New South Wales, and is
seeking more deposits near DeGrussa.  “If someone were to come and buy it, they think they’re
going to find more,” Jo Battershill, a Sydney-based resources
analyst with UBS AG, said in a phone interview. “It’s almost
inconceivable to believe that in four years’ time, the mine will
only have a four-year mine life left.”  Rather than its limited potential, DeGrussa’s mine life of
at least seven years reflects the fact that Sandfire has focused
on developing its existing resources instead of expanding its
reserves, Strachan said. Copper deposits typically occur in
clusters, Sandfire  says .  Mount Isa  “The upside there in the region is quite spectacular,”
said Strachan. “The whole region could turn out to be another
Mount Isa,” he said, referring to one of the largest
underground mining operations in the world.  Owned by  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the Mount Isa mine in Australia’s Far
North Queensland produces copper, zinc, lead and silver, and has
been in operation  since 1924 .  OZ Minerals, already Sandfire’s largest shareholder, is
“actively looking” to buy assets globally, Chief Executive
Officer Terry Burgess said in April. Still, Strachan and
Katana’s Ward said a takeover of Sandfire may be beyond the
reach of the Melbourne-based company, which had  A$886 million  in
cash at the end of December and a market value of A$2.3 billion
as of yesterday.  Instead, Antofagasta, the copper producer that’s  controlled 
by Chile’s Luksic family with a market value of  $16.6 billion ,
may be able to win over Sandfire shareholders by offering a
premium as small as 25 percent, Strachan said.  “For Antofagasta, this could be a good way to get their
foot on the ground in Australia,” he said. “A very strong foot
on the ground, an established business.”  Antofagasta, Freeport  Antofagasta CEO  Marcelo Awad  said in a March 2011 interview
the company planned to make acquisitions outside Chile. He said
the company could “easily” access cash and would consider
“early stage” projects as well as existing operations. The
company struck a strategic alliance in November with  Monax
Mining Ltd. (MOX)  to explore for copper in South Australia.  A spokesman for Antofagasta declined to comment on whether
the company would be interested in Sandfire.  Sandfire is more likely to lure a North American buyer such
as Phoenix-based Freeport, the world’s largest publicly traded
copper miner, according to Patersons’ Tonkin. Any suitor would
likely have to pay a 40 percent premium for a high-grade
producer such as Sandfire, he said.  Freeport CEO Richard Adkerson said in an interview last
April that the company was prepared to make acquisitions.  Eric Kinneberg , a spokesman for Freeport, declined to
comment on whether it wants to buy Sandfire.  Minmetals Resources  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) ’s CEO Andrew Michelmore said in
March that the Hong Kong-based company needs to close an
acquisition each year, including of copper assets, to meet its
growth targets. The publicly traded unit of China’s biggest
metals trader had $1 billion in cash at the end of December,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Minmetals doesn’t comment on market speculation, Sally Cox,
a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-
mail.  Investors aren’t yet giving Sandfire the credit it deserves
for its  earnings  potential, said UBS’s Battershill.  “Every copper producer in the world is saying they want
more copper producers,” Battershill said. “Most people would
probably agree that based on the current share price, based on
that scenario, it looks a little bit cheap at the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 