-- Saudi Arabia Weighs Annual Budget to Boost Clean Energy
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/saudi-arabia-weighs-annual-budget-to-boost-clean-energy.html
Saudi Arabia  is weighing whether the
state should allocate an annual budget for clean energy instead
of setting above-market rates for developments, the nation’s
only environmental research group said.  Faisal Bin Turki AlFaisal, president of the Global
Strategic Studies Institute, said a feed-in tariff guaranteeing
a premium for solar and wind power probably wouldn’t work in
Saudi Arabia’s closed economy, where energy costs paid by
consumers are subsidized.  “You should take the price of oil, calculate how much is
being lost in domestic use and add it to the budget and then
allocate an annual budget for renewables,” said AlFaisal, 37,
who is the son of Saudi Arabia’s former U.S. and U.K.
ambassador. “It’s something we’ve been pushing for very
strongly, and which people I talk to say is being discussed. I
hope decisions will start being made soon.”  Saudi Arabia in May said it’s looking for $109 billion in
investment to create a solar power industry that generates a
third of the nation’s electricity by 2032, helping reduce
domestic consumption of oil that it would prefer to export.  Oil sold for domestic power generation and transportation
needs currently fetches about $5 a barrel, below the almost $100
a barrel it can be sold for on international markets, AlFaisal
said in an interview in London. He estimated domestic oil
consumption will rise to 8 million barrels a day by 2045 from 2
million to 2.5 million barrels currently without change.  Solar Speculation  AlFaisal’s comments are among the first from within the
kingdom to sketch out how ministers may manage its shift toward
using more  renewable energy . The King Abdullah City for Atomic
and Renewable Energy, a government-backed agency established to
oversee the country’s renewable energy strategy, said on May 11
it plans to start a tender targeting mainly solar and wind power
projects early in 2013.  Currently, Saudi Arabia has only a few small-scale solar
projects. It gets all of its energy from oil and natural gas
produced by its own fields and none from renewables, coal,
nuclear or hydropower, according to  BP Plc (BP/)  statistics. Energy
demand in the country is growing at about 6 percent a year,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “There is a lot of buzz around solar,” AlFaisal said.
“I’ve been contacted by so many solar companies looking at
coming to Saudi, so there is a lot of speculation that something
is going to happen soon -- I’d say within this year.”  Renewables Budget  An annual budget for renewables would differ from the feed-
in tariffs that  Germany ,  Spain ,  Italy ,  France  and Britain
offered to spur solar and wind power in their nations.  Germany was first to introduce the feed-in tariff in 2004
and became the world’s biggest market for solar because of the
subsidy, which is paid for by consumers through their power
bills. In recent years it’s been ratcheting back the level of
support after a boom in installations. A budget would mean the
state would pay directly for solar projects, requesting bids
from companies to build projects.  Initially projects will likely be “big, massive” utility
scale solar projects rather than the smaller rooftop units,
AlFaisal said. The country is aiming to install about 25
gigawatts of solar thermal generation by 2032 and 16 gigawatts
of solar photovoltaic facilities. It’s planning 9 gigawatts of
wind, 3 gigawatts of biomass and 1 gigawatt of geothermal power.  Companies including  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) ,  Centrotherm
Photovoltaics AG (CTN)  and Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K., a Japanese
refiner, have expressed an interest in or are planning to work
in the region.  Deals Planned  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank, expects to see
opportunities in Saudi Arabia start to come through within the
coming months, Jaume Pujol, managing director and head of
European renewables for HSBC, said by phone in London.  “We would expect that in the next 12 to 18 months our
activity in the country will increase,” Pujol said. “It’s
quite a promising market. All the regulators have to do now is
set out the frame so that investors can be attracted to the
market and start investing in the region.”  The country will likely follow a South African model for
implementing renewable energy generation, Pujol said, running
competitive bids for the authorization of new megawatts based on
lowest tariff and the local level of involvement.  Water desalination, the process of turning seawater into
fresh water, is a “big, big issue” for Saudi Arabia and an
area where solar can thrive, said AlFaisal. The nation’s Saline
Water Conversion Company plans to convert all desalination
plants to solar by 2050, representing an investment of about
$26.7 billion, according to ERAS Consulting Ltd. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  