-- HSBC to Apologize at Hearing on Money Laundering, Memo Shows
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-07-11T03:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/hsbc-s-gulliver-to-apologize-at-senate-hearing-memo-says-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  will apologize at
a July 17 U.S. Senate hearing for anti-money laundering controls
that weren’t effective enough, according to an internal memo
obtained by Bloomberg News.  “We failed to spot and deal with unacceptable behavior,”
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said in the note sent to
employees yesterday, referring to the period between 2004 and
2010. “It is right that we be held accountable and that we take
responsibility for fixing what went wrong.”  Europe’s largest bank will be questioned by U.S. lawmakers
about two weeks after a record fine was levied against  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  for rigging interest rates and its ex-CEO  Robert Diamond  was
grilled in the U.K.  HSBC (5) , which has doubled spending on
compliance since 2010 to curtail illicit money transfers, may
also face a “hefty fine,” Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. said.  “The real issue here is that the U.S. agencies have cited
HSBC several times for being deficient at  money-laundering 
practices as long ago as 2003,” Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Mizuho, said by telephone today. “Nine years later,
the situation is apparently not yet under control.”  U.S. prosecutors may take criminal or civil enforcement
measures involving the London-based bank amid an investigation
into terrorist funding, HSBC said in February. The lender has
more than tripled the size of a U.S. compliance team and said it
will exit businesses it sees as too risky.  Improving Compliance  Gareth Hewett, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for the lender,
declined to comment on the contents of the memo. The bank has
been “fully cooperating” with the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations and with U.S. regulators on the
issue, and next week’s testimony will include a discussion of
measures taken by HSBC to improve compliance, he said.  Shares of HSBC were little changed at HK$67.65 as of 11:39
a.m. local time in  Hong Kong  trading. The stock has gained 15
percent this year, surpassing the 5 percent advance in the
equity benchmark Hang Seng Index.  HSBC’s North American units reached agreements in 2010 with
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal
Reserve Board to make changes to comply with a U.S. law that
combats money laundering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  