-- Sequoia’s Moritz Donates $117 Million to Oxford
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-11T14:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/sequoia-s-moritz-donates-117-million-to-oxford.html
Michael Moritz, a venture capitalist
who was an early backer of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , and his wife will give
75 million pounds ($117 million) to  Oxford University  to fund
scholarships.  The donation is the biggest gift to support undergraduate
education in European history, according to the university,
which held a presentation today at the Royal Society in  London .
The scholarships will help Oxford attract low-income students as
U.K. tuition fees are tripling.  Moritz, who was born in Wales, is chairman of  Sequoia
Capital , a  Menlo Park , California-based venture capital firm
that has also invested in Yahoo! Inc. and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  Moritz
and his wife, author Harriet Heyman, donated $50 million in 2008
to Oxford’s Christ Church College, which Moritz attended. The
idea for today’s gift came from Oxford Vice Chancellor Andrew Hamilton, who discussed the financial concerns of low-income
students at a San Francisco fundraiser, Moritz said.  “We felt very strongly that it was too easy for people to
forget about high school students for whom life could too easily
be derailed,” Moritz said in an interview yesterday in his
suite at  Claridge’s Hotel . “This is a way to ignite thousands
of lights that might otherwise be extinguished.”  The gift will serve 100 students in its first year,
starting with this year’s incoming class, Hamilton said today.  Moritz’s Father  Moritz said he was inspired to support undergraduate
education because his father was a beneficiary of scholarships.
A Jew from Munich, his father was sent to the U.K. by his
parents in 1936 to escape the Nazis and he attended  St. Paul’s
School  and Oxford. He became a professor of classics at the
University of Cardiff, Moritz said.  An uncle and cousin also received scholarships and went on
to positions of prominence, he said.  “There was no way any of these then-children could have
done any of this without the incredible kindness and generosity
of strangers,” Moritz said.  After studying history at Oxford, Moritz became a reporter
for  Time  magazine, first in  Detroit  and then in the Bay Area,
where he developed contacts in Silicon Valley, he said. He co-
founded VentureWire, a news service that covered  venture
capital , in 1984, and joined Sequoia Capital in 1986.  In May, Moritz said he is suffering from “a rare medical
condition which can be managed but is incurable.” His donation
wasn’t related to his illness, he said yesterday.  ‘Less Fortunate’  Moritz and Heyman’s gift will be used as part of a matching
challenge designed to raise 300 million pounds. His funds will
be donated in allotments of 25 million pounds, which will be
matched from the endowment, to create a sum of 50 million. That
50 million will then be used to attract another 50 million in
matching gifts from other donors. Once 100 million pounds in
total has been raised, Moritz will release the next 25 million.  The goal is to create “an organism in perpetuity that will
finance the path of people from less fortunate backgrounds,” he
said.  The money will be used to eliminate the fees for room and
board and reduce the tuition from 9,000 pounds to 3,500 pounds
for more than half of Oxford’s low-income undergraduates in the
program’s first three years. Oxford has about 1,000
undergraduates, or a 10th of the total, whose families make less
than 16,000 pounds a year.  “I hope that today marks the day from which every
headmistress, every headmaster, every teacher throughout the
 United Kingdom  understands that there is no obstacle whatsoever
for any of their students, any pupil who has the academic
ability and talent to merit a place at Oxford, to gain a
place,” Moritz said today.  Subsidy Cuts  Oxford, along with all public universities in  England , is
facing reductions in the subsidies it receives from the
government for teaching. In 2012-2013, the funds will be cut 21
percent, to 43.4 million pounds. In return, the government has
raised the tuition universities can charge to 9,000 pounds a
year, an increase from 3,465 pounds last year.  Oxford is the oldest university in the English-speaking
world, with the first teaching in the city recorded around 1096.
Its alumni include 26 prime ministers, 20 archbishops of
Canterbury and 12 saints.  Adam Smith , William Penn,  Cecil Rhodes 
and  Rupert Murdoch  all attended Oxford.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net 
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  