-- Shell Gets Conditional Alberta Approval for Carbon-Capture Plan
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-07-11T19:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/shell-gets-conditional-alberta-approval-for-carbon-capture-plan.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
biggest oil company, received conditional approval from
 Alberta ’s energy regulator for a carbon capture and storage
project planned north of Edmonton.  A panel concluded it’s in the public interest for Shell’s
Quest project to move ahead, Alberta’s Energy Resources
Conservation Board said in a  statement  posted on its website and
dated yesterday. The site is suited to long-term carbon-dioxide
storage, and the proposal mitigates potential risks, the board
said.  Quest is designed to capture and permanently store
underground more than 1 million tons of the greenhouse gas a
year from the Scotford upgrader near Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta,
Shell said in an e-mailed statement today. The Hague-based
company said Quest is moving ahead on behalf of the Athabasca
Oil Sands Project, of which Shell has a 60 percent stake and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  each control 20 percent.  “This is a really important and exciting milestone for the
project and takes us one step closer to implementing the first
CCS project for an oil-sands operation,” John Abbott, Shell’s
executive vice president of heavy oil, said in the statement.  The decision by Alberta’s energy regulator positions the
partners to make an  investment decision  this year on whether to
proceed with the project, Shell said.  The Alberta approval has 23 conditions, mostly related to
data collection, analysis and reporting, according to the energy
board, and Shell has to get separate approvals for any additions
to the project. The board said it will refer the application to
Alberta’s environment ministry, which may add conditions.  In June 2011,  Canada  said Shell and its partners were in
line to receive C$865 million ($847 million) in government
funding over 15 years for the Quest project. The province of
Alberta said it would contribute C$745 million, with Canada
providing the rest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at   tinadavis@bloomberg.net  