-- Ship-Scrapping Prices Plunge in Buyer’s Market: Freight
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-11T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/ship-scrapping-prices-plunge-in-buyer-s-market-freight.html
Scrap prices for dry-bulk ships have
plunged 13 percent in the past year as oversupply and
unprofitable charter rates prompt owners to demolish vessels at
a record pace.  Shipbreakers paid about $425 a ton for commodity carriers
last month, compared with $490 a year earlier, based on  Clarkson (CKN) 
Plc data. The tonnage sold in the first half rose 25 percent
from a year earlier to 16.2 million tons, according to Clarkson,
the world’s biggest shipbroker.  A 34 percent surge in fuel prices over the past two years
has spurred scrapping as older vessels tend to consume more oil
than newer ones. Prices have been further cut by the rupee’s
plunge in the past year, the worst among Asian currencies. India
vies with China as the world’s largest market for shipbreaking.  “Owners haven’t got any option other than to scrap,” said
Darren Lepper, a sales and purchase specialist at the London-
based shipbroker. “It can definitely be deemed as a buyer’s
market.”  Panamax vessels, the largest to transit the Panama Canal,
have led the jump in scrapping with 56 sold for demolition in
the first half compared with 38 a year earlier, according to
Clarkson. The tonnage sold has risen 33 percent to 3.37 million
tons.  Older vessels “just cost too much” to operate, said
Jayendu Krishna, a senior manager at Drewry Maritime Services in
Singapore. “It’s better for the shipping company to scrap” as
such ships are also unlikely to comply with current regulations
for ballast water and carbon emissions.  Panamax Ships  The surge in scrapping hasn’t revived charter rates as 192
new Panamax ships were delivered in the first half, according to
Clarkson. The total fleet stood at 2,163 at the start of July.
Another 767 Panamax ships are also on order.  That glut has caused rates for Panamax, which hold between
60,000 tons to 80,000 tons of cargo, to fall 28 percent to
$9,252 a day this year, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
 London . Panamax ships need to return $12,900 daily to break even
and cover operating and finance costs, excluding fuel, according
to Pareto Securities AS, an Oslo investment bank.  Freight forward agreements show rates no higher than $9,150
a day by the end of the year, according to data from Clarkson
Securities Ltd.  The slump in rates may cause scrapping for all types of
dry-bulk ships to reach about 32 million tons this year, said
Nicolas Duran, head of department for sales & purchase and
shipbuilding at Fearnleys Asia (Singapore) Pte.  New Tonnage  “Even with that number, it will still be very difficult to
absorb the new tonnage which is coming,” he said. In the first
half, 16.2 million tons of dry-bulk ships were sold for
demolition, according to Clarkson. The full-year tally in 2011
was 23 million tons.  Shipowners are adding to the scrapping surge by selling
younger vessels. The average age of dry-bulk ships being
scrapped has dropped to 28.8 years from around 31.4 years in
2011, according to Citigroup Inc. Tokyo-based  Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd. (9104)  said last month that it plans to start scrapping
ships that are 15 years old rather than 23 years old. It intends
to sell as many as 10 capesizes for demolition by March-end.  The glut of ships being demolished means transaction prices
for dry bulk and other general cargo ships are likely to
fluctuate between $350 and $450 per ton for the foreseeable
future, said Jamie Dalzell, a Shanghai-based trader at Global
Marketing Systems Inc., the world’s largest cash buyer of ships.  “I would be very surprised to see the numbers go up to
$500 and beyond any time soon,” he said. If an owner rejects
current prices “there’s always another owner just around the
corner willing to sell,” he said.  Steel, Aluminum  Cash buyers purchase ships from owners and then resell them
to demolition yards. The yards break the ships up and then sell
materials such as steel, aluminum and copper, which are then
recycled and used in industries such as construction.  Lower prices for steel because of  China ’s slower growth are
squeezing shipbreakers’ margins even as they buy vessels more
cheaply. Prices for hot-rolled coil, a benchmark product, fell
0.2 percent to 4,136  yuan  ($650) a metric ton in China last
month, the lowest since July 22, 2010, according to researcher
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  Indian shipbreakers are also contending with the rupee’s 20
percent drop against the dollar, which has made vessel purchases
more expensive in their local currency. The rupee has been the
worst performer among 11 major Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg in the past year as the nation’s slowing economic
growth deterred overseas investments.  ‘No Profits’  “Even if the volumes are high, the profits are not
there,” said Abhinav Kumar, director of Ace Exim Pte., a
shipbreaker in Alang,  India . Scrapping prices generally rise
later in the year following the end of the monsoon season.  Steel demand in China also increases in the second half
because of seasonal factors, which may also help revive ship-
scrapping prices, said Jimmy Ji, a vice director, at  Taizhou
Weiye Scrapping & Rolling Co. , which breaks up ships in Jiangsu
province, China.  Still, given the slump in charter rates and the looming
supply of new ships, owners will continue selling vessels for
demolition at whatever price they can get, said Fearnleys’
Duran.  “With the huge orderbook and fleet growth, freight rates
will stay low,” he said. “As long as they do that, people will
continue scrapping.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  