-- Slovenian Banks Under Strain as Bad Loans Advance
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-07-11T11:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/slovenian-banks-under-strain-as-bad-loans-advance.html
Bad loans at Slovenian banks
advanced in April to more than 6 billion euros ($7.4 billion),
putting more pressure on the fragile banking industry, the
government’s economic institute said.  Liabilities that are unlikely to get repaid in full at
Slovenian banks, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor (KBMR)  d.d., reached 12 percent of total
banking-industry exposure, the institute in the capital
Ljubljana said in an e-mail today. Non-performing loans in the
manufacturing industry in the first four months rose more than
in all of last year, it said.  “Along with the  construction industry  and bad loans tied
to merger activity in the past, the risk of banks’ bad
liabilities spreading to other industries could further worsen
the situation in the banking system,” institute director
Bostjan Vasle said, according to the statement.  Economists from  London  to Warsaw have said the former
Yugoslav republic will probably join Greece, Ireland,  Portugal ,
 Spain  and Cyprus in asking for assistance to prop up its ailing
banking industry. Finance Minister Janez Sustersic said in
Brussels yesterday that the domestic banking system “isn’t
endangered and we are not considering any aid.”  Slovenian banks are relying on loans from the  European
Central Bank  for liquidity as surging borrowing costs for the
state limit their wholesale funding options.  The yield on the benchmark bond rose above 7 percent
earlier this week when officials sought to ease concern that
Slovenia may become the sixth euro-zone nation to seek an
international bailout.  Falling Yield  The yield on Slovenia’s 4.375 percent bond maturing in
January 2021 fell for a second day, declining 57 basis points,
or 0.57 percentage point, to 6.77 percent at 11:39 a.m. in
London.  It reached 7.38 percent on July 9, the most since Jan. 16,
based on the closing pricing, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bond price rose 32.11 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount to 84.880.  Nations such as  Greece  and Spain were forced to ask for
international aid after the yield on their benchmark bonds
surged to over 7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  