-- Smartphones Are the New Ticket Machines as Metro-North Tests App
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-07-11T15:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/smartphones-are-the-new-ticket-machines-as-metro-north-tests-app.html
Commuters on Metro-North Railroad,
the nation’s busiest rail line, will soon be able to buy and
display tickets on their smartphones if a pilot program proves
successful.  Workers will begin trying the mobile-ticketing application
next month,  New York ’s  Metropolitan Transportation Authority ,
which operates the railroad, said in a statement today. The app
will be expanded to customers if the test goes smoothly, the
agency said without specifying a date, and will be offered on
iPhones, Androids and Blackberrys.  “We are as excited to begin testing the next generation
ticket-selling technology as we were when we introduced ticket
vending machines a quarter of a century ago,” Metro-North
President Howard Permut said in the statement. “The latest test
is intended to ensure that the newest technology will be equally
easy to use, as well as secure and reliable.”  The MTA is working with the U.S. branch of London-based
Masabi Ltd., which developed the mobile-phone ticketing
technology used by 13 transit agencies in the U.K.. Masabi is
also working with the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority
to introduce a similar system this year.  “Smartphones have the potential to transform the public
transit systems across the  United States ,” Giacomo Biggiero,
Director of Masabi US Ltd., said in the statement. “Passengers
will be able to quickly and easily find, buy and display tickets
on their phones wherever they are without having to worry about
carrying cash or waiting in line.”  Masabi’s technology also supports contactless “near-field
communications,” which allows tickets to be checked or gates
opened when phones are waved over a sensor.  That technology, though not yet widely used, is similar to
a New Jersey Transit program that lets some commuters pay for
fares using sensors set up by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  The third-largest U.S.
transit system became the first to partner with the company on
its Google Wallet “tap-and-pay” system last year, joining
retailers including The Container Store,  Foot Locker  and Macy’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  