-- Solar Companies to Tap U.S. Funds Halted Since Solyndra
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-07-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/solar-companies-to-tap-u-s-funds-halted-since-solyndra.html
Two solar manufacturers are
preparing to tap financing from the U.S. Energy Department under
the same loan-guarantee program that backed the failed Solyndra
LLC and Abound Solar Inc.  1366 Technologies Inc. and SoloPower Inc., which qualified
for guarantees last year, are working to meet milestones needed
to access the credit and may receive approval as early as the
end of this year, executives at the two companies said. That
would be the first funding disbursed to U.S. solar manufacturers
since Solyndra’s September bankruptcy filing that spotlighted
President  Barack Obama ’s support for the program.  The bankruptcies of half the solar manufacturers that
received loan guarantees generated congressional inquiries into
the program and raised questions from Republican lawmakers about
the influence White House officials had in lining up funds.
Those failures won’t prevent the government from honoring other
guarantees, said  Damien LaVera , a spokesman for the Energy
Department.  “As long as they meet the terms and conditions of their
agreement, including milestones, they can expect to receive
funding as agreed,” LaVera said in an e-mail.  New Criticisms  The Energy Department program was designed to support
innovation at companies developing new energy technologies, and
not every recipient is expected to succeed, LaVera said.  House
Republicans  proposed a bill yesterday that would bar the agency
from issuing additional loan guarantees.  The department has provided almost $35 billion in loans,
loan guarantees and conditional commitments to clean-energy
companies. About 35 percent of that is for solar power-
generating projects, compared with less than 4 percent for solar
manufacturers, LaVera said. The remainder went to support wind,
geothermal, biofuel, electric vehicles and other ventures.  The Energy Department’s plan to continue funding solar
manufacturers will trigger new criticisms of Obama’s energy
strategy during an election year, said Ben Cole, a spokesman for
the  Institute for Energy Research , a free-market analysis group
in  Washington .  “This program has been particularly wasteful of taxpayer
money and the administration should freeze additional payouts
until Congress concludes their investigation,” Cole said in an
interview. “We shouldn’t be throwing good money after bad.”  Solyndra took $527 million in loans from the program.
Abound Solar, which filed for court protection from creditors
July 2, was awarded a $400 million loan guarantee in 2010 and
borrowed $70 million against that. The Energy Department expects
taxpayer losses of $40 million to $60 million from Abound’s
failure.  Taxpayer Money  Representative Mike Kelly, a Pennsylvania Republican and
member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee
that’s looking into the guarantee program, said loaning more
money to solar manufacturers is “foolhardy and arrogant.”  “The  Department of Energy  is flagrantly using hard-earned
taxpayer dollars to invest in a product that is simply not ready
for market,” Kelly said in an e-mailed statement.  A global oversupply and slowing demand dragged down the
 price  of solar panels by half last year, driving Solyndra and
Abound out of business. Abound suspended operations June 28.  “The Department of Energy should not continue to gamble
with taxpayer money on these risky projects,” Representative
 Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican who has led the
investigation into Solyndra’s loan guarantee, said in an e-
mailed statement.  SoloPower was awarded a $197 million guarantee to make
rolls of flexible solar panels. The company is building its
first commercial  production line  in  Portland ,  Oregon , funded in
part by $219 million in private equity and state incentives.  Accessing Funding  “We haven’t taken any DOE loan money yet, and we won’t
until we have the first line up and running,” Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Harris  said in an interview. “When that line is
hitting certain metrics, before the end of the year or first
quarter next year, we’ll take the first tranche of the DOE loan
funding.”  SoloPower’s products don’t use glass, making them lighter
than standard photovoltaic panels, he said. The  San Jose ,
California-based company is betting that will help it expand the
market for panels installed atop roofs. “Our panel really
enables that whole rooftop market, and we don’t face very direct
competition from the Chinese low-cost vendors.”  1366 Technologies won approval to borrow as much as $150
million to produce silicon wafers for solar panels. The Energy
Department established two conditions for the company to access
the funding, said Chief Executive Officer Frank van Mierlo.  Eliminating Risk  “They said first we want you to eliminate most of the
technical risk by building and operating a demonstration plant,
and then find private money to match the loan so it’s 50 percent
loan, 50 percent equity,” he said in an interview. “There’s
still some risk, but we are trying to mitigate most of the risk
before drawing on the loan.”  1366 is seeking to raise $50 million to build a
demonstration plant that may prove its technology is cheaper and
more efficient than existing  polysilicon  production methods, van
Mierlo said. The company has raised $47 million so far and he
expects the plant to be complete in the second half of 2013.  The company is using technology developed by co-founder Ely
Sachs, formerly a  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
professor, in which molten silicon is poured directly into a
wafer-shaped mold. That wastes less than half the silicon from
the conventional method of cutting wafers from ingots, 1366
said.  “We’ll be able to sell solar modules at half the current
prices and still be profitable and be truly cheaper than coal,”
van Mierlo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  