-- S. Korean President’s Brother Arrested Over Banking Scandal
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-07-11T03:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/south-korean-president-s-brother-arrested-over-banking-scandal.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s older brother was arrested and detained over a savings
bank bribery scandal, prosecutors said today.  Lee Sang Deuk, 76, who served six terms in parliament, was
taken into detention early this morning, said Choi Woon Sik,
head of the team investigating wrongdoing at savings banks.
Prosecutors can detain a suspect up to 20 days before making an
indictment, Choi said.  The arrest is a blow to President Lee and his New Frontier
Party as the campaign to elect his successor later this year
intensifies. The NFP narrowly held power in an April 11
parliamentary election after a former speaker in the National
Assembly and long-time mentor to President Lee resigned over
alleged vote-buying.  The allegations against Lee’s brother relate to receiving
illegal political donations, said Cho Won Kyoung, a judge and
spokeswoman at the Seoul Central District Court.  The elder Lee, who wasn’t contactable to provide comment
today, said on July 3 he would “faithfully participate” in
questioning by prosecutors. He declined to comment further to
reporters that day. President Lee’s office had no comment today
on the arrest, spokeswoman Lee Mi Yon said by telephone.  Prosecutors have indicted nearly 200 people and ordered at
least two jail sentences after uncovering illegal lending and
lax oversight among bankers, regulators, politicians and
lobbyists. The Financial Services Commission has closed 20
savings banks since January 2011 and more than 88,000 depositors
and bond holders have lost more than 1 trillion won ($878
million).  Customers who lost money in the savings banks’ collapse
hurled eggs at Lee as he was reporting to prosecutors for
questioning yesterday. He wasn’t hit by any of the eggs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  