-- Spain Targets First Cash From Renewables With Energy Tax
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-07-12T09:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/spain-targets-first-cash-from-renewables-with-energy-tax.html
Mariano Rajoy’s pledge to tax
utilities and power consumers signals  Spain  is planning to raise
cash from renewable energy for the first time, a blow to an
industry already struggling with subsidy cuts.  The prime minister told Parliament yesterday he’d impose a
levy to spread the expense of closing a gap between costs and
revenue in the country’s electricity business, which has racked
up debts of 25 billion euros ($31 billion). Details may be
announced as early as tomorrow after the weekly Cabinet meeting.  Extending the treasury’s net to cover wind and solar power
is part of Rajoy’s 65 billion-euro austerity package aimed at
curbing the deficit. Fund managers from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and developers are lobbying the government to
restrain the scale of the taxes, saying higher fees may tip
companies into bankruptcy.  “The new taxes that are being considered are
astronomical,” Miguel Salis, chief executive officer of Eolia
Renovables SA, a Madrid-based wind and solar farm developer.
“They represent 9 percent to 20 percent of gross revenue for
these plants, which would create several problems, including
many solar plant defaults.”  Strategy Due  Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria has said he’ll issue an
energy strategy covering nuclear and renewable power as well as
the so-called tariff-deficit gap by the middle of this year. The
final Cabinet meeting before the summer recess is July 27.  Shares in most Spanish companies with large clean energy
interests fell today.  Solaria Energia y Medio Ambiente SA  was
down 4.9 percent,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  fell 3.5 percent and  Abengoa SA (ABG) 
dropped 1.4 percent at 11 a.m. in  Madrid .  Rajoy’s remarks to Congress didn’t detail which
technologies would be hit hardest, leaving companies and
industry lobby groups to speculate on the shape of the tax and
who has the most to lose.  Spain has increased electricity prices twice this year and
now is looking to spread its austerity program to cover more
industries. The tariff deficit has been growing by about 3
billion euros a year, mainly because of the 7 billion euros paid
in clean-energy subsidies.  “Spain has an accumulated energy debt and a current
energy-tariff deficit”, Peter Sweatman, head of Madrid-based
consultancy Climate Strategy S.L., said in an interview. “The
solutions to this unsustainable problem are a mix of increased
energy prices, lower generation/connection costs and potentially
fiscal measures.”  Tax on Power  In December 2010, the government levied a tax of 50 euro
cents a megawatt-hour on traditional energy producers. While it
scaled back the number of hours in a year that renewable
developers may get subsidized rates, it hasn’t extended levies
on power generation beyond coal, oil and natural gas.
Renewables, hydroelectricity and nuclear power have been exempt.  Renewable energy lobby groups fear that an extension of
this tax will be much higher for their technologies, a second
blow this year after the government on Jan. 17 blocked new clean
energy projects.  A group of 11 international infrastructure funds including
ones managed by HSBC and Deutsche Bank wrote to ministers last
week warning they’d cut investment and take legal action if the
reforms are tougher on renewables than traditional energy. They
said a tax would only be acceptable if it’s the same for all
technologies, based on megawatt hours and not revenue.  Solar Plants  Photovoltaic and solar-thermal  power plants , which earn a
tariff as much as five times higher than wind, would be the
worst hit by a tax on revenue. There are about 4,300 megawatts
of PV capacity and almost 1,600 megawatts in solar-thermal power
in Spain, official figures show.  There’s about 40 billion euros of wind and solar power-
related debt in Spain, most of which is owned by local banks, so
an increased delinquency rate would hurt the country’s financial
system and country risk, according to Salis.  Alternatively, the government might increase the current 50
euro cents per megawatt-hour tax on traditional generators to 5
euros and expand it to include renewable energy, Exane BNP
Paribas analysts said in a research note last month.  Such an “increase in the tax cannot be legally challenged
as this tax already exists, it is an indirect tax and is non-
discriminatory by technology,” Exane BNP Paribas said.  Eliminating the tariff deficit may require further
adjustments to the electricity system, including more increases
to consumer rates and the removal of subsidies for coal.  Taxes Abroad  Other countries have already raised taxes to the power
industry as part of austerity measures. In August, Italy raised
corporate taxes to all generators, including renewable-energy
plants, by 4 percentage points for three years.  Spain’s  Unesa  lobby group, representing traditional
generators, argues that a tax that’s equal for all would leave
them with almost no profits and would hurt the companies that
produce energy more cheaply.  Most solar plants already had their revenue cut by as much
as 30 percent for the three years from December 2010 and by 10
percent indefinitely. The industry complained those measures
were retroactive and is fighting them in Spanish and
international courts. A similar measure targeting revenue could
wipe out 75 percent of equity in Spain’s renewable, according to
the Unef lobby group representing photovoltaics.  A 5-euro tax for all power generators would be acceptable
for the funds and the solar trade groups but not for the
traditional energy producers.  “This tax, which is what we heard initially, would be
logical,” said Jorge Barredo, chairman of Unef. “A tax that is
different for every technology seems illegal and discriminatory
against renewables.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  