-- Spain Bank Bailout Means Forcing Losses on Cooks, Pensioners
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-07-12T15:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/spanish-bank-bailout-means-forcing-losses-on-cooks-pensioners.html
Maribel Martinez, 51, was counting
on income from the 82,000 euros ($99,810) of savings she
invested in Bankia preferred shares two years ago after losing
her job cooking meals for nuns in a Barcelona convent.  A 1,435-euro interest payment on the 7 percent securities
failed to arrive in the family bank account on July 7, said her
husband Paco Valiente. On June 1, the group suspended 52 million
euros of payments to holders of 3 billion euros of preferred
shares sold in 2009 by  Caja Madrid , one of its founding savings
banks, after the lender restated 2011 earnings to show a 3.3
billion-euro loss.  Missed payments may be the least of Martinez’s problems as
the practice of selling preferred stock through branch networks,
after debt markets dried up in 2009, comes back to haunt banks
and their customers. Holders of preferred shares sold by rescued
lenders such as Bankia risk losing part of their capital after
European officials ruled they should absorb losses under the
terms of  Spain ’s 100 billion-euro bank bailout.  “We invested in the preferred shares trusting in the good
word of our branch manager, but our money has been effectively
sequestered,” said Valiente, 51, who also lost his job last
year. “What’s happening to our country now and people like us
makes me scared about the economy and the future.”  Burden Sharing  The memorandum of understanding on the terms of the bailout
requested by Spain on June 9 says Spanish authorities will
“require burden sharing measures from hybrid capital holders
and subordinated debt holders in banks receiving public
capital” as part of efforts to minimize the cost to taxpayers
of restructuring, according to a draft copy of the document
distributed by Spain’s  economy ministry .  As many as 686,296 retail investors held about 22.5 billion
euros of preferred shares sold by banks as of May 2011,
according to Spain’s stock market regulator, known as  CNMV . Out
of 73 issues since 1999, 23 were sold in 2009, including the
 Bankia (BKIA)  securities bought by Martinez and Valiente, as lenders
that year raised 11.4 billion euros from branch clients.  Preferred shareholders, unlike depositors, aren’t insured
by the government against losses.  After banks including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  offered investors the chance to swap out
of preferred shares into other securities, the amount
outstanding is now 7.1 billion euros, CNMV said. Spanish lenders
have 66 billion euros of outstanding subordinated and hybrid
debt, according to Bank of Spain data.  Public Apology  NCG Banco, a lender based in La Coruna, Spain, that has
43,000 customers holding 961 million euros of preferred or other
undated securities, today published an apology in Galician
newspapers.  “We apologize for having sold preferreds among individual
clients that didn’t have sufficient financial know-how, causing
them such serious problems,” according to the apology,  written 
in the Galician language and signed by Chairman Jose Maria
Castellano and Chief Executive Officer Cesar Gonzalez-Bueno.  The government has responded to mounting customer outrage
over losses linked to preferred shares by condemning the
practice by at least 18 Spanish banks of selling the securities.  Banks “acted wrongly” on preferred shares, Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  told parliament on June 27. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told a parliamentary committee on May 23 that the
notes should never have been sold to retail customers.  Risky Business  The sale of higher-yielding securities to customers used to
low-risk  bank deposits  has become a problem for the government
as Spain seeks as much as 100 billion euros of European funds to
bail out failed lenders such as Bankia, the country’s third-
biggest bank nationalized last month after taking 23.5 billion
euros of state support.  The prospectus for Bankia’s 2009 sale of preferred shares
warned of the risk of losses for investors in the securities in
“extreme” circumstances because they count as bank equity.  “Institutional investors are more than prepared for this,
but it will be more of a shock for the retail investors,” said
Michael Symonds, a financials credit analyst at Daiwa Capital
Markets in  London , referring to the risk that junior debt
holders will be made to share the burden of absorbing losses at
banks that take state aid. “It looks like the senior debt
holders will be made whole and explaining that is also going to
be a political problem.”  Budget Compensation  An official for Valencia, Spain-based Bankia declined to
comment in a phone interview.  European Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said June
26 that Spain’s government could use funds from its own budget
to compensate retail holders of bailed-out banks’ preference
shares.  The government is working on giving “trapped” retail
clients a “way out through exchange deals into more liquid and
less complex products and not only shares,” Rajoy said in
Parliament on June 27.  Spanish banks said they have sought to help investors swap
preferred shares for new securities, mostly other loss-absorbing
instruments such as shares.  Santander, Spain’s biggest lender, has swapped more than
1.9 billion euros of preferred shares for new stock and BBVA has
exchanged about 3.4 billion euros of the debt for bonds that
automatically convert into shares. BBVA shares are down 21
percent this year.  Both carried out the exchange at the full nominal value of
the preference shares.  Rescuing Themselves  Banco Mare Nostrum, based in  Madrid , is seeking to swap its
932 million euros of preferred shares for four-year deposits
paying as much as 2.65 percent, according to the CNMV.  “Banks used their depositors to rescue themselves when
institutions shunned their debt since 2008,” said Fernando Herrero, the secretary general of ADICAE, a Madrid-based
association of bank customers. “The exchange offering in most
of the cases is like having to choose between having your head
cut off or your arm.”  In February, the Bankia group announced an exchange of
about 830 million euros of preferred shares held by its parent
company for new stock in its listed Bankia SA unit. The exchange
came weeks before the government nationalized the lender after a
valuation showed the parent company had a negative value of 13.6
billion euros.  Shares of Bankia fell as much as 9.3 percent today,
extending their decline since the exchange was announced on Feb.
10 to about 80 percent.  Caja Madrid  The sale of preferred shares by the savings banks including
Caja Madrid that merged to form the Bankia group in 2010 forms
part of a fraud probe into the lender and 33 board members
including former Chairman  Rodrigo Rato  announced on July 4 by
Fernando Andreu, a judge at the National Court in Madrid.  “Forcing losses on retail investors may have repercussions
for the Spanish banks at a later stage, both by damaging their
reputation and from the potential for litigation over mis-
selling,” Carmen Munoz, a senior director at  Fitch Ratings  in
Spain, said in a statement today. “The sale of subordinated
debt and preference shares through banks’ branch networks has
been common practices in Spain for some time.”  Anger at Bankia’s collapse and losses faced by holders of
stock and preferred shares held by its retail customers erupted
at the lender’s general shareholders’ meeting in Valencia on
June 29. Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, the former  second-in-
command  at BBVA who replaced Rato as Bankia’s chairman in May,
told investors he “profoundly regretted” their losses.  He said investors who swapped out of preferred shares into
Bankia stock in the exchange had suffered “significant
losses.” While the bank had liaised with Spanish and European
authorities to find a solution for preferred shareholders, its
room for maneuver was limited, said Goirigolzarri.  Trust Undermined  “I ask you with all my heart that you try to give us back
our money,” said Mercedes Martinez, a pensioner, who was one of
more than 100 shareholders to speak at the meeting. “They told
we who invested in preferred shares that they didn’t carry any
risk and now we don’t have a single bloody penny left.”  “I speak on behalf of my mother who has 11,965 shares
placed with her by force or at least through ignorance,” said
Maria Carmen Jaen, another investor who spoke at the meeting.
“She spoke to someone who she trusted and this person played on
that, tricked her and sold her these preferred shares when my
mother thought she was taking out a deposit.”  The banks have become victims of their strategy of raising
funds from branch clients who will be more reluctant in future
to buy their products, said  John Raymond , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London.  “The branch networks work like armies that get
instructions on the quota of the product they need to sell,”
Juan Fernandez-Armesto, a former chairman of the CNMV, said in a
phone interview. “The relationship of trust between the branch
manager and his customers has now been severely undermined.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at   parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  