-- Spaniards Starting Families Later as Economy Worsens
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-07-11T14:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/spaniards-starting-families-later-as-economy-worsens.html
Young Spaniards are leaving home
later and putting off starting families longer than their
European neighbors as the recession worsens and the youth
jobless rate surpasses 50 percent, according to a study by
research firm  La Caixa .  Seven in 10 Spaniards aged 20 to 29 live with their parents
and 60 percent of Spanish newborns have mothers and fathers over
30-years old, the highest average among the 15 original European
Union nations, according to the study published today.  “Young Spaniards no longer have the option to move out of
the family home as high unemployment and precarious contracts
for those that do work means they can’t emancipate themselves,”
said Almudena Moreno, coordinator of the study. “Their chances
of forming a couple and a family have been cut and many of them
are thinking of leaving the country.”  Spain ’s unemployment rate is 24.6 percent, the highest in
the 27-nation EU, with 52.1 percent of under 25 year-olds unable
to find jobs. The Spanish economy, the euro area’s fourth-
largest, is in its second recession since 2009 after the
collapse of a decade-long boom in the  property market , which at
its peak accounted for about 18 percent of gross domestic
product.  Spanish home sales fell for the fifteenth straight month in
June, down 11.6 percent from a year ago, the National Statistics
Institute said today. Spanish home sales in the first quarter
were 72 percent below their peak in the second quarter of 2006,
according to separate data from the  Ministry of Public Works .  ‘Locked Out’  “Young people constitute a large part of future demand for
homes and the suppression of this group will put further
pressure on  home prices  as they are completely locked out of the
mortgage market,” said Fernando Rodriguez de Acuna Martinez, a
partner at Madrid-based property consultant R.R. de Acuna &
Asociados. “We’ve never seen it on such a scale.”  Spanish home prices posted the biggest annual decline on
record in the first quarter, falling 12.6 percent from the year-
earlier period, the most since the measurement began in 2008,
the National Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said on June 14.
Home prices have fallen  30.4  percent since the highpoint in
December 2007, according to Tasaciones Inmobiliarias SA, the
country’s biggest home-appraisal company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 