-- Sudan Urged to Stop Torturing Protesters by Human Rights Groups
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-07-11T11:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/sudan-urged-to-stop-torturing-protesters-by-human-rights-groups.html
Sudan must stop the torture and
abuse of people detained during anti-government protests that
started last month,  Amnesty International  and  Human Rights Watch 
said.  “Torture and other ill-treatment are absolutely prohibited
under international law,” Aster van Kregten, London-based
Amnesty International’s Deputy Director for  Africa , said in a
joint statement. The groups urged the government to investigate
the allegations and “ensure that the victims receive
reparations.”  The demonstrations started on June 16 when the government
raised transportation and fuel prices, boosted taxes and
devalued the currency to cope with the loss of about 75 percent
of the nation’s oil output when  South Sudan  seceded in July. The
protests expanded later into a movement calling for an end to
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s 23 years in power.  Sudanese police have used tear gas, live ammunition and
batons to disperse hundreds of protesters in the capital,
Khartoum, and other major cities. Many detainees have reported
“harsh treatment, including beatings and sleep-deprivation,”
according to Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.  “Instead of responding to the protesters’ concerns, the
Sudanese government appears to be targeting select individuals
for their presumed political views,”  Daniel Bekele , Africa
director of New York-based Human Rights Watch, said in the
statement.  Detained Protesters  He urged the government release detained protesters and
“respect their right to exercise freedom of expression and
association.”  Sudanese Foreign Ministry spokesman al-Obeid Murawih didn’t
answer his mobile phone when called for comment today.  Security officials have “separately arrested and detained
activists, journalists, lawyers, doctors, and members of youth
groups and opposition parties not directly connected to the
protests,” according to the statement. It cited reports that at
least 100 people remain in detention in Khartoum alone.  Many detainees have been released within hours or days,
often after signing a statement renouncing any political
activities or participation in the protests, the groups said.  Others face lengthy interrogations in which they are
accused of “being traitors, Communists, or spies,” the groups
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  