-- Sugar Rally Seen Denting Demand as Supplies Will Outpace Demand
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-11T14:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/sugar-rally-seen-denting-demand-as-supplies-will-outpace-demand.html
A 13 percent rally in raw sugar
futures in  New York  over the past month is likely to dent demand
as buyers opt to wait for lower prices before stepping up
purchases, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Sugar climbed as rains in May and June delayed the harvest
and shipments from  Brazil , the world’s largest producer.
Sweetener output in center south, the country’s main growing
area, fell 28 percent to about 4.9 million metric tons through
June 15, according to data from industry group Unica. Premiums
to obtain sugar in the physical markets gave an incentive for
buyers to take delivery on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange.  Copersucar SA, owner of sugar mills in Brazil, traders
Cargill Inc. and ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. took delivery of about
1.1. million tons of raw sugar after the expiry of the July
contract in New York. That was the biggest since 2009. Global
supplies remain limited for now even as production is set to be
10.2 million tons higher than demand in 2011-12 and 9.3 million
tons in 2012-13, broker and researcher Kingsman SA estimates.  “In a surplus market, buyers will either wait to buy if
they have enough sugar in the pipelines, or just buy on spot
hand-to-mouth basis,”  Naim Beydoun , a broker at the Rolle,
Switzerland-based Swiss Sugar Brokers, said in a report e-mailed
yesterday.  Most of the sugar delivered on ICE will be loaded at
Brazil’s second biggest port of Paranagua. Ships there were
waiting to load 982,132 tons of the sweetener as of July 6,
according to Unimar Agenciamentos Maritimos Ltda., a shipping
agency in Santos, Brazil. That compares with 404,850 tons on
June 29, prior to the delivery, the data showed.  Sugar Deliveries  “All receivers have nominated almost all of their
delivered sugar in Paranagua,” Beydoun said, adding that this
was adding to premiums. “No demand, no new business has been
accounted.”  Raw sugar for loading after July 18 at the port of Santos
traded at a premium of 0.58 cent a pound to the price of the
October contract on ICE, Beydoun said. For loading in August,
the sweetener was at a premium of 0.4 cent a pound and at 0.25
cent a pound for loading in September, according to the broker.  “We are hearing the problems that caused the strength in
the run-up to the July expiry are now waning and apparently the
cash premiums out of Brazil are sending bearish signals,”
 Thomas Kujawa , co-head of soft commodities at futures and
options broker Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London , said in a report
e-mailed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  