-- Sun HUng Kai Buys Hong Kong Site for Less Than Estimate
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-07-11T19:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/sun-hung-kai-buys-hong-kong-site-for-less-than-estimate.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Hong
Kong’s biggest developer by value, bought a building site for
less than analysts’ estimates, underscoring concerns that rising
supply and slowing global growth may crimp  home prices .  The company said yesterday it agreed to pay HK$6.91 billion
($891 million) for the land in the North Point district on the
east end of Hong Kong Island. The site was expected to fetch
HK$8.2 billion, according to the median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The government said
yesterday it received seven bids for the plot.  “This shows that developers are very cautious,”  James Cheung , a surveyor at Centaline Property Agency Ltd., said after
the sale result was announced. “There’re a lot of uncertainties
as to how home prices will perform in the next year or two.”  Property prices  in Hong Kong may fall as much as 20 percent
in the next 12 months, according to a report last month by
Deutsche Bank AG. Leung Chun-ying, who took over as chief
executive of Hong Kong this month, has pledged to bridge a
widening wealth gap and rein in home prices that have become
increasingly unaffordable for the general public.  Sun Hung Kai will invest about HK$15 billion, including
land, construction and interest costs, to develop the North
Point site, Executive Director Victor Lui said. The land is
designated 578,000 square feet of residential floor area and
more than 300,000 square feet of commercial space.  While the price was “not low,” it was “reasonable,” Lui
said in a phone interview yesterday. “It’s a premium site, with
adequate size, and good transport accessibility.” The developer
must build public infrastructure as part of the project, which
will increase costs, he said.  Share Price  Sun Hung Kai gained 3.6 percent to HK$96.15 in  Hong Kong 
trading yesterday, before the purchase announcement. The
company’s American depositary receipts gained 3.2 percent to
$12.25 at 3 p.m. in New York in over-the-counter trading. Each
ADR represents one underlying common share.  Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  was
also among developers that submitted tenders for the site, Apple
Daily reported July 7.  Hong Kong home prices have risen about 8 percent this year
after a slowdown in the second half of last year. Housing sales
fell to the lowest in four months in June, according to the  Land
Registry .  MTR Corp. (66) , Hong Kong’s rail operator, this week said it
failed to find a partner to develop a property project atop a
station after rejecting all bids filed by developers as too low.  Official Warnings  Financial Secretary  John Tsang  and  Norman Chan , head of the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority, have both warned the public about
potential risks when buying property. The government may take
further action including accelerating new land supply and
tightening mortgage lending if home prices continue surging, the
officials have said.  North Point is two subway stops away from Taikoo Shing, the
biggest private residential community on Hong Kong Island,
developed by  Swire Properties Ltd. (1972)   Average home prices on the eastern side of Hong Kong Island
were about HK$9,119 per square foot at the end of May, up 6.4
percent from a year earlier, according to statistics compiled by
 Midland Holdings Ltd. , the city’s biggest publicly-traded
realtor.  Hong Kong’s home prices have gained more than 80 percent
since early 2009 on record low mortgage rates and an under-
supply of new units.  Prices also have been underpinned by an influx of mainland
Chinese buyers, who made up 36.8 percent of all new home sales
by value in the first quarter, down from 37.9 percent in the
previous three months, according to  Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200)  The
number reached 53.9 percent in the third quarter last year, the
realtor said.  Leung, the city’s chief executive, said in April he doesn’t
see signs of overheating in the  property market , reassuring
investors who were concerned that he may introduce polices
hurting developers.  Savills Plc (SVS)  said Hong Kong is the world’s costliest place
to buy an apartment, with prices about 85 percent higher than in
London, where the property broker is based.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  