-- Supervalu Sinks on Strategic Review, Dividend Suspension
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-07-12T20:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/supervalu-begins-review-of-alternatives-suspends-dividend.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , the third-largest
U.S. grocery chain, sank the most since at least 1980 after
saying it will review strategic alternatives for the business
and suspended its dividend.  Supervalu  tumbled  49 percent to $2.69 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest decline since July 29, 1980, the earliest
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based
company’s shares have fallen 67 percent this year, putting it on
course for a fifth straight annual drop.  The company, which last month announced layoffs in its
Albertsons unit in California and  Nevada , plans to accelerate
price reductions and cut costs by an additional $250 million
over the next two years, it said in a statement yesterday. It
has retained Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Greenhill & Co. to
review its options, it said.  Supervalu, which operates the Shaw’s and Save-A-Lot chains,
hasn’t turned an annual net profit in three years amid
competition from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Kroger Co. (KR)  Its
valuation stands at 4 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, making it the cheapest among its
peers and prompting investors and analysts to view it as a
potential acquisition target.  “Supervalu could become the next casualty in the troubled
supermarket space, as its fundamentals have finally begun to
show real signs of distress after years of steady
underperformance,” Edward Kelly, an analyst at Credit Suisse AG
in New York, said today in a note to investors. “Supervalu
fundamentals may be beyond repair at this point.”  Discount Stores  Once worth more than $10 billion, Supervalu’s stock has
tumbled by almost two-thirds since 2008 as the  U.S. economy  fell
into a recession and customers turned to discount stores such as
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, to buy more of their groceries.  Dollar-store chains have also grabbed more consumers, Chief
Executive Officer Craig Herkert told analysts on a call
yesterday.  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  and  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) 
are adding more groceries to grab customers who prefer shopping
in smaller stores.  “Given the economic situation the American consumer is in,
a lot of grocery competitors are focused on making sure they
have the right value proposition for customers,” Herkert said
on the call. “We needed to accelerate our ability to play in
that game.”  The company this year has already reduced prices by as much
as 20 percent on about 200 produce items.  Quarterly Dividend  Net income  in the fiscal first quarter fell 45 percent to
$41 million, or 19 cents a share, from $74 million, or 35 cents,
a year earlier, according to the company’s statement. Sales
declined 4.7 percent to $10.6 billion, trailing the $10.8
billion average of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Supervalu said it will suspend its quarterly dividend and
continue to review its dividend policy annually. Its last
quarterly dividend, at 8.75 cents a share, was payable on June
15. It also said it will stop projecting per-share earnings and
identical-store sales.  The company will pursue “deeper and more structural cost
savings initiatives,” Herkert said in the statement.  “We are not convinced that this initiative will succeed,”
said Kelly, who has a neutral rating on the shares. “SVU may
not have the ability to absorb the large earnings hit associated
with material price cuts.”  The company will increase its debt reduction to a range of
$450 million to $500 million in the fiscal year and plans to pay
down at least $400 million of debt annually thereafter.  Supervalu is seeking $2.5 billion in loans to refinance
debt, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  ‘Very Attractive’  The company is the most appealing leveraged buyout
candidate among the three largest supermarket chains in America,
according to Meredith Adler, a New York-based analyst for
Barclays Plc, who published a June 11 report analyzing the LBO
prospects for Supervalu, Kroger and  Safeway Inc. (SWY)   By her math, a buyer could pay a 50 percent premium for
Supervalu and still earn a return exceeding 40 percent,
according to her report. That would “clearly be very attractive
to private equity,” she wrote.  On the day of Adler’s report, Supervalu’s shares closed at
$4.06.  Credit Suisse’s Kelly said that Supervalu’s Jewel-Osco
chain could be attractive to Kroger, “but they are unlikely to
pay an acceptable multiple given that it needs to work on
price.”  Credit Swaps  “The company’s other assets may not have much value, as
there is a lack of buyers in the market place,” Kelly said.  Supervalu traces its roots to a grocery warehouse business
formed in 1926. Last month it announced plans to eliminate as
many as 2,500 positions at its Albertsons unit, the biggest
chain in its family of grocery stores. The reductions
represented about 13 percent of staff across all 247 of those
Albertsons stores.  The cost to  protect debt issued by Supervalu  surged after
the grocery chain’s statement.  Credit-default swaps tied to Supervalu jumped 4.5
percentage points to 19.8 percent upfront as of 5:45 p.m. in New
York yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Contracts tied to Safeway climbed 34.5 basis points to
414.2 basis points, and those on Supervalu unit Albertsons
jumped 7.8 percentage points to 26 percent upfront, the data
show.  Cash Flow  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  A bankruptcy filing isn’t under consideration, Herkert said
in response to an analyst’s question.  “Supervalu is a profitable company with solid  cash flow ,”
he said. “Although these strategies will put pressure on our
margins and profits over the near term, it is important that we
take the bold actions necessary to put the company on a solid
course for long-term success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  