-- Swaps, CFTC, Peregrine, Vitamin Price-Fixing: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-11T11:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/swaps-cftc-peregrine-vitamin-price-fixing-compliance.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission voted to define when trades are considered swaps
under the Dodd-Frank Act, a step that triggers more than a dozen
rules under the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul.  The agency’s commissioners voted 4-1 yesterday to approve a
600-page measure governing when interest-rate, credit, commodity
and other trades involving companies including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Cargill Inc. should face rules to limit
risk in the $648 trillion global market.  The Securities and Exchange Commission unanimously approved
the rule in a private vote on July 6, the agency said in a
statement Monday.  “This is significant to the American public because now we
will bring transparency to these markets,” CFTC Chairman  Gary
Gensler  said in a Bloomberg Television interview after the
meeting. “We will have dealers registering. We will lower the
risk to the American public. Congress said further define a
term. We further defined it. Two months from now a lot of Dodd-
Frank comes into being.”  The two agencies, working under a Dodd-Frank mandate that
they craft oversight to prevent a repeat of the 2008 credit
crisis, missed the July 2011 deadline to complete rules. The
swap definition will trigger almost 20 Dodd-Frank measures for
reporting, clearing, trading and record-keeping that may take
effect as early as September.  The swap definition contains a series of exemptions for
insurance and retail transactions. Life insurance, and property
and casualty insurance are exempt. Interest-rate caps on
consumer mortgages and home heating oil agreements are also left
out.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Peregrine Pursues Liquidation After CFTC Sues Over Shortfall  Peregrine Financial Group Inc. filed to liquidate in
bankruptcy after the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
sued the brokerage alleging a $200 million “shortfall” in
client funds.  Peregrine listed assets of more than $500 million and debt
of more than $100 million in a Chapter 7 petition filed
yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Chicago.  Separately, U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer issued an
order freezing Peregrine’s assets at the CFTC’s request, saying
it appeared there was “good cause” to believe the firm and its
founder, Russell Wasendorf Sr., violated the federal Commodity
Exchange Act.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission filed a complaint
against Peregrine in federal court in Chicago yesterday after an
industry self-regulator cited a $200 million shortfall in
customer segregated funds. The National Futures Association said
the brokerage’s chairman may have falsified bank records after
only $5 million was found in an account that was reported to
have $225 million on or about June 29.  Peregrine is under investigation over the allegedly missing
funds after Russell Wasendorf Jr., the firm’s chairman and chief
executive officer, unsuccessfully attempted suicide. And the
CFTC is facing renewed scrutiny since the failure of Peregrine
comes nine months after  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  collapsed.  Republicans who scolded the CFTC over its handling of MF
Global cited similarities to the New York brokerage’s failure.  “I would have expected regulators to be particularly
attentive to situations like the one at PFG in the wake of the
MF Global collapse, so I’m disappointed this wasn’t discovered
earlier,” Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican
who is leading an investigation of MF Global’s $1.6-billion
customer-fund shortfall, said in an e-mail.  For more on the Peregrine bankruptcy, click here. For more
on congressional reaction, click here.  Orthofix to Pay $5.2 Million to Settle SEC Suit Claiming Bribery  Orthofix International NV (OFIX) , a medical-device maker, agreed
to pay $5.2 million to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawsuit claiming its Mexican unit, Promeca SA, bribed
Mexican officials in return for sales contracts with government
hospitals, the SEC said in an e-mailed statement.  Orthofix also entered into a deferred prosecution agreement
with the U.S. Justice Department over charges of violating the
Federal Corrupt Practices Act and will separately pay a fine of
$2.22 million.  The SEC’s complaint alleges that Promeca made the bribes
from “at least” 2003 to 2007 and referred to them internally
as “chocolates.”  In a filing with the SEC yesterday, Orthofix said the
company had undertaken a “self-initiated and self-reported
internal investigation” of its subsidiary after the bribes were
discovered.  Mark Quick, director of investor relations and business
development for Orthofix, didn’t return a call seeking comment
on the settlement.  Doctors to Pay $1.9 Million to Settle SEC Insider-Trading Claims  Five doctors will pay $1.9 million to resolve U.S.
regulators’ claims they used inside information to profit from
the sale of American Physicians Capital Inc., a holding company
for a medical professional liability insurer.  Apparao Mukkamala, who was the chairman of ACAP’s board at
the time, told four fellow physicians of the anticipated sale of
the East Lansing, Michigan-based holding company, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday in a complaint
filed in federal court. The five doctors bought almost $2.2
million of ACAP stock from April 2010 to July 2010.  The group reaped more than $623,000 in profits when ACAP
shares  rose 28 percent  to $40.63 after closely held Doctors Co.
agreed to pay $41.50 a share to acquire the firm on July 8,
2010, according to the SEC.  “These physicians made numerous purchases of ACAP shares
that were detected as highly unusual when compared to their past
trading patterns,” Robert J. Burson, senior associate regional
director of the SEC’s Chicago office, said in the agency’s
statement. “Board chairmen and other insiders should never
choose greed over duty when possessing confidential information
about the companies they serve.”  The doctors agreed to settle the SEC’s claims without
admitting or denying wrongdoing.  “We’re pleased to have reached a resolution,” said
Mukkamala’s attorney, Lori McAllister of Dykema Gossett PLLC in
Lansing, Michigan. The attorneys for the other defendants either
didn’t return calls seeking comment or declined to comment.  In the Courts  Chinese Vitamin C Makers’ Price-Fixing Trial Set for Nov. 5  China Pharmaceutical Group Ltd. (1093)  and several other Chinese
makers of vitamin C will face a Nov. 5 trial in the U.S. for
alleged price-fixing, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan in Brooklyn, New York,
yesterday set the date in a case brought by purchasers of
vitamin C. In January, the judge allowed the buyers to proceed
with their case as a group against the vitamin makers.  Other companies sued in the case include Weisheng
Pharmaceutical Co.,  North China Pharmaceutical Co. (600812) , Hebei
Welcome Pharmaceutical Co. and  Northeast Pharmaceutical Group
Co. (000597)   The vitamin companies have argued that the Chinese
government forced them to fix prices. The judge rejected that
contention in a September ruling.  “The Chinese law relied upon by defendants did not compel
their illegal conduct,” he wrote.  Aland (Jiangsu) Nutraceutical Co., another Chinese firm
named in the lawsuit, settled with plaintiffs in May for $10.5
million, according to court filings.  Lawyers for the Chinese firms, including Charles Critchlow
of Baker & McKenzie LLP, Richard Goldstein of Orrick Herrington
& Sutcliffe LLP and Daniel Mason of Zelle Hofmann Voelbel &
Mason LLP, didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment on
the trial date.  The case is In Re Vitamin C Antitrust Litigation, 1:06-
md-01738, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
New York.  Greenpeace, Audubon Sue to Block Shell Alaska Oil-Spill Plan  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  should be barred from drilling in the
Beaufort and Chukchi seas because its  oil-spill  plans are
inadequate, Greenpeace Inc. and other environmental groups said
in a lawsuit.  Greenpeace, the National Audubon Society and other groups
sued the U.S. Interior Department, which approved Shell’s spill-
response plans earlier this year, saying the agency violated the
Clean Water Act by failing to ensure the plans can address a
“worst-case oil spill.”  The approvals for Shell’s response plans should be thrown
out, and offshore oil and gas activity blocked, until the
Interior Department complies with the law, the groups said in a
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Alaska. The filing
couldn’t be confirmed in electronic court records.  Shell’s drilling off Alaska’s north coast will be delayed
until August as the company waits for ice to clear and modifies
a spill-response vessel to meet U.S. Coast Guard requirements,
the company said in July.  Curtis Smith , a spokesman for Shell, said the company is
confident the approved spill plans “will withstand legal
review.”  Adam Fetcher, an Interior Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Alaska Wilderness League v. Salazar, U.S.
District Court, District of Alaska.  Hearings and Reports  Diamond Says He Didn’t Mislead Lawmakers on Relations With FSA  Robert Diamond, who quit as head of Barclays Plc last week
after allegations that  interest rates  had been rigged, denied he
misled Parliament on relations with regulators and said he’d be
willing to discuss the matter again.  Diamond, the former chief executive officer of Barclays,
was accused yesterday during a hearing of Parliament’s Treasury
Committee of misleading U.K. lawmakers after a letter from the
 Financial Services Authority  emerged. The letter contradicted
his July 4 testimony that regulators were “happy” with the
bank, and Chairman Marcus Agius told the panel yesterday the
bank’s interactions with the FSA were “strained.”  Any suggestion that Diamond was less than candid “would be
totally unfair and unfounded,” the ex-CEO said in a letter to
Treasury Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie . “The comments made at
today’s hearing have had a terribly unfair impact upon my
reputation.” Diamond wasn’t present during the session.  Diamond resigned July 3 after the London-based lender was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($450 million) for attempting
to rig interest rates used as a benchmark for global lending. A
day later, Diamond told Tyrie’s committee that the FSA had been
“specifically pleased” with the “tone at the top,” and he
didn’t disclose the FSA’s criticisms of transactions that aimed
to show the bank’s accounts in a more positive light.  For more, click here.  Duke Had Doubts in May About Progress CEO’s Ability to Lead  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s board began expressing concerns about
Progress Energy Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Bill Johnson ’s
ability to lead the combined company in May.  The board viewed Johnson as “autocratic” and had concerns
about a “lack of transparency,” Duke Chairman and CEO  James
Rogers  told the North Carolina Utilities Commission at a hearing
in Raleigh yesterday.  Rogers is the only scheduled witness at the  hearing 
investigating Duke’s decision to oust Johnson as head of the
combined company. One day after the $17.8 billion deal closed on
July 2, Johnson resigned and was replaced by Rogers, who was
slated to become executive chairman under terms of the merger
agreement.  The executive-suite shuffle caused Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Duke’s shares to  decline  6.4 percent since July 2
and put the company on  Standard & Poor’s  negative credit watch.
Four former Progress board members said they would have voted
against the takeover had they known that Rogers would remain in
charge.  Wade M. Smith, an attorney for Johnson with the law firm of
Tharrington Smith LLP in Raleigh, didn’t immediately respond to
voice-mails and e-mail seeking comment.  Rogers said the company didn’t inform state regulators of
the concerns about Johnson because it was a “preliminary
view.” The North Carolina agency approved the takeover on June
29.  Rogers told the board members on June 23 that he was
willing to stay on as CEO if a decision was made to replace
Johnson. No final decision was made until July 2, he said.  HSBC to Apologize at Hearing on Money Laundering, Memo Shows  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  will apologize at a July 17 U.S. Senate
hearing for anti-money laundering controls that weren’t
effective enough, according to an internal memo obtained by
Bloomberg News.  “We failed to spot and deal with unacceptable behavior,”
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said in the note sent to
employees yesterday, referring to the period between 2004 and
2010. “It is right that we be held accountable and that we take
responsibility for fixing what went wrong.”  Europe’s largest bank will be questioned by U.S. lawmakers
about two weeks after a record fine was levied against Barclays
Plc for rigging interest rates and its ex-CEO  Robert Diamond  was
grilled in the U.K. HSBC, which has doubled spending on
compliance since 2010 to curtail illicit money transfers, may
also face a “hefty fine,” Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. said.  Gareth Hewett, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for the lender,
declined to comment on the contents of the memo. The bank has
been “fully cooperating” with the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations and with U.S. regulators on the
issue, he said.  Financial Services Workers Report Awareness of Wrongdoing  Almost one-third of Britain’s financial-services workers
are aware of illegal behavior at their companies, and many fear
reporting it, a survey by the securities litigation law firm
Labaton Sucharow LLP found.  Of 500 senior professionals questioned last month, 30
percent in the U.K. and 22 percent in the U.S. said they had
witnessed or had “first-hand” knowledge of wrongdoing, the law
firm said yesterday in a statement. Almost 4-in-10 believe their
competitors  break the law  to get ahead, the firm said.  The study focused on corporate ethics, the regulatory
landscape and individuals’ willingness to report illegal
behavior, the New York-based law firm said. It comes amid U.S.
and U.K. probes into whether banks rigged the London interbank
offered rate and follows a record 290 million-pound ($450
million) fine for Barclays Plc.  “It is shocking that four years after the global economic
crisis began there continues to be a fundamental lack of
integrity in the financial services industry,” Dominic Auld, a
lawyer at Labaton Sucharow, said in the statement.  The survey shows that 30 percent of workers believe their
compensation or bonus plans put pressure on them to compromise
ethical standards or break the law, the firm said. An equal
number said regulators and law enforcement agencies don’t
effectively deter such behavior, the report said.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  New Counsel for SEC Compliance Inspections and Examinations  Paula Drake will become the new chief counsel and chief
compliance and ethics officer in the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations.
She begins August 6, according to the agency’s statement.  Drake will oversee a staff of eight lawyers and coordinate
the efforts of attorney advisers in the SEC’s 11 regional
offices.  OCIE conducts the SEC’s national examination program for
investment advisers and investment companies, broker-dealers,
self-regulatory organizations, clearing agencies, and transfer
agents to fulfill its mission of promoting compliance,
preventing fraud, monitoring risk and informing SEC policy.  Most recently, Drake was general counsel and chief
operating officer at Oechsle International Advisors LLC, where
she was involved in all aspects of the investment management
business, including registering investment advisers and
establishing risk and compliance programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 