-- Ex-FIFA President Havelange, Teixeira Named in Bribery Documents
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-07-11T23:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/swiss-court-rules-fifa-bribery-case-documents-can-be-published.html
Ex-FIFA President  Joao Havelange  and
 Ricardo Teixeira , a former executive board member of soccer’s
governing body, received millions of dollars from the collapsed
ISL marketing agency, court documents revealed.  The Swiss Federal Court yesterday ordered the release of
the documents, which relate to a corruption investigation
involving the two men. They’d sought to block publication after
journalists requested the court papers, and Zurich-based FIFA
 published them  on its website after the ruling.  Havelange was paid about $1 million by ISL and his former
son-in-law Teixeira at least $13 million, with the pair in total
getting as much as $22 million, according to the documents.  Havelange didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking
comment, while Teixeira couldn’t immediately be reached.
 Brazil ’s soccer federation declined to comment, according to an
official at the organization’s press office in  Rio de Janeiro .  In March, Teixeira, 65, resigned from FIFA’s executive
committee, a week after quitting as head of the Brazilian
federation and the group organizing the 2014  World Cup . In 2001,
Brazil’s Congress investigated Teixeira over alleged
irregularities. Separately, the British Broadcasting Corp. named
him as a beneficiary of bribes paid by ISL. He denied all the
allegations.  The  BBC ’s “Panorama” program said in 2010 that Havelange,
96, received $1 million from ISL, which owned World Cup
television rights and collapsed with debts of $300 million in
2001, prompting an investigation by the  International Olympic
Committee ’s ethics commission. He denied the allegations.  Havelange, the longest-serving member of the IOC, resigned
from the organization in December last year.  Reform Statutes  A Zug court heard testimony in 2010 that FIFA officials
benefited from bribes paid by its now-bankrupt marketing partner
ISL for almost two decades.  Zug called off its proceedings against ISL after the group
agreed to pay 5.5 million Swiss francs ($5.6 million)
compensation, of which 2.5 million francs would go to charities,
according to a statement by the canton’s law enforcement agency
published on its website last year.  FIFA asked Swiss anti-corruption specialist  Mark Pieth  to
help reform its statutes following a year of turmoil in which
several top executives were either found guilty or accused of
wrongdoing.  “I’m very happy it’s finally out,” Pieth said of the
released documents in a telephone interview. “Now the world’s
public has a chance to look at it and form its own opinion.”  Decision Welcomed  FIFA welcomed the federal court’s decision that the
documents be published, saying in a  statement  that it was not a
party to the appeal process dealt with by the court.  FIFA President Sepp Blatter long maintained he would not be
named as a recipient of money from ISL. As president and before
that general secretary of FIFA, he’s occupied the top two roles
for a total of 31 years. The documents suggest he may well have
known the identities of colleagues who accepted cash.  “The finding that FIFA had knowledge of the bribery
payments to persons within its organs is not questioned,” the
court documents said.  Blatter was elected for a fourth four-year term as
president unopposed last year. His only rival withdrew, a day
before he was to face an investigation for alleged bribery.  Blatter said on his  Twitter account  yesterday that he was
pleased the file had been released and that it confirmed he was
not among those named.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  