-- Most Swiss Stocks Decline as Swatch, Richemont Retreat
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-11T15:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/swiss-stocks-drop-for-third-day-in-four-swatch-declines.html
Most stocks in  Switzerland  fell,
with the Swiss Market Index dropping for the third time in four
days, on concern that slowing global growth is hurting company
earnings.  Swatch (UHR)  Group AG and  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  led
losses, each sliding at least 1.8 percent.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the
world’s biggest supplier of agricultural chemicals, dropped 1.1
percent after UBS AG recommended selling the shares.  Logitech
International SA (LOGN) , the largest maker of computer mice, lost 4.8
percent.  The SMI decreased 0.3 percent to 6,174.75 at the close of
trading in Zurich. Fourteen stocks of the 20-member gauge fell,
while six rose. The measure has rallied 4 percent this year as
the  European Central Bank  disbursed more than 1 trillion euros
($1.25 trillion) to financial companies and the region’s leaders
opened the door to directly recapitalizing lenders using the
European Stability Mechanism. The index has still fallen 2.6
percent from its 2012 high on March 16. The broader Swiss
Performance Index lost 0.3 percent today.  “Corporate earnings season is definitely in investors’
focus,” said Alessandro Fezzi, senior market analyst at LGT
Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland. (SMI)  “First
results seem to confirm concerns of the impact of slower global
growth and insecurity about the economic outlook. Markets will
tend sideways with a slight negative bias today as risk appetite
remains fragile.”  Companies in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  will earn 23.95
euros a share in fiscal 2012, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The projections have been cut from more
than 25 euros a share at the start of the year, the data show.  In the U.S., profits for  S&P 500 companies  fell 1.8 percent
in the second quarter, according to analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. That would be the first decline since 2009, even
as revenue is forecast to rise 2.5 percent. Analysts project
profit growth of 3.9 percent and 15 percent, respectively, in
the third and fourth quarters of 2012.  U.S. Deficit  A Commerce Department report showed the U.S.  trade deficit 
narrowed in May, with the gap shrinking 3.8 percent to $48.7
billion from a revised $50.6 billion in April. Purchases from
abroad fell to the lowest level in three months, while exports
climbed to the second-highest on record.  Separately, minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s June meeting
scheduled for release at 2 p.m. in  Washington  may shed more
light on its decision to extend the maturities of assets on its
balance sheets.  The cost of bearish options on Swiss stocks rose to the
highest level ever as concern increases that the nation’s
equities will fall whether or not euro-area policy makers
contain the region’s debt crisis.  Puts protecting against a 10 percent decline in the Swiss
Market Index cost 1.54 times more than calls betting on a 10
percent gain, according to data on six-month listed options
compiled by Bloomberg. The price relationship known as skew
reached a record 1.67 on July 3.  Haven Assets  Should Europe’s debt crisis deepen, investors will seek
haven assets such as the Swiss currency and the central bank
will find it harder to defend a ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro
established in September to help exporters, according to  Manish Singh  of Crossbridge Capital. At the same time, were conditions
to improve, investors would send money to markets with more
companies that have earnings tied to economic growth, he said.  Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, retreated 1.8
percent to 360.90 Swiss francs, while Richemont, the owner of
the Cartier brand, fell 3.4 percent to 50.55 francs.  Syngenta dropped 1.1 percent to 321.40 francs. UBS cut the
company’s shares to sell from neutral.  Logitech lost 4.8 percent to 9.64 francs after peer Applied
Materials Inc. cut its fiscal 2012 sales and profit forecasts.  OC Oerlikon Corp AG (OERL)  lost 5.6 percent to 7.80 francs after
Societe Generale SA cut the industrial equipment maker to hold
from buy.  Clariant AG (CLN) , the world’s biggest maker of printing-ink
chemicals, jumped 1.3 percent to 10.11 francs after UBS listed
the stock as a key call in its “most preferred” list.  Ypsomed Holding AG (YPSN)  rose 0.6 percent to 51.50 francs after
the maker of devices for diabetes patients said it’s examining
options for  capital spending  that include discussions with
existing cooperation partners. No talks have been held with
potential takeover targets so far, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  