-- Syria Faces UN Sanctions Push as Ally Russia Resists
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-07-12T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/syria-faces-un-sanctions-in-draft-measures-russia-resists.html
Syria  would face  United Nations 
sanctions under a Security Council resolution drafted by Western
powers seeking to overcome Russian resistance to measures that
would hasten the fall of President Bashar al-Assad.  The move came after  Kofi Annan , the UN’s special envoy to
Syria, yesterday asked the UN’s decision-making body via video
link from Geneva to “send a message to all that there will be
consequences for noncompliance” with his peace efforts.  “Russians remain very skeptical to anything that even
slightly creates the chance of military action,”  Richard Gowan ,
associate director for crisis diplomacy and peace operations at
the New York University Center on International Cooperation,
said in an interview. “Still, I would not rule out a change of
course as bad news keeps piling up on the ground.”  The deterioration of the 17-month conflict, daily killings
and rising number of reported defections have emboldened the
U.S,  France  and the U.K. to challenge  Russia  to break with a
Soviet-era ally it’s protected from punishment. Annan’s
transition plan envisions Assad’s exit within a year’s time.  The latest attempt to hold Assad accountable “includes a
clear threat of sanctions if the regime fails in its first step
of stopping the use of heavy weapons with a fixed timeline,”
Mark Lyall Grant, the U.K.’s UN envoy in  New York , said
yesterday. “We’ve heard a lot of commitments in the past. They
have not been followed through.”  After Annan’s plea, a bloc of Western countries submitted a
draft giving Assad 10 days to implement a cease-fire and pull
out troops from urban centers. Failure to comply would open his
regime immediately to a series of measures -- such as an arms
embargo, asset freezes and travel bans -- though not outside
military intervention.  Russian Spotlight  That puts the spotlight on Russia, which yesterday met with
the opposition, to go further than it’s been willing to go until
now to pressure Assad. It opposes the Western draft because of
the invocation of Chapter 7 of the UN Charter, a tool Russia
accused the West of abusing last year to overthrow  Libya ’s
Muammar Qaddafi.  “Chapter 7 is the last resort,” Alexander Pankin,
Russia’s deputy UN envoy, told reporters yesterday. “Chapter 7
is not very efficient on many occasions. If there is no
political will on behalf of all participants to this large
process then no action, especially one-side actions aimed at the
Syrian government, would be helpful.”  Measures with bite require the approval of Russia, whose
ties with Syria date back to the  Cold War , because it is a
permanent member of the  Security Council  with veto power.  Opposition View  “We want a real break between Russia and the current
regime,” Burhan Ghalioun, a senior member of the Syrian
National Congress and its former leader, said during a news
conference in Moscow yesterday after talks between an opposition
delegation and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov . “You are
still arming a regime that is killing its own people.”  Russia, which has refused to halt existing weapons sales to
Syria, dispatched 11 military ships to the Mediterranean, some
bound for its naval resupply base in the Syrian port of Tartus.  The longest and bloodiest of the Arab revolts has taken its
toll on Assad. A member of his inner circle, Syrian Brigadier-
General Manaf Tlas, fled the country last week and  Al Jazeera 
reported yesterday that Assad’s ambassador to  Iraq  also
defected.  The international community has been stuck on how to put an
end to the Syrian conflict, which the opposition says has left
more than 17,000 Syrians dead. At least 74 Syrians were killed
yesterday by security forces, Al Jazeera said citing activists.  Assad Talks  Annan discussed with Assad in Damascus on July 8 how a
political transition would unfold. That process should “be
completed within six months to a year,” he told the council,
according to a copy of his prepared remarks. “Assad indicated
that this could be possible if conditions were correct.”  Annan specified that a “key issue at this stage is the
appointment of an effective empowered interlocutor who is
clearly authorized to negotiate.” Assad proposed Ali Haidar,
Syria’s minister for national reconciliation affairs, according
to a report in the Lebanese daily newspaper al-Akhbar.  Efforts to resolve the Syrian conflict have put the U.S.
and its European allies at odds with Russia. The Western nations
signaled they won’t support an extension of a UN observer
mission in Syria unless real pressure is put on Assad. Their
draft proposes a 45-day extension. Russia proposed July 10 an
alternative resolution that would extend the monitors’ stay for
90 days.  No Teeth  “We have waited 18 months,”  Gerard Araud , France’s
ambassador to the UN, told reporters. “The Russian proposal
does not have teeth, it’s very clear.”  The mission of 300 military observers, charged with
overseeing a cease-fire Assad never respected, “regrettably is
not at present able to do the job,” said U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice. “It’s not plausible to assume” the monitoring mission
“will be any more able to do fulfill its mandate in the future
than it is now.”  With two rival resolutions on the table, concessions may
need to be made by both sides ahead of a vote next week. The
three-month mandate for the UN’s Syrian mission expires July 20.  “Russia understands that Assad’s days are numbered because
of the civil war and his steady loss of support,”  Alexei Malashenko , a Middle East analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center,
said in a telephone interview. “Its main concern is to keep
what it can of its influence and preserve face.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  