-- U.K. Plans Government Insurance System to Cap Elder-Care Costs
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-07-11T14:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/u-k-plans-government-insurance-system-to-cap-elder-care-costs.html
U.K. Health Secretary Andrew Lansley
announced plans to allow people to pay into an insurance system
to cap their elder-care costs.  The draft Care and Support Bill aims to bring together
rules that govern care for the elderly and disabled in what
Lansley said was the biggest overhaul in 64 years. He pledged to
earmark an extra 300 million pounds ($467 million) from the
health budget to social care. He didn’t adopt recommendations
made in a government-commissioned report to cap the amount that
an individual has to pay on their own at 35,000 pounds.  “No one will be forced to sell their home in their
lifetime to pay for care,” Lansley told lawmakers in  London 
today. The overhaul will “make it easier for people to get the
care they want.”  Lansley didn’t explain how he will fund the extra costs of
caring for an aging population beyond 2015. “Immense financial
pressure” on public finances meant the government wouldn’t yet
commit on the level of the cap, Lansley said.  Last year, the Commission on Funding Care and Support led
by Andrew Dilnot recommended a cap of 35,000 pounds a year on
the amount the elderly should pay out of their own pocket.
Amounts above that would be paid for by the state. The report
also proposed increasing to 100,000 pounds from 23,250 pounds
the threshold of total assets at which pensioners would have to
meet the full cost of care.  Dilnot, a former director of the  Institute for Fiscal
Studies , said the proposals will prevent people spending more
than a third of their wealth on care costs instead of as much as
90 percent under the existing system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  