-- U.K. Firms Should Stress Test for ‘Prolonged’ Slump, PwC Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/u-k-firms-should-stress-test-for-prolonged-slump-pwc-says.html
U.K. businesses should prepare for
the possibility of a “prolonged recession” if the crisis in
the euro region worsens, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said.  While the economy will probably show zero growth this year,
risks “are weighted to the downside,” the London-based
accountancy firm said in an e-mailed report today.  House prices 
may recover later in the decade, though real home values won’t
return to pre-crisis levels before 2020, it added.  A worst-case scenario could see the economy contract this
year and next as deepening turmoil in  Europe  erodes business and
 consumer confidence , PwC said. The  Bank of England  last week
added  50 billion pounds  ($78 billion) to its stimulus program to
lift the economy out of its second recession since 2009.  “Businesses should be stress testing against the
‘prolonged recession’ scenario in particular given that this has
severe potential implications for the prospects of a wide range
of U.K. companies with direct or indirect exposure to the euro
zone,” PwC said.  The  U.K. housing market  will remain “relatively flat”
over the next two years before recovering later in the decade as
confidence is gradually restored and credit conditions ease, the
report said. “It could still be after 2020 before real house
prices return to pre-crisis peak levels,” it said.  Economic growth should resume in 2013, with PwC forecasting
1.7 percent expansion.  Consumer spending  will grow 0.1 percent
this year before increasing 1.3 percent in 2013 as lower
inflation eases the squeeze on incomes, the report showed.  The report also outlines a “strong recovery scenario,”
with the economy expanding 3 percent next year following a sharp
pickup toward the end of 2012 as the euro-area outlook improves.  While the  labour market  points to a “slightly stronger”
economic picture than that implied by official GDP data, the
“the economy is likely to have weakened in the second quarter
of 2012, even excluding the impact of the extra Diamond Jubilee
bank holiday, given the difficult international environment with
continuing high levels of uncertainty about prospects for the
 euro zone ,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  