-- U.S. Shopping to Slow for Rest of 2012, Citigroup Says
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-07-11T16:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/u-s-shopping-to-slow-for-rest-of-2012-citigroup-says.html
U.S. consumer spending will slow in
the second half of the year as shoppers reduce purchases amid a
weak economic recovery, a volatile stock market and uncertainty
over the presidential election,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said.  That will make the important back-to-school shopping season
“challenging” for retailers, Citigroup said in a report. In a
survey commissioned by the New York-based banking company, 81
percent of respondents planned to spend the same or less in the
second half than a year ago. About two-thirds expected the
economy to deteriorate or not improve.  Citigroup first noticed a slowdown in April when same-
stores sales trailed its forecasts for the first time since
December. Sales then remained soft in May and June. Now high-
income shoppers, who account for about 50 percent of total
spending and own 90 percent of U.S. equities, are at risk of
cutting back with increased volatility in the stock market.  Several retailers and consumer companies have already
reported weakening results with  Hhgregg Inc. (HGG)  being the most
recent. The Indianapolis-based electronics chain with more than
200 stores cut its annual profit forecast by as much as 17
percent yesterday, as sales of televisions plummeted.  Those results followed  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) ,
Lowe’s Cos. and  Tempur-Pedic International Inc. (TPX)  all cutting
annual profit projections, while predictions from  Lululemon
Athletica Inc. (LULU) , Limited Brands Inc.,  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Clorox Co. (CLX) ,
trailed analysts’ estimates.  U.S. retail sales fell 0.2 percent in May, following a
similar decline in April, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department. Sales excluding automobiles slumped by the most in
two years. June results are scheduled to be released on July 16.  Wal-Mart to Benefit  Companies that are known for low prices or sell non-
discretionary items may benefit as shoppers retrench, Citigroup
said. Those retailers include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Dollar
General Corp. (DG)  and  Kroger Co. (KR)  Manufacturers such as  Hanesbrands
Inc. (HBI) , or brands considered industry leaders, such as  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s
Vans and Timberland, will outperform.  Because wealthy consumers may cut back or trade down to
cheaper retailers, Citigroup recommends avoiding department
stores  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) ,  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and Macy’s Inc.  Citigroup polled consumers between June 25 and June 28,
with respondents evenly split between men and women. Those
questioned included a representative sample of the population in
terms of age, income and household size, Citigroup said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  