-- U.S. House Again Votes to Repeal Obama’s Health Care Law
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/u-s-house-again-votes-to-repeal-obama-s-health-care-law.html
The Republican-led U.S. House voted
to repeal President  Barack Obama ’s health care law,
demonstrating party leaders’ resolve to undo the president’s
main domestic-policy achievement.  The bill, H.R. 6079, passed on a vote of 244-185 yesterday,
with five Democrats joining Republicans in favor of repeal. The
vote represented the 33rd time House Republicans have voted to
revoke all or parts of the 2010 health care law, known as the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The measure won’t
advance in the  U.S. Senate , where Democrats hold the majority.  Unless Republicans win the presidency and gain the Senate
majority next session, their attempts to repeal the law will go
no further than the House.  The health-care law “is making our economy worse,” House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said before the vote.
“Americans want a step-by-step approach that protects the
access to care that they need, from the doctor they choose at a
lower cost.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said in a statement after the House vote that he
will press for scrapping the law.  “I’ve already committed to making its repeal the first
order of business in the Senate next year if I am the leader of
the majority,” McConnell said. “But in the meantime, I have
filed a repeal amendment and will work to bring it up for a vote
in the Senate.”  Control of House  Democrats provided all of the votes to pass the health care
overhaul, and they lost control of the House in November 2010.
The House Democrats voting yesterday to scrap the law were  Dan Boren  of Oklahoma; Larry Kissell of  North Carolina ; Mike McIntyre of North Carolina;  Jim Matheson  of Utah and  Mike Ross 
of  Arkansas .  The U.S. Supreme Court on June 28 upheld the core of the
health care law. The justices, voting 5-4, said Congress can
require Americans to carry insurance or pay a penalty, which the
court said was within lawmakers’ constitutional power to tax.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
said in a floor speech that the 2010 law makes health care “a
right, not a privilege for a few.” She called the repeal
provision a “bill to nowhere.”  Later, in a Bloomberg Television interview, Pelosi said the
renewed vote to repeal is “not different, just an additional
waste of time.” She rejected the notion that the health care
overhaul may cost Democrats congressional seats in November as
it did in 2010.  ‘Do a Job’  “We came here to do a job, not to hold a job,” Pelosi
said.  Michigan Republican  Dave Camp  criticized the health care
law, saying “health care premiums are not going down as a
result of this law, they are going in the other direction.”  Camp, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said
the law contains an incentive for “employers to drop coverage
because it’s cheaper to pay the tax” than to pay insurance
premiums.  In a column in yesterday’s Washington Post, Health and
Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  disputed Camp’s
contention about rising premiums. She said the share of small
businesses offering employee health-care coverage has held
steady at 59 percent since the law passed.  “This is another of their message weeks dedicated solely
to the politics of their base,” House Minority Whip  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat, said of the Republican efforts.  Romney Booed  The presumptive Republican presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney , was booed yesterday when he told a convention of the
NAACP in Houston that he would repeal the health-care law.  House Republicans had pledged to “repeal and replace” the
overhaul. Now, Republican leaders have dropped the word
“replace” from their promise.  The omission is the result of an election-year calculation:
They figure they stand to gain from public distaste for the 2010
measure’s central provision, the requirement that most Americans
buy health insurance, and will lose if they start providing
details about what they would do instead.  “They don’t care to replace it,”  Ross Baker , a professor
of American politics at  Rutgers University  in New Brunswick,  New
Jersey , said in a telephone interview. “They want to revert to
the status quo. Whatever plan they have is going to end up
alienating somebody, especially during a presidential
campaign.”  ‘The Big Thing’  The House won’t pursue other major health-care legislation
before the November election because “the big thing is going to
be the election,” Representative Wally Herger, a California
Republican who leads the health subcommittee of the Ways and
Means Committee, said in an interview. “Everybody is looking to
the election, everything is second fiddle to November.”  Democrats used a procedural vote yesterday for a political
message: to get Republicans on record as voting to protect their
own taxpayer-financed health care benefits. A Democratic
proposal, defeated on a mostly party-line vote of 248-180, would
have forced any lawmaker who voted to repeal the health-care law
to forfeit his or her federal health-care benefits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  