-- S&P 500 Erases Loss as Investors Look for Stimulus Signs
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-07-11T21:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/u-s-stock-futures-climb-before-release-of-fed-minutes.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
erased losses in the final hour of trading as investors weighed
the  Federal Reserve ’s latest policy minutes for evidence that
the central bank may be closer to additional stimulus actions.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  added more
than 1 percent as financial companies rallied. Exxon Mobil Corp.
rose 1.5 percent as oil rebounded from the lowest close in more
than a week. DuPont Co. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  fell at least 1.1
percent after analysts said the companies may miss estimates.
Best Buy Co. sank 8.4 percent after electronics retailer  Hhgregg (HGG) 
Inc. cut its forecasts.  The S&P 500 fell less than 0.1 percent to 1,341.45 at 4
p.m. New York time, after sinking as much as 0.6 percent
earlier. The benchmark gauge has retreated 2.4 percent over five
days amid concern about corporate profits. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lost 48.59 points, or 0.4 percent, to
12,604.53. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 6
billion shares, 9.5 percent below the three-month average.  “You didn’t see any kind of commitment one way or another
from the Fed in the minutes from last time,”  Robert Pavlik , who
helps manage $1.4 billion as chief market strategist at Banyan
Partners LLC in New York, said in a phone interview. “You have
to be taking a cautious approach to this market here, especially
heading into the earnings season. I’m optimistic, but I’m not
fully committed to the possibility of a terrific earnings
season.”  Fed Minutes  Stocks initially turned lower as minutes from the Fed’s
June meeting showed two participants believed more bond
purchases are appropriate, while two others said they would be
warranted in the absence of “satisfactory progress” in cutting
unemployment or if downside risks increase. Equities recovered
as the S&P 500 briefly dipped below its  average price  over the
past 50 days and analysts dissected the minutes, with Jefferies
& Co. economist  Ward McCarthy  saying there’s a “reasonable
probability” a third round of quantitative easing is announced
in coming months.  “Between the Fed’s outlook and the technical support we
should find at the moving average, there is generally going to
be a lift and that’s exactly what you saw materializing,” said
 Peter Kenny , managing director in institutional sales at Knight
Capital Group Inc. in Jersey City, New Jersey.  The Fed minutes come amid growing concern that the  U.S.
economy  is faltering and corporate profits are shrinking.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its estimate for second-quarter
gross-domestic product growth twice today, lowering it to 1.3
percent after data on wholesale inventories and the trade
deficit dimmed prospects for the economy. The S&P 500 slumped
yesterday amid lower sales estimates at Applied Materials Inc.
and Cummins Inc.  Earnings Estimates  Profits for S&P 500 companies  fell 1.8 percent in the
second quarter, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That would be the first decline since 2009, even as
revenue is forecast to rise 2.5 percent. Analysts project profit
growth of 3.9 percent and 15 percent, respectively, in the third
and fourth quarters of 2012  “You’re seeing a weakening demand picture, at least in the
near term, starting to take root,”  Matthew Kaufler , a portfolio
manager at Federated Investors Inc. in Rochester, New York, said
in a phone interview. His firm oversees $363.6 billion. “The
key calibration is whether the market reaches the conclusion
that weakness is broad-based, but it’s shallow and short in
duration, or it’s going to be deeper and longer in duration.
It’s too soon to make that call. I think that’s the question
upon us over the next two weeks.”  Energy Shares  Energy companies climbed the most among 10 S&P 500  industry 
groups today, rallying 1.4 percent, as oil rebounded from the
lowest close in more than a week. Exxon rose 1.5 percent to
$84.38, while Chevron Corp. gained 0.9 percent to $104.85.  Financial companies advanced. Bank of America rallied 2
percent to $7.63. JPMorgan climbed 1 percent to $34.59.
JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, kicks off the
industry’s second-quarter earnings season on July 13 and may
report a profit of 76 cents a share, excluding accounting
adjustments, according to the average estimate of analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  had the biggest jump in the  S&P
500 , climbing 4.1 percent to $34.12. The teen-clothing retailer
may substantially increase its buyback authorization from the
current 12.9 million shares, the New York Post reported, citing
a person it didn’t identify.  Wendy’s Co. (WEN)  added 2.4 percent to $4.69. The hamburger chain
was raised to outperform from neutral at Nick Setyan, an analyst
with Wedbush Securities Inc. The 12-month price target is $5.50.  ‘Erroneous’ Reports  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  gained 4 percent to $78.28. The
maker of the world’s best-selling Enfamil baby formula said
China’s Hunan province apologized for “erroneous” reports
claiming formula sold by the company contained a banned flavor
additive.  DuPont dropped 1.1 percent to $47.14. Cooley May, an
analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd., cut the stock’s rating to
neutral from outperform, citing concern over profit growth in
the company’s chemical and industrial businesses.  Google slid 1.8 percent to $571.19. The owner of the
world’s most popular search engine may miss analysts’ second-
quarter sales estimates because of a fluctuation in foreign
exchange rates, according to Carlos Kirjner, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Best Buy, the largest U.S. consumer-electronics retailer,
declined 8.4 percent to $19.37. Hhgregg plunged 36 percent, the
most since its initial public offering in 2007, to $7.34. The
Indianapolis-based appliance and electronics retailer cut its
full-year forecast amid sinking television sales.  Goldcorp Tumbles  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  tumbled 9.7 percent to $33.17. The second-
largest producer of the precious metal by market value cut its
full-year 2012 gold production forecast by as much as 9.6
percent after delays at a Canadian mine and a water shortage at
a Mexican project.  Waste Management Inc. (WM)  fell 4.5 percent to $31.59. The trash
hauler was cut to underweight, the equivalent of sell, from
equalweight at Morgan Stanley.  Blackstone Group LP’s  Byron Wien  said the S&P 500 may climb
past 1,400 this year. Wien, vice chairman of the advisory
services unit of the world’s biggest private-equity firm,
recommended buying  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares and said the iPad maker is
the “most innovative” U.S. company. He said he’s also bullish
on gold because the metal will retain its value should global
growth slow.  “When everybody is so negative it’s usually a good time to
take the other side,” he said today in a television interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “I think we can
do better than 1,400.”  An advance to 1,400 would require a 4.4 percent increase in
the U.S. equity benchmark from yesterday’s close. The S&P 500
has gained 6.7 percent this year. Apple shares have surged
almost 50 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  