-- U.S. Man Jailed Over Book Critical of Thai King Granted Pardon
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-07-11T03:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/u-s-man-jailed-over-book-critical-of-thai-king-granted-pardon.html
A U.S. citizen sentenced to two and
a half years in a Thai prison for translating a banned book
about  King Bhumibol Adulyadej  and posting it on a website was
freed after being granted a royal pardon, the U.S. embassy said.  “Joe Gordon was granted the pardon and was released
yesterday,” Walter Braunohler, the embassy’s spokesman, said
today by phone.  Joe Wichai Commart Gordon, who was born in Thailand,
pleaded guilty on Oct. 10 to using a pen name to translate “The
King Never Smiles,” a 2006 biography by Paul M. Handley
published by Yale University Press. The  Criminal Court  sentenced
Gordon to five years in prison in December over the book, which
is banned in Thailand, and reduced the penalty because of his
guilty plea.  Gordon’s conviction was among several last year that
prompted the United Nations human rights office to  call  for
changes to the law, in part because it has a “chilling effect”
on free speech. A Thai group submitted a bill to Parliament in
May to amend the law with 30,000 signatures from members of the
public, reflecting growing opposition to the statute even as
political parties decline to endorse changes.  Thailand ’s lese-majeste law, which falls under Article 112
of the criminal code, mandates jail sentences as long as 15
years for defaming, insulting or threatening the king, queen,
heir apparent or regent. Thailand’s constitution says the king
“shall be enthroned in a position of revered worship and shall
not be violated.”  Book’s Description  The book counters  “the widely accepted image of the king
as egalitarian and virtuous,” according to a description on
Amazon.com.  King Bhumibol, 84, assumed the throne in 1946 and serves as
head of state. His only son, Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn, 59,
has fought off publicity about his personal life.  The number of royal insult cases before the lower courts
increased to 478 in 2010 from 33 in 2005, a year before the coup
that ousted former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , according
to statistics compiled by the Article 112 campaign committee.
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister, took power
in August last year after her party won a majority in elections.  Thailand’s government defended the lese-majeste law after
Gordon’s conviction last year, saying in a  statement  that he had
a fair trial. The law is targeted at “those who abuse their
rights by spreading hate speech or distorted information to
incite violence and hatred among Thais as well as towards the
monarchical institution” and “is not aimed at curbing people’s
rights to freedom of opinion and expression,” the government
said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  