-- U.S. Judge Continues to Block Mississippi Abortion Law
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-07-11T23:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/u-s-judge-continues-to-block-mississippi-abortion-clinic-law.html
A  Mississippi  law that opponents say
would effectively ban abortion in the state will remain
temporarily blocked until additional materials submitted by
officials to a federal court are reviewed, a judge ruled,
according to an attorney for the Center for Reproductive Rights.  The law, which was to take effect July 1, requires
physicians associated with an abortion facility to have
admitting privileges at a local hospital and be certified or
eligible in obstetrics and gynecology. Today’s ruling by U.S.
District Judge Daniel Jordan III in Jackson, Mississippi,
couldn’t be confirmed in court records.  The Jackson Women’s Health Organization, the state’s only
 clinic  providing elective abortions, sued to stop the state
health department from enforcing the rules, saying it hasn’t
been able to obtain admitting privileges for two physicians and
the legislation is unconstitutional.  “All this did was push back the ruling we’ve been waiting
for on our request for a preliminary injunction,” Michelle
Movahed, a lawyer for the Center for Reproductive Rights, said
in a phone interview.  Extended Order  On July 1, Jordan issued a temporary restraining order
blocking enforcement of the rules, until today’s hearing to
determine whether a preliminary injunction should be issued. He
extended that restraining order after hearing about 2 1/2 hours
of argument, according to Movahed, one of two lawyers who argued
in court against the measure.  Jordan ordered the state to submit rules issued today on
how its health department plans to enforce the regulations,
according to Movahed. Shortly after the hearing, the state filed
a copy of those rules with the court, according to a court
filing.  Liz Sharlot, a spokeswoman for the Mississippi Department
of Health, declined to comment on the ruling.  The case is Jackson Women’s Health Organization v. Currier,
12-00436, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Mississippi
(Jackson).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  