-- Police Examine Boat in Which Three Children Died Off L.I.
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/muck-won-t-give-up-boat-where-children-died-nassau-police-say.html
Investigators probing a Fourth of
July sinking near  Long Island ’s  Oyster Bay  began examining the
refloated boat in which three children died, Nassau County
police said.  FBI divers using an inflatable salvage system raised the
34-foot (10-meter) Silverton vessel, which was brought to shore,
Daniel Danzi, a Nassau County police spokesman, said yesterday.
Investigators are trying to determine what led it to capsize,
throwing 24 passengers into the water and trapping David
Aureliano, 12, Harlie Treanor, 11, and Victoria Gaines, 8.  “The boat was raised successfully and we will let the
investigation run its course,” Danzi said by telephone.  As part of the probe, investigators plan to talk to
survivors of the nighttime tragedy off Bayville, between Centre
Island and Lloyd Neck, about 35 miles (56 kilometers) northeast
of  Manhattan , according to James Imperiale, a police spokesman.
He said possible causes under scrutiny are weather, wakes from
other boats, mechanical failure and the passenger load.  Any evidence will go to Nassau County District Attorney
Kathleen Rice, who will decide what steps to take next,
Imperiale said.  U.S. Coast Guard rules  require  vessels to carry one
personal flotation device for each passenger, while state law
calls for children under 12 to wear them at all times except
when in a boat’s cabin, Imperiale said.  The Coast Guard doesn’t set maximum capacities for vessels
longer than 26 feet, according to Petty Officer Erik Swanson.  Jim Mercante, a lawyer with  Rubin, Fiorella & Friedman LLP 
in  New York  and a retired merchant marine captain, has said he
doesn’t believe overcrowding was an issue because at least 10 of
those on board were children. Mercante was hired by an insurer
to represent the boat’s owner, Kevin Treanor, the father of one
of the victims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  