-- Ukraine Rating Held Back by Fiscal, Funding Challenges, S&P Says
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-07-11T13:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/ukraine-rating-held-back-by-fiscal-funding-challenges-s-p-says.html
Ukraine’s credit grade is
constrained by government unwillingness to improve public
finances, funding challenges and bad debt, said  Standard &
Poor’s , which rates the former Soviet state at junk.  There’s also a “lack of clarity” on unblocking an
international bailout and on talks with  Russia  over natural-gas
prices, the ratings company said today in an e-mailed report.
S&P rates Ukraine at B+, four steps below investment grade, and
cut its outlook to negative from stable on March 15.  Ukraine’s $15.6 billion loan from the  International
Monetary Fund  has been on hold for more than a year as the
government refuses to raise household energy costs to trim the
 budget deficit . Instead, the country is seeking to cut gas
imports and reduce the price it pays Russia for the fuel by
about a third.  “We could lower our long-term sovereign-credit ratings on
Ukraine if the country’s external liquidity remains under
pressure,” S&P analysts led by  Trevor Cullinan  wrote.
“Conversely, we could revise the outlook back to stable if”
the IMF outlook, international capital-market access and the
current-account deficit “were to materially improve.”  The cost of insuring state debt against non-payment using
credit-default swaps has risen to 833 basis points from 488 a
year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Economic growth  may slow to 3.5 percent this year from 5.1
percent in 2011, while inflation may ease to 6 percent from 8
percent, S&P said. Ukraine needs to refinance about $50 billion
in state and private foreign debt in 2012, it added.  S&P said it plans to review Ukraine’s credit rating after
parliamentary elections in October.  -- Editors: Andrew Langley, Balazs Penz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  