-- Hungary Holds Interest Rate at EU’s Highest for 6th Month
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-07-11T14:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/hungary-holds-interest-rate-at-eu-s-highest-for-6th-month.html
Hungary ’s start on international aid
talks next week creates room to begin cutting the European
Union’s highest  benchmark rate  as early as this month, central
bankers Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky said.  Interest-rate reductions must be gradual as “safety above
all else” remains the priority of monetary policy makers,
Gerhardt said in a joint interview with Kocziszky in Budapest
today. They are among the four non-executive rate setters in the
seven-member Monetary Council.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  on June 26 left its benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 7 percent for a sixth month as a
surging forint and a looming recession balanced concern over
inflation. Hungary is scheduled to start loan talks with the
 International Monetary Fund , the European Union and the  European
Central Bank  on July 17 after a seven-month delay caused by the
government passing a central bank law the lenders said
threatened monetary independence.  “The fact that the date for the” talks with the IMF, the
EU and the ECB “has been set gives hope that things will
improve and we want to put in place an interest-rate environment
that gives incentives ahead of the start of a growth cycle,”
Gerhardt said. “Naturally, there can be a rate cut this month,
the possibility is there.”  The forint gained 9.2 percent against the euro this year as
investors speculated that Hungary will obtain an IMF loan. The
currency fell 15 percent, the most in the world, in the second
half of 2011 as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s policies,
including the nationalization of private pension funds and
forcing banks to swallow exchange-rate losses on foreign-
currency mortgages, damaged investor confidence.  CDS Price  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt for
five years using credit-default swaps fell to 508 basis points
by 2:03 p.m. in Budapest from 785 basis points on Jan. 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hungary’s credit is
rated junk.  The ECB last week cut its main  interest rates  by 25 basis
points, taking the benchmark to a record-low 0.75 percent and
the deposit rate to zero. The Czech central bank cut its main
interest rate by a quarter-point to a record-low 0.5 percent on
June 28. The Polish central bank, which surprised the market
with a quarter-point increase in May, kept its benchmark rate at
4.75 percent on July 4.  A Hungarian rate cut on July 24, the first in 27 months,
would follow a six-to-one decision to keep the rate unchanged
last month. Council members then said the country’s risk premium
needs to fall “persistently and substantially” and the outlook
for inflation needs to improve before they can start lowering
borrowing costs.  Inflation Accelerates  Hungary’s  inflation , the fastest in the EU, accelerated to
5.6 percent last month from 5.3 percent in May, the statistics
office in Budapest said today. The median estimate of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.4 percent. Policy makers
target 3 percent price growth.  The pace of consumer-price increases is narrowing policy
makers’ room to start rate cuts, Eszter Gargyan, a Budapest-
based economist at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said in a report today.  Orban yesterday damped optimism about the start of bailout
talks, telling HirTV that IMF officials will be in Budapest next
week to “have a look around,” while negotiations will start
“toward the end” of the European summer.  “Based on the rising CPI outlook and our expectation of
increased market pressure before the government will compromise
on fiscal conditions, we do not see scope for rate cuts to
materialize before late 2012, when we expect loan talks to
conclude,” Gargyan said a report earlier today.  ‘No Obstacle’  The June inflation data “absolutely fit” into the central
bank’s forecast and the rate may drop to the central bank’s
target by the end of 2013, Kocziszky said. Policy makers will
“look beyond” price increases caused by rising taxes and
commodity price swings, Gerhardt said.  “We still think that there is no obstacle to starting a
rate-cut cycle from the point of view of inflation,” Kocziszky
said.  Rate cuts need to be gradual as the country “couldn’t
handle another 8 to 10 forint decline in the  exchange rate ,”
Gerhardt said. The currency weakened 0.2 percent to 288.6 per
euro by 3:03 p.m. in Budapest.  “It must be stressed that this should be a very gradual
process,” Gerhardt said. “If our benchmark rate were between
12 percent and 15 percent, the pace” of rate cuts “ would be
50 basis points, however our rate is half of that.”  Avoid Split  Hungary has kept the benchmark rate unchanged since
January, which “in itself means a tightening of sorts” as the
country’s risk premium has dropped and the forint has gained in
the period, Kocziszky said.  Policy makers should close ranks behind rate cuts when the
time comes, Gerhardt said, adding that he wants to avoid the
Monetary Council giving the appearance of a split. The four non-
executive members, appointed last year with ruling-party
backing, united against MNB President  Andras Simor  and his two
deputies in January, when they outvoted their proposal to raise
the benchmark rate by half-point to 7.5 percent in favor of
keeping the level unchanged.  “I really wish the president didn’t have to say at the
time of the first rate cut that it was a close decision,”
Gerhardt said. “I would like this decision to have as much
support as possible because this would show strength.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  