-- Disaster Declared in 26 States as Drought Sears U.S.
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-07-12T15:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/usda-declares-disaster-in-26-states-as-drought-sears-midwest.html
(Corrects lawmaker’s home state in 12th paragraph.)  More than 1,000 counties in 26
states are being named natural-disaster areas, the biggest such
declaration ever by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , as
drought grips the Midwest.  The  declaration  makes farmers and ranchers in 1,016
counties -- about a third of those in the entire country --
eligible for low-interest loans to help them weather the
drought, wildfires and other disasters, Agriculture Secretary
Tom Vilsack said today. The USDA is also changing procedures to
allow disaster claims to be processed more quickly and reducing
the penalty ranchers are assessed for allowing livestock to
graze on land set aside for conservation.  “Agriculture remains a bright spot in our nation’s
economy,” Vilsack said. “We need to be cognizant of the fact
that drought and weather conditions have severely impacted
farmers around the country.” The declaration is effective as of
tomorrow.  Moderate to extreme drought now covers about 53 percent of
the Midwest, the country’s main growing region, fueling crop-
price gains that are the biggest this year among the 24
commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index.
The rallies are boosting costs for companies from  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  to  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  and
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)   Corn Conditions  The area covered by the declaration includes most of the
Southwest, which has been affected by wildfires, as well as the
Southeast and the southern and eastern parts the Corn Belt,
mainly Illinois and Indiana.  Iowa , the biggest U.S. producer of
the grain, is not included.  About 40 percent of the U.S. corn crop, the world’s
biggest, was in good or excellent condition as of July 8, down
from 48 percent a week earlier and the lowest for this time of
year since a drought in 1988, the USDA said July 9. More
temperatures in the 90s Fahrenheit (30s Celsius) are expected
next week from the Midwest to the Northeast, Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , said today.  The low-interest loans and penalty reductions provided for
by the disaster declarations will cost the government $4
million, Vilsack said. They are among the “limited tools” the
USDA has to help farmers with drought, Vilsack said.  Congressional Action  The secretary called on Congress to pass a five-year
reauthorization of all agricultural programs before Sept. 30,
when current authorization expires, to enhance the department’s
ability to help farmers and ranchers in times of need.  Congress needs “to have that bill come to the floor and be
voted on,” Vilsack said. The Senate approved a half-trillion-
dollar plan last month. The House Agriculture Committee is
considering its version of the bill today.  Representative Vicky Hartzler, a first-term Republican from
 Missouri  and member of the committee, said farmers affected by
the drought will rely on existing programs for aid.  “It breaks your heart to see what’s happening,” said
Hartzler, whose family farms 2,000 acres. Still, “that’s why we
have crop insurance, to help with these times,” she said in an
interview.  “We need intervention from a higher authority -- rain,”
Representative Jeff Fortenberry, a Republican committee member
from  Nebraska , said in an interview.  The declaration covers counties in the following states:
California, Oregon, Nevada, Utah, Arizona,  New Mexico , Colorado,
Nebraska, Wyoming, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas,
Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, Illinois, Indiana, Alabama,
Mississippi, Georgia,  South Carolina , Florida, Delaware and
Hawaii.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  