-- Mutation Find Bolsters Prospects for Alzheimer’s Drugs
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-07-11T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/mutation-find-bolsters-prospects-for-alzheimer-s-drugs.html
The discovery of a rare genetic
mutation that prevents formation of brain plaques associated
with Alzheimer’s disease may be proof that the idea behind a 
new class of drugs in development is valid, scientists said.  Lab tests suggest the variant protects people by preventing
an enzyme called  beta secretase 1 , or BACE-1, from helping
create the characteristic beta amyloid tangles in the brains of
Alzheimer’s patients, according to the study, published today in
the journal  Nature . Drugs that mimic this action are in
development from  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and  Eisai Co. (4523)   The mechanism differs from that of more advanced
experimental therapies from  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
Lilly that are designed to clear beta amyloid from the brain by
binding directly to the protein. The newly discovered mutation,
found through genome sequencing, was associated with a 40
percent reduction in beta amyloid in those individuals who had
the variant, researchers said.  “Many have been working on attempts to develop treatment
with beta-secretase -- they haven’t had any proof of the
concept,” said Kari Stefansson, an author of the study and
chief executive officer of  deCode Genetics Inc.,  the Reykjavik,
Iceland-based company that did the sequencing work. “This
natural mutation provides proof.”  Researchers found the mutation by sequencing the genomes of
1,795 Icelanders. The gene also appeared to slow the rate of
cognitive decline in 41 people with the mutation who were ages
80 to 100, compared with 3,673 people who didn’t carry the
mutation.  Cases Doubling  More than 5 million Americans have Alzheimer’s, which is
the most-common type of dementia, according to the  Alzheimer’s
Association . Global dementia cases are expected to double within
the next 20 years to as many as 65.7 million people, the  World
Health Organization  said in April.  Earlier studies found other mutations affecting  amyloid
precursor protein  that were related to a rarer form of
Alzheimer’s with early onset. Today’s discovery is linked with
the more-common form of late-onset Alzheimer’s, which develops
after age 60.  The mutation is only found in about 1 percent of
Icelanders, Stefansson said. Still, drug developers could mimic
its action of interfering with the beta-secretase that cleaves
the amyloid precursor protein to create effective therapies, he
said.  Rare Mutation  The significance of the finding isn’t that it can be used
clinically; the mutation is too rare for that, said  Eric Reiman ,
chief executive officer of Banner Research, a Phoenix-based
medical research institute, and a professor of psychiatry at the
 University of Arizona . Rather, it’s important because it signals
that beta secretase inhibitors, such as Merck’s, expected this
year to start the second of three phases of testing usually
needed for approval, might be on the right track.  “It provides encouraging evidence that reducing the
production of amyloid, and in particular through beta secretase
activity matters for preclinical disease,” said Reiman in a
telephone interview. “The question is, how early do you need to
start?”  The formation of beta amyloid clumps has been associated
with Alzheimer’s disease since  Alois Alzheimer  first described
them in 1906. Many researchers theorize that the disease is
caused by these plaques.  “If they develop a good effective beta secretase
inhibitor, it should be put into the drinking water,”
Stefansson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  