-- TV Networks Fight Over History Repeating in U.K. Trademark Trial
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-11T13:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/tv-networks-fight-over-history-repeating-in-u-k-trademark-trial.html
A&E Television Networks LLC, which
airs the History channel, said viewers were fooled into watching
a similarly-named rival channel run by a  Discovery
Communications Inc. (DISCA)  unit.  A&E claims Discovery infringed its History channel
trademark when it renamed one of its channels “Discovery
History” in 2010 and is seeking a London court order blocking
the  Silver Spring , Maryland-based company’s use of “History.”  “People are watching their channels thinking they are
watching ours,” A&E’s lawyer, James Mellor, said at the start
of a five-day trial. That’s “going to have some impact on
viewing figures and will have some impact on revenues.”  History , formerly known as The History Channel, is the
second most-watched of the fact-based pay-TV stations in the
U.K., according to A&E court documents. Both Discovery History
and History are known for “documentaries about tanks trundling
across the Russian steppe,” said Judge Peter Smith, who said he
watched them regularly.  A&E will present viewers as witnesses during the trial who
told the New York-based broadcaster they’d been deceived by the
Discovery History name, to show “what real people think,”
Mellor said.  The channels’ names are similar “as a matter of simple
English,” Discovery said in court papers. A&E wants “a
monopoly in the word history.”  A&E is trying to stop other broadcasters from using the
word only “in a particular context,” Mellor said in response
to a question by Smith. Discovery’s use is deceptive, he said.  Discovery, which also broadcasts the Animal Planet and TLC
channels, has 1.7 billion subscribers in 209 countries,
according to its website.  Jeremy Dickerson, Discovery’s lawyer, and Debra Johnson, an
A&E spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  