-- Venezuela to Boost Debt Ceiling Limit by 37% to Pay Pensions
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-07-11T14:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/venezuela-to-boost-debt-ceiling-37-for-pensions-social-outlays.html
Venezuela’s cabinet approved a law
to raise the country’s debt ceiling by 30 billion bolivars ($7
billion) this year for pensions and social spending, Vice
President Elias Jaua said.  The law, which would increase the debt ceiling by 37
percent to 111.7 billion bolivars, will be forwarded to the
National Assembly for approval, Jaua said yesterday on state
television after a ministerial meeting in Caracas.  The move is designed to pay off outstanding pensions as
President  Hugo Chavez  begins campaigning for an Oct. 7 election
in which he’s seeking to extend his 13 years in power, said
 Francisco Rodriguez , an economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  New York . While the government will eventually need to
sell dollar-denominated bonds to finance imports and prevent
 international reserves  from falling, it will probably continue
this year’s policy of issuing debt in bolivars for now, he said.  “The government wants to be able to tell people they’re
going to have their money by the time that they go to vote,”
Rodriguez said in a phone interview. “They’re doing this to
carry out domestic issuance that they had already foreseen. I
don’t see this being the route through which international
issuance is going to take place.”  Local Debt Sales  Venezuela  has sold 53.1 billion bolivars in local debt this
year through June 29, Rodriguez said. That’s 66 percent of the
total debt that was initially approved in the budget.  Chavez in March adjusted the finance law to reduce the need
for authorization from the National Assembly and the central
bank to boost debt issuance above the amount set in the annual
budget. The government can bypass congress and the central bank
for additional debt operations needed to refinance public debt,
guarantee “food sovereignty,” invest in social and defense
projects and fund responses to natural disasters.  Venezuela hasn’t sold dollar-denominated bonds since
October and has depended on local currency bond sales to raise
money and drain liquidity. In May, state  oil company  Petroleos
de Venezuela SA sold $3 billion of bonds due in 2035 in a
private placement with the central bank.  Chavez last year signed a bill to increase the country’s
debt ceiling by 45 billion bolivars, almost doubling the initial
amount set in the budget. The government and PDVSA, as the oil
company is known, sold a record $17 billion of dollar-
denominated bonds in 2011 to finance social programs ahead of
this year’s election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  