-- Wiggins Keeps Tour de France Lead as Voeckler Wins in Mountains
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-11T22:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/voeckler-wins-tour-de-france-mountain-stage-wiggins-keeps-lead.html
Thomas Voeckler  won a Tour de France
stage featuring the first big climb of this year’s edition as
race favorite Bradley Wiggins maintained his lead over defending
champion  Cadel Evans .  France’s Voeckler, who wore the race-leading yellow jersey
for more than a week last year, overtook four other breakaway
riders a few hundred meters from the end of yesterday’s 121-mile
trip between Macon and Bellegarde-sur-Valserine.  Voeckler blew a kiss as he crossed the finish line in the
Jura mountain region of eastern France. It was his third career
win in cycling’s biggest event.  “In the end, I believed I could win only five meters
before the finish line,” Voeckler said in comments on the
race’s website. “The last 500 meters was so hard. Today I know
that I can finish my Tour without regrets.”  The race continues today with a 92-mile mountain stage
between Albertville and La Toussuire.  Wiggins kept his advantage of  1 minute, 53 seconds  over
Evans after staying in a group with the Australian over the Col
du Grand Colombier, an 11-mile climb that ended about 27 miles
from yesterday’s finish line.  Wiggins’s Team Sky teammate Chris Froome stayed third, 14
seconds further back after 10 of 20 stages.  Wiggins was led up the Grand Colombier, which has an
average gradient of 7.1 percent, by Team Sky teammates as Evans
of BMC Racing followed on the Briton’s wheel.  Evans attacked at the start of the descent and Wiggins
quickly snuffed out his advantage.  Vincenzo Nibali, who is 2 minutes, 23 seconds behind
Wiggins in fourth place, also failed to make up time on the
overall leader when his attack on the same descent faded before
the final climb, Col de Richemond.  Grand Colombier  Voeckler, who rides for the Europcar team, was first over
the Grand Colombier in a four-man breakaway. Jens Voigt joined
the group near the end.  With about two miles left, Dries Devenyns of Omega Pharma-
QuickStep broke away from the lead pack.  Voeckler prevailed when he overtook the Belgian a few
hundred meters from the end. Michele Scarponi and Voigt finished
the stage in second and third place, respectively.  Voeckler took possession of the polka-dot jersey as the
top-ranked climber. The Frenchman moved up 21 places to 31st
overall -- 22 minutes, 51 seconds behind Wiggins’s time.  Wiggins is seeking to become the first British winner of
the Tour de  France . He improved a 10-second lead over Evans in a
time trial three days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  