-- Voters Poised to Re-Elect Incumbents They Don’t Much Like
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-07-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/voters-poised-to-re-elect-incumbents-they-don-t-much-like.html
For a member of the  U.S. Congress ,
Republican or Democrat, the numbers could hardly look worse. 
Almost 8 in 10 Americans disapprove of lawmakers’ performance, 
and unemployment has been above 8 percent for 41 consecutive 
months.   It’s a recipe for a rout of incumbents in November’s 
election, as in 2010 when 56 were ousted. That won’t happen 
this year, say analysts.  Even when dissatisfaction with Congress in general runs
high, incumbents traditionally can count on most voters being
willing to support their own lawmakers. In the 10 general
elections between 1990 and 2008, an average of 19 Senate and
House members lost their seats.  “You just don’t see” a “sort of general anti-incumbent
wave,” Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory
University in Atlanta, said in an interview. “It doesn’t exist.
It’s a myth.”  There’s been scant evidence of anti-incumbent activity
so far in the 2012 primaries. Eight House members and
one senator, Republican  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , lost bids for
new terms. That total exceeds the seven incumbents denied re-
nomination in 2010, with 20 of the 50 states yet to hold
primaries this year. The increase in incumbent defeats, though,
is largely the result of redistricting.  Incumbent Challenges  Four of the eight defeated House members faced off in
primaries with colleagues. A fifth, Democratic Representative
Tim Holden of  Pennsylvania , lost to a challenger in a redrawn
district that was 80 percent new to him.  In primaries later this year or in the general election,
nine sets of incumbents are paired off against one another.  Spikes in incumbent losses and changes in control of
congressional chambers usually occur when voter anger is
channeled at one party -- a dynamic that existed in the past
three elections and isn’t present this year, Abramowitz said.  In 2006, when Democrats won control of the House and
Senate, and in 2008, when they augmented their majorities,
Republicans bore the brunt of seat losses because of President
 George W. Bush ’s unpopularity and scandals.  In 2010, Democrats suffered because they were defending
large numbers of swing House districts and Republican voters
were more motivated to oppose President  Barack Obama ’s policies
than his supporters were to defend them. The upshot: Republicans
regained control of the House and reduced the Democratic Senate
majority.  Divided Power  The 2012 election probably won’t result in these types of
upheavals partly because political power is divided in
 Washington , with Democrats occupying the White House and running
the Senate while Republicans control the House. That keeps
public discontent from focusing solely on one party.  A close presidential race between Obama and presumed
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  also undercuts the prospects that
one side will dominate November’s vote and defeat droves of the
other party’s officeholders.  “Overall, it’s a deeply divided country, but it’s pretty
evenly divided as well,” said  Gary Jacobson , a political
scientist at the  University of California  in San Diego. “And
that doesn’t give either party any kind of hope for having a
’wave’ election.”  Competitive Races  The Washington-based nonpartisan Cook Political Report
rates 53 of the 435 House races -- 12 percent -- as competitive,
compared to 100 just before Election Day two years ago. One
reason for the lower total is that Republicans utilized
redistricting that followed the 2010 Census to aid potentially
vulnerable House members elected that year, when the party’s
gain of 63 seats -- which included open ones that a Democrat had
held -- gave it the chamber’s majority.  “The Republicans controlled a disproportionate number of
the state legislatures, and they were pretty effective in
drawing some districts that strengthened their party’s
candidates and made it less likely that strong challengers would
emerge,”  Linda Fowler , a political scientist at Dartmouth
College in Hanover,  New Hampshire , said in an interview.  Incumbents in both parties also continue to wield long-
standing advantages over challengers in fundraising, name
recognition and campaign organization.  Playing Defense  Republicans have 242 House seats to defend in November,
including one in  Michigan  that Thaddeus McCotter resigned from
on July 6. That’s most for the party since the late 1940s, and
Republican strategists are concentrating more on defending their
seats than on unseating Democrats -- another factor that will
reduce incumbent turnover.  “It is clear that  House Republicans  have made a large
majority stronger and shrunken the playing field for  House
Democrats ,” Guy Harrison, the executive director of the
 National Republican Congressional Committee , said in a
memorandum in late March as the congressional line-drawing
process drew to a close.  To win the House, Democrats need a net gain of 25 seats.
Since 1974, when they picked up 48 seats three months after
Republican President Richard M. Nixon resigned in the Watergate
scandal, only twice have Democrats gained at least 25 -- in
1982, when they picked up 26, and 2006, when they took over 30.  Democratic strategists say dozens of Republicans who won in
2010 won’t have the same political advantages in November, when
the presidential election will yield a larger electorate that
will favor their party more than the turnout did in 2010.  ’Tough Environment’  “Democratic incumbents won in the tough environment of
2010 and are in a strong position going into 2012, while
Republican incumbents won with a wave at their back in 2010 and
remain out of touch and too extreme for middle class families of
their districts,” Jesse Ferguson, a spokesman for the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said in an e-mail.  Likely voters prefer a Democratic candidate to a Republican
candidate in U.S. House elections by 48 percent to 41 percent,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll taken June 15-18.  The Senate, which Democrats control 53-47, will see
significant turnover in November’s vote, though that owes more
to retirements by 10 members than to anti-incumbent sentiment,
analysts say. Of the 10 Senate races the Cook Political Report
rate as toss-ups, six are for open seats.  “There will be turnover in the Senate, but that’s not
exactly ’throw the bums out,’” Fowler said.  Senate Toss-Up Races  The four senators in toss-up races are Democrats  Claire McCaskill  of Missouri and Jon Tester of  Montana  and Republicans
Scott Brown of Massachusetts and  Dean Heller  of Nevada. In each
case, their state voted for the opposite party’s presidential
nominee in the 2008 election.  Senate and House incumbents may intensify their fundraising
and campaigning because of the prospect of increased spending
against them by outside groups with funding sources that are
difficult to trace, Paul S. Herrnson, director of the Center for
American Politics and Citizenship at the  University of Maryland 
in College Park, said in an interview.  “Most incumbents run scared, and many incumbents will run
particularly scared because they don’t know what will hit them
in terms of outside spending,” Herrnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  