-- Wall Street Borrows More for Payouts as IPOs Fall, Moody’s Says
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-07-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/wall-street-borrows-more-for-payouts-as-ipos-fall-moody-s-says.html
Private-equity firms took most of
the $11 billion in dividends that U.S. speculative-grade
companies paid in the first six months of the year as  Wall
Street ’s ability to exit investments through initial public
offerings plummeted.  Buyout firms owned 28 of the 35 high-yield, high-risk
borrowers that made such payments through debt transactions,
according to a report published yesterday by Moody’s Investors
Service. The two largest deals were a $2.2 billion dividend to
Bain Capital LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP from billboard
firm  Clear Channel Communications Inc. (CCO)  and a $1 billion payout
to Bain and KKR & Co. from hospital operator  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)   “Dividends are one of the exit strategies that private-
equity firms use and in the early part of the year dividend
recaps were prevalent,” Lenny Ajzenman, an analyst at Moody’s
in  New York  and an author of the report, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, rose in companies taking
dividends that were purchased by private-equity firms between
2008 and 2011, according to Moody’s. About 54 percent of
companies paying dividends had leverage between 4 times and 6
times.  Investor receptiveness to deals backing payouts “depends
on the track record and market position of the issuer,”
Ajzenman said. “Leverage in many of the deals didn’t get up to
the bubble era level.”  IPOs Decline  IPOs fell 34 percent during the last quarter with investors
rattled by uncertain economic conditions. Companies globally
raised $41.3 billion by selling shares, the worst quarter since
2009 and down from $62.7 billion a year ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowings for payouts were fueled by credit markets that
were receptive between February and April, before cooling down
in June to such deals, according to the report. The majority of
the dividends for companies owned by buyout firms were financed
with loans, Moody’s said.  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
rose to a year high of 94.56 cents on the dollar on May 14,
before falling to 91.8 cents on June 5. The measure, which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, closed at 93.98 cents yesterday.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  The effect of debt-financed dividends on ratings was
minimal, with only four companies among 35 receiving downgrades
due to payouts, according the report. More than half of the
borrowers seeking payments were rated B2, five levels below
investment grade.  “We’ll probably see pockets of activity through the year
where private-equity firms try to extract more dividends,”
Ajzenman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 