-- Wen Says Investment Now Key to Stabilizing China Growth: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-11T04:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/wen-says-boosting-investment-now-key-to-stabilizing-china-growth.html
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said promoting
investment growth is the key now to stabilizing  China ’s economic
expansion, signaling officials may boost spending to counter a
slowdown that probably extended into a sixth quarter.  Stabilizing economic growth is not only a pressing priority
for China now, it is also a long-term “arduous” task, Wen said
in a statement posted on a government website yesterday.
“Growth-stabilizing policies include boosting consumption and
diversifying  exports , but currently, what is important is to
promote a reasonable growth in investment,” Wen said.  China’s expansion is cooling as  Europe ’s debt turmoil
reduces exports and Wen’s prolonged crackdown on property
speculation restrains domestic demand. Growth may have slid to
7.7 percent in the second quarter, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey, the least in three years.  “Public investment will likely go up in coming months,”
said Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief China economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc., who previously worked for the
 International Monetary Fund . “It is the most effective way and
likely the only effective way to push up growth in the short
term.” Interest rate cuts help yet take time to filter through
the economy, he said.  The statement builds on remarks reported by the official
Xinhua News Agency two days earlier, where Wen said during an
inspection tour in the eastern province of Jiangsu that
“stabilizing investment currently plays a key role in expanding
domestic demand and maintaining growth.” The government will
intensify fine-tuning of policies, Wen said after the second
interest-rate  cut  in a month.  Stocks Fall  The Shanghai Composite Index fell for a third day and was
down 0.2 percent at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break. The MSCI
 Asia  Pacific Index declined 0.2 percent, the fifth straight drop.  China needs to keep a certain level of economic growth to
provide foundations for economic and social development and
improving people’s livelihoods, Wen said in yesterday’s
statement, which summarized discussions with economists and
company executives held July 9-10.  Wen didn’t specify what level of growth is necessary. In
March, he set a target of 7.5 percent for gross domestic product
expansion this year, the first time since 2004 the government
had a goal below 8 percent. Annual targets are routinely
surpassed and are more indicative of the direction of policy.
Growth last year of 9.2 percent compared with the 8 percent goal.  The premier said yesterday that when promoting investment,
“greater importance should be given to the destination,
structure, quality and cost-effectiveness” of spending. He also
called for more support for “emerging industries and new
technology research and development.”  Stimulus Measures  Xinhua reported in May that China has no plan to introduce
stimulus measures to support growth on the scale unleashed
during the depths of the global credit crisis in 2008. At the
same time, China has in recent weeks accelerated approvals for
projects including clean energy and lower-polluting  steel mills .  China’s imports rose less than estimated in June while
export growth slowed, customs bureau data showed yesterday. A
statistics bureau report the day before showed consumer
inflation eased to 29-month low last month. The government is
set to release figures July 13 for second-quarter gross domestic
product, investment and industrial production.  “The domestic and external economic situations are
relatively complicated,” Wen said yesterday. He cited
“downward pressure on the economy,” after being quoted July 8
as saying the pressure is still “relatively large.”  Growth Focus  Wen’s comments “highlight the government’s focus on
reviving the economy and may lead to new fiscal measures,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based senior economist and
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.  Yesterday’s statement didn’t discuss monetary policy or the
 property market . Authorities will keep implementing a
“proactive fiscal policy” and “prudent monetary policy,”
while “unswervingly” sustaining curbs on property market to
prevent prices from rebounding, the July 8 news report said.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  South Korea ’s
unemployment rate held at a four-month low last month as
industries including health care and education added workers.  Australian  consumer confidence  rose to a five-month high as
households responded to the central bank’s 1.25 percentage
points of interest-rate cuts since November, a private survey
showed.  Rates Unchanged  Sri Lanka today left  interest rates  unchanged for a third
straight month as one of Asia’s fastest inflation rates limits
room to join a monetary stimulus drive stretching from China to
Europe.  Also today,  Germany  is scheduled to report its  consumer
price index  for June while  Russia  will release weekly inflation
data.  The U.S. Federal Reserve will release minutes from its June
19-20 meeting, where policy makers expanded their Operation
Twist program to extend the maturities of assets on the central
bank’s balance sheet.  Separately yesterday, China, the world’s second-biggest
oil consumer, said it will reduce gasoline and diesel prices for
the third time since May after global crude costs tumbled,
returning pump rates to levels last seen in December 2010.  China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s biggest carrier
by passengers, said first-half profit may fall more than 50
percent because of slowing economic growth and higher jet-fuel
prices, according to a statement yesterday by the Guangzhou-
based company.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from  Patrick Harrington  in  Tokyo .
Editors: Scott Lanman, James Mayger  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  