-- What the U.S. Can Learn From Australia’s Coal Mines
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-07-11T22:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/what-the-u-s-can-learn-from-australia-s-coal-mines.html
America became great because it
transformed its vast natural resources -- Iowa farmland, Mesabi
iron,  Texas  crude -- into human capital, equipped with skills to
succeed in the Information Age.  Now, when human capital is king, some look toward Texas and
 North Dakota  and see natural-resource extraction as a path to
economic rejuvenation. But if we look at  Australia , the model of
a major mineral producer, we see that widespread prosperity
comes not from the stuff beneath the ground but from the stuff
between our ears.  Yes, the U.S. would be fortunate to exchange its painful
 8.2 percent   unemployment rate  for Australia’s healthy rate of
 5.1 percent . According to the  International Monetary Fund , at
current exchange rates, Australia had the  highest per-capita
gross domestic product  in the world in 2011, among all countries
with more than 10 million people.  Australia’s extremely high per-capita nominal GDP of
$65,000 reflects high exchange rates more than outsized GDP
growth, but by any measure Australia has had some good years.
From 2006 to 2011, its real GDP increased almost 13.8 percent.
Over the same five years, real GDP in the U.S. grew only 2.75
percent.  The popular explanation for Australia’s economic success is
that it is  Wyoming  with good weather, and has the luck to be
 China ’s energy supplier. In  this view , fortunes are made by
billions of tons of coal and  iron ore , carried from the Pilbara
mines in  Western Australia  by mile-and-a-half-long trains to
cargo ships headed for the factories of  Shanghai .  Coal Exports  The country’s iron-ore and coal exports are certainly vast.
In 2011, it  exported  A$64 billion worth of iron ore and A$47
billion worth of coal. (Conveniently, Australian and U.S.
dollars are almost equal in value.) Together, iron ore and coal
represent 42 percent of Australia’s total exports. The three
largest recipients of total Australian exports are China,  Japan 
and  South Korea , which got 27 percent, 19 percent and 9 percent
of shipments, respectively.  The Pilbara region produced more than 400 million metric
tons of iron ore in  2011 , which is about 125 pounds for every
person on the planet. Giant mining companies use 215-ton shovels
to fill an endless line of trucks that carry the dirt to 3,500-
ton crushers. The scale and logistics are daunting, and so are
the profits.  Yet mining plays a relatively modest role in the overall
Australian economy, and employs a positively tiny share of its
people. The  Australian Bureau of Statistics   shows  that mining
and mining services together contribute less than 10 percent of
the country’s GDP. Only 2  percent  of Australians work in the
mining sector.  In Western Australia, which produced more than A$62.8
billion worth of iron ore in 2011, iron-ore companies  employed
only 33,345 people . Iron-ore producers, as a whole, spent  less
than one-tenth  of their total earnings on wages and salaries; 42
percent of those earnings became pretax profits.  Mining does little for Australian employment because mining
is profoundly capital-intensive. Ore is pried from the Earth by
computer-controlled blasts. One insightful article reminds us
that mining is not men “wielding pickaxes, but sitting in prefab
offices with keyboards, watching on video monitors.” Even those
1.5-mile-long trains will  soon be driverless .  The Australians themselves seem to think their economy is
far more mining-intensive than it is in reality. One recent
survey found that, on  average, Australians believe  the mining
sector “employs nine times more workers than it actually does”
and “accounts for three times as much economic activity as it
actually does.” Australians may prefer to see themselves as a
nation of rugged extractors, rather than as a conventional
service-based economy, but overestimating the importance of
natural resources can lead to faulty public policy.  Dangerous Dynamic  Australia is lucky to have its mining revenue, but that
cash has a cost. For decades, economists have fretted about the
Dutch disease, which can occur when natural-resource exports
push up exchange rates. Australia has experienced a  steady
increase  in the value of its dollar, and a high  exchange rate 
makes it more difficult to export other products. The really
dangerous dynamic occurs when high exchange rates crowd out more
innovative industries that employ more typical Australian
workers.  A  recent paper  I co-wrote with William Kerr and Sari
Pekkala Kerr examined the long-run impact of mining across the
U.S. Fifty years ago, the economist  Benjamin Chinitz  noted that
 New York  appeared even then to be more resilient than
Pittsburgh. He argued that New York’s garment industry, with its
small setup costs, had engendered a culture of entrepreneurship
that spilled over into new industries. Pittsburgh, because of
its coal mines, had the huge  U.S. Steel Corp. (X) , which trained
company men with neither the ability nor the inclination to
start some new venture. A body of  healthy literature  now
documents the connection between economic success and measures
of local entrepreneurship, such as the share of employment in
startups and an abundance of smaller companies.  Our new paper documents Chinitz’s insight that mineral
wealth historically led to big companies, not entrepreneurial
clusters. In Australia, iron ore and coal are mined by giant
corporations such as Rio Tinto Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd., and
giant enterprises typically work best with other big companies.
Across U.S. metropolitan areas, we found that historical mining
cities had fewer small companies and fewer startups, even today
in sectors unrelated to mining or manufacturing, and even in the
Sunbelt. These mining cities were also experiencing less new
economic activity.  Low Taxes  Australia’s economic future depends on using its mineral
wealth wisely, following the example of Iowa farmers who once
used their corn profits to fund high schools. Yet  Kevin Rudd , a
former prime minister of Australia, was ousted in a backdoor
political coup in 2010 partially because of his  support  for an
extra mining tax. I’m against almost all industry-specific
taxes, but the share of miners’ “resource profits” returned to
the Australian government in the form of taxes and royalties
 f ell from about 40 percent in 2001 to less than 20 percent seven
years later.  It is a fiction that U.S. economic woes could be solved if
only the nation adopted a “drill, baby, drill” attitude toward
natural resources. Less than 0.6 percent of American jobs are in
 natural-resource extraction . Even a vast increase in drilling
employment would have a trivial impact on U.S. jobs.  Oil prices 
are set in the world market, so American production can do
little to radically decrease the global price of petroleum.  The wealth that comes out of the ground is a short-term
windfall, not a long-term source of economic growth. The U.S.
and Australia should both recognize that their futures depend on
training smart, innovative entrepreneurs and reducing the
barriers that limit their success.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why China should  think small 
to spur growth and why outsourcing is  (mostly) good ; Caroline
Baum on the  presidential outsourcing debate ;  Michael Kinsley  on
the  glories of outsourcing ; Ezra Klein on  Obama’s tax gamble ;
Laurence Kotlikoff on  Social Security’s solvency   To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 