-- Wholesalers in U.S. Lift Stockpiles at Slower Pace as Sales Fall
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-11T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/wholesalers-in-u-s-lift-stockpiles-at-slower-pace-as-sales-fall.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
in May at a slower pace as sales dropped by the most in three
years.  The 0.3 percent gain in  stockpiles  followed a 0.5 percent
increase in April that was smaller than previously estimated, the
Commerce Department reported today in  Washington . Sales decreased
0.8 percent, the biggest decline since March 2009.  Businesses are lowering inventories in line with concern
about the outlook for demand, indicating stockpiling will
contribute less to gross domestic product. Wholesalers had goods
on hand to last 1.18 months at the current sales pace, the most
since July 2011.  “Demand’s been unimpressive, though we’ve had some decent
inventory growth in the last couple quarters, and I think it’s
time for some slowing,”  David Sloan , a senior economist at 4Cast
Inc. in  New York , said before the report. Third-quarter GDP
growth is likely to suffer from the slackening demand, he said.  The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of 29 economists
called for a 0.3 percent gain. Forecasts ranged from a drop of
0.2 percent to an increase of 0.5 percent.  Another report today showed the  trade deficit  narrowed in
May as falling crude  oil prices  and weakening demand for  consumer
goods  trimmed the import bill. The gap shrank 3.8 percent to
$48.7 billion, in line with the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, from $50.6 billion in April, according to
Commerce Department figures. Purchases from abroad fell to the
lowest level in three months, while exports climbed to the
second-highest on record.  Inventory Breakdown  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 0.7 percent in May after a revised 0.7 percent
drop in the previous month, the Commerce Department said on July
3. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest, will be included in
the July 16 business inventory report.  Wholesalers’ inventories of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, climbed 0.6 percent after rising 1.2 percent
in April, today’s report showed. Sales of durable goods increased
0.6 percent.  Stockpiles of non-durable goods dropped 0.2 percent in May
as sales declined 1.9 percent. The decrease in demand may reflect
falling prices for products like petroleum and clothing.  Stockpiles contributed less to economic growth in the first
three months of 2012 than in the fourth quarter. The world’s
largest economy expanded at a 1.9 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, slower than the fourth quarter’s 3 percent pace.
Stockpiles contributed 0.1 percentage point to gross domestic
product during the period, down from 1.8 percentage points in the
final three months of 2011.  ‘Challenging Environment’  “While the second quarter produced solid results, we
continue to operate in a challenging environment with customers
and consumers under pressure in many of our markets,” Alan D. Wilson, chairman, president and chief executive officer of spice
producer McCormick & Co. Inc., said on a June 27 earnings call.  The European fiscal crisis continues to pose risks to
business, Wilson said. “In  Europe ,  consumer confidence  is low.
Austerity measures are adding pressure and economic and political
uncertainty persists.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  