-- Russian Lawmakers Back Internet Bill as Yandex Protests Persist
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-11T17:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/yandex-wikipedia-take-on-putin-with-protest-over-internet-bill.html
Yandex NV (YNDX) , operator of  Russia ’s
biggest search engine, maintained its protest against
legislation imposing controls over the Internet even after the
law was watered down during its passage through Parliament.  A bill giving authorities the power to blacklist websites
that contain child pornography or promote drugs or suicide
without a court order was approved today in Moscow by the State
Duma, or lower house of parliament. Amendments to an earlier
draft require a court order to shut down websites that contain
other illegal content for children.  President  Vladimir Putin , 59, who was re-elected to the
Kremlin in March after confronting the biggest anti-government
rallies in his 12 years in power, has faced opposition street
protests organized through social-networking websites. Yandex
and other websites including  Wikipedia  and  LiveJournal  had
opposed the legislation on the grounds it may curb free speech.  “We’re sorry the State Duma has accepted the current
version of the bill,” Elena Kolmanovskaya, Yandex’s editor-in-
chief, said in an e-mailed statement. The measure “affects the
interests of many parties: citizens, the state and the Internet
industry. Decisions like this shouldn’t be made hastily.”  ‘Rash’ Adoption  Yandex’s slogan “Everything will be found” on its  front
page  had two red slashes across part of it, with a link to a
company  statement  warning the legislation may spawn abuses and
stifle speech while questioning its “rash” adoption.
Wikipedia, the free online encyclopedia, shut down its Russian
website yesterday as part of an online protest also joined by
 VKontakte , the largest Russian social-networking website.  The Duma backed the bill in the second and third of three
readings. To become law, it must be approved by the Federation
Council, or upper chamber, before being signed by Putin.  “It’s necessary to maintain the balance of public
interests and also consider the technological characteristics of
the Internet,” Kolmanovskaya said.  The law would allow blocking access to websites using IP
addresses and domain names and create a registry of resources
banned for publication.  The Kremlin’s human rights council last week  criticized  the
proposal, saying it may be used to limit access to information
and block an “excessively broad” range of Internet resources.  The Organization for Security and Cooperation in  Europe , a
56-nation democracy watchdog, said yesterday that the bill’s
stated aim to restrict websites that contain pornography or
promote suicide and extremist ideas risks blocking the free flow
of information.  “Investors took it as a sign that Russia seeks to control
the Internet and may block even those websites that have nothing
to do with any criminal activity,” said Alexander Vengranovich,
an analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp. “People are concerned it
may turn out to be a Chinese-style control over the Internet by
the government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  