-- Yen Gains to Six-Week High Versus Euro on Growth Outlook
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-12T21:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/yen-gains-before-boj-decision-europe-and-china-data.html
The yen climbed to the strongest
level in six weeks against the euro and gained versus all its
most-traded counterparts as signs global growth is slowing
underpinned demand for the relative safety of the currency.  The dollar rose versus most major peers as the euro slid
below $1.22 for the first time since July 2010 and the pound
dropped on concern the European crisis remains unresolved. The
 Bank of Japan (8301)  refrained from expanding stimulus, adding to haven
demand. The Australian dollar tumbled after employers cut jobs,
while  Canada ’s currency erased losses as crude oil, the nation’s
biggest export, ended a retreat.  “The Bank of  Japan  to some degree disappointed with its
report today,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit, said in a telephone
interview. “There was some additional easing, but it was really
just a shuffling of the deck. Markets were a bit disappointed
that there was no new money involved.”  The yen gained 0.9 percent to 96.80 per euro at 5 p.m. New
York time after appreciating earlier to 96.43, the strongest
level since June 1. The Japanese currency advanced 0.6 percent
to 79.31 per dollar. The euro weakened 0.3 percent to $1.2203
after sliding to as low as $1.2167.  Japan’s currency rose versus the dollar as the  extra yield 
investors receive for investing in two-year U.S. Treasuries
versus comparable Japanese  government bonds  fell to the lowest
in a month, limiting dollar-denominated assets’ appeal. The
yield spread was 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point.  Canada’s Dollar  The Canadian dollar reached a record high against the euro,
C$1.2418, and reversed a slide against the greenback. The
loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of the bird
on the C$1 coin, was up 0.1 percent to C$1.0191 to its U.S.
counterpart after dropping earlier as much as 0.5 percent.  Crude oil for August delivery was little changed at $85.81
a barrel in New York after erasing declines as the U.S. was said
to be readying additional sanctions against  Iran . The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24  raw materials  gained 0.4 percent after
falling 1.1 percent earlier. Raw materials account for about
half of Canada’s export revenue.  China’s economic growth slowed to an annual 7.7 percent
last quarter, from 8.1 percent in the previous three months, a
Bloomberg survey forecast before the data is released.  “We are seeing very significant negative signals being
generated by leading indicators, suggesting that the global
slowdown is continuing to gain momentum,” said  Ian Stannard ,
chief European currency strategist at Morgan Stanley in  London .
“The yen and the dollar are both going to remain supported.”  Three Months  Japan’s currency gained 6.4 percent in the past three
months, the best performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar rose 4 percent, while the euro dropped 3.7 percent.  The yen briefly erased its daily advance versus the dollar
and euro after the Japanese central bank’s announcement.  The BOJ expanded its asset-purchase fund by 5 trillion yen
($63 billion) to 45 trillion yen and cut the size of a credit
loan facility by the same amount to 25 trillion yen. It held its
benchmark rate at between zero and 0.1 percent and left the
maturity of government debt it buys unchanged at three years.  “The market decided what the BOJ was giving them with one
hand, they were taking back with the other,” Citigroup’s Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “So the net
impact was very limited.”  Risk-Adjusted  The yen’s risk-adjusted gain of 0.38 percent against the
dollar this year was the fourth-largest among major currencies,
the Bloomberg Riskless Ranking showed. The euro was the worst
performer on a straight-return basis, losing 5.8 percent.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Sterling fell to its lowest level in five weeks versus the
dollar on concern efforts to pull the U.K. out of its first
double-dip recession since the 1970s will be hampered by the
euro-area debt crisis and declining global growth. The pound
depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.5428 after weakening earlier to
$1.5394, the lowest since June 6.  Nomura Holdings Inc. lowered its forecast for the dollar
versus the yen and the euro against the greenback, citing weak
growth “dynamics” in the euro region. Nomura predicted the
dollar will trade at 80 yen at the end of September, versus its
previous forecast of 83 yen. It estimated the euro will trade at
$1.18 at the end of September, compared with an earlier
projection of $1.25.  ‘Heading Lower’  “The politicians and policy makers in  Europe  can’t get a
solution, and it’s very unlikely they’re going to between now
and Christmas, so euro-dollar is heading lower,”  Geoff Kendrick , head of European currency strategy at Nomura
International in London, said on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” with  Guy Johnson . “The only question is, how fast does
it go there?”  Barclays Plc is betting on Asian currencies instead of the
euro even as Chinese economic growth eases to the slowest pace
in three years. Fiscal stimulus from the Chinese government may
be more beneficial than potential monetary stimulus from the
 European Central Bank , said Jose Wynne, head of North America
foreign-exchange research for  Barclays Capital  in New York.
Wynne spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview on “Lunch
Money” with Sara Eisen.  Barclays forecasts the euro will depreciate to $1.15 in the
next year.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trade
partners, rose as much as 0.3 percent to 83.829, the highest
level since July 2010, before trading at 83.644, up 0.1 percent.  Australia ’s dollar was the among the biggest losers versus
its U.S. counterpart after the statistics bureau said in Sydney
the number of people employed in the country fell last month by
27,000, almost erasing a revised 27,800 job gain in May.  The Aussie dropped 1.1 percent to $1.0139 to the  U.S.
dollar  after falling as much as 1.5 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since June 21. The Australian currency slid 1.7
percent to 80.41 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  