-- China’s Yuan Declines on Slower Export Growth, Weaker Fixing
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-07-11T09:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/yuan-little-changed-after-export-growth-slowed-weaker-fixing.html
China ’s  yuan  dropped after the
central bank weakened the daily fixing as slowing export growth
added to concerns about the strength of the global economy.  The People’s Bank of China lowered the yuan’s  reference
rate  by 0.02 percent to 6.3209 per dollar. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said yesterday the domestic and overseas economic situation is
“complicated” and stabilizing growth is a long-term, difficult
target.  “The currency is going to continue to depreciate as the
growth momentum is still weak,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong
Kong-based fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA. “The
longer we don’t see signs of substantial growth, the higher is
the chance for the yuan to march towards further weakening.”  The yuan fell 0.04 percent to close at 6.3686 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on either
side of the daily fixing. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of  exchange-rate  swings used to price options, held at
1.53 percent.  Overseas shipments  climbed 11.3 percent in June from a year
earlier, compared with a 15.3 percent gain in May, the customs
bureau said yesterday. Import growth slowed to 6.3 percent from
12.7 percent.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan traded at 6.3645
per dollar, from yesterday’s 6.3646 percent. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards gained 0.03 percent to 6.4150, a 0.72
percent discount to the onshore spot rate.  China’s leaders understand the need for a more flexible
exchange rate to boost growth over the long term, Australian
Treasurer Wayne Swan said today in announcing new currency talks
with his nation’s biggest trading partner.  During his visit to  Hong Kong  and Beijing this week, Swan
said he will discuss the potential for “direct convertibility
at some stage in the future between the Australian dollar and
the  renminbi  for transactions completed in mainland China,
without pricing through the  U.S. dollar .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  