-- Hyundai Motor Faces Looming Strike Imperiling Momentum
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-07-12T08:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/hyundai-motor-faces-looming-strike-imperiling-momentum.html
For  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , Moon Yong Moon’s labor protests during the 1990s became such a nuisance
that  South Korea ’s largest carmaker laid him off three times.
The strategy didn’t work.  Moon, 46, leader of Hyundai Motor’s labor union, is
threatening the automaker with its first strike since 2008
unless the Seoul-based company increases wages and reduces
working hours. Yesterday, more than 70 percent of the 45,000-
member guild voted in favor of empowering Moon and Hyundai’s
union leaders to stage walkouts.  The vote is a blow to Hyundai, whose improvement in labor
relations helped the carmaker and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
increase sales faster than any other major global auto group the
past four years. Hyundai Motor estimates strikes from 1987 to
2008 led to lost sales of more than 1 million vehicles valued at
11.6 trillion won ($10 billion).  “This kind of harking back to the past is not helping
 Korea ,” said James Rooney, Seoul-based chief executive officer
of consulting firm Market Force Co. “Foreign investors have
already got a distorted view of Korea. They think we are a place
that has these terrible riots and steel-club wielding people and
people setting themselves on fire and stuff like that. And so
when they hear about this, it will just be, ‘Oh, Korea again.’”  Hyundai Motor fell for a sixth straight day, its longest
streak of declines in 11 months. It dropped 3.1 percent to close
at 218,500 won in Seoul, while the benchmark Kospi fell 2.2
percent. Shares of Hyundai, which have jumped more than fivefold
since the end of 2008, and those of Kia have been
underperforming the benchmark index in the past three weeks amid
mounting concerns about labor strikes.  Biggest Union  Hyundai Motor, which has the nation’s biggest guild, has
symbolized the decline in clashes with unions that had plagued
South Korean businesses as wages improved and employers shifted
production overseas. The number of South Korean work days lost
on labor disputes fell to 429 by 2011, a 73 percent drop from a
decade ago, according to  data  compiled by the nation’s Ministry
of Employment and Labor.  Workers at Seoul-based Kia, which counts Hyundai Motor as
its biggest  shareholder , also voted yesterday in favor of
pursuing a strike for the first time since 2009. That means
workers at Hyundai Motor and Kia will go on an eight-hour
stoppage tomorrow, according to both unions. Subsequent walkouts
haven’t been announced.  Labor Demands  Hyundai Motor and Kia workers are demanding a 151,696 won
increase in monthly base pay and that the companies return 30
percent of net income to employees as bonuses, said Kim Gi Hyuk,
a Hyundai Motor union spokesman. Other demands include switching
Hyundai Motor’s plants to two eight-hour shifts from the current
double 12-hour rotation system, according to Kim.  Moon sought the union vote after wage negotiations that
began in May failed to yield an agreement. Hyundai Motor’s union
walked out of negotiations in late June, saying management
lacked sincerity.  Hyundai Motor’s management will seek further talks to
resolve its differences with the union, the company said in an
e-mail today.  While Hyundai Motor, where union workers earn an average of
about 45 million won a year, has periodically faced partial
stoppages in the past four years because of labor disputes, none
was officially sanctioned and they rarely lasted beyond several
hours. Hyundai Motor’s last full-blown strike occurred in 2008,
when a 12-day walkout cost the company an estimated 44,645
vehicles, or 691 billion won, according to Hyundai Motor.  Tougher Negotiator  Under Korean rules, organized work stoppages are legal only
if the union files for a 10-day mediation period to the National
Labor Relations Commission and the majority of union members
approve a strike. Failure to do so can result in the company
filing an injunction to prevent walkouts.  Moon was elected as Hyundai’s union leader last year after
promising to be a tougher negotiator than his predecessor, Lee Kyung Hoon, who was elected to a two-year term in 2009 after
pledging to curb unnecessary strikes.  Past Hyundai protests have resulted in violent clashes in
which unionists would wield steel pipes and throw Molotov
cocktails at police. In 1993, demonstrations were so disruptive
that the  Bank of Korea  lowered its gross national product
estimate.  Four Arrests  Moon, who joined Hyundai Motor’s union in 1988, said in a
November interview that his activism in past protests led him to
be arrested four times and laid off in 1992, 1995 and 1998.
Unionists who get fired in labor disputes often get reinstated
after lodging appeals to the nation’s labor commission, Kim at
the union said by phone.  A strike may be a lesser blow to Hyundai Motor than in past
years after the company expanded production in the U.S.,  China ,
 India  and  Turkey .  South Korean plants accounted for 46 percent of Hyundai
Motor’s production capacity in 2011, down from 60 percent in
2008 and 93 percent in 2000.  “The radical labor union was also a reason behind
Hyundai’s expansion overseas,” said Lee Sang Hyun, an analyst
at  NH Investment & Securities Co. (016420)  “It’s an Achilles’ heel to
the company.”  Global factories won’t be able to make up for prolonged
stoppages in South Korea because overseas plants from the U.S.
to China are operating near full capacity.  Chanwook Park, a Seoul-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
wrote in a July 1 report that the likelihood of a protracted
strike at Hyundai Motor would be low and that a stoppage would
last two weeks at most. Employees going on strike would stand to
lose overtime payments and the 35 shares allocated to each
employee for not engaging in strikes, according to Park.  Rising Competition  For Hyundai and Kia, the possible strike looms as the South
Korean carmakers seek to fend off Japanese automakers, led by
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which are regaining market share they lost
after last year’s natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand .  Hyundai Motor sold 2.2 million vehicles worldwide for the
first half of this year, up 12 percent from a year earlier,
according to an e-mailed statement. Hyundai and Kia are also
bucking the slump in  Europe  by increasing sales in the shrinking
market.  Hyundai Motor, whose  profit  has tripled in the past three
years, will probably report a second-quarter net income of 2.4
trillion won, according to the average of 21 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. For the year, analysts project profit
growth easing from 2011 as competition intensifies and economic
growth slows.  “It’s not the best time to choose to attack your employer,
who’s been very successful but who’s going to have to survive
these market downturns along with everybody else,” Market
Force’s Rooney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  