-- Zuckerberg Freshman Roommate Goes From Harvard to Haiti Olympian
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-07-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-11/zuckerberg-freshman-roommate-goes-from-harvard-to-haiti-olympian.html
Mark Zuckerberg wasn’t the only
freshman losing sleep in Room D11 of  Harvard University ’s Straus
Hall back in 2002-03.  While the founder of the  Facebook Inc. (FB)  social network site
was spending long nights at his laptop in the dorm at Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , roommate Samyr Laine focused on twin goals that
are within reach over the next two months.  Laine will compete in the triple jump at the  London 
Olympics for  Haiti , the country of his parents’ birth. Then he
probably will start a job at a  New York  law firm that he twice
deferred to stay in training.  “We had a good time our freshman year in Straus, we played
a ton of PlayStation,” Laine said in an interview at his home
in Lorton, Virginia. “We probably didn’t sleep nearly as much
as we should have. None of us slept as little as Mark did, and
now you can see why.”  Laine, 27, holds Harvard records for the triple jump, both
indoors at 51 feet, 11 1/4 inches (15.83 meters) and outdoors at
53 feet, 7 1/2 inches, which compare with the world outdoor
record of 60 feet, 1/4 inch by Britain’s Jonathan Edwards in
1995. After graduating in 2006, Laine competed at the  University
of Texas  for a year while getting a master’s degree in
kinesiology and sports management.  After the Pan American Games in  Rio de Janeiro  that July,
he began three years at Georgetown Law School while maintaining
an intense training regimen that includes working about once a
week with an unpaid coach who used to play minor-league
baseball. He was a summer associate at Shearman & Sterling LLP
and passed the bar before deferring a law career to focus on
jumping.  Earthquake Aid  This month, he’ll go to London to compete for Haiti, a
nation still recovering from the destruction of a January 2010
earthquake that killed 300,000 people and left tens of thousands
of others injured and homeless. U.S. government aid to Haiti has
totaled more than $2.1 billion in the past three years,
according to a  State Department website .  Chris Lambert, a former Harvard teammate and now a
financial and commercial analyst for London’s Olympic
organizers, called Laine “very calm and very assiduous.”  Another former teammate with the Crimson, Lawrence Adjah,
who recently finished Stanford Business School, pointed to
Laine’s “monomaniacal focus.” Former Harvard jumps coach
Jackie Hoover said Laine is “the definition of passion.”  “He has focus like I’ve never really seen before,” Trisha
Weiss, the director of legal recruiting for Shearman & Sterling,
said in a telephone interview. “He really does it all. He’s
just so disciplined and really knows what he wants.”  Four Roommates  Zuckerberg and Laine, both from the suburbs north of  New
York City , shared one of the doubles in Room D11. The other
double paired Australian rower Bede Moore and musician Justin
Coffin.  “We were all very different,” said Moore, who now lives
in Jakarta and co-founded the e-commerce site Lazada Indonesia
after leaving Boston Consulting Group Inc.  “Sam and I were both athletes, but he came from New York
whereas I was fresh from overseas,” Moore said in an e-mail
interview. “Justin was musically very gifted. Mark was
obviously on the computer. But even despite the differences, the
room worked brilliantly together.”  Larry Yu, a spokesman for  Facebook  based in  Menlo Park ,
 California , declined to pass requests on to Zuckerberg seeking
comment about his former roommates.  In their sophomore year, when they were no longer rooming
together, Laine became the 14th person to sign up for Facebook
after getting a message from Zuckerberg.  Zuckerberg Overslept  Laine still laughs at an incident from freshman year. He
remembers Zuckerberg running out of their dorm room after
oversleeping and missing the first hour of a computer science
final exam, only to get the highest mark in the class.  “The mastery he had of computer science, even as a
freshman, it was almost comical,” Laine said. “We would often
try to see how fast he could hack into our computers.”  Zuckerberg, 28, with an estimated worth of $16 billion,
ranks 40th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Laine grabs free
pizzas these days through a deal at a local restaurant, and
sometimes needs help from his parents to pay his share of rent.  He can afford coach Skeeter Jackson, a former Olympic long
jumper who was a minor-league center fielder for Major League
Baseball’s Baltimore Orioles, only because Jackson has never
asked to be paid in five years of working with Laine.  ‘Thrown Together’  “Everybody asks that: Why don’t you just ask Mark for
money?” Laine said. “Our friendship isn’t based on him being
 Mark Zuckerberg , Time Person of the Year. It’s based on us being
a couple of 17-year-old kids who happened to be thrown into a
room together. I haven’t asked any of my friends. So for him it
wouldn’t be any different, because he is my friend.”  He said he last spoke with Zuckerberg in June and they are
in touch every couple of months.  He survives thanks to a $1,250 monthly stipend that the
 International Olympic Committee  offers to athletes competing for
impoverished nations. He has a sponsorship deal with  Mizuno
Corp. (8022)  that provides him with clothing, spikes and cash.  Laine also gets money from the  U.S. Athletic Trust , a non-
profit organization based in Briarcliff Manor, New York, that is
providing financial support for the London Games to three former
Ivy League athletes -- Laine and javelin throwers Craig Kinsley
from  Brown University  and Sean Furey from  Dartmouth College . The
Olympics run from July 27 to Aug. 12.  Pizza Deal  He sought a sponsorship with the Zpizza chain, which
instead offered him a house account that allows him to get free
food. He uses it to get pizzas and salads from Zpizza, founded
in Laguna Beach, California, three to four times a week.  “Some months here it’s touch and go, my landlord will tell
you that,” Laine said, “but it comes with the territory of
chasing your dreams and being an Olympian.”  Jackson, a high school teacher, works with Laine about once
a week. On a recent weekday, in 100-degree (38-degree Celsius)
heat, they met at the  University of Mary Washington  in
Fredericksburg, about 30 minutes south of Laine’s home.  Training partner Ayanna Alexander, who will compete in the
women’s triple jump for  Trinidad & Tobago , and Laine practiced
in a pit with weeds at its edges.  Laine, shirtless in the midday heat, screamed before each
of his jumps and ended each run by wiping sand off his sweaty
arms and back.  Best Jump  His career-best triple jump of 57 feet, 3/4 inch came in
2009. He failed to automatically qualify for the 2012 Olympics,
reaching them by surpassing a secondary standard when he jumped
56 feet, 1 inch in July 2011.  Laine, who is now in France training with the rest of the
Haitian Olympic team, has a best official jump this year of 55-4
3/4 that ranks him 30th in the world. Christian Taylor of the
U.S. has the year’s best jump, at 57-10 1/4.  Jackson, 50, said part of his goal is to get Laine -- who
acknowledges he is “hyperanalytical” -- to think less and
react more when he is sprinting down the runway.  Laine grew up in Newburgh, New York, and had never visited
Haiti until last year. He contacted Haitian sports officials in
2007 and told them he wanted to compete for the Caribbean nation
in the Olympics.  He knew he would have a better chance of reaching the games
as a Haitian than an American, and said he felt such an
achievement would mean more.  Haiti Foundation  “In the U.S., even gold medalists are a dime a dozen,” he
said. “There’s a lot more good I can do competing for Haiti,
representing the country on the international level.”  He is in the process of creating the Jump for Haiti
Foundation, which he envisions helping sports programs
throughout the nation. That might be when he calls on his former
roommate for financial help.  “Of course, in hindsight, I wish I had gotten in (as an
early Facebook investor),” Laine said. “Mark and I took
different paths, and our paths are still somewhat intertwined.
If it ends up that Facebook becomes a big donator to Jump for
Haiti, then that’s how I’ll be able to benefit from it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  