-- ‘Hansel and Gretel’ Is Freudian Nightmare: Paris Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-04-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/-hansel-and-gretel-is-freudian-nightmare-paris-review.html
An opinion poll of U.K. parents
last year revealed that one in four found Grimm’s fairy tales
too scary to be read to children.  Their blacklist was topped by “Hansel and Gretel,” the
well-known story of two kids abandoned in the woods and lured
into the house of a witch who almost succeeds in cooking and
eating them.  German parents seem less worried. For many years, “Hansel
and Gretel” has been the second most popular opera on German
stages after “The Magic Flute.”  In  Germany , Engelbert Humperdinck’s 1893 “Kinderstuben-
Weihfestspiel” (sacred nursery drama), as he ironically called
it, is considered an ideal way to introduce children to the
world of opera and is routinely performed in the Christmas
season.  The Paris Opera has, at long last, discovered “ Hansel and
Gretel ” which it’s staging for the first time.  In an interview with the opera’s in-house magazine, stage
director  Mariame Clement  said that she was struck by the
composer’s choice of that particular subject when psychoanalysis
was taking shape in Vienna.  Freudian Angst  Clement is not the first to make that connection. Bruno
Bettelheim, the controversial child therapist, argued that
“Hansel and Gretel” reflects children’s anxieties of being
deserted by their parents. The witch, he said in his book “The
Uses of Enchantment,” is none other than the mother herself.  The director shares that belief. Mother and witch, though
performed by different singers, are both redheads and wear the
same dress.  The story is presented as a fantasy of the two children.
When the father -- a bourgeois salesman of household goods, not
a poor broom maker -- comes home after a successful business
trip, he makes love to his wife.  That “Urszene” (primal scene) as Freud called it, is
overheard by the children -- with traumatic effects.  To illustrate the difference between the real and the
imaginary worlds, set designer Julia Hansen has divided the
stage into a pair of two-story dollhouses: In one, real children
sleep, while in the other, the singers act out their nightmares.  Birthday Cake  The forest is reduced to a few symbolic trees. The witch’s
gingerbread cottage has morphed into a giant birthday cake whose
real-life equivalent is brought in by the smiling mother when
the kids wake up.  It’s a clever concept, yet it sounds better than it looks.
Much of the opera’s poetry vanishes into thin air on Freud’s
couch. It’s like serving the menu instead of the dinner.  The final apotheosis, the Parsifalian redemption --
Humperdinck was Wagner’s assistant at the 1882 Bayreuth premiere
of “Parsifal” -- of the other children who have been baked in
the witch’s oven and turned into a gingerbread fence, falls
completely flat.  The best singing comes from Irmgard Vilsmaier’s mother and
Anne-Catherine Gillet’s Gretel. Daniela Sindram’s Hansel is a
bit anemic; Jochen Schmeckenbecher’s father is wobbly.  Anja Silja is a very droll Witch. She first appears as a
kind old woman and then morphs into a campy nightclub singer in
a glittering costume. At this point in her splendid 60-year
career, not much is left of that crystal soprano, but in a role
like this who cares.  Claus Peter Flor’s conducting is competent rather than
inspired.  Rating: **  “Hansel and Gretel” runs at the Palais Garnier through
May 6. Information:  http://operadeparis.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Greg Evans on film and Richard Vines on Paris restaurants.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 