-- ABB Buys Power-One for $1 Billion to Add Solar Inverters
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-04-22T09:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/abb-to-buy-power-one-for-about-1-billion-to-add-solar-inverters.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  agreed to acquire  Power-
One Inc. (PWER)  for about $1 billion, giving the world’s biggest
electricity-networks builder inverters that allow solar power to
be fed into grids.  Shareholders of the Camarillo, California-based company
will get $6.35 a share,  Switzerland ’s ABB said in a statement
today. Power-One shares  surged  as much as 59 percent to the
equivalent of $6.34 in German trading today.  ABB is looking to tap a market forecast to grow by more
than ten percent annually, driven by a need for affordable
energy and declining costs of producing solar power. The 7.7
times Ebitda that ABB is paying for Power-One is lower than the
median multiple of 8.5 paid for alternate energy companies in
the last three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ABB Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan said there is some
risk in buying Power-One amid a “tumultous market” for
renewable energies like solar and wind power. He predicts the
bet to pay off as the cost of producing solar energy is moving
towards the price of purchasing power from the grid.  “If you wait in this industry until it’s very clear what
it’s going to look like, you are not going to be paying the
multiples that we are paying here today,”  Hogan said on a
conference call.  ‘Smart Move’  Power-One generated earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of $120 million last year from
sales of its inverters used in commercial and residential
photovoltaic or PV systems, ABB said in a statement. The company
will be integrated into ABB’s Discrete Automation and Motion
unit which produces robots, motors and drives.  “We consider the acquisition of Power-One as a smart
strategic move for ABB to broaden its solar product portfolio at
the right time,” said Takis Spiliopoulos, an analyst at Bank
Vontobel AG in Zurich. The purchase premium is acceptable given
Power-One’s net cash position of $266 million, he said.  The boards of both ABB and Power-One approved the
transaction.  In U.S. trading, Power-One had dropped 1.7 percent this
year before today. ABB rose 1.2 percent to 20.16 francs as of
11:04 a.m. in Zurich, valuing the company at 46.7 billion francs
($50 billion).  Power-One’s inverters this year began operation at a solar
power plant installed in the Atacama desert for the Chilean
fruit exporter Subsole, which was seeking to escape high energy
prices supplied from the nation’s conventional grid.  More Deals  Power-One is the latest bite-sized acquisition by Hogan as
he looks to bring new technology to the Swiss company’s
portfolio. Solar inverters convert the direct current generated
by solar panels into the alternative current needed to run
appliances on power grids.  Hogan did not rule out more deals which would build on
ABB’s position in solar.  “I can’t say if it’s the last one we will do. You won’t
see us ever do a solar panel deal,” he said on the conference
call, adding that ABB wouldn’t consider buying into machinery
used to maker solar panels as it’s not an area of expertise.  The purchase also contrasts with a retreat from the solar-
equipment market by competitor Siemens AG. The Munich-based
company is selling its solar-energy unit, expanded by the
takeovers of Archimede Solar Energy and Solel Solar Systems,
after deteriorating prices for photovoltaic equipment.  ABB is structuring the transaction as a merger and the
Zurich-based company has the backing of investment funds
affiliated with Silver Lake Sumeru, it said. Credit Suisse Group
AG advised ABB, with  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP 
providing legal help. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Power-
One, along with legal firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  