-- Air Canada Declines Most Since 2009 on Loss: Montreal Mover
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-04-22T20:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/air-canada-declines-most-since-2010-on-loss-montreal-mover.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  fell the most in more
than three years after reporting a preliminary loss for the
first quarter that was wider than analysts estimated, hurt by
impairment costs and flight cancellations caused by bad weather.  Canada’s largest airline dropped 13 percent to C$2.62 at
the close of trading in Toronto, the largest single-day decrease
since October 2009.  The adjusted net loss was about C$143 million ($139.1
million), Montreal-based Air Canada said today in a statement.
That’s bigger than the C$131.4 million average forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of five analysts. In the same period a year
ago, the adjusted net loss was C$162 million. Air Canada didn’t
provide per-share figures in today’s announcement.  “This is a disappointment,” Jacques Kavafian, an analyst
at Toll Cross Securities Inc., said in a telephone interview
from Toronto. “The trading environment for the airlines now is
pretty good, so I thought  Air Canada (AC/B)  stood a good chance to
report one of their best Q1 results in recent history. What they
came up with is a surprise.”  Kavafian said he plans to keep his buy rating on the stock,
“assuming this Q1 loss is a one-time event.”  Results included an impairment charge of C$24 million
related to Airbus A340-300 aircraft, as well as an estimated
C$10 million due to flight cancellations caused by “severe”
weather conditions and “operational challenges” at Air
Canada’s major Canadian airport hubs, the carrier said.  Net Loss  The company said it experienced aircraft deicing service
delays at Toronto Pearson International Airport, its main hub,
during the period.  Air Canada also said its net loss probably narrowed to
C$260 million from C$274 million a year earlier. The operating
loss widened to C$106 million from C$91 million, according to
the statement.  The company said it released the preliminary figures to
comply with Canadian securities regulation as it “explores a
range of debt financing activities.”  Isabelle Arthur, a spokeswoman for Air  Canada , said today
that the company is considering a sale of enhanced equipment
trust certificates backed by aircraft leases to finance new
planes. Any decision on the issuance of EETCs would be announced
in a press release in compliance with disclosure rules, Arthur
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  