-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Drop Toward 8-Month Low on Yen Decline
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-04-22T02:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/taiwan-dollar-forwards-drop-toward-8-month-low-on-yen-decline.html
Taiwan dollar forwards dropped
toward an eight-month low on speculation the central bank will
curb gains to keep pace with declines in the yen and South
Korean won, the island’s biggest local competitors for exports.  The monetary authority will step in to the  currency market 
to maintain order when volatility is excessive, according to a
statement on March 28. The Taiwan dollar has depreciated 2.8
percent against the dollar this year, compared with losses of
5.2 percent and 13.8 percent for the won and yen, threatening to
reduce the competitiveness of the island’s largest electronics
companies Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and HTC Corp.  One-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.1 percent to
NT$29.792 per dollar as of 10:38 a.m. in Taipei, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts touched NT$30.10 on
April 9, the weakest level since July 27. The yen is approaching
100 to the greenback for the first time in four years.  “The yen’s plunge is having an impact on many Asian
currencies,” said Tarsicio Tong, a currency trader at Union
Bank of Taiwan in Taipei. “The  Taiwan dollar  will edge toward
NT$30 slowly and will probably stay there for a while.”  The island’s currency was little changed at NT$29.83
against its U.S. counterpart in the  spot market , Taipei Forex
Inc. prices show. The central bank has sold the local dollar in
the run-up to the close on most days in the past year, according
to traders who asked not to be identified.  Japan Stimulus  Japan ’s plan to buy 7 trillion yen ($70.2 billion) of bonds
a month to stimulate its economy has spurred a decline in the
yen on speculation those funds will flow out of the country in
search of higher-yielding assets.  Bank of Japan  Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda said after the weekend meetings of the Group of
20 nations that he was emboldened to press ahead with the
campaign to defeat deflation, signaling the BOJ’s easing
policies were unopposed by global policy makers.  Taiwan reported unemployment numbers for March today, with
the jobless rate coming in at 4.18 percent, up from 4.16 percent
a month earlier and matching the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Factory output figures are due tomorrow.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped four basis points to 3.37 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Government bonds  fell. The yield on the 0.875 percent notes
due January 2018 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 0.943 percent, according to Gretai Securities Market prices.  The  overnight interbank lending  rate was little changed at
0.388 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  