-- Algeria Oasis Towns Clamor for Jobs in Shadow of Al-Qaeda
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S a l a h   S l i m a n i
-- 2013-04-22T07:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/algeria-oasis-towns-clamor-for-jobs-in-shadow-of-al-qaeda.html
Amar Kouiten’s life has fallen
apart since he lost his job last year as machine operator at an
Algerian gas-liquification plant.  His wife left him and took their two children to her
parents’ home. Kouiten, 36, joined a group of unemployed workers
and began organizing protests in Ouargla province, where clashes
with police left 40 people injured on April 10.  “We’ve really had enough of all this,” he said in an
interview, explaining that he only has enough money to eat once
a day. “All we want is the right to have a job.”  Rising unemployment is sparking unprecedented unrest in the
southern oasis towns in Algeria, the third-largest gas supplier
to the European Union. It comes when the authorities are already
tightening security after a January attack by militants linked
to al-Qaeda in Islamic Maghreb, or AQIM, at the An Amenas gas
plant that killed 38 foreign workers and amid preparations for
elections next year.  The government is “aware of two possible future dangers:
escalation of the protests and AQIM taking benefit of something
that explodes,” said I. William Zartman, professor emeritus of
international studies at  Johns Hopkins University .  Below the oasis towns is the desert, home to most of
nation’s oil and gas reserves. Algeria produces about 1.2
million barrels of oil a day, pumped mainly by state-run
Sonatrach, London-based  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Norway ’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  of Norway
and  ENI Spa (ENI)  of  Italy . The industry provides the government with
about 98 percent of its revenue.  ‘Cash Cow’  “The instability in the south is definitely something the
authorities are worrying about in the run-up to elections,”
Riccardo Fabiani, a North Africa analyst at Eurasia Group, said
in a telephone interview from  London . “It could threaten the
cash cow of this regime.”  Until now, the south has remained largely free of the
sporadic protests over  living conditions  that erupted in the
north and east before and after the Arab Spring that toppled
rulers in neighboring Tunisia, Libya and  Egypt .  The worsening of security in the south has curbed job
opportunities for the majority of people in the area who depend
on cross-border trade, selling handicrafts and tourism, said
Mahmad Saib Musette, head of research at the Algiers-based
Center of Applied Economy for Development.  “This is one of the main reasons of the current unrest in
the south,” he said. “The international companies need highly
skilled laborers, who can’t be found there.”  Civil War  The violence of the protests has been tempered by memories
of the civil war in the 1990s, sparked by the military’s
decision to annul elections that Islamist parties were winning.
As many as 200,000 people are estimated to have died in the
conflict, while thousands of northerners fled to the south,
according to Algerian authorities.  “Algerians are scared stiff of the memory of the 1990s
when the Islamists took out their revenge on various parts of
the population, and the government on the Islamists, and no one
cared who they killed,” Zartman said.  President Abdelaziz Bouteflika 76, has responded to the
unrest with increased police action and programs designed to
assuage the anger. The government said it would make zero
percent loans available to Algerians aged 20 to 40 who want to
start small businesses, and require companies such as BP and
Statoil to hire more people locally.  Algeria ’s police force, the Directorate For National
Security, announced plans to recruit 6,000 young people in eight
southern provinces including Ouargla, Algiers-based El-Khabar
newspaper reported today.  ‘Just Slogans’  With oil production declining for  four  consecutive years,
the government’s ability to buy off discontent is waning.
Bouteflika, who came to office in 1999, hasn’t announced if he
will stand in the 2014 election.  So far, the new measures aren’t satisfying the unemployed.
The government has sent envoys to the region to meet with
protest leaders, who have insisted on direct talks with
ministers in Algiers.  Economic growth of 2.5 percent last year and a forecast of
3.4 percent this year won’t reduce the jobless rate, according
to the  International Monetary Fund . Officially, unemployment in
Algeria is 9 percent, and about 20 percent among youth.  “What the government is offering us is just slogans,”
said Kouiten, who’s a member of the National Committee for the
Defense of the Rights of the Unemployed. “There is nothing
concrete in there for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Salah Slimani in Algiers at 
 sslimani2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  