-- Halliburton Beats Estimates on Lower North American Costs
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-04-22T20:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/halliburton-reports-loss-on-gulf-oil-spill-legal-costs.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s
largest provider of hydraulic-fracturing services, reported
first-quarter results that beat analysts’ estimates as the
company reduced costs in North America.  Profit excluding discontinued operations and money set
aside for  oil-spill  litigation was 67 cents a share, exceeding
the 57-cent average of 34  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The results mark the  19th consecutive quarter 
Halliburton has beaten estimates. Sales climbed 1.5 percent to
$6.97 billion.  Halliburton benefited from lower costs of guar, an
ingredient used in fracking to get oil and natural gas from
dense rock formations. Helped by other cost cuts and increased
customer activity, margins improved about 400 basis points from
the prior quarter. The company expects profit margins will
continue to expand this year on “modest pricing increases” as
customers use new technology to improve well output.  “Results were phenomenal,”  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at
Global Hunter Securities LLC in Houston who rates the shares a
buy and owns none, said today in a phone interview. “It’s all
in driving efficiencies and keeping costs lower.”  Operating income in North America rose 30 percent from the
fourth quarter to $605 million. Halliburton’s operating profit
margin was 16 percent, beating Uhlmer’s expectation of 13
percent.  ‘Turn Up’  The worst of the lower pricing pressure in North American
fracking services has passed, Chief Operating Officer Jeff Miller told analysts and investors today on a conference call.  In addition, pricing for international work has already hit
a low point and is “starting to turn up,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Dave Lesar said on the call.  “Ultimately I do think the results continue to improve in
 North America ,” Jeff Tillery, a Houston-based analyst at Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. who rates the shares a buy and owns none,
said in a telephone interview. The growth will depend on an
increase in operating rigs, which has been slower than expected
so far, he said.  The company had a first-quarter net loss of $18 million, or
2 cents a share, compared with net income of $627 million, or 68
cents, a year earlier, Houston-based Halliburton said today in a
statement.  Settlement Talks  The results included a $637 million cost in the quarter to
add to its reserves for litigation related to the 2010 U.S. Gulf
of Mexico oil spill. Halliburton did cementing work on  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Macondo well. An explosion at the site resulted in the largest
offshore oil spill in U.S. history. Halliburton is in settlement
talks about its liability.  “We have recently participated in court-facilitated
settlement discussions with the goal of resolving a substantial
portion of private claims,” Lesar said in the statement. “We
are pursuing these settlement discussions because we believe
that an early and reasonably-valued resolution is in the best
interests of our shareholders.”  Halliburton  climbed  5.6 percent to $39.29 at the close in
 New York , the most since Feb. 14. The shares, which have 28 buy
and seven hold  ratings  from analysts, have gained 13 percent
this year.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , two other
oilfield-services providers, also exceeded first-quarter
estimates. Both companies reported results April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  