-- AllianceBernstein Sees Decade-High Jobless Rate Spurring RBA Cut
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-04-22T07:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/alliancebernstein-sees-decade-high-jobless-rate-spurring-rba-cut.html
AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , which
manages $437 billion of assets, expects  Australia ’s central bank
to lower  interest rates  by as much as 50 basis points this year
as the  jobless rate  rises toward its highest in a decade.  The nation’s currency, which has remained above $1 for a
record stretch, will decline as benchmark rates fall and an
unprecedented mining investment boom ebbs, Guy Bruten, a senior
economist for the Asia Pacific region, said at a briefing in
Sydney today.  Annual growth  in China, Australia’s largest
trading partner, will slow to 7.5 percent on average for the
rest of this decade, he said.  “It’s still likely that we’ll see one or two interest-rate
cuts this year,” Bruten said. “As this story plays out, with
the non-mining sector not accelerating fast enough to take up
the slack and as the  unemployment rate  starts to shift higher, I
think that provides the trigger for more rate cuts.”  The jobless rate will probably rise about 1.5 percentage
points over 18 months from the 5.6 percent rate seen in March as
sectors sensitive to the resources boom begin to shed  positions ,
he said. A 7.1 percent unemployment rate would be the highest
since October 2001.  Swaps traders are predicting 39 basis points of cuts over
12 months to the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s 3 percent
benchmark, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG  index . There is
a 53 percent chance that the rate will be reduced to a record-
low 2.75 percent at the June 4 meeting, Bloomberg calculations
show.  Fair Value  AllianceBernstein estimates the fair value for the
Australian dollar near the mid-80 U.S. cent range, though Bruten
said it probably won’t trade down to that level by year-end.  “That’s the direction we’ll be going, whether it’s this
year or the end of next year, an Aussie dollar in the 80s seems
to be a reasonable forecast,” he said.  The currency bought $1.0282 as of 4:57 p.m. in Sydney,
after falling 2.2 percent last week in its biggest decline since
May.  In  China , “there’s a great reluctance to try to go for
growth at any cost,” said Bruten. The market will have to
adjust to a more-slowly growing China as policy makers take the
nation’s 7.5 percent growth target seriously, he said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities dropped 2.3
percent on April 15 after Chinese data showed gross domestic
product rose 7.7 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, missing the median forecast for 8 percent growth, and
slowing from 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter.  China’s slower expansion in the first quarter is “normal”
as the world’s second-largest economy sacrifices growth to make
structural reforms, People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said April 20.  “China’s undergoing economic restructuring, which
sometimes is not in lockstep with growth,” Zhou said. “We need
to sacrifice short-term growth for the purposes of reforms and
structural adjustments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  