-- Altria Faces California Trial Over ‘Light’ Ads Group Suit
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-23T00:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/altria-faces-california-trial-over-light-ads-group-suit.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris
U.S.A. unit falsely marketed its “light” cigarettes as a
healthier choice than regular cigarettes and should pay $543.6
million in restitution to California smokers, a lawyer said at
the start of a trial.  Mark Robinson, who represents smokers who brought the
lawsuit as a class action, or group case, said in state court in
San Diego today he will present internal Philip Morris documents
proving its top executives were aware that Marlboro Lights were
as addictive and dangerous to smokers as Marlboro Reds and
continued selling the Lights as a healthy alternative.  “Their own documents tell the truth,” Robinson said in
his opening statement at the nonjury trial. He said financial
experts will testify in support of his request for damages for a
class of smokers from January 1998 to April 2001.  The case, filed in 1997, accused  Philip Morris (PM)  and other
tobacco companies of making misleading statements about the
health risks and addictiveness of smoking, and sought
restitution for money that smokers spent on cigarettes.  Philip Morris U.S.A., based in Richmond,  Virginia , is the
only remaining defendant in the case and the only claim still at
issue is that it made false statements concerning light
cigarettes. California Superior Court Judge Ronald S. Prager is
presiding over the trial.  False Impression  The plaintiffs allege Philip Morris deceptively marketed
and labeled cigarettes as “light” and “low tar” because it
created the false impression that these cigarettes were less
dangerous than full-flavor ones, according to an April 19 court
filing by Philip Morris.  “People’s perceptions were that Lights were healthy as a
result of a brilliant marketing campaign,” Robinson said today.  Robinson presented video depositions and written reports
from top-level Philip Morris executives that he said showed that
they were aware that even if smokers switched to cigarettes
marketed as low-tar or low-nicotine, scientific research showed
that these smokers would compensate to meet their body’s “daily
nicotine quota” by either taking deeper puffs of the light
cigarettes or smoking more of them.  “Philip Morris had knowledge that their light cigarettes
were not only not healthy but that they were just as addictive
and dangerous as regular cigarettes,” Robinson said.  Denies Misleading  Philip Morris denies that labeling cigarettes as “light”
was misleading and contends it never claimed that they were more
healthy than full-flavor cigarettes, according to court filings.  Greg Stone, an attorney for Philip Morris, said in his
opening statement that the advertising claims made by Philip
Morris are factual.  “In many ways Marlboro Lights are designed to contain
lower tar and nicotine than Marlboro Reds,” he said.  Stone said the Lights are designed to contain less tobacco,
have a longer filter with more ventilation holes and offer more
resistance to the smoker’s “draw,” or puff.  “What is not an issue in this case is whether smoking can
cause lung cancer or that nicotine is addictive,” Stone said.
“This case is about Marlboro Lights and whether Marlboro Lights
have lower tar and nicotine as it states on the label.”  Stone presented statistics from research by the Federal
Trade Commission, the Massachusetts Department of Public Health
and other studies that show lower rates of tar and nicotine in
Marlboro Lights than in Marlboro Reds.  Desserts Analogy  Stone drew an analogy between Marlboro Lights and low-
calorie desserts.  “Of course, if you eat more low-calorie desserts you’re
going to wind up consuming just as many calories as in the high-
calorie desserts,” he said.  The San Diego court ruled in 2004 that the smokers’ case
couldn’t proceed as a class action because some of the
plaintiffs didn’t meet a requirement that they personally
suffered injury or financial loss.  The California Supreme Court said in 2009 that even if the
plaintiffs in the case didn’t meet the requirement, the case
shouldn’t be decertified as a class action. Instead, the
plaintiffs should be allowed to amend the lawsuit to redefine
the group that is suing or find new class representatives.  The case is In re Tobacco Cases II, JCCP 4042, California
Superior Court, County of San Diego.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  