-- Van Persie Lifts Manchester United to 20th English Soccer Title
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-23T02:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/manchester-united-beats-aston-villa-to-win-20th-league-title-2-.html
Robin van Persie  ended his wait for
a first national soccer championship by scoring a hat trick to
propel  Manchester United  to a record-extending 20th English
league title.  The Dutch striker, a 24 million-pound ($36.6 million)
signing from Arsenal in August, got three goals in 31 first-half
minutes at Old Trafford last night as United beat  Aston Villa  3-
0 to take an unbeatable 16-point lead atop the standings.  “I’m very happy, but it’s weird,” Van Persie, 29, said in
an interview with  Sky Sports . “I had to wait so long for my
first title and it’s a great feeling. It didn’t really matter
who scored as long as we won this game.”  United regained the Premier League title with four matches
to spare after losing out on goal difference to  Manchester City 
on the final day last season. That prompted United manager  Alex Ferguson  to bolster his attacking options by buying Van Persie,
the elite division’s top scorer in 2011-12, and the Dutchman
responded with a league-leading 24 goals so far this campaign.  “The one thing I said to them at the start of the season
was: ‘Make sure you do not lose on goal difference again,”’
Ferguson said in a televised interview. “Robin’s been
unbelievable. His early form in the first six months was
fantastic. He has to take a lot of the credit, his goals tell
you that and his performance levels tell you that.”  Last night’s victory, combined with defending champion
City’s 3-1 loss at Tottenham the day before, clinched United’s
13th title in the 21 editions of the Premier League. The Red
Devils would set a competition record of 96 points by winning
their remaining games.  Most Medals  Van Persie’s first and third goals against Villa were
scored from close range and assisted by 39-year-old midfielder
 Ryan Giggs , who’s been in all Ferguson’s title-winning squads.
The Welshman’s 13 championship medals are the most by any player
in  England ’s elite division.  “When you lose it in the manner that we did last year, to
win it back is something special,” Giggs told Sky Sports. “We
did it in style, so it’s really pleasing.”  United’s second goal came from Van Persie’s left-foot
volley from the edge of the penalty area as he ran onto  Wayne Rooney ’s long pass before steadying himself and arrowing a
first-time shot into the net.  “His second goal was the goal of the century for me,”
Ferguson added. “It was marvelous. The technique with his head
down, over the ball and just perfect timing. It was a
magnificent strike.”  Before coming to United,  Van Persie ’s only major club
honors in a career that began in 2001 were winning the UEFA Cup
in 2002 with Dutch team Feyenoord and the 2005 F.A. Cup with
Arsenal.  Chasing Chelsea  United’s 27th win of the season lifted it to 84 points
after 34 of 38 matches. Second-place City, on 68 points, has
seven fewer victories.  The Red Devils’ best points tally in a 38-game season was
the 91 achieved in 1999-2000, when they won the league by 18
points. Chelsea holds the record, having won the Premier League
with 95 points in 2004-05.  United opened this campaign with a 1-0 loss at Everton and
didn’t move to the top of the standings until a 2-1 win over
Arsenal on Nov. 3, including a goal by Van Persie. After a
defeat at Norwich dropped it behind City, United regained the
top spot by beating Queens Park Rangers in their next game.  Growing Lead  A 3-2 win at City on Dec. 9, with Van Persie scoring a
stoppage-time winner, moved United six points clear of the
defending champion and the lead continued to grow. By the time
the teams met again on April 8, City’s 2-1 win at Old Trafford
could only pull it to within 12 points of United.  Last night’s loss leaves Villa 17th in the 20-team
standings, three points above the relegation zone. The
Birmingham-based club has 34 points from 34 games, one match
more than 18th-place Wigan, which has 31 points.  Villa next hosts 14th-place Sunderland, which is three
points ahead, and travels to Wigan on May 19, the last day of
the season.  United defender  Jonny Evans  said the Red Devils won’t let
up in their last four games as they chase the points record.  Ferguson took over as United manager in 1986, and said he
wanted to knock Liverpool, which had 16 championships at the
time, “off their perch.” Since the Merseyside club won its
18th title in 1990, the Scotsman has led United to 13.  “His appetite is second to none,” Giggs said of Ferguson.
“Every day he’s at the training ground, he’s first there, his
enthusiasm is brilliant and that feeds through the club. He is
the club.”  While Van Persie and his teammates will have to wait until
United’s final home game against Swansea on May 12 to receive
the trophy, the striker is already targeting more silverware.  “From now on, our new standard is we want to be champions
every year,” Van Persie said. “So we are even more hungry than
we were this season because you could just tell, from day one,
everyone wanted this. I want to win it again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  