-- Tanker Rates Pain Prolonged as China Imports Pass U.S.: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-04-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/tanker-rates-pain-prolonged-as-china-imports-pass-u-s-freight.html
The rout in rates for tankers that
haul 20 percent of the world’s crude is poised to last another
two years as  China  passes the U.S. as the world’s biggest oil
importer, causing voyage durations to contract.  Shipments to China will rise as much as 9 percent to 6
million barrels a day by December, while net U.S. imports will
drop at least 19 percent next year and fall below that level,
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said April 2.
That means day rates for very large crude carriers, which have
slid 98 percent since 2007 to average $3,270 this year, are
unlikely to recover because journeys from the Persian Gulf to
Shanghai are 7,500 miles shorter than deliveries to Houston.  OPEC’s prediction comes as U.S. dependence on imports
shrinks and underscores how much more quickly China is growing
than the rest of the world. Sea trade will also be curbed as
Saudi Arabia and  Russia , the biggest exporters, supply more oil
to the world’s second-largest economy by pipeline. For Frontline
Ltd., the second-largest owner of the ships, it means charter
rates won’t be above its $24,200-a-day break-even level for at
least two more years.  “The decline in U.S. oil-import demand will translate into
less tonnage demand,” said Nikhil Jain, a New Delhi-based
tanker analyst at Drewry Shipping Consultants, an industry
researcher. “It will definitely have a negative impact because
Chinese growth is smaller and much of it is going to come by
pipeline.”  China bought more than 50 percent of its oil from the
Middle East last year, customs data show. A voyage to  Shanghai 
is 5,938 nautical miles (6,833 miles), compared with 12,500
nautical miles to Houston, according to sea-distances.com.  Vessel Glut  Rates have plunged as owners ordered the most new ships in
2007 and 2008 since at least the 1990s, just as the global
economy entered the worst recession since World War II. The
vessels will earn $19,500 this year, according to the average of
10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Charters won’t
exceed $18,500 a day before 2015, according to freight swaps
data from Marex Spectron Group, a broker of the contracts.  Shares of  Frontline, (FRO)  which has 33 of the carriers, plunged
69 percent to 11.15 kroner in Oslo in the past year. They will
decline another 14 percent within 12 months, according to the
average of 18 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
company’s 2013 net loss will widen to $128.1 million from $95.4
million in 2012, the average of 18 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg shows.  Jens Martin Jensen, the chief executive officer of
Frontline’s management unit, declined to comment.  New Ships  Owners may get a break because the fleet expansion is
almost over. Asian ship yards are building VLCCs with capacity
equal to 6.4 percent of existing vessels, the smallest
proportion since at least 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from IHS Fairplay, a Redhill, England-based research
company. That compares with 47 percent in August 2008.  China’s thirst for oil may also replace the U.S. as buyer
of cargoes from  Venezuela ,  Mexico , Colombia and Nigeria,
according to RS Platou Markets AS, an Oslo-based investment
bank. Voyages from those countries to the Asian nation would be
about four times longer than to the U.S.  Crude imports into China averaged about 5.5 million barrels
a day last year, according to customs data. The U.S.’s net
imports, which include exports of gasoline and other fuels,
averaged 7.4 million barrels a day, according to the Energy
Department.  Refinery Growth  China will become the bigger buyer as its growing refining
capacity boosts demand at a time when a U.S. oil-fracking boom
cuts the need for foreign supplies, OPEC said.  The U.S., which buys about 15 percent of all crude cargoes,
needs fewer as it produces the most  domestic crude  in almost 21
years and the nation’s economy expands by 2 percent. China, the
largest destination for supertankers, will grow 8.1 percent,
according to the average of 52 forecasts.  Oil consumption will increase 0.9 percent to 90.6 million
barrels a day this year, according to the International Energy
Agency, a Paris-based adviser to 28 nations.  That won’t aid tanker owners. The largest is  Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd. (9104)  in  Tokyo , which also has vessels ranging from
liquefied natural gas carriers to iron-ore transporters to
container ships, according to Clarkson.  Mitsui O.S.K. will report a net loss of 172.3 billion yen
($1.7 billion) for the year ended March 31, before earning 23.4
billion yen in the financial period that began this month,
according to the average of 28  analyst  estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  World Trade  Expanding economies will help the rest of Mitsui O.S.K.’s
fleet cope with a glut across the maritime industry. World trade
will rise 3.6 percent this year and 5.3 percent next, the
International Monetary Fund said April 16. The ClarkSea Index,
an overall measure of costs for shipping, averaged $9,928 a day
last month, 20 percent more than in February. About 90 percent
of trade moves by sea, according to the Round Table of
International Shipping Associations.  Frontline split in two at the end of 2011 to withstand the
rout in rates, placing the newest ships, which are more likely
to be chartered, into Frontline 2012 Ltd. The original company
said Feb. 22 it may not be able to repay $225 million of
convertible bonds due April 2015 unless earnings rebound, or
more equity or assets are sold.  Pipelines to China will also curb demand for seaborne oil.
Deliveries through Russia’s link across east Siberia, which
account for 5.5 percent of Chinese imports, will double to
743,000 barrels a day in the next five years. The planned June
opening of a 440,000 barrel-a-day pipeline from Myanmar,
bypassing the Strait of Malacca, will trim 3 percent from
China’s tanker demand, ICAP Shipping International Ltd.
estimates.  Zero Need  Daily U.S. seaborne purchases will plunge by 4 million
barrels within seven years, and America won’t need cargoes at
all by the end of the decade, Citigroup Inc. estimates. That’s
bad for owners because China National Petroleum Corp., the
country’s largest oil producer, expects total import growth of
2.3 million barrels over the same period.  “It does very little to improve conditions,” said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo.
“A decline in volumes to the U.S. and slower growth to China
hits the crude tanker market head on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  