-- Anti-Prostitution Rule Questioned by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-04-22T18:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/anti-prostitution-rule-questioned-by-u-s-supreme-court-1-.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court , weighing
the speech rights of federal grant recipients, questioned
whether groups receiving money for overseas anti-HIV and AIDS
programs can be required to take a stance against prostitution.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, the high court
scrutinized part of a 2003 law that increased U.S. efforts
against infectious diseases around the world. Congress has
authorized spending of more than $60 billion under the program.  Groups including include Pathfinder International and
InterAction are challenging the provision, saying their work in
disease-ravaged countries in Africa and  Asia  would be
compromised if they adopted anti-prostitution policies. The
organizations say they work with prostitutes to educate them
about HIV and AIDS and to encourage prevention.  The justices indicated they were conflicted in the case.
Chief Justice  John Roberts  referred to the policy as a “loyalty
oath,” then suggested he might vote to uphold the policy
anyway.  “The government is just picking out who is an appropriate
partner to assist in this project,” he said.  The Obama administration contends the requirement is
designed to reduce behavior that fosters the spread of HIV and
AIDS. Prostitution and sex trafficking “contribute to the
disease’s spread,” Deputy Solicitor General Sri Srinivasan
argued.  ‘Dangerous Proposition’  Justice  Samuel Alito  said the government was advancing
“quite a dangerous proposition” by requiring an expression of
agreement with federal policy. He asked whether the government
could provide funding to universities only if they agree with a
list of positions advocated by the government.  “I’m not aware of any case in which this court has held
that it is permissible for Congress to condition federal funding
on the recipient’s expression of agreement with ideas with which
the recipient disagrees,” Alito said.  The Supreme Court has said Congress generally can place
conditions on the receipt of federal funds. David Bowker, the
lawyer for the organizations, said Congress was going further by
requiring an anti-prostitution policy.  “Outside the government program, the government cannot
control private speech,” Bowker argued.  The justices repeatedly tested that argument with
hypothetical scenarios and, in some cases, expressions of
disagreement. Justice  Antonin Scalia  asked whether Bowker’s
position would mean the government couldn’t favor one private
organization over another.  Boy Scouts  “They can’t fund the Boy Scouts of America because they
like the programs that the BSA has?” Scalia asked. “They have
to treat them equivalently with the Muslim Brotherhood?”  A federal appeals court in  New York  said Congress went too
far with the 2003 law. The 2-1 decision blocked application of
the policy to the groups challenging it.  The disputed provision exempts some groups, including the
 World Health Organization  and any United Nations agency.  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  asked whether that exemption
undermined the government’s contention that the policy helps the
U.S. send a consistent message on prostitution and sex
trafficking.  “If you really wanted to protect the U.S., you wouldn’t
exempt anybody from this,” Sotomayor told Srinivasan.  Justice Elena Kagan isn’t taking part in the case. Her
absence creates the possibility of a 4-4 split, an outcome that
would leave the appeals court decision intact.  The case is U.S. Agency for International Development v.
Alliance for Open Society, 12-10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  