-- Apple Supplier Flextronics Boosts Focus on Automakers for Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-22T11:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/apple-supplier-flextronics-boosts-focus-on-automakers-for-growth.html
Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX) , a
supplier of cameras and battery charges to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , is
seeking Chinese, Japanese and Korean car makers as customers to
boost growth in its automotive business.  The Singapore-based  company  aims to double its revenue from
the High Reliability Solutions group, which includes automotive,
medical, aerospace and defense, every three to five years, Paul Humphries, president of the division, said in an interview in
Shanghai today. Sales for each business are expected to increase
between 10 percent and 20 percent annually, he said.  Flextronics, which also makes lighting and entertainment
systems for automakers, is increasing focus on Asian car makers
after its  revenue declined  for five straight quarters. Total
vehicle sales in  China  this year are forecast by the country’s
industry group to surpass 20 million units for the first time.  “We need to have a greater presence in China, supporting
the Chinese manufacturers,” said Humphries. “The automotive
business has been the fastest growing of the businesses within
the High Reliability Solutions group.”  The division accounts for about 12 percent of Flextronics’
business, according to a company presentation this month. The
auto segment contributed revenue of $1.1 billion in the year
ended March 2012, out of total sales of $30 billion, the company
said.  Of the company’s four biggest divisions, the HRS group is
the only one that posted a growth in the quarter ended December
from a year earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Flextronics gets 37 percent of its total revenue from China, its
biggest market, the  data  showed.  Wholesale deliveries of autos in China, including those of
cars and buses, may increase 7 percent this year to 20.65
million units, led by demand for passenger vehicles, the state-
backed China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in
January.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in  Shanghai  at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  