-- Marathon Bombing Suspect Being Probed in 2011 Homicide
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-04-22T21:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/marathon-bombing-suspect-being-probed-in-2011-homicide.html
Investigators are looking into
whether suspected  Boston  Marathon bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev was
involved in the 2011 murders of three men found dead in a
suburban apartment with their throats slashed, according to a
spokeswoman for the Middlesex County district attorney’s office.  “The 2011 triple homicide in Waltham continues to be an
open and active investigation and we continue to follow all
leads,” Stephanie Guyotte, the spokeswoman, said by telephone.
“We will review any new information that may come to light in
connection with the investigation into the alleged suspect in
the Boston Marathon bombing.”  The district attorney's investigators will be looking into 
whether there's a link to Tsarnaev in the case, Guyotte said.  Tsarnaev, 26, a two-time New England Golden Gloves boxing
champion, was a sparring partner with one of the victims,
Brendan Mess, 25, at Wai Kru Mixed Martial Arts in Boston. He
was one of the few people Tsarnaev appeared to be friends with
there, said Michael Berezin, 32, the facility’s general manager,
in an interview.  Tsarnaev was killed in a shootout with police in the early
hours of April 19. His brother, Dzhokhar, 19, has been
hospitalized in FBI custody since his capture later that day.  The younger Tsarnaev was formally charged today with
conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction resulting in
death, and malicious destruction of property by means of an
explosive device resulting in death, according to a filing in
Boston federal court. He may receive a death sentence if
convicted.  Police believe the homicides in suburban Waltham occurred
Sept. 11, 2011, and the three victims were discovered the
following day in Mess’s apartment, Guyotte said. Along with
Mess, the victims were identified as Erik Weissman, 31, and
Raphael Teken, 37, she said.  The victims’ throats had been slashed and the Medical
Examiner’s office declared it a homicide, Guyotte said. “It has
remained an open investigation since the crime was discovered,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  