-- Archbishop Urges Cameron to Recapitalize, Break Up a U.K. Bank
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-04-22T18:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/archbishop-urges-cameron-to-recapitalize-break-up-a-u-k-bank.html
The Archbishop of Canterbury said
the U.K. government should consider recapitalizing and breaking
up at least one bank, in a speech that also called for the
introduction of stronger professional standards in the finance
industry.  Justin Welby, a former oil executive who was inaugurated as
the head of the Anglican church on March 21, sits on
Parliament’s Banking Commission, which is looking into the
behavior and practices of the U.K. finance industry.  “As a bank, you can be big and simple or small and
complicated, and do well,” Welby said in a speech hosted by the
Bible Society in Parliament in London today. “If you get big
and complicated, you become unmanageable.” The crisis won’t be
solved without government “recapitalizing at least one of our
major banks and breaking it up into regional banks,” he said.  While the traditional role of head of the Church of  England 
involves prodding and cajoling government on policy, Welby said
that he was thinking aloud and not speaking for the commission
or for the church. Even so, before his enthronement he was among
bishops to attack plans to cap welfare-payment increases on
March 10 as Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government set about
reducing spending during the worst recession since World War II.  “What we’re in at the moment isn’t a recession but some
kind of depression,” Welby said. “It needs something very,
very major to get us out of it, in the same way it took
something very major to get into it.” He argued for weak banks,
especially in the euro area, to be broken up into good banks and
bad banks.  Bankers, he said, are “not normally as bad as one hoped
they would be. They don’t come in with horns and a tail, burning
50 pound notes to light large cigars.” All the same, “we
cannot go on with banking essentially being something you drift
into,” he said.  Welby proposed setting up professional bodies for bankers
on the model of Britain’s medical colleges, which regulate
doctors, saying that “the vast majority of doctors correct each
other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  