-- Largest U.S. Credit Union May Avoid Systemic Designation
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-22T22:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/largest-u-s-credit-union-likely-to-avoid-systemic-designation.html
Navy Federal Credit Union, the
largest such institution in the U.S., is unlikely to be
designated systemically important, according to a member of the
Financial Stability Oversight Council.  “What we are looking at are non-regulated entities like
insurance companies,” Debbie Matz, who serves on the council as
chairman of the  National Credit Union Administration , said in an
interview in her office in Alexandria,  Virginia , today. Even the
largest credit union wouldn’t draw the council’s oversight
because it’s already federally regulated, she said.  The council, created by the Dodd-Frank Act in the aftermath
of the 2008 financial crisis, reviews non-bank financial firms
that have $50 billion in assets and meet some other criteria to
decide if they warrant designation as posing a potential risk to
the financial system. While all banks with more than $50 billion
in assets are automatically put under increased  Federal Reserve 
oversight, credit unions, insurance companies,  hedge funds  and
other non-banks would have to be reviewed separately.  Vienna, Virginia-based Navy Federal, which serves U.S.
military personnel and their families, has been mentioned by
 American Bankers Association ’s vice president and senior
economist Keith Leggett as meeting minimal criteria for being
considered systemically important because it has $54.3 billion
in  assets .  ‘Financially Sound’  “Navy Federal is strongly capitalized, conservatively
managed and financially sound,” spokeswoman Jeanette Mack said
in an e-mail. “We never entered into any of the risky business
practices that led to the economic crisis. Nor have we ever
engaged in subprime lending. Decisions are always made in the
best interest of our members: the U.S. armed forces and their
families.”  Credit unions topped $1 trillion in assets, the industry
regulator said last year. If the industry were a single bank, it
would be the fifth largest in the U.S. and less than half the
size of JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Our job at FSOC is looking at those that do not have a
prudential regulator” at the federal level, Matz said today.
“Since credit unions do, it wouldn’t come under FSOC.”  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU)  and General Electric Co.’s finance unit are in the final
stage of review by the council, whose member agencies also
include the Federal Reserve and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  Aside from assets, criteria for systemically important
designation include a 15-to-1  leverage ratio , $3.5 billion in
derivatives liabilities or $20 billion of outstanding loans
borrowed and bonds issued.  The council, led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, will
meet for an open session on April 25 to vote on its annual
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  