-- Automakers Go West in China to Thin Margins, Fat Growth
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-04-22T00:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/automakers-go-west-in-china-to-thin-margins-fat-growth.html
Each time An Fu Ford, a dealership
in the western Chinese city of Chongqing, sells a car, workers
fire a confetti cannon, showering the parking lot with colorful
scraps of paper. There’s a lot of paper to sweep up these days.  Car sales in western  China  are expanding twice as fast as
in the country’s wealthy coastal cities, according to auto
consultant Dunne & Co. in  Shanghai . That growth has foreign
automakers -- urged by the government in Beijing to “Go West”
-- racing to increase production in an area where they can
quickly increase sales, but where margins are likely to be
squeezed as they sell to less affluent buyers.  In Chongqing, a vast inland metropolis sometimes called the
Chicago of China,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  is expanding a facility it 
opened with a local partner in 2001. By mid-decade, Chongqing 
will be the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s largest 
production complex in the world, with three plants capable of 
assembling a total of more than 1 million vehicles a year.  Market leader  General Motors Co. (GM)  and its Chinese joint
venture partners in 2015 plan to open a $1 billion factory in
Chongqing that will pump out 400,000 cars annually.  Japan ’s
 Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  this year will open a $770 million factory,
its second in the city, which will double its capacity to
500,000 vehicles annually.  “Ten years ago, people would have rightly asked Ford, ‘Why
would you set up business in Chongqing?’” said Marin Burela,
president of Ford’s joint venture with Chongqing-based Changan
Automobile Co. “Now the question is, ‘How did you know 10 years
ago that this was the right place to be?’”  Silk Road  The push inland extends far beyond Chongqing. Chrysler
Group LLC is expanding a factory in Changsha, in the south-
central province of Hunan, to make Jeeps.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  is
building a new plant in the far western Xinjiang region along
the old Silk Road.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  next year will begin
producing Infiniti luxury cars in the central city of Xiangyang.  Sufficient wealth to afford cars is “beginning to move
through the country like a tsunami,” Tim Lee, GM’s president of
international operations, said April 19 in Shanghai. The Detroit
-based company expects to invest at least $11 billion in China 
between 2013 and 2016, adding four assembly plants and raising 
capacity by 30 percent to 5 million vehicles. “It’s important for
us to be in position with plants, distribution, but more 
importantly with the right portfolio.”  Yuma, Arizona  The right portfolio will include more inexpensive cars,
because the western market is vastly different from China’s
wealthier east coast. The luxury sedans that cruise the avenues
of Shanghai and Beijing are a rare sight in western cities like
Chongqing, Chengdu, or Guiyang, capital of the southwestern
province of Guizhou. Economic output per person in Shanghai
exceeds $12,000, while in Guizhou it’s less than $3,000, said
 Michael Dunne , president of Dunne & Co.  Westerners “aspire to luxury SUVs too, but buy what they
can afford today -- functional sedans that cost between $10,000
and $20,000,” Dunne said. “Think  New York  City vs. Yuma,
 Arizona .”  While China’s economic growth slowed to 7.7 percent in the
first quarter, automakers still see it as an attractive market
which may this year become the first to top 20 million sales.  Top Four  Automakers say what they lose on margins in western China
they can make up with volume. GM expects the Chinese market will
expand to 35 million vehicles by 2022 -- larger than the U.S.
and western  Europe  combined -- and much of that growth will come
inland. Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen is seeking to sell 
more than 3 million cars in China this year -- 62 percent more 
than it sold in 2012 in western Europe -- as it expands beyond 
the east coast.  “We see more growth in the western regions,” said  Jochem Heizmann , China chief for VW, which is considering a new budget
model for the country.  Ford is counting on the west to help it vault from also-ran
status in China to vying for leadership with GM, VW and South
Korea’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   “We absolutely want and expect to be one of the top four
car companies in China,” Burela said in an interview in
Chongqing. Last year, Ford ranked ninth, with 2.5 percent of the
market, according to consultant LMC Automotive.  To woo less affluent buyers, Ford offers what it calls its
Focus Classic, an older version it no longer sells in Europe
or the U.S., alongside the redesigned Focus model introduced
last year.  Red Stilettos  The dueling Focus strategy is on display on the white
showroom floor of the An Fu dealership. A 119,900-yuan ($19,400)
gunmetal gray Focus greets visitors. Next to it sits a Focus
Classic, starting at 99,800. Focus sales more than doubled last
month and Ford says it has become the top-selling model in
China.  Displays of wealth in Chongqing are more modest than in
Shanghai, where it’s not uncommon to see Lamborghinis and
Bentleys jostling with Mercedes, Audis, and BMWs. At An Fu Ford,
Xiu He Ping is content with a 140,000-yuan  Ford Focus . To his 
wife, Chen Xue, the royal blue compact felt like a luxury liner.
“A beautiful lady likes the best-styled car,” she said, relaxing 
in the front seat in form-fitting jeans and red stilettos.  Domestic automakers have also identified the interior as
the next driver of growth. Chinese brands that have struggled to
compete with the foreigners in major cities have turned their
attention inland.  “Western China holds enormous potential for automakers as
incomes rise and more people can afford cars,” said  Zhang
Liqun , senior vice president at Zhejiang Geely Holding Group
Co., which sells Geely and Volvo vehicles. Geely bought the
Swedish automaker in 2010 for $1.5 billion.  Homemade Tractors  Western customers are often buying their first car,
upgrading from bikes or homemade motorized vehicles that
resemble tractors, according to  Jeff Schuster , an analyst with
consultant LMC. The poorest might not qualify for a loan, so
they are saving money in hopes of buying a car someday, Schuster
said.  “How fast can these buyers get up the disposable income
and economic scale to be able to afford some of the mainstream
vehicles?” Schuster said. “That’s one of the question marks
and one of the risks of western China.”  Indian Import  Ford is trying to address that by developing more
affordable models, particularly SUVs and compacts. And while
economy cars generate smaller profits than bigger vehicles, Ford
figures it can make up for that by selling the same models it
offers elsewhere.  Ford in China this year started selling the Kuga, a sport-
utility vehicle sold under that name in Europe and as the Escape
in the U.S. At the Shanghai auto show this week, Ford is
displaying the Mondeo sedan, which is sold as the Fusion in the
U.S. And from  India  it’s bringing the EcoSport, a small, low-
priced SUV.  “As we move west, there’s an aspect of affordability and
attainability that plays into it,” said Raj Nair, Ford’s global
product-development chief, who was based in Shanghai from 2008
to 2011 as vice president of operations in  Asia . “These are
different first-time buyers than we see in other markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  