-- Barclays Names Starwood Hotels CEO Among Non-Executive Directors
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-04-22T09:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/barclays-names-starwood-hotels-ceo-among-non-executive-directors.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  appointed two non-
executive directors to bolster oversight at the lender as Chief
Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  seeks to improve profitability
and regain the confidence of investors and the British public.  Frits van Paasschen, CEO of  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , joins the board on Aug. 1, while Michael Ashley,
accounting firm KPMG LLP’s European head of risk management,
will start on Sept. 1, Barclays said in a statement today.  Jenkins, 51, who replaced Robert Diamond in August, is
seeking to rein in executive pay and give more of the London-
based bank’s profits to shareholders to help restore investor
support. Last week, Barclays announced the departures of its
investment-banking chief, Rich Ricci, and wealth-management head
Tom Kalaris, two of the last remaining members of Diamond’s
management team.  “Frits brings a valuable marketing and retail background
as well as experience driving a turn-around strategy,” Chairman
David Walker said in today’s statement. “Michael brings strong
financial skills and an extensive knowledge of banking.
Michael’s background in ethics will also be valuable as Barclays
continues to embed its recently launched purpose and values.”  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest lender by assets, was
told on April 3 that it should hire more board members with
banking experience in order to “challenge effectively the
performance of management,” according to a review led by
Anthony Salz, executive vice-chairman at Rothschild.  Ricci is being replaced by Eric Bommensath and Tom King as
co-CEOs of corporate and investment banking in May. Peter
Horrell, who joined the bank in 1990, will become interim head
of the wealth unit.  Barclays has reviewed 75 of its units to weed out those
that pose a reputational risk or don’t make profits after
regulators last year fined the firm 290 million pounds ($442
million) for rigging Libor benchmark rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  