-- Bayern Munich President Hoeness Probed for Tax Evasion
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-04-22T14:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/bayern-munich-president-hoeness-probed-for-tax-evasion.html
Uli Hoeness, the former German
national soccer player and now president of  Bayern Munich 
football club, is being investigated for tax evasion after
reporting himself to authorities in January in a bid for
amnesty.  Munich prosecutors are examining whether the formal
declaration, possible under German law to win a pardon for tax
violations, “was complete and valid,” Ken Heidenreich, a
spokesman for the prosecutors, said in an interview today. As a
rule, amnesty is only granted if such a declaration is
“exhaustive,” he said.  Hoeness, 61, who made his fortune with sausages as founder
of the HoWe Wurstwaren KG factory that makes a version of the
famous Nuremberger Rostbratwurst, is the most prominent German
to seek clemency after lawmakers rejected a treaty that would
have ended the country’s practice of buying stolen Swiss bank
data to uncover tax evaders. Last week, the homes of 200  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  customers were raided by prosecutors as part of
a tax-evasion probe based on account data obtained by a German
state government.  Bayern Munich’s press office declined to comment on behalf
of the club or Hoeness. Hoeness’s defense attorneys, Werner
Leitner and Andreas Groetsch, didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment.  German opposition parties have rejected the government’s
attempts to resolve disputes with  Switzerland  over how to tax
funds held by German citizens at banks in the Alpine country as
well as handle assets undeclared in the past.  Goal Scorer  Focus magazine, which reported the Hoeness investigation at
the weekend, said the former soccer professional speculated that
a treaty between the two countries would go through.  A member of the German team that won the 1974  World Cup ,
Hoeness scored 86 goals in 239 Bundesliga appearances and played
for Bayern Munich for more than eight years before retiring
because of injury at the age of 27.  His home in Tegernseer Tal, a popular tourist resort near
Munich, was raided last month in the probe, the magazine said.  “Many people in  Germany  are disappointed in Uli Hoeness at
the moment and the chancellor counts among them,” Steffen
Seibert, the chief government spokesman, told reporters today in
Berlin.  Federal Elections  The Social Democrat Party, behind Merkel’s Christian
Democrat bloc in voter polls five months before federal
elections, said Hoeness’s case proves its contention that the
treaty would have let tax evaders off lightly.  The German government reiterated its defense of the tax
accord.  “With the treaty we would have guaranteed that all
taxpayers for the past and for the future would have had to
pay,” German Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said.
Since the opposition blocked the treaty, past holdings that
exceed the statute of limitations are now lost, he said.  Bild-Zeitung  reported  that Hoeness is said to have kept 20
million euros ($26 million) in a Swiss account and deposited 10
million euros in potential tax arrears when he reported himself.
The newspaper didn’t say where it got the information.  The push to crack down on  tax evasion  comes as many
European nations struggle to narrow budget deficits in the face
of stalled growth and a regional debt crisis.  The European Union’s six largest countries vowed on April
13 to move ahead with an initiative for automatic sharing of
bank information across borders to battle tax evasion. Germany,
 France , the U.K.,  Italy ,  Spain  and  Poland  called for the 27-
nation bloc to adopt the FATCA information exchange program.  Austria  and Luxembourg earlier this month announced plans
that bring them more in line with the EU’s position, leaving
Switzerland increasingly isolated and clinging to its bilateral
accords with the U.K. and Austria, which still shield client
identities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  