-- Bernanke Peer Quits in Sweden as Inflation Targeting Tested
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-04-23T15:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/bernanke-peer-quits-in-sweden-as-inflation-targeting-tested.html
A former colleague of Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has given up trying to persuade
his fellow central bankers in  Sweden  to cut  interest rates .  Deputy Governor Lars E.O. Svensson’s decision yesterday to
quit when his term ends in May was the final chapter in a battle
that pitted his pleas to boost inflation and support the labor
market against Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves’s warnings on
credit growth. The friction prompted Svensson last month to
attack as “poor” the Riksbank’s efforts to reach its 2 percent
inflation target.  “As long as central banks are trustworthy they will be
able to keep inflation expectations low,” Robert Bergqvist,
chief economist at SEB AB and a former head of research at
Sweden’s central bank, said in a phone interview yesterday.
Given credible policy, “monetary expansion won’t create
imbalances,” he said.  Svensson, who taught together with Bernanke at  Princeton
University  more than a decade ago, has spent the years since the
onset of the global financial crisis arguing that Sweden’s
failure to spur inflation has  killed jobs . Annual headline
inflation accelerated to zero in March from minus 0.2 percent a
month earlier and has been below target since January 2012.  Sweden’s unemployment rate unexpectedly jumped to 8.8
percent in March,  Statistics Sweden  said today. That’s the
highest in Scandinavia.  Inflation Overshoot  The departure of the most outspoken member of the
Riksbank’s six-member board has added sparks to a global debate
on the role of monetary policy. The  International Monetary Fund 
this month urged central banks to do more to stimulate growth,
even as record liquidity risks fueling assets bubbles. Ingves,
who is also the chairman of the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , has cautioned against excessive easing, arguing
monetary policy can’t ignore household debt growth.  Svensson’s resignation announcement sent the krona soaring
as much as 0.7 percent against the euro as traders anticipated a
smaller chance of a rate cut. His six-year term expires on May
20. After advocating for lower rates all of last year, he and
fellow Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm were the only two on the
board to favor lower rates at a policy meeting last week.  “When unemployment is so high, it wouldn’t be a problem if
inflation overshot the target a bit,” Svensson said yesterday.
Rather than test deflation, it would be better for the economy
to push inflation beyond its 2 percent target “to 2.5 percent,
or something like that, to lower unemployment.”  Record Stimulus  As central banks from the U.S. to  Europe  and  Japan  have
driven interest rates to record lows and experimented with bond
purchases to push down long-term yields, some of the world’s
richer economies, like Sweden,  Norway  and  Switzerland , have
struggled to address household debt growth without fueling
currency appreciation.  The krona has gained 5.1 percent on a correlation-weighted
basis over the past 12 months. That’s more than any other
currency in the basket of 10 developed nations tracked by
Bloomberg, except the  New Zealand dollar . Household credit
growth was 4.6 percent in February, slowing from as high as 11.8
percent in 2007.  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  on April 15 cut his
2014 forecast for growth in the largest Nordic economy by 0.8
percentage point to 2.2 percent. He blamed the strong krona and
the corrosive effect on demand of Europe’s debt crisis for the
revision. Unemployment will rise to an average of 8.4 percent
next year, contributing to budget deficits in 2013 and 2014, he
said.  Hands-Off Krona  Speaking in  Washington  last week, Borg said the krona
represented a similar threat to Sweden to that posed by the
franc to the Swiss economy.  Sweden’s central bank had so far stood out for its declared
hands-off stance on the  exchange rate . It was an approach that
Svensson also criticized, citing the link between currencies and
import prices.  Yet even Ingves, who in a February interview said he was
“happy” with the krona’s strength, has started to re-assess
that view. This month, following criticism from economists at
Citigroup Inc.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  for failing
to raise inflation closer to target, Ingves pushed back
tightening plans to the second half of 2014. He stopped short of
delivering the cut Citigroup, HSBC and Nordea said was needed,
leaving the repo rate at 1 percent.  Svensson argued in favor of a cut to 0.5 percent, matching
the rate held by the  Bank of England , though still higher than
benchmarks in the U.S. and Japan.  Sustainable Level  “It’s fully possibly to, in the future, attain the
inflation target and also make sure that unemployment comes down
to a level that’s closer to a long-term sustainable level,”
Svensson, who said the decision to leave the bank was entirely
his own, said yesterday. All this can be achieved “without
creating any new risks associated with households’
indebtedness.”  Svensson said he had chosen to leave before the Riksbank’s
 latest rate announcement , opting to wait with his news until
after the policy meeting to avoid interfering with the market’s
response. Ingves, who cut the bank’s inflation estimates to show
it was unlikely to reach its target next year, acknowledged he
had expected his policy to deliver price growth sooner.  “We worked through our assumptions when it comes to these
things and we concluded that it was time to change,” Ingves
said in an interview last week in  Stockholm , adding that it
wasn’t a technical change to the bank’s models. “Given a
thorough internal discussion, this is what we concluded.”  New Way  Knut Hallberg, an analyst at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in Stockholm, said
in an interview last week that the bank’s views are a “change
of course” and “a new way of looking at inflation.”  The IMF hosted a conference on growth and inflation
targeting last week, urging policy makers to focus more on
promoting economic expansion rather than fighting inflation,
which it said has been “remarkably stable.”  “Looking to the future, our analysis suggests that ongoing
monetary accommodation is unlikely to have significant
inflationary consequences, as long as inflation expectations
remain anchored,” the IMF said.  The Washington-based lender last week cut its global growth
forecast and said European policy makers should deploy
“aggressive” monetary policy amid a second year of contraction
in the euro area. The global economy will expand 3.3 percent
this year, less than the 3.5 percent forecast in January, after
3.2 percent growth in 2012, the fund said last week, cutting its
prediction for this year a fourth consecutive time.  Natural Debate  In Norway, Europe’s second-richest nation per capita after
Luxembourg, the central bank signaled last month it was willing
to cut rates again after a jump in the krone had pushed
inflation below 1 percent. The current debate on growth is
natural given the state of the world economy, Governor Oeystein Olsen said in an interview last week.  “In a situation where inflation isn’t a problem, while
there are big problems in the real economy, unemployment and
avoiding a downturn in the economy are a big focus,” he said in
Oslo. “When we’re out of the crisis at some point, and
inflation rises a little, it’s just as probable that today’s
systems are as appropriate.”  Norway has cut rates twice since December 2011, after
tightening in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The Riksbank also raised
rates as recently as July 2011, before reversing course in
December that year.  “It’s better to change when you have concluded that things
have changed, compared to not change,” Ingves said. “In the
real world focus changes constantly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  