-- Bernanke Jackson Hole Absence Contrasts With Greenspan Adulation
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/bernanke-jackson-hole-absence-contrasts-with-greenspan-adulation.html
When former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Alan Greenspan  was set to retire, his final appearance
in 2005 at the Fed’s annual symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming,
became a celebration of his legacy.  By contrast, his successor,  Ben S. Bernanke , will be
skipping the final Jackson Hole conference of his second term as
chairman because of a personal scheduling conflict, a Fed
spokeswoman who asked not to be identified said yesterday.
Bernanke, 59, has been the keynote speaker every year since he
took over from Greenspan in 2006.  Greenspan’s final conference featured glowing reviews of
his 18-year tenure, including a debate on whether he was the
greatest central banker of all time. Bernanke, a former
Princeton University professor who has tried to make the Fed
more collegial, may wish to avoid such accolades, as well as
speculation about whether he will stay for a third term,
according to  Vincent Reinhart , a former director of monetary
affairs at the central bank.  “Greenspan’s last appearance at  Jackson Hole  was a series
of love letters,” said Reinhart, now chief U.S. economist for
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  in New York. “It could be that  Ben Bernanke  just
didn’t want to do that.”  Bernanke has repeatedly declined to comment on his plans
after the end of his term in January. At his March 20 press
conference, he said that he’s “spoken to the president a bit”
about his future and that he feels no personal responsibility to
stay at the helm until the Fed winds down its unprecedented
policies to stimulate the economy.  Managing Exit  “I don’t think that I’m the only person in the world who
can manage the exit,” Bernanke said when asked at a news
conference in Washington if he’s discussed his plans with
President  Barack Obama .  The economics symposium in Jackson Hole, sponsored by the
Kansas City Fed, is closely watched by investors for signs of
changes in central bank policy. The last time a Fed chairman
didn’t address the conference was in 1988, when Greenspan didn’t
speak.  This year’s conference has been tentatively set for the
second half of August. The Fed spokeswoman didn’t say whether
Bernanke would make an appearance via video. She also didn’t say
whether Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  would attend.  “To be around the pool of potential succession candidates
in August would be awkward,” Reinhart said in a phone
interview. Reinhart also said it’s possible that Bernanke “puts
his family first and has a conflict.”  Obama Advisers  Bernanke’s comments in March meshed with the views of some
of Obama’s economic and political advisers who have said
Bernanke, after spending most of his seven years on the job
battling a financial crisis and its aftermath, is exhausted and
wants to return to private life. The current and former
administration officials asked to not be identified to describe
the private conversations,  Bloomberg News  reported last month.  “He is not the sort who would be comfortable with some
sort of celebration of his accomplishments, which would be the
natural topic at his last Jackson Hole,” said  Julia Coronado ,
chief economist for North America at BNP Paribas in New York,
and a former Fed economist who attended last year’s event.
“Rather, he wants to sail quietly into the sunset and let those
who remain debate and discuss current policy issues.”  The possibility of Bernanke’s departure has left investors
hunting for clues about his successor.  ‘Very Fitting’  “Having Janet Yellen speak would be very fitting to set
the tone for her nomination to succeed Bernanke as Fed chair,”
 Axel Merk , president and chief investment officer of Merk
Investments LLC in Palo Alto, California, said in an e-mail.  High-profile speeches at the Wyoming gathering have made
the event among the most-watched in central banking. In 2010,
Bernanke’s remarks were seen as a signal that the Fed would
start a second round of large-scale asset purchases, or
quantitative easing. The purchases began in November of that
year.  In 2011, the central bank embarked on a program to extend
the maturities of assets on its balance sheet, known as
Operation Twist, a month after Jackson Hole. Last year, Bernanke
told the conference that “the costs of nontraditional policies,
when considered carefully, appear manageable, implying that we
should not rule out the further use of such policies if economic
conditions warrant.”  The Fed began its third round of asset purchases the month
after Bernanke spoke. It December, it more than doubled the size
of the program to $85 billion a month from $40 billion.  Shifts Signaled  “Many a policy shift has been signaled by the chairman’s
speech at Jackson Hole, dating back to the Greenspan era,” said
 Diane Swonk , chief economist for Mesirow Financial Inc. who has
attended conferences featuring both Bernanke and Greenspan.
“This has made the conference the media and market mover it has
become.”  The event has attracted central bankers and policy makers
from around the world. Last year,  Andrew Haldane , executive
director for financial stability at the  Bank of England , and
 Stanley Fischer , governor of the Bank of Israel, spoke. In 2011,
speakers included  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund , and then-European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet.  Even without Bernanke, “the content of the conference is
always critical given the mix of attendees and speakers,
especially internationally,” Swonk said.  Last year’s event also attracted 10 of the 12 regional
Federal Reserve Bank presidents and Yellen. A paper by Columbia
University’s  Michael Woodford  foreshadowed the Fed’s decision to
make its  interest-rate  policy contingent on economic conditions.  Recovery Speed  At the time, the Fed pledged to keep its main interest rate
near zero until a certain date. Woodford said that approach
could inadvertently “reflect pessimism about the speed of the
economy’s recovery.”  “A more useful form of forward guidance, I believe, would
be one that emphasizes the target criterion that will be used to
determine when it is appropriate to raise the federal funds rate
target above its current level, rather than estimates of the
‘lift-off’ date.”  In December, the Fed followed Woodford’s advice, and
announced it would hold the rate near zero until unemployment
fell to 6.5 percent so long as the outlook for inflation did not
climb above 2.5 percent.  The Kansas City Fed’s annual economics symposium was first
moved to Wyoming in 1982 to lure then-Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker ,
an avid fly fisherman, according to “In Late August,” a
history of the event published by the Kansas City Fed.  That may not hold the same appeal for Bernanke, according
to Reinhart, because “He doesn’t go fly fishing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  