-- Prokhorov’s Onexim Considers Buying Rusal Debt or Stake Sale
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-04-23T16:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/billionaire-prokhorov-weighs-buying-rusal-debt-or-selling-stake.html
Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s
Onexim Group, a United Co. Rusal shareholder, is looking at
buying debt issued by the world’s largest aluminum producer to
boost its influence over management decisions.  Onexim, which holds 17 percent of Rusal, is “monitoring
the opportunity” to buy debt alone or with partners, Onexim
Chief Executive Officer Dmitry Razumov said. It may sell out if
that plan doesn’t work, he said.  Prokhorov, flush with cash from selling out of  Polyus Gold
International Plc (PGIL)  this year, and fellow minority shareholder
billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  have battled with Rusal CEO Oleg Deripaska for dividends and over his insistence on holding onto
a 25 percent stake in OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel . The stake’s market
value has fallen to about $6.8 billion, while the aluminum
producer’s debt reached $10.8 billion at the end of last year.  “We, as a minority shareholder, have limited influence
over the management and the main owner’s decisions,” Razumov
said in an interview at the holding company’s Moscow
headquarters on April 18. “We still think that Rusal should
have sold the Norilsk Nickel stake when it had the opportunity,
as now the company has huge debt amid low aluminum prices and
high production cost.”  Onexim swapped a 25 percent stake in Norilsk for Rusal
shares in 2008 and got about $5 billion in cash, setting off a
more-than-four-year shareholder conflict at the nickel producer
between billionaire  Vladimir Potanin , now CEO of Norilsk, and
Deripaska.  Debt Conditions  Rusal completed paying the debt it owed Onexim for the
Norilsk stake in October 2011. The aluminum company declined to
comment for this story.  By buying Rusal debt, Onexim could gain influence over the
company’s ability to negotiate waivers from lenders on the terms
of its borrowings, Barry Ehrlich, a Moscow-based analyst at  Alfa
Bank , said in a note.  “We find it difficult to imagine Onexim taking a large
stake in low-yielding Rusal bank debt,” Ehrlich said.
“However, the threat needs to be monitored. By threatening and
then potentially moving ahead to acquire the bank debt, Onexim
can strengthen its negotiating position by refusing to give
Rusal a covenant extension at the end of 2013 when the current
covenant holiday expires.”  Potanin and Deripaska signed an accord in December last
year to end their feud and plan to sell a stake of about 6
percent in Norilsk to billionaire  Roman Abramovich ’s Millhouse
as a part of an agreement reached after President  Vladimir Putin 
urged them to settle the conflict.  Dividend Payouts  As a part of the pact, Norilsk committed to pay as much as
$9 billion in dividends for 2012 through 2014.  This agreement “will only allow Rusal to service its debt,
but not to reduce it,” Razumov said. That is, he said, “if the
Norilsk dividend arrangement works, which is not a given.”  Should buying Rusal debt fail, Onexim may consider selling
its stake, according to the executive. “We don’t want to be in
a company whose only mission is to pay creditors, not
shareholders,” he said. The one thing that may help Rusal “to
recover sooner rather than later is converting a part of its
debt into equity,” he said.  Rusal has declined more than 60 percent since its January
2010 initial public offering in  Hong Kong , cutting its market
value to $7.8 billion and valuing Onexim’s stake in the company
at about $1.3 billion. The stock rose for the first time in five
days in Hong Kong today, advancing 0.5 percent to HK$4.02 by the
close. Aluminum prices have dropped 15 percent since the start
of 2010.  Polyus Sale  Rusal isn’t the first commodity investment that Prokhorov,
who was CEO at Norilsk Nickel for about six years, may quit.
Onexim completed the sale of 38 percent of Polyus Gold in
February for $3.62 billion and is targeting a divestment of its
Quadra utility holding to  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s power unit.  Onexim’s strategy “has evolved in light of the challenges
facing the world’s economies and the financial markets over the
last few years,” according to Razumov.  “We decided that our investment portfolio should be
lighter, liquid and more flexible,” he said. “We want assets
that we can sell quickly to invest funds in other
opportunities.”  That was among the reasons for selling Polyus, Razumov
said. Onexim also doesn’t expect Polyus’s value to grow much as
exchange-traded funds have essentially replaced mining
companies’ stocks for those looking to hedge against the world’s
financial and economic instability, he said.  Gold Peak  “Gold multiples are gone and it’s likely that they won’t
ever be back,” Razumov said. The precious metal may also be way
off its historical peak now, with the  U.S. economy  showing signs
of improvement, pressure from looming Cypriot bullion sales,
among other factors, he said.  Gold fell to the lowest level since February 2011 last week
amid outflows from exchange-traded products.  The decision to sell Polyus wasn’t linked to Prokhorov’s
political ambitions, Razumov said. The billionaire, 69th-richest
in the Bloomberg Billionaire’s Index, ran against Vladimir Putin
in last year’s presidential election and has founded his own
political party.  The Quadra investment now makes little sense, Razumov said.
“The government didn’t deliver on promises it gave when we and
other investors were buying into power and heat generation,” he
said. He expects the antitrust watchdog to approve the sale to
Gazprom by the end of April, with another two to three months
needed to close the deal.  Investment Plans  Onexim is seeking to develop a commodity project, Intergeo,
a mining company that holds Siberian licenses to mine copper and
nickel.  “It’s one of our priorities,” Razumov said. An initial
public offering tentatively planned for May won’t happen until
later, he said. “The company has funds for development and we
will just wait until market conditions improve,” he said,
denying earlier reports that Onexim may sell the asset to Ural
Mining Metallurgical Co. or to the Russian Platinum.  Onexim placed the proceeds from selling Polyus in Russian
state banks, among the safest options currently, Razumov said.
Only state banks are able to offer “the proper yield-risk
ratio,” he said. “Back in 2008 and 2009, bonds were offering
fantastic opportunities in terms of yields. They are not there
anymore.”  Cyprus Registered  While some of the companies in the group are registered in
Cyprus, Onexim had only “marginal funds” in the unit of
 Russia ’s VTB Group based there, so it wasn’t affected when
European Union demanded a levy on deposits in return for bailing
out of the Mediterranean island country, Razumov said. Onexim
didn’t consider redomiciling these companies, he said.  Onexim isn’t rushing to invest its Polyus proceeds, Razumov
said.  “We don’t have a goal of investing the funds which we got
from the Polyus stake sale quickly,” Razumov said. “The
situation is still very unstable, and there are not that many
assets that have certain scale and that we view as truly
attractive. We don’t want to waste time on marginal things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  