-- BOJ Seen Deploying Price Forecasts as Tool Against Deflation
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-04-23T09:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/boj-seen-deploying-price-forecasts-as-tool-in-ending-deflation.html
As the  Bank of Japan (8301)  prepares to
boost its inflation forecasts this week, analysts from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. say the estimates may
themselves be used as a tool for ending deflation.  The BOJ may indicate that its 2 percent inflation target
will be reached by spring 2015, the Nikkei newspaper reported
April 18. The central bank may upgrade its view on core price
gains to at least 1.5 percent for the year ending March 2015,
people familiar with officials’ discussions previously told
 Bloomberg News .  Central bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, who this week
oversees his second board meeting, says stoking inflation
expectations can unlock pent-up demand and spur credit growth by
alleviating concern real debt burdens will rise. The BOJ risks
losing credibility unless prices stop dropping in coming months,
with a key gauge showing a 0.3 percent  decline  in February and
analysts estimating another fall in March.  “It’s a confidence game,” said  Masamichi Adachi , senior
economist at JPMorgan in  Tokyo  and a former BOJ official. “The
BOJ is trying to use its inflation forecast to convince markets
that they can achieve the 2 percent inflation target in two
years, even though some market participants may feel this is
unrealistic.”  Matching Target  Any forecast for gains in the benchmark measure, which
excludes fresh food, in fiscal 2015 is likely to be 2 percent,
matching the central bank’s target, according to five out of six
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The BOJ is yet to indicate whether it will release such a
projection. The highest forecast since the central bank began
releasing estimates in 2000 was 1.8 percent for fiscal 2008.  In a sign of the challenge ahead, the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development today estimated that
prices excluding fresh food and energy will increase only about
0.5 percent in the final quarter of 2014, excluding the effects
of a planned sales-tax increase.  The OECD today raised its forecasts for  Japan ’s growth this
year and next to 1.4 percent from previous estimates of 0.7
percent and 0.8 percent respectively.  It also said that it’s crucial for the nation to reverse a
rise in the ratio of debt to gross domestic product, which the
OECD projects will reach 232.6 percent next year. Steps include
controlling social security expenditure and substantial tax
increases, the Paris-based organization said.  Weaker Yen  The central bank’s commitment to its price goal should help
keep the yen at a weaker level and support the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average, Mansoor Mohi-uddin, head of foreign-exchange strategy
at UBS AG in  Singapore , wrote in a note to clients.  The yen strengthened today and stocks fell after weaker-
than-forecast China manufacturing data. The yen was at 98.66 per
dollar at 6:02 p.m. in Tokyo, up 0.6 percent and paring its
decline of the past six months to about 19 percent. The  Nikkei
225  slid 0.3 percent after yesterday closing at the highest
level since July 2008.  While Kuroda has pledged to do “whatever it takes” to end
15 years of deflation, including doubling the nation’s monetary
base, not everyone is convinced.  “Two percent inflation is all but impossible to achieve in
two years” under the current policy framework, Naohiko Baba,
chief economist at Goldman Sachs in Tokyo. said last week. “We
see upward revisions to the price outlook purely as attempts to
influence the expectations of the market and economic agents.”  Beef Bowls  Prices haven’t risen for 10 months, with data due on the
day of the next BOJ board meeting set to show a 0.4 percent
decline the core measure in March, according to economists’
median forecast.  Yoshinoya Holdings (9861)  Co., owner of a restaurant chain serving
bowls of beef on rice, this month cut the price of its regular-
sized meals to 280 yen ($2.81) from 380 yen.  BOJ board member Ryuzo Miyao said last week that inflation
may approach 2 percent in or after the year starting April 2014.
With none of the economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecasting
additional easing at the central bank’s meeting this week,
analysts will focus on the price outlook.  A median forecast below 1.5 percent for fiscal 2014 could
spark speculation that more easing is needed, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc. JPMorgan’s Adachi said that the BOJ may be
forced to loosen further if prices don’t start rising by
October,  when it will release its next outlook report.  Everything Possible  Kuroda told reporters this month that the central bank has
taken all “necessary” and “possible” measures to achieve the
price target. Some Bank of Japan board members consider it
infeasible to expand government-bond purchases beyond what was
announced this month, according to people familiar with the
central bank’s discussions who asked not to be identified
because the talks were private.  The price forecast will be a “de facto propaganda tool,”
 Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at Mizuho Securities Co.
in Tokyo, said in a report on April 19, adding that bullish
estimates could undermine market confidence in the report.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledges for monetary easing
triggered a slide in the yen and boosted exporters such as
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Kubota Corp. (6326) , a tractor maker. Now, the
government faces the challenge of sustaining growth while
wrestling with the world’s biggest government debt burden, a
declining population, labor market restrictions, and stagnant
wages. Salaries fell 0.8 percent in February.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said in
Tokyo last week that the BOJ can achieve its 2 percent target --
provided it is truly committed to doing so.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  