-- Bombing Suspect’s Uncle Accused Kazakh President of Fraud
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-23T04:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/bombing-suspect-s-uncle-accused-kazakh-president-of-fraud.html
The uncle of the suspects in last
week’s Boston Marathon bombing told a London court in 2010 that
 Kazakhstan  President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  had overseen the theft
of state assets worth billions of dollars.  Ruslan Tsarni, who is from Kyrgyzstan, the former Soviet
republic to the south of Kazakhstan, worked “in various
capacities” with a closely knit network of associates led by
Nazarbayev’s son-in-law from 2000 to 2008 that regularly engaged
in fraudulent business practices, he said in a witness statement
to the  High Court  in London in December 2010, when he was 39
years old. Tsarni said he moved to the U.S. in 2008 after
working for the Kazakh group. He is now a U.S. citizen living in
Montgomery Village,  Maryland .  The claims against Nazarbayev, who has ruled Kazakhstan for
more than two decades, were made in a defense statement for
Mukhtar Ablyazov, the former chairman of  BTA Bank (BTAS)  accused of
running a $6 billion fraud at the lender. The former executive
is now on the run after being sentenced to 22 months in prison
for contempt of court in the London case.  In televised statements after his nephews Tamarlan and
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev were named as suspects in the April 15
terrorist attack that killed three and wounded more than 170,
Tsarni called the brothers “losers” who had “put a shame on
the Tsarni family.”  Tamarlan, 26, was killed in a battle with police, while 19-
year-old Dzhokhar was captured later that day. Dzhokhar was
charged yesterday by U.S. prosecutors with using and conspiring
to use a weapon of mass destruction resulting in death.  Family Connections  Tsarni’s statement to the U.K. court, made more than a year
before Ablyazov went into hiding, shows the brothers’ family was
at one time well connected in the region and gives a link
between the accused bomber’s relatives and one of the highest-
profile commercial lawsuits in the U.K. and Kazakhstan in recent
years.  Lucy Bradlow, a spokeswoman in London for Almaty,
Kazakhstan-based BTA Bank, declined to comment on Tsarni’s
claims. Ablyazov has made similar allegations against Nazarbayev
in his own defense papers and the government and the bank have
denied them.  In his witness statement in defense of Ablyazov, Tsarni
said Nazarbayev gave his “blessing” and protection to the
group that rigged auctions of state assets, seized banks to sell
for a fraction of their value to pre-determined buyers, and
engaged in  tax fraud  and  money laundering . Tsarni isn’t a party
in the bank’s U.K. lawsuit against Ablyazov.  Tsarni said some members of the group are now in senior
management positions at BTA Bank.  Lender’s Default  BTA, the biggest Kazakh lender before defaulting on $12
billion of debt in 2009, filed a series of civil suits against
Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko
claiming they siphoned money from the bank using fake loans,
back-dated documents and offshore companies. Both men have
denied the claims.  Ablyazov was sentenced to 22 months in prison in February
2012 for violating a 2009 court order in the bank’s lawsuit by
failing to reveal all his assets, including a house in the
British countryside and a  London  mansion. He failed to appear at
the hearing and his whereabouts are unknown.  BTA, which was seized by the Kazakh government in 2009,
sued Ablyazov in Britain after he fled there to avoid
prosecution over the fraud allegations.  The group “has been looting the bank of anything that they
can get their hands on following the forced takeover,” Tsarni
said in the filing.  Seizing Assets  “Very soon after Mr. Ablyazov’s forced departure from
Kazakhstan in early 2009, there were those within the regime who
were intent on taking the opportunity of seizing whatever assets
he held within the country that were connected to BTA,” Tsarni
said.  Tsarni didn’t say how he was connected to Ablyazov or came
to make the filing in his defense. The allegations of state
fraud also didn’t help Ablyazov in court.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was found hiding in a covered boat in the
back yard of a suburban Boston home on April 19. His capture
ended an unprecedented manhunt by federal and state authorities
that shut down Boston and surrounding cities.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is in a Boston hospital recovering from
wounds sustained in a battle with police -- the same
confrontation that led to the death of his 26-year-old brother.
A police officer at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
was shot to death during the search. Another officer was wounded
by gunfire.  Lawyer, Consultant  Tsarni grew up in Tokmak, Kyrgyzstan, and graduated from
the Law School of Kyrgyz State University in 1994, he said in
the statement. He became a legal consultant for a year for a
U.S. company that was contracted by USAID under the
organization’s program to assist Kyrgyzstan with economic
reforms and “promote private enterprise,” he said.  Tsarni provided training on international standards of
corporate governance and management, according to the filing. He
was also an associate at an Almaty-based  law firm , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  