-- Boston Bombings Intensify Calls to Boost Border Security
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-23T13:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/bombings-shouldn-t-thwart-immigration-plan-leahy-says.html
Senate Republicans are stepping up
their call to strengthen U.S. border security standards in a
proposed immigration law, as the plan’s authors urge lawmakers
not to let the  Boston Marathon bombings  sap momentum.  Border security will again be a central theme today when
Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  is scheduled to
testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee.  At a seven-hour hearing yesterday, several Republican
senators and immigration experts said the April 15 bombings,
which killed three people, showed a need for stronger border
control and stricter background checks for immigrants who could
seek citizenship under the plan.  “We’re taking advantage of an opportunity -- when once in
25 years we deal with immigration -- to make sure every base is
covered,” Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley , the Judiciary
Committee’s ranking Republican, said at yesterday’s hearing.  Grassley is among a number of Republican lawmakers
demanding changes to the immigration proposal after authorities
identified two ethnic Chechens who legally immigrated to the
U.S. as suspects in the Boston bombings. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19,
was charged with using a weapon of mass destruction resulting in
death, according to a federal court filing in Boston.  Background Checks  The criminal background checks that would be required
before undocumented immigrants already in the U.S. could become
citizens are “insufficient to prevent a terrorist from getting
amnesty,” Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach said at
yesterday’s hearing. About 11 million undocumented immigrants
are in the U.S.  The immigration measure would increase the “mathematical
likelihood” that an attack similar to the one in Boston would
occur “on a greater scale,” said Kobach, a Republican.  Napolitano testified in February that opening a path to
citizenship for undocumented immigrants who pass background
checks would boost national security. She canceled her planned
appearance before the committee on April 19 as authorities
searched for Tsarnaev, who was apprehended later that day. The
second suspect, Tsarnaev’s brother Tamerlan, was killed.  Republican and Democratic members of the Senate group that
crafted the immigration proposal said the Boston bombings don’t
provide a reason to delay action on the bill.  ‘Heinous Acts’  “Let no one be so cruel as to try to use the heinous acts
of two young men last week to derail the dreams and futures of
millions of hard-working people,” Judiciary Committee Chairman
 Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, said yesterday.  Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, who is in
the bipartisan group that proposed the plan, said the attacks
shouldn’t be used “as an excuse for not doing a bill or
delaying it.”  The comment prompted an angry rebuke from Grassley, who
interjected, “I never said that. I never said that.”  Schumer said his comments weren’t directed at Grassley or
other Judiciary Committee Republicans. He said the immigration
measure would strengthen security “in a way that would make a
Boston less likely.”  One of the bill’s Republican co-sponsors, Florida Senator
Marco Rubio, broke with other authors and said the Boston attack
may be a reason to slow consideration of the proposal.  “If there are flaws in our immigration system that were
exposed by the attack in Boston, any immigration reform passed
by Congress this year should address those flaws,” Rubio, a
potential 2016 presidential candidate, said in a statement.
“Congress needs time to conduct more hearings and investigate
how our immigration and national security systems could be
improved going forward.”  $2,000 Fines  The Senate plan would allow undocumented immigrants who pay
at least $2,000 in fines and meet other criteria to apply for
citizenship after more than a decade in the U.S., though only if
specific border security benchmarks are reached.  The border plan must, within five years, result in an
apprehension rate of at least 90 percent in “high-risk”
sectors where more than 30,000 people are caught a year. If that
goal isn’t met, the proposal would establish a commission of
border-state officials and border-security experts to recommend
ways to achieve the 90 percent goal.  The border security provisions were designed to be a
selling point for Republican lawmakers. Still, several said they
didn’t do enough to warrant opening a citizenship path for
undocumented immigrants who arrived in the U.S. before the end
of 2011.  Grassley said he was concerned that the plan delegates too
much authority to the Homeland Security Department and that it
“weakens current law by only requiring the southern border to
be 90 percent” secure.  ‘Well Short’  Another Republican on the panel, Texas Senator  John Cornyn ,
said while there were “things to be commended” in the bill,
its border security provisions were “well short of the
sponsors’ aspiration to protect the borders and maintain U.S
sovereignty.”  “Without major changes, the bill could do more harm than
good,” Cornyn said.  Grassley said a requirement that businesses electronically
verify that their employees can legally work in the U.S. would
be deployed too slowly and shouldn’t make an exception for
people who are intermittently employed.  Grassley said he was “concerned that the provisions will
render the program ineffective as an enforcement tool.”  ‘Amnesty’ Proposal  Some Republicans, including Alabama Senator  Jeff Sessions ,
have said the proposal is tantamount to “amnesty” for people
in the U.S. unlawfully. The Senate plan would harm “workers
whose wages have been pulled down” by an influx of low-skilled
foreign workers, he said.  Grover Norquist , president of the Washington anti-tax group
Americans for  Tax Reform , testified at yesterday’s hearing that
giving undocumented workers more longevity would benefit the
 U.S. economy .  “Allowing undocumented workers to move from job to job,
travel easily and safely, search out and interview for different
jobs in different sectors and locations would greatly increase
their productivity, and they would become greater contributors
to their own well-being and the wealth of our nation,” Norquist
said.  South Carolina Senator  Lindsey Graham , a Republican co-
sponsor of the measure, said the bill would curb a system in
place that amounts to amnesty.  “If you’re worried about amnesty, that’s exactly what we
have,” Graham said today.  ‘Extremism’ Hotbed  Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, in a letter to
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , said, “we should not
proceed” on immigration legislation until lawmakers understand
how the U.S. allowed the bombing suspects to immigrate from “an
area known as a hotbed of Islamic extremism.”  Suggestions that the immigration measure should be delayed
are “ludicrous,” said another co-author, Republican Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona , in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  “This legislation tightens our borders, increases
security,” McCain said. “We track people who leave this
country as well as those who come in. Do we want 11 million
people forever out there somewhere in America, where we don’t
have any idea of what they are doing, and who they are? I don’t
think so.”  The Judiciary Committee listed the immigration proposal on
its April 25 agenda. Formal consideration probably won’t occur
until the week of May 6 because committee rules allow new
business to be delayed at the request of any member.  White House  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said the Boston
attack shouldn’t slow efforts to craft a new immigration law. He
said the administration agreed with statements by Graham and
McCain that the legislation “will enhance, when implemented,
our national security.”  In the Republican-led House, where a bipartisan group is
working on an immigration proposal, leaders yesterday echoed
calls to move ahead with an immigration overhaul to make the
U.S. more secure.  “If we fix our immigration system it may actually help us
understand who all is here, why they’re here, and what legal
status they have,” Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican,
said on  Fox News .  Boehner said efforts may be delayed for a few days until
lawmakers understand “what did our immigration system know and
what didn’t they know” about the Tsarnaev brothers.  ‘Knee-Jerk’ Assessments  Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, the 2012 Republican
vice presidential nominee, said lawmakers shouldn’t make “knee-
jerk” assessments about immigration legislation because of the
Boston bombings.  “We do not know how to even track people who overstay
their visas,” Ryan told reporters yesterday after a speech to
the City Club of  Chicago . “We need a modern immigration system
that helps us not only protect our border, but protects national
security in all of its aspects. So, if anything, I would say
this is an argument for modernizing our immigration laws.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  