-- Boston Bombing Suspect Captured With Aid of FLIR Camera
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-04-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/boston-bombing-suspect-captured-with-aid-of-flir-camera.html
FLIR Systems Inc. (FLIR) , the maker of
night-vision gear for law enforcement and commercial clients,
got the type of publicity money can’t buy when its thermal-energy camera aided authorities in capturing the Boston Marathon
bombing suspect.  The Star Safire HD system was mounted to a Massachusetts
State Police helicopter and confirmed that a person later
identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was alive and hiding under a
boat tarp outside a suburban Watertown home before he was taken
into custody last week, Kevin Tucker, vice president and general
manager of FLIR’s surveillance group, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. The system has a thermal sensor, a
television camera and a laser range finder that determines
distances to target scenes.  “We had the state police helicopter that could tell us
when there was movement in the boat by the heat sensor, so we
could tell he was alive and moving,” Watertown, Massachusetts,
Police Chief Edward Deveau said in a  CNN interview  on April 20.
A negotiation team was brought in, eventually resulting in
Tsarnaev’s capture the previous day.  Tsarnaev, 19, was charged by the U.S. yesterday with using
and conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction in the two
blasts that killed three people and injured more than 170 near
the race’s finish line on April 15. Pictures broadcast on TV and
printed in newspapers over the weekend showed an X-rayed image
of Watertown resident David Henneberry’s boat and Tsarnaev
huddled within it prior to the arrest.  Darkness, Smoke  Henneberry first noticed the tarp on his boat was torn
after Governor Deval Patrick lifted some restrictions on
movement and travel and he stepped outside to get fresh air.
After walking to the boat and seeing blood, he called police at
6:42 p.m.  Tsarnaev remains at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in
 Boston  recovering from injuries sustained in an almost 24-hour
manhunt that shut down Boston and surrounding cities. His 26-year-old brother Tamerlan was killed during an earlier
confrontation with police on April 19.  FLIR, based in Wilsonville,  Oregon , also has an office
outside of Boston, with about 400 employees, Tucker said. The
firm was founded in 1978 and originally provided infrared-imaging systems that were installed on vehicles for use in
conducting energy audits. Its present technology permits users
to see objects through darkness, dust, smoke or fog. Ground-based security for commercial clients, in addition to law-enforcement agencies, employ FLIR’s technology.  Thermal Imaging  The  Star Safire HD system  can cost about $500,000 yet
varies with different configurations, and is used by the U.S.
Army as well as federal, state and local law enforcement, said
Tucker. The thermal imaging camera, which recognizes the
differences in surface energy among objects and represents them
in shades of gray, can’t see through roofs, walls or fiberglass,
Tucker said. It works in daytime and nighttime, and high
temperatures or rain can change its effectiveness.  “This has definitely made people take a look at what is it
that we do,” Tucker said. “I used to live in New England, and
the Boston Marathon is one of biggest events all year. For us to
be able to play a small part was a real honor.”  E-mails asking the  Massachusetts  State Police about the
FLIR technology weren’t returned.  Afghan Contract  Under some conditions, thermal imaging can’t distinguish
between humans and other animals. It generally doesn’t work when
the ambient temperature is higher than about 96 degrees
Fahrenheit (36 Celsius) outdoors or inside a building or
vehicle, according to two sources familiar with the technology
who asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak publicly. Metallic space blankets, thick underbrush and
glass reflections can foil it, as can well-insulated or
underground spaces, the people said.  In the fourth quarter, FLIR won a $17 million contract to
outfit an aircraft for the Afghan Air Force, as well as a $12
million contract to support the Brazil police force’s security
measures for the World Cup and Olympic Games, William
Sundermeier, president of FLIR’s government-systems unit, said
during a Feb. 7 conference call.  FLIR’s  profit  increased 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier as the firm’s bookings and backlog of orders
increased. Its revenue fell 4.6 percent to $386.4 million, with
more than half from international clients. FLIR’s  shares  rose
1.7 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 13 percent
increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. FLIR gained 1.8
percent yesterday to close at $23.96 in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  