-- Brazil Said to Plan Ethanol Tax Cut, Low-Cost Loans for Mills
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-04-22T16:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/brazil-said-to-plan-ethanol-tax-cut-low-cost-loans-for-mills.html
Brazil , the world’s biggest ethanol
exporter, plans to reduce taxes and extend low-cost credit lines
for producers to help boost output and lower prices, a Finance
Ministry official with knowledge of the plan said.  The measure may be announced after a meeting of producers
with President  Dilma Rousseff  and Finance Minister Guido Mantega
today as reported by Folha de S.Paulo earlier, said the
official, who asked not to be named because he wasn’t authorized
to make public comments. The plan includes cutting the
PIS/Cofins tax on mill revenue, the official said.  Rousseff’s government has cut electricity rates, reduced
payroll and food taxes and increased the benchmark  interest rate 
for the first time in almost two years last week to stem
 inflation  that exceeded the central bank’s target range. The
plan comes as ethanol mills start processing a record sugar-cane
crop amid declining international prices for the sweetener and
rising gasoline imports by state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   Sugar has dropped 19 percent in the past 12 months in  New
York  as supplies from top producer Brazil may exceed demand.  Ethanol output in Brazil, where the fuel is made from
sugar-cane, will rise to 25.8 billion liters (6.8 billion
gallons) in the 2013/2014 crop year that started this month,
from 23.6 billion in the previous season, the government said
April 9.  Petrobras increased imports of fuel and other refined oil
products to 505,000 barrels a day in the fourth quarter, from
394,000 barrels a year earlier, and has sold the fuel at a
discount to international prices.  Gasoline Blend  Brazil is also raising the mandatory amount of ethanol
mixed into the gasoline blend sold at pumps to 25 percent next
month from 20 percent now.  In addition to ethanol blended with gasoline, most
Brazilian cars can also run on pure ethanol sold separately at
service stations. The U.S., where ethanol is made from corn and
used as an alternative gasoline additive, is the world’s largest
producer and consumer of the biofuel.  Folha de S.Paulo newspaper reported earlier today that the
Brazilian government will announce the  tax cut  and credit lines
for ethanol producers after Rousseff’s meeting with producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  