-- Brazil Economists Cut Year-end Benchmark Rate Forecast to 8.25%
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-04-22T13:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/brazil-economists-cut-year-end-benchmark-rate-forecast-to-8-25-.html
Analysts covering  Brazil ’s economy
cut their forecast for the year-end benchmark rate for the first
time since November after the central bank’s split decision last
week eased predictions of a steeper tightening cycle.  Brazil’s Selic rate will climb to 8.25 percent from 7.5
percent by August, and policy makers will hold borrowing costs
at that level through the end of this year, according to the
median estimate in a central bank survey of about 100 analysts
published today. Economists the previous week had forecast a
rate at 8.50 percent in August and at year-end. Brazil’s central
bank on Wednesday raised the Selic rate by 25 basis points after
holding borrowing costs at a record low since October.  While the world’s second-largest emerging market grew last
year at the slowest pace since 2009, President Dilma Rousseff’s
administration is under renewed pressure to tame inflation that
breached the upper limit of the bank’s target range in March.
Two bank directors voted against last week’s rate increase, as
policy makers in an accompanying statement warned that domestic
and international uncertainties “require that monetary policy
be managed with caution.”  “This is going to be the shortest and smallest hiking
cycle in modern history in Brazil,” Neil Shearing, chief
 emerging markets  economist, said in a telephone interview from
 London . “The statement with this month’s decision was more
dovish than what people had foreseen. That led to some tempering
of expectations of very aggressive rate hikes.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 8.30 percent at 10:42 a.m. local time. The
real fell 0.3 percent to 2.0166.  Annual inflation  in March reached 6.59 percent, the fastest
since November 2011. The central bank targets price increases of
4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  