-- Breaking Congress’s Benghazi Fever
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-22T22:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/breaking-congress-s-benghazi-fever.html
Last fall, Congress was spitting
fire about the security failures that led to the death of a U.S.
ambassador -- the first killed since 1988 -- and three other
government personnel at the special mission in Benghazi, Libya.  You wouldn’t know that, though, from last week’s hearings
on the State Department’s  budget . Few representatives and
senators pressed Secretary of State John Kerry on the
department’s response to the 20-plus recommendations of the
blistering Accountability Review Board  report  issued on the
Sept. 11, 2012, attacks.  That doesn’t mean they ignored the tragic events in
Benghazi. Republicans on the  House Committee on Foreign Affairs ,
for instance, were seized with the “lies” told by
administration officials during the presidential race about the
nature of the attack and its perpetrators’ possible links to al-
Qaeda. Only one committee member (a Democrat) focused on an
actual step to improve security, asking if Kerry supported a
bill to allow the department to hire local security guards on
the basis of the best-value, rather than lowest, bid.  This is a shame, because history suggests that the State
Department isn’t going to fix the security challenges it faces
without strong support and scrutiny. More fundamentally, as
threats grow and budgets decline, Congress needs to vigorously
debate the best way for the U.S. to conduct diplomacy in
dangerous places.  Sensible Fixes  As last year’s accountability report showed, security at
the two U.S. facilities in Benghazi was “grossly inadequate,”
with shortcomings that the State Department repeatedly failed to
recognize and address. The report’s sensible recommendations
focus on everything from restructuring management and building
new embassies to promoting better threat analysis.  The department’s track record in complying with reports
like these, however, is spotty. After four staff members died
and nine were injured in an attack in December 2004 on the U.S.
Consulate in  Jeddah , Saudi Arabia, a report  recommended  that the
department build safe areas in diplomatic compounds worldwide.
But a 2012 inspection of 17 missions found 11 with no safe
areas, including four situated in countries the department
deemed dangerous.  Certainly, funding is part of the solution. In February,
recently hardened facilities at the U.S. Embassy in Ankara,
 Turkey ,  limited  casualties from a suicide bomber attack to one
guard. Kerry has asked this year for an increase of about $1
billion for improving embassy security -- easily the biggest
increase in a generally shrinking budget.  Yet in an era of heightened threats and diminished
resources, the key to security isn’t more money and stronger
buildings. Embassies, after all, aren’t supposed to be
fortresses. Few diplomatic facilities could have withstood the
sustained assault that hit Benghazi, and it’s silly to think
they should.  The key is incorporating security more deeply into
strategic thinking and operational decisions. That’s one of the
chief lessons of Benghazi, and what the accountability review
sought to promote with its prescriptions.  Within the State Department, the bureau of  diplomatic
security , located in a satellite building, occupies one of the
lower rungs in the bureaucratic caste system. The elite heads of
the department’s regional bureaus tend to consult it grudgingly
or treat security as “DS’s problem.” Instead, they need to
weigh more carefully the costs and benefits of diplomatic
representation in places like Benghazi, where security is shaky.  Assistance Needed  Host countries are responsible for ensuring that deadly
assaults don’t take place, and that protesters don’t climb the
walls and torch cars, as they did last fall in  Egypt , Tunisia
and Yemen. Hosts that don’t hold up their end of the bargain
should face consequences; maybe the U.S. should force them to
reduce their presence in the U.S., or maybe the State Department
will begin conducting diplomacy from safer sites and possibly
even via third-party countries.  The Benghazi report encourages a cultural shift in the
department’s thinking on security -- a matter given yet more
urgency by the death of another foreign service officer this
month in  Afghanistan . Unfortunately, no member of Congress was
interested in having that conversation, or even in questioning
Kerry’s assertion that the commission’s recommendations were all
completed or in progress. Ferreting out a supposed White House
election-year coverup might have immediate partisan appeal, but
it won’t advance the safety of U.S. diplomats in the future.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 