-- Bumi CEO Says No ‘Black Hole’ Found in Berau Contracts Probe
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-04-23T00:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/bumi-shares-halted-as-results-won-t-be-ready-by-april-deadline.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the coal company at the
center of dispute between co-founders  Nathaniel Rothschild  and
 Indonesia ’s Bakrie family, said it hasn’t uncovered a “black
hole” in a probe of contractors at its largest unit.  “We’ve not discovered any black hole or any significant
issue that we are concerned about, and we’ve completed quite a
lot of work,” Chief Executive Officer Nick Von Schirnding said
yesterday in an interview, referring to an investigation at its
 PT Berau Coal Energy. (BRAU)  The review has forced Bumi to delay
releasing 2012 earnings. “We are doing extensive forensic work
into potential undisclosed liabilities, and that is more
difficult.”  Bumi shares plunged 69 percent last year in London amid an
investigation that started in September into “alleged financial
irregularities.” At the same time, Bumi is working to separate
from its other Indonesian coal affiliate PT Bumi Resources,
controlled by the Bakries, in a deal valued at more than $580
million at the time it was announced. That transaction remains
on schedule for June completion, Von Schirnding said.  “I’m determined to emerge from this with a clean set of
numbers and assets that everybody can have full confidence in,”
he said from  London  where the company yesterday requested a halt
in trading of its stock. “It is very frustrating, I am very
angry that we have to suspend these shares temporarily.”  Bumi gained 7.8 percent to close at 259.3 pence on April
19. The stock has declined 5.6 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 625 million pounds ($956 million).  CFO Resigned  The coal producer said April 12 it had been unable to
verify some spending at Jakarta-based Berau. Four days later
Bumi Chief Financial Officer Scott Merrillees said he would
resign in June. Berau’s management team is overseeing a full
audit review and is verifying contracts signed by the Indonesian
company, Bumi said yesterday. It owns 85 percent of Berau.  Rothschild, who departed from the board last year and in
February failed to win investor support to return as a director,
yesterday repeated demands for Merrillees, Chairman Samin Tan
and director Alex Ramlie to step down immediately.  “Given their board and management roles at Berau, as well
as their symbiotic links to Bakrie, it is simply not credible to
suggest that they are somehow victims of this train wreck like
real minority shareholders,” Rothschild said yesterday in e-
mailed comments. The three are  “blatantly conflicted,” he
said.  ‘Lethargic’ Response  Rothschild said in a later phone interview that he had
called at Bumi board meetings as early as December 2011 for
action to be taken over events at Berau. The response to his
criticism had been “slow” and “lethargic,” he said.  Berau management decided there was “not sufficient
evidence to support the capitalization of certain expenditures”
estimated at about $56 million last year, Bumi said earlier this
month. Berau had also been unable to fully verify about $38
million in land payments.  It may take as long as 10 days to complete the probe, which
is being handled by internal management as well as Ernst & Young
and Berau auditors PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Von Schirnding said.
About 60 people are working on the probe, which hasn’t uncovered
any evidence of corruption, he added.  “That is clearly what we are trying to bottom out and
clarify,” Von Schirnding said. “I want to emerge from this
with a set of accounts and practices etcetera that we can all be
absolutely comfortable with and in line with best corporate
governance practices. We need to be able to complete this
exercise for me to be able to give you that assurance.”  Mines Operating  The review isn’t expected to have any impact on operations
and Berau’s mines “continue to perform in line with
expectations,” Bumi said yesterday.  The proposed separation from the Bakrie Group and  Bumi
Resources (BUMI) , where Bumi holds a 29 percent stake, is “on track”
and Von Schirnding said he was meeting a Bakrie representative
yesterday for further talks. He has previously sought assurances
that the Bakries will be able to fund the transaction.  “Obviously, that is a key issue and one that I’ve always
raised in every single one of our meetings,” he said. “They
have given me the assurance that the monies will be there. We
will be pushing on that repeatedly.”  The sale agreement is “virtually there,” Von Schirnding
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  