-- Bundesbank Casts Doubt on German First-Quarter Economic Recovery
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-04-22T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/bundesbank-casts-doubt-on-german-first-quarter-economic-recovery.html
The  Bundesbank  said sluggish
industrial production and cold winter weather may have delayed
 Germany ’s economic recovery, which it had forecast for the first
quarter.  “While the industrial sector didn’t provide any growth
impulses in the first quarter of 2013, services should have
expanded,” the Frankfurt-based institution said in its monthly
report today. “Against this backdrop, growth seems possible.
But that assumes that the impact of especially cold winter
weather, which was apparent in the construction sector, remained
contained within tight limits.”  The Bundesbank predicted in January that the German
economy,  Europe ’s largest, would return to growth in the first
quarter and avoid recession after it contracted 0.6 percent in
the final three months of 2012. Since then, economic data have
been weaker than forecast, partly hampered by a long winter.
Last month was the  coldest March  in 25 years and the fifth-
coldest since 1881, according to German meteorological service
Deutscher Wetterdienst.  Industrial production fell in January, exports plunged in
February and business confidence unexpectedly declined from a
10-month high in March on renewed tensions in the euro area.  Still, the  International Monetary Fund  lifted Germany’s
2013 growth forecast to 0.6 percent from 0.5 percent and
predicted expansion of 1.5 percent in 2014. By contrast the
euro-area economy, Germany’s largest export market, will shrink
0.3 percent this year before growing 1.1 percent next year,
according to IMF projections published last week.  “Relatively positive sentiment, continuing employment
growth and increasing demand for investment goods suggest that
the upward trend of the German economy continues in the second
quarter,” the Bundesbank said. “Catch-up effects can play a
role if there were any weather-related constraints in the first
quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  