-- Cameron Red Carpet Ignored as Investors Back France: U.K. Credit
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-04-23T07:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/cameron-red-carpet-ignored-as-investors-back-france-u-k-credit.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
has made credibility with bond investors the linchpin of his
deficit-reduction policy. In  France , Socialist President
 Francois Hollande  has called financial markets his enemy.  With all that, bond investors are tilting toward France.  The  premium  investors demand to hold French 10-year
government debt instead of same-maturity gilts has narrowed to 8
basis points from 26 basis points at the end of March and almost
a percentage point from a year ago. The cost of insuring French
sovereign debt against default has fallen 16 percent this year,
the fourth-best performer in  Europe , credit-default swaps show.
It has climbed 15 percent for the U.K., the third worst.  While both leaders are struggling with mounting debt and
 sputtering economies , Hollande says his resistance to the kind
of austerity that Cameron’s Conservative-led government is
pursuing has sheltered France from a deeper recession. Their
divergent paths highlight a wider debate over whether axing
budgets is the recipe for recovery or recession as the world
faces another slowdown.  “The U.K. does have more pro-business policies but they
have yet to get that growth,” Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief
economist at Exane BNP Paribas in  London , said in an interview
yesterday. “France has a smaller hole to dig itself out of.”  French debt rose today, with the 10-year yield declining 1
basis point to 1.74 percent at 8:35 a.m. in London, while 10-
year gilt yields were little changed at 1.66 percent.  Taxing Conflict  Cameron has sought to lure busineses from abroad with the
promise of lower taxes. After Hollande came to power last May on
a campaign to tax million-euro ($1.3 million) incomes at a rate
of 75 percent, Cameron offered to “roll out the red carpet” to
French taxpayers and companies seeking to quit the country.  Hollande is seeking to reconfigure the tax after it was
struck down by France’s highest court as unfair. In Britain, the
 top rate of tax , levied on personal incomes over 150,000 pounds
a year, fell to 45 percent from 50 percent this month and
Cameron has pledged to cut the  tax rate  on company profits to 20
percent in April 2015, the lowest among Group of Seven
countries. The government has lowered  the rate  to 23 percent
from 28 percent since taking office in May 2010.  Still, the U.K. economy is struggling to avoid a third
recession and Britain lags behind France in the fight to recover
output lost since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
almost five years ago. In the fourth quarter, gross domestic
product was 2.9 percent below its peak in early 2008, while
French output was only 1.1 percent lower, government data show.  Budget Deficits  The  U.K. budget  deficit is almost twice as big as France’s.
The shortfall is forecast to reach 7 percent of GDP this year,
compared with 3.7 percent in France, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . The two countries are forecast to
have similar government debt burdens this year: 92.7 percent of
GDP in France compared with 93.6 percent for the U.K., the IMF
estimates.  With the IMF trimming its global growth forecast on April
16 and economic data from the U.S. to Europe undershooting
estimates, the debate over budget cutting is being re-aired with
the fund and the U.S. questioning austerity-first policies in
Britain and the euro area.  Austerity Questioned  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., told the Financial Times in
an interview published yesterday that Britain and much of Europe
are wrong to pursue austerity and that to generate growth
“you’ve got to spend money.”  For Cameron, who faces an election in 2015, the challenge
is to bolster growth without denting investor confidence in the
government’s ability to reduce its budget shortfall. The
benchmark  10-year gilt yield  was 1.65 percent yesterday,
compared with 3.9 percent when the government came to power.  The U.K.’s shrinking “fiscal space to absorb” economic
shocks was cited by  Fitch Ratings  when on April 19 it became the
second ratings company to strip Britain of its top rating.
Moody’s Investors Service was first, downgrading the nation on
Feb. 22.  As part of Europe’s 17-nation single currency, France’s
benchmark interest rate is set at the  European Central Bank  in
 Frankfurt . European treaties prevent the central bank from
financing governments, contributing to a four-year-old sovereign
debt crisis that has slowed growth across the region.  Bond Purchases  In the U.K., as Cameron drives through the deepest budget
cuts since World War II, the  Bank of England  has helped support
the economy by buying 375 billion pounds ($575 billion) of
gilts.  “The biggest difference between the U.K and France is that
the U.K. has a much more accommodative monetary policy,” Beffy
said. “The result is that in France the risks are skewed to
deflation while in the U.K. they’re about inflation,” he said.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, a gauge of expectations of
inflation derived from the difference in yield between regular
and index-linked bonds, was at 3.15 percentage points yesterday,
the highest in the Group of Seven, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. For France, the breakeven rate was 1.78 percent.  Two decades after Cameron’s predecessor  Margaret Thatcher 
fought to keep the U.K. from joining the European currency, the
two countries remain as divided as ever over economic policy
even if their governments face similar struggles in reviving
growth.  ‘Magic’ Tree  “The policy I’m carrying out is that of reviving the
country’s financial and productive potential,” Hollande said
April 10. “This is to combat unemployment. I’ve put in place
serious budget discipline. That’s not austerity.”  Compare that with Cameron, who last month chastised his
Liberal Democrat coalition partners calling for more spending as
talking as if “there’s some magic money tree.”  Cameron’s own lawmakers are pressing him to hold that line.
Brooks Newmark, a Conservative member of Parliament’s Treasury
Committee, said the fact that U.K. unemployment  is 7.9 percent
compared with 10.6 percent in France shows Britain is following
the right policies. Gilts handed investors 1.78 percent this
year, outperforming the 1.06 percent return on French government
debt, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  “I’m not going to buy into the narrative that France is in
better shape than the U.K.,” Newmark said in a phone interview
on April 19. “I’m looking at our employment figures, our
 interest rates , our austerity program, which is the right thing
to do, and the French program, which is the wrong thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  