-- Cameron EU Justice Opt-Out Risks Security, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/cameron-eu-justice-opt-out-risks-security-lawmakers-say.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  hasn’t
made a “convincing case” for opting out of 133 European Union
police and criminal-justice measures, a panel of lawmakers said,
warning of “negative repercussions” for the U.K.’s security.  The cross-party House of Lords EU Committee used a report
today to criticize Cameron’s Conservatives for seeking an opt-
out from the 27-nation bloc’s rules to prevent European courts
overturning British judges’ decisions, part of the Tories’ move
to distance themselves from  Europe .  Under the 2007 Lisbon Treaty, the U.K. has until the middle
of 2014 to exercise an opt-out from the measures, which include
a Europe-wide arrest warrant. Ministers have suggested the
government would repatriate the powers and then negotiate fresh
deals or opt-ins on measures they favor. That strategy has split
the coalition, with the junior Liberal Democrat party pledging
to block some opt-outs.  “The opt-out decision is one of great significance, with
far-reaching implications not only for the U.K. but also for the
other member states and the EU as a whole,” David Hannay, an
upper-house lawmaker with no party affiliation, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Cross-border cooperation on policing and
criminal-justice matters is an essential element in tackling
security threats such as terrorism and organized crime in the
21st century.”  The Liberal Democrat leader, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , has made it clear he disagrees with Cameron’s plans,
saying on Nov. 1 he would not ask the domestic intelligence
agency, MI5, and the police to “protect the British people with
one hand tied behind their back.”  ‘Public Safety’  “Discussions about the exercise of the mass opt-out are
ongoing within government,” Chief Secretary to the Treasury
 Danny Alexander , a Liberal Democrat, said in an e-mailed
statement. “However, I am clear that any final package will
have to ensure the U.K.’s continued participation in all the key
measures which are important for public safety, including the
European arrest warrant and Europol,” the EU’s law-enforcement
agency.  “There is a process of consideration ongoing” about which
common measures the U.K. might opt back into, Jean-Christophe Gray, Cameron’s spokesman, told reporters in  London  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  