-- Can a Pension Reformer Become Governor in Rhode Island?
-- B y   T e d   N e s i
-- 2013-04-22T22:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/can-a-pension-reformer-become-governor-in-rhode-island-.html
Rhode Island General Treasurer Gina Raimondo has experienced a meteoric rise to fame that most
politicians can only envy.  Raimondo, a 41-year-old former venture capitalist, was
virtually unknown in 2010 when she coasted to victory as a
Democratic candidate in a deep-blue state. Soon the new
treasurer  surprised  almost everyone by engineering the most
sweeping overhaul of a public-pension system ever enacted. By
the time her reforms became law in November 2011 she was one of
the most popular politicians in Rhode Island, and the subject of
adulatory coverage in both the  New York  Times and the Wall
Street Journal.  Even before the pension process was over, there was growing
speculation that Raimondo might  run  for governor in 2014, in no
small part because the incumbent who signed the pension law --
independent ex-Republican Lincoln Chafee -- has had an approval
rating in the 20s for most of his term in office. It has become
clear in recent months that the treasurer is likely to throw her
hat into the ring.  Raimondo is a formidable candidate in a state that has
never elected a female governor. A survey in January by Public
Policy Polling gave her the upper hand in every hypothetical
contest, with leads of four points to 19 points depending on her
opponents. She already has $1.3 million in the bank, a
significant sum in a small state and more than three times as
much as her nearest competitor. Moreover, she’s a Democrat in a
state that gave  Barack Obama  his  fourth -best margin over  Mitt Romney  in the U.S. presidential campaign.  Raimondo’s Test  Still, a campaign for governor would be the first real test
of Raimondo’s political chops, because her 2010 race was a
cakewalk. And it’s possible the same pension changes that have
won her such acclaim could prove to be her Achilles’ heel.  Although polls show the pension law is broadly popular, its
benefit cuts and new defined-contribution plan angered many
public-sector union activists, a powerful constituency in the
Democratic primary. Another potential problem is  Engage Rhode
Island , a tax-exempt group that raised almost $1 million to push
the pension law but refuses to disclose its donors; to the
delight of the treasurer’s critics, one of the few who came
forward is a former Enron Corp. trader. She has also invested
more than $1 billion of the state’s pension assets in hedge
funds.  “It’s difficult in deeply blue Rhode Island for a Democrat
so tightly associated with Wall Street to make the case to the
traditional Democratic voter that she has their best interests
at heart,” argues Robert Walsh, executive director of Rhode
Island’s largest teachers union and a vocal Raimondo critic who
helped get Chafee elected. (Engage Rhode Island spokesman Jon Duffy says the group is being “mischaracterized” to damage the
treasurer.)  Raimondo’s biggest Democratic rival appears to be
Providence Mayor Angel Taveras, who is expected to challenge her
in the primary. Taveras, 42, has a strikingly similar profile to
the treasurer: An Ivy League-educated Democrat who won office
for the first time in 2010, he has  carved  out a reputation as a
fiscal truth-teller who seeks compromise. He’s not a perfect
vessel for the unions, though, as a charter-school supporter who
terminated all the city’s teachers during a budget crisis. (They
were rehired.)  If Raimondo fends off the mayor, she could then find
herself facing not one but three opponents in the general
election: Chafee; a Republican, probably Mayor Allan Fung of
Cranston; and a candidate from the state’s nascent Moderate
Party, which took 6.5 percent of the vote in 2010, more than
double Chafee’s margin of victory.  Union Opposition  However, there’s a silver lining in Rhode Island for those
who want to change public-sector pensions: All the potential
candidates for governor support doing so in some form or
fashion.  Taveras  just finalized a landmark settlement with
Providence’s retirees that includes a 10-year freeze on cost-of-
living adjustments, saving taxpayers roughly $170 million. Fung
recently announced a similar agreement in his city. Chafee
signed the pension law that Raimondo designed, and also
supported deep pension cuts to get the city of Central Falls out
of bankruptcy. In short, nobody is running as the defender of
the status quo.  It’s possible that pension reformers will lose the battle
to elect Gina Raimondo as governor. But they are winning the war
to reduce government workers’ retirement benefits.  (Ted Nesi is a political and economic reporter at WPRI-TV
in Providence, Rhode Island. He writes the Nesi’s Notes blog on
WPRI.com and hosts “Executive Suite.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ted Nesi at  tnesi@wpri.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 