-- Canadian Dollar Gains Versus Most Major Peers as Crude Oil Rises
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-22T21:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/canadian-dollar-rises-against-most-major-peers-as-oil-advances.html
The Canadian dollar rose against
the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as crude oil, the
country’s largest export, rose for a third day and traders bet
the country would be less affected by  falling metal prices.  The currency strengthened versus the dollars of its fellow
commodity exporters  Australia  and South Africa on speculation
Canada will be least hurt by recent weakness in metals. Copper,
nickel and gold have all fallen this year after gold posted its
biggest daily drop in 33 years last week. It fluctuated against
its U.S. counterpart as existing home sales in the U.S. fell 0.6
percent last month.  “There was a big sell-off in commodities the last couple
weeks and I think some of the other typically commodity-based
currencies like the Aussie and the kiwi probably got hit more
percentage wise than the Canadian dollar,” said David Bradley,
director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Scotia
Capital Inc., a unit the  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , using the
nicknames for the Australian and New Zealand currencies. “It’s
not the Canadian dollar, it’s just the other currencies are
softer against the Canadian dollar. The Canadian dollar is doing
nothing.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at
C$1.0256 per U.S. dollar at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto. It reached
C$1.0294 on April 17, the weakest level since March 13. One
loonie buys 97.50 U.S. cents.  Bonds Rise  The cost to insure against losses in the Canadian dollar
against its U.S. counterpart rose to almost the highest level in
six weeks. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate
reached 1.13 percent. Risk reversals measure the premium on
options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S.
contracts that do the opposite.  Canada ’s  benchmark  10-year government bonds were little
changed, with yields at 1.7 percent. The 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 gained 6 cents to C$98.13.  The Bank of Canada will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2
billion) of 1.5 percent notes on April 24. The securities mature
in August 2015.  Canada’s economy will lag behind global growth after
outperforming in the last five years, held back by weaker
commodity prices limiting growth in the resource sector and
consumers paring back record debt, bond rating company Standard
& Poor’s said in a report published April 19.  Oil, Stocks  Crude oil, the country’s largest export, gained 0.9 percent
to $88.76 per barrel while the S&P 500 Index of U.S. stocks
advanced 0.5 percent.  The loonie traded at an almost six-week low against its
U.S. peer as American home sales unexpectedly declined last
month, indicating the Canadian economy won’t get help from its
largest trading partner.  Purchases of previously owned homes in the U.S., tabulated
when a contract closes, fell to a 4.92 million annual rate last
month, figures from the National Association of Realtors showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast of 75 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected sales would increase to a 5
million rate.  “The fact that we seem to be hitting a bit of a soft patch
in U.S. data, this morning’s release confirms that, suggests we
could be entering a phase where we see a little bit more risk-
on/risk-off dynamics in the market, so in that sense weak U.S.
data would actually be CAD negative,” said Greg T. Moore,
currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , by phone from
Toronto. “The Canadian recovery is sort of built on an export-
driven thesis, and that primarily is built on U.S. demand, so if
we don’t have the U.S. demand we don’t have a Canadian
recovery.”  Central Bank  Weaker-than-forecast exports and business spending caused
the Bank of Canada to cut its 2013 economic growth forecast last
week to 1.5 percent from 2 percent as it left interest rates
unchanged.  Copper futures have fallen 12 percent this year, while
nickel declined 10.4 percent and futures contracts on 100 ounces
of gold has fallen 15 percent.  Miners and energy explorers account for 8 percent of the
Canadian economy compared to Australia where almost one-in-ten
Australian jobs is tied to resource extraction, mainly mining,
and industries that service it, a central-bank paper showed Feb.
20.  “From a monetary-policy perspective, as well as the
external environment in Australia, Canada looks in slightly
better shape and I do think there’s scope for relative Canadian
dollar out-performance, albeit more so Australian dollar under-
performance,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London .  The Canadian dollar has lost 0.7 percent this year against
nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has risen 1.7
percent and the New Zealand dollar has gained 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  