-- Canadian National Tops Profit Estimates as Cargoes Rise
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-04-22T20:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/canadian-national-tops-profit-estimates-as-cargoes-rise.html
Canadian National  Railway Co.
earnings declined less than analysts estimated in the first
quarter as cargo growth blunted the impact of higher operating
costs.  Adjusted profit of C$1.22 compared with an  average estimate 
of C$1.21 in a Bloomberg survey of 29 analysts. Including an
after-tax gain of 8 cents a share, net income was C$555 million
($541 million), or C$1.30 a share, compared with C$775 million,
or C$1.75, a year earlier, the Montreal-based company said in a
statement.  Earnings were curbed by an increase in operating costs such
as fuel, labor and snow removal as the winter brought extreme
cold and more precipitation than normal in western  Canada . That
drove up the operating ratio, an industry benchmark for
efficiency, and eroded the benefit of a 5 percent gain in sales
to C$2.47 billion.  Canadian National “encountered tougher weather conditions
than most carriers,”  Jason Seidl , an analyst at Cowen
Securities LLC in  New York , said in a note before the results
were published. “This jammed up the company’s network and had
negative impacts on operating metrics such as train velocity and
cars on line.”  Canadian National dropped 0.9 percent to C$97.64 at 4:01
p.m. in Toronto. Before today, the stock had gained 9 percent
since the start of the year.  Operating Ratio  The railroad’s operating ratio, which compares expenses to
sales, deteriorated to 68.4 percent from 66.2 percent a year
earlier. Fuel costs rose 7.7 percent, purchased services climbed
10 percent and labor and fringe benefits gained 12 percent.  Train speed and dwell time, the average number of hours
that railcars spend in yards, have improved since the start of
the second quarter, Chief Executive Officer Claude Mongeau said
in the statement.  “CN will emerge stronger from this first-quarter
experience,” Mongeau said. “To improve network resilience,
particularly given our expectation of continued strong volume
growth, CN is undertaking several capacity enhancement projects
in its Edmonton-Winnipeg corridor.”  The railroad today reaffirmed its profit target for 2013.
The company in January predicted diluted earnings per share will
have “high single-digit growth” from adjusted profit of C$5.61
per share in 2012.  During the first quarter, petroleum and chemicals revenue
jumped 17 percent, container-car revenue advanced 7 percent and
metals and minerals gained 3 percent.  Canadian National  boosted its capital expenditure forecast
for the year to C$2 billion today from C$1.9 billion previously.
About C$1.1 billion of the total will focus on track
infrastructure “to maintain a safe and fluid railway network,”
Canadian National said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  