-- Canellos And Ceresney Named Co-Chiefs of SEC Enforcement
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-04-22T19:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/canellos-joins-ceresney-as-co-chiefs-of-sec-s-enforcement-unit.html
George Canellos and Andrew Ceresney
have been named co-directors of enforcement at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, the agency said today.  Canellos has been acting director since January following
the departure of  Robert Khuzami , who held the post for the
previous four years. Ceresney, a former prosecutor, has been a
partner at law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in New York.  The two men will lead the enforcement unit as it shifts
from investigations tied to the 2008 credit crisis toward areas
such as high-frequency trading and accounting fraud. Canellos,
48, and Ceresney, 41, both previously worked as federal
prosecutors for SEC Chairman Mary Jo White when she was U.S.
Attorney for the Southern District of New York.  “George and Andrew will be a formidable team and I am
grateful to both of them for taking on this extremely important
responsibility,” White said in a statement.  Canellos joined the SEC in 2009 as director of the  New York 
office, where he oversaw the work of about 400 enforcement
attorneys, accountants, investigators and examiners. Prior to
joining the agency, he was a prosecutor in New York for nine
years and a litigation partner at law firm Milbank, Tweed,
Hadley & McCloy LLP, for more than six years.  Canellos holds degrees from Harvard College and  Columbia
University  School of Law.  Ceresney graduated from Columbia University in 1993 and
also completed a law degree in 1996 at  Yale Law School , where he
was essays editor of the Yale Law Journal. He was a law clerk
for Michael Mukasey at the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York from 1997 to 1998 and then for Dennis Jacobs at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit the
following year.  At Debevoise, Ceresney has represented some of Wall
Street’s biggest companies and executives -- including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and former  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Ken Lewis  -- in regulatory probes of their conduct
during the financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  