-- Carney Says Canada Company Spending to Rebound With U.S.
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-04-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/carney-says-canada-company-spending-to-rebound-with-u-s-.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said the  U.S. economy  has undergone “a lot of repair” and is
picking up momentum, a development that should bolster demand
for the country’s exports and fuel business investment.  Canadian businesses have been holding off from making
investments because they are waiting for signs of strength in
the global economy, Carney said in an interview with Global TV
that aired yesterday.  The “U.S. private sector has picked up significantly over
the course of the last couple of years,” Carney said in the
interview. “The U.S. housing market is fully recovering and so
we’re seeing a lot of momentum there.”  In Canada, “we think it’ll take a couple of more quarters
before the domestic momentum picks up and then we’ll see
business investment move,” he said.  The  Bank of Canada , which has kept its  benchmark rate 
unchanged at 1 percent since September 2010, is expecting
exports and business investment to lead the recovery from a
slump that began late last year. The bank last week cut its
growth outlook for this year to 1.5 percent from 2 percent
because of lower business investment and  government spending .  Asked whether the reticence by companies is analogous to
the chicken-or-egg dilemma, Carney said, “Well, except, the
chicken is coming.”  Canada’s economy has grown more slowly than expected in
part because the nation’s exporters aren’t getting historical
market shares in the U.S., Carney said, citing slow productivity
growth.  The timing of interest-rate increases will depend on growth
accelerating to more than 2 percent, inflation picking up and
households continuing to ease up on debt accumulation, he said.  Growth Needed  “First, the economy needs to  grow  above its so-called
potential rate of growth, so it needs to grow more than 2
percentage points,” Carney said in the interview on Global’s
“The West Block.” “Secondly, you need to see a continuation
of what is becoming a positive evolution of  household debt  and
aspects of the housing market.”  The central bank would also need to see “ inflation  picking
up a little bit before we would move,” he said.  “The next move will likely be a move up in Canada after we
start to establish those conditions for sustainable growth,”
Carney said.  The interview was recorded after the bank published its
Monetary Policy Report, where Carney retained his bias to
tighten policy. Canada is the only Group of Seven economy
signaling the potential for higher borrowing costs as its peers
at the  Bank of Japan (8301) ,  European Central Bank  and U.S. Federal
Reserve press ahead with extraordinary stimulus.  Last Report  The policy report is Carney’s last before he leaves the
bank June 1 to take over the  Bank of England  a month later.
Carney said the importance of the governor’s role at the British
central bank “gets overplayed.”  “The core decisions of the Bank of England are made by the
monetary policy committee for monetary policy, financial policy
committee for macro-credential issues,” Carney said. “The
institution is powerful, much more powerful than the
individual.”  Asked about  Europe ’s fiscal crisis, Carney said policy
makers “have to do a lot on the structural side in reforming
the financial system and fixing their finances and fixing their
banks over a number of years.”  Carney said he was “realistically optimistic that they
recognize the scale of the problem,” adding that European
authorities “certainly have the political will to address
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  