-- CBS Invests in TV-Streaming Startup in Challenge to Aereo
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-04-22T17:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/cbs-invests-in-startup-that-lets-local-tv-stations-stream-online.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , escalating its conflict
with the Internet-television startup Aereo Inc., has acquired a
stake in a company called Syncbak that lets local TV stations
stream their programming online.  Syncbak works with stations to bring broadcasts to the
Internet while limiting the programming to authorized viewers,
CBS said today in a statement. The approach differs from that of
Aereo, which puts local broadcasts online without the permission
of the stations. CBS, based in  New York , didn’t disclose the
size of the minority investment.  Syncbak represents a way for CBS to adapt to the era of
Internet television without losing control of its programming.
The network has joined other broadcasters in suing Aereo,
seeking to shut down the New York-based company, which is backed
by billionaire  Barry Diller . Aereo recently won a court appeal
that allows it to sell access to broadcasters’ content without
paying the networks a fee.  “Broadcasters are looking for the best way to respond to
consumer demand for streaming their content,” Syncbak Chief
Executive Officer Jack Perry said in today’s statement. “I am
particularly pleased that CBS has recognized the role that
Syncbak can play as the broadcast model continues to evolve.”  Authentication System  Syncbak relies on authentication technology to ensure that
viewers watching a local channel’s broadcasts are actually
located in the area, helping stations keep tighter control over
their content. CBS plans to work with the Marion, Iowa-based
startup in the coming months, though Syncbak will continue to
collaborate with other networks as well.  By taking local broadcast signals for free and selling them
online for $8 to $12 a month, Aereo has rankled the networks.
CBS and News Corp.’s Fox have both  threatened  to pull their
signals off the air and turn the networks into cable-only
channels if Aereo isn’t shut down.  “Trust me, the cable guys would love for us to do that,”
CBS Chief Executive Officer Les Moonves said in an interview
earlier this month.  Virginia Lam, a spokeswoman for Aereo, declined to comment
on CBS’s investment. Bloomberg LP, the owner of  Bloomberg News ,
is an Aereo partner and offers its cable channel on the service.  About 14 million, or 12 percent, of U.S. homes with
televisions rely solely on broadcast signals to watch
programming, according to Nielsen and SNL Kagan.  Syncbak’s technology -- which is being tested by more than
100 television stations, including CBS, ABC, Fox and NBC
affiliates -- can allow broadcasters to offer programming free
to consumers or for a monthly fee.  The  National Association of Broadcasters  and the  Consumer
Electronics Association  have also invested in the startup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  