-- Chili Peppers Seen Helping 36 Million Migraine Sufferers
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-04-22T20:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/chili-peppers-seen-helping-36-million-migraine-sufferers.html
Chili peppers and migraines have
traits in common, a fact scientists are exploiting to develop
drugs capable of preventing the debilitating headache’s painful
symptoms before they attack.  The link between how skin reacts when rubbed with chili oil
and what happens in the brain during a migraine has attracted
the world’s largest biotechnology company,  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , and other
companies seeking to create medicines for the more than 36
million Americans who suffer from migraines.  Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, dizziness and
sensitivity to touch, yet treatment options are limited. Some
pharmaceutical companies that have tried recently to develop
migraine therapies, such as  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Merck &
Co. (MRK) , have abandoned their efforts while the few drugs on the
market are ineffective for many people and carry the danger of
serious side effects for those at risk of heart attack or
stroke.  “Migraines are an extremely common disorder, and it
affects people really in the prime of their lives,” Rob Lenz,
who is leading Amgen’s migraine drug development, said in an
interview. Still, no drugs have been “developed specifically
for the treatment of migraines,” he said. “They were developed
as anti-epileptics, or blood pressure lowering agents.”  That may soon change. Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks,
 California , and other biotechnology companies such as Alder
Biopharmaceuticals Inc., Arteaus Therapeutics LLC, and Labrys
Biologics Inc. are targeting a chemical released during a
migraine that carries a “pain” signal from nerve to nerve. By
blocking a receptor from receiving the message, these companies
aim to create drugs that cut off developing migraines before
symptoms start.  Targeted Injections  Similar pain-signal transmission occurs when chili oil
touches the skin. In that situation, the capsaicin in the pepper
causes the body to release calcitonin gene-related peptides, or
CGRP, leading to an increase in blood flow to the affected area.
To show the Amgen drug works, researchers injected it under the
skin of patients who had chili oil on their skin. The therapy
blocked the CGRP that causes increased blood flow.  “It sounds simple, but it’s important -- it tells us that
our drug is getting into the body in relative concentrations
that are generally well tolerated and that block CGRP,” Lenz
said.  The new class of drugs under development are biologics,
often delivered by injection, and are more complex, targeted and
longer lasting in the body than the earlier failed attempts,
Lenz said.  Sales Potential  Amgen’s AMG 334 and Alder’s ALD 403 are being tested in the
second of three clinical trials typically required for U.S.
regulatory approval.  “We’ll have data on this before the year is out,” Randall Schatzman, chief executive officer of closely held Alder, based
in Bothell,  Washington , said in an interview.  If those trials yield results, the sales potential for
these drugs will be significant. Michael Yee, an analyst with
RBC Capital Markets in San Francisco, said Amgen’s new migraine
treatment may reach $1 billion in sales should it gain approval.  Allergan Inc. (AGN) ’s Botox, used primarily for cosmetic
treatments, is also approved as a preventative therapy for
migraines, though only for severe sufferers who have attacks
lasting four hours or more at least 15 days a month. That means
only about 10 percent of migraine patients qualify for that
option. Sales for Botox as a migraine treatment alone could
reach $1 billion during the next decade, Anne-Elise Tobin, an
analyst with Burlington, Massachusetts-based Decision Resources,
said in an interview. The new class of drugs would be for a
bigger patient population with less frequent migraines.  Botox Success  “Botox demonstrates the market potential for a new
emerging prophylaxis therapy,” said Tobin, who estimates the
global market for all migraine treatments should increase 87
percent to $5.8 billion in 2021 from $3.1 billion in 2011.  Amgen  gained  1.8 percent to $113.42 in New York. The stock
gained 34 percent in 2012, its best annual increase since 1999,
as investors rewarded the company for its buyback program,
dividend and sales increase.  Currently, the most popular migraine treatments are oral
drugs called triptans, first introduced in the 1990s, such as
GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Imitrex, which constrict blood vessels in
the brain to relieve swelling and pain.  Pain Blockers  Those medicines attempt to halt migraines once they begin.
The new therapies aim to eliminate the need to wait for attacks
to occur, said John Latham, chief scientific officer at Alder.  “Once the migraine symptoms flair, it’s very hard to
resolve them, and most of the people at that stage of the game
let it run its course,” Latham said in a phone interview. “You
can go into a dark room, turn the lights off, put ear plugs on,
use an ice pack, but there’s not much you can do
pharmaceutically to kick the migraine back in its place.”  That’s why the new pain blocker approach holds so much
promise. By blocking a receptor in the brain from receiving the
message, migraines could be avoided completely, said  Peter
Goadsby , director of the University of California, San
Francisco’s Headache Center. Goadsby helped discover CGRP’s
connection to migraines and has consulted with drug companies
working on developing his findings into medicines.  “What these antibody approaches hope to do is to either
block the receptor or mop up the CGRP itself,” he said.  This isn’t the first time drugmakers have targeted CGRP to
stop migraines. Bristol-Myers and Merck were working a few years
ago on so-called small molecule therapies, taken orally, to
prevent headaches. While Merck’s drug, telcagepant, worked
better than a placebo in a study, the company shelved
development on concerns about liver damage. Bristol-Myers also
said it wouldn’t continue development of its drug.  “The whole migraine world was thrown into a tizzy because
this was supposed to be the next big thing,” Cathy Glaser,
president and co-founder of the  Migraine Research Foundation ,
said in an interview. “We’re all looking for the next magic
pill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  