-- Chinese General With Dempsey Compares Cyber-Attack to Nuke
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-23T06:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/china-seeks-to-forge-new-type-of-military-relationship-with-u-s-.html
China  wants to work with the U.S.
on cybersecurity because the effects of an Internet attack could
be as serious as a nuclear bomb, a Chinese general said at a
briefing with the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff.  With the Internet so difficult to control, the U.S. and
China must boost coordination to shore up cybersecurity, Fang Fenghui, chairman of the People’s Liberation Army General Staff,
said with Martin Dempsey yesterday. The U.S. is committed to a
“better, deeper, more enduring relationship” with China,
Dempsey said.  Ties between the U.S. and China have been strained by
allegations by U.S. security company Mandiant Corp. that China’s
army may be behind cyberattacks on companies worldwide. Dempsey
is on a visit to China to seek closer dialogue with China’s
military, discuss North Korea’s nuclear program and ease Chinese
concerns over the Obama administration’s strategic pivot to the
Asia-Pacific.  “If Internet security cannot be controlled, it’s not an
exaggeration to say the effects could be no less than a nuclear
bomb,” Fang said at the briefing with Dempsey.“The Internet is
open to everyone and attacks can be launched from anywhere.”  China opposes cyberattacks and is itself a victim of them,
Fang said. Chinese officials rejected Mandiant’s report in
February and have said they want to protect peace in cyberspace.  Kerry’s Visit  Dempsey met Chinese President Xi Jinping today, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported. Xi said Dempsey’s visit
will advance military ties, and “hailed the progress of
military-to-military exchanges and cooperation between the two
countries,” Xinhua said.  Dempsey’s trip to Beijing comes after Secretary of State
John Kerry visited earlier this month and urged Chinese leaders
to exert more pressure on North Korea to abandon its nuclear
program. In testimony before the U.S. Senate’s Armed Services
Committee April 17, Dempsey said the North Korea situation would
be “on the top of the agenda” for his visit.  Fang said China is firmly opposed to North Korean nuclear
tests. The regime of Kim Jong Un has carried out three such
tests, including one in February, and a fourth test is a
possibility, Fang said.  Dempsey stopped in South Korea for three hours on April 21
before traveling to Beijing, Yonhap News Agency reported. The
U.S. is hoping China will use its standing as the North’s most
important political and economic ally to back down from
bellicose rhetoric in recent weeks.  Stepped-Up Contacts  The visit is part of stepped-up contacts between China and
the U.S. this month. The Foreign Ministry said last week that
China’s North Korea envoy,  Wu Dawei , will visit  Washington  this
week for talks. At the Foreign Ministry yesterday, spokeswoman
Hua Chunying said U.S. Deputy Secretary of State William Burns
will also visit China this week.  China and the U.S. must forge a new type of military bond,
Fang said. He struck a different tone than Chinese state media,
which have said the U.S. strategic pivot toward the region could
embolden U.S. allies such as  Japan  in territorial disputes.  “The Pacific Ocean is wide enough to accommodate us
both,” Fang said. The two sides will hold anti-piracy exercises
in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, he said.  Dempsey responded by saying that the U.S. seeks to be a
stabilizing influence in Asia and the administration wants to be
more engaged “after a decade where we probably weren’t
interested enough.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  