-- China’s Stocks Drop as Insurers Retreat After Sichuan Earthquake
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-04-22T02:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/china-s-stocks-drop-as-insurers-retreat-after-sichuan-earthquake.html
China’s stocks  declined, led by
insurers, after an April 20 quake in Sichuan province that
killed at least 186 people.  China Life Insurance Co. slumped 3.1 percent, heading for
its biggest drop since March 3. A gauge tracking drugmakers
climbed 0.7 percent, led by Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Co. The
State Council urged citizens to donate funds for reconstruction
after the country’s strongest earthquake in three years left 1.5
million people needing aid. Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-
Earth Hi-Tech Co. retreated 1.3 percent after profit fell.  “Investors are concerned that insurers may take the bulk of
responsibility for damages by the earthquake,”  Zhang Gang , a
strategist at Central China Securities Holdings Co. in Shanghai,
said by phone.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  declined 0.3 percent to
2,236.68 at 10:04 a.m. local time. The CSI 300 Index fell 0.3
percent to 2,525.78. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
slumped 0.5 percent in  Hong Kong . The  Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. rose 2.7
percent in New York on April 19.  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 8.1 percent from a Feb.
6 high, on concern slowing growth will hurt earnings. Valuations
on the Shanghai gauge are 9.2 times projected 12-month profits,
compared with the seven-year average of 15.8,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The earthquake in Lushan county, about 1,650 kilometers
(1,000 miles) southwest of Beijing, was measured at magnitude
6.6 by the  U.S. Geological Survey  and hit on the same fault line
as a 7.9 earthquake that devastated nearby Wenchuan in May 2008.  Rescue Efforts  The Ministry of Finance said yesterday 1 billion  yuan  ($162
million) has been earmarked for rescue and relief work,
relocation of people affected by the earthquake, medical
treatment, subsidies for victims’ families and repairing public
facilities.  A preliminary reading for a Purchasing Managers’ Index will
be released tomorrow by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
The HSBC China April manufacturing PMI may have fallen to 51.4
from 51.6 in March, according to estimates.  China’s 7.7 percent growth rate is “normal” as the
world’s second-largest economy sacrifices growth to make
structural reforms, People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan told  Bloomberg News  outside a meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  in Washington on April 20.  Concern that  China’s economy  will struggle to grow has
helped drag Shanghai’s stock trading volumes toward the lowest
levels versus Tokyo in almost five years. About 2.1 billion more
shares were traded on the Shanghai Composite than on the Topix
Index on April 12, the least since November 2008 apart from one
other occasion and holidays, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ETF Bets  Bets (FXI)  on declines in the largest Chinese exchange-traded
fund are surging to the highest level since 2007. Short interest
on the  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund  climbed to 48.6 million
shares, or 3.2 percent of the total outstanding at the end of
March, the most since June 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “I am cautious,” Elena Ogram, who holds fewer Chinese
stocks than global benchmarks in her $50 million portfolio of
emerging-market assets at Bank Bellevue AG, said by phone from
Zurich April 18. “There’s more uncertainty and less visibility.
I am not expecting spectacular earnings from Chinese
companies.”  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slumped 1.1 percent in New York last
week, led by solar manufacturers.  Of the 55 companies on the China-US stock measure, 16 are
scheduled to report quarterly earnings this week, including
China Life Insurance Co., Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.,  Guangshen
Railway Ltd. (GSH) , China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. and Baidu Inc.  -- Editors: Richard Frost, Chan Tien Hin  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  