-- China Rescuers Pull 150 Survivors From Rubble After Deadly Quake
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-23T16:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/china-urges-greater-quake-rescue-effort-as-72-hour-window-closes.html
Rescue teams pulled 150 survivors
from the rubble in the 72 hours after an earthquake in
southwestern  China  destroyed buildings, ruined roads and left
thousands without shelter.  The death toll from the 6.6-magnitude temblor, which hit
Sichuan province on April 20, rose to 193 as of 6 a.m.
yesterday, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. Crews put
up 1,151 tents and ferried 1,827 tons of water to the area, and
the Ministry of Civil Affairs has dispatched a further 30,000
tents, Xinhua reported  The quake, in the same region as one in 2008 that killed
about 87,000 people, spurred calls from Vice Premier Wang Yang
and other top officials for rapid action amid concern that
aftershocks and damaged roads could slow rescue efforts. By
yesterday afternoon, the focus began to shift toward taking care
of those left homeless by the quake.  “We are not hungry or thirsty for now, but I am worried
about what comes next,” said Fu Guilan, a 49-year-old woman as
she sat with relatives outside a tent in the village of Qinglong
in the earthquake zone. “My house is destroyed. It cost me my
life savings and I don’t have money to rebuild it.”  China’s State Council  urged  people to donate funds for
reconstruction and told non-emergency personnel to stay out of
the disaster zone to ease road congestion. Traffic was barred
from highways to make way for vehicles carrying rescuers and
supplies. Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Qin Gang said rescue
efforts were making progress and international rescue teams
weren’t necessary.  Money Earmarked  The  Ministry of Finance  has earmarked 1 billion  yuan  ($162
million) for rescue and relief work. In the town of Longmen,
teenagers turned up for classes held in a green camouflage tent
set up next to a soccer field. Some smaller children appeared to
be suffering from trauma after the quake, said Zhao Hong, a
psychiatrist with the Sichuan Mental Health Center in Mianyang,
who traveled the 200 kilometers (124 miles) to Longmen to help
with relief work after the quake.  “We saw about 10 toddlers with symptoms such as non-stop
crying and refusing to talk,” Zhao said. “The most important
treatment is teaching parents to recognize their children are
ill, and to pay more attention to them.”  The earthquake, measured at magnitude 6.6 by the  U.S.
Geological Survey , has injured 12,211 people and left 25 missing
as of 6 a.m. local time yesterday, Xinhua said.  The quake area will see light to moderate rain today, the
China Meteorological Administration said yesterday in a
statement on its website. Thunder and lightning will accompany
the rain, the administration said.  Roads Cut  Landslides cut off roads and knocked out power and phone
systems, hampering efforts by relief teams to get to villages in
the more remote parts of Lushan county where the quake hit.
Aftershocks, insufficient relief supplies, and congested and
damaged roads delayed rescue efforts,  China Central Television 
reported.  As of 8 p.m. yesterday, the region had experienced 3,667
aftershocks, Xinhua reported, citing the China Earthquake
Administration.  Power has been restored to 179,600 households affected by
the earthquake, leaving about 7,000 with electricity, Xinhua
said yesterday. About 19,000 soldiers and armed police officers
have been sent to the Lushan area, about 1,650 kilometers
southwest of Beijing, while the Ministry of Public Security has
sent more than 2,300 firefighters to help with rescue work,
according to Xinhua.  Direct economic losses from the earthquake are estimated at
more than 10 billion yuan, far less than the 2008 quake,
Barclays Plc said on April 22.  Gao Xunqun, 54, waited at the bus station in Ya’an to go to
her home in the village of Tianquan, with no idea of what to
expect once she arrived. Because the road to her home is
blocked, she’ll have to walk some of the way, she said.  “My son is working in Guangdong and there’s no one left in
the house,” Gao said. “It’s my home, my only home, I have to
see it, otherwise I won’t sleep.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  