-- China E Fund Fires Fund Manager for Alleged Illegal Bond Trades
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-22T07:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/china-e-fund-fires-fund-manager-for-alleged-illegal-bond-trades.html
China’s  E Fund Management Co.  fired
Ma Xide, a portfolio manager in its fixed-income department, for
alleged illegal bond trading as regulators step up scrutiny of
the  debt market .  Ma was dismissed April 19 after disclosing to E Fund that
he’d been tried for alleged misconduct, the fund management
company, based in the southern city of Guangzhou, said in a
 statement  dated April 21. The San Xiang Metropolitan newspaper
in  Hunan province  reported that same day on the allegations
against Ma, which included misappropriation of funds and illegal
bond transactions.  E Fund, which employs about 400 people and manages
approximately 200 billion  yuan  ($32 billion) of assets, said it
wasn’t aware of Ma’s March 11 trial until the April 19 newspaper
report. The fund management company said Ma had not informed it
of his trial and had been on leave March 11 to March 13 for what
he’d said was a family emergency. Ma was released on bail, it
said.  “We are deeply sorry for not being able to uncover Ma
Xide’s involvement in the trial in time and for the disturbances
it caused investors,” E Fund said.  Ma was prosecuted in Ningxiang county in Hunan because the
alleged illegal trades were conducted through a company he set
up in the province, according to the San Xiang Metropolitan
 report .  Calls to the court in Hunan seeking comment today weren’t
immediately answered. E fund’s press office didn’t answer a call
seeking contact information for Ma.  Trading Probe  Chinese regulators are investigating illegal fixed-income
transactions in accounts typically used by senior traders at
financial institutions, the Shanghai Securities News reported
last week. The government has sent teams to inspect trading
records at companies in Shanghai, Beijing and Jiangsu province,
the newspaper reported, without citing anyone.  The investigation focuses on trades executed for so-called
Bing-grade investors, who borrowed from banks to buy bonds and
had another institution hold the securities, according to the
Shanghai Securities News. Holders of the accounts, often senior
executives, can make profits without risking their own money
when bond prices rise, according to the newspaper affiliated
with the official Xinhua News Agency.  The  China  Securities Regulatory Commission said April 19
that fund companies are prohibited from holding bonds for
others, the 21st Century Business Herald reported, citing an
unidentified official at the agency.  Zou Yu, a former fixed-income investment director of Wanjia
Asset Management Co., is the subject of an investigation related
to so-called Bing-grade accounts, according to the official
Xinhua News Agency. The company said last week that Zou is being
investigated for personal conduct and is no longer an employee.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  