-- CME Group Mistakenly Revealed Swap Trades to Market Participants
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-04-22T21:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/cme-group-mistakenly-revealed-swap-trades-to-market-participants.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, mistakenly disclosed energy and agricultural
swap trade details to market participants, the company said.  The leak was caused by a malfunction in the Chicago-based
exchange operator’s swap data repository that allowed “a small
number of market participants, who were entitled to make
inquiries of the system, to view commodity swap trades of other
market participants,” CME Group said in an e-mailed statement
today. New York-based hedge fund D.E. Shaw & Co. was affected by
the leak, Dow Jones reported earlier today, citing unnamed
people familiar with the matter.  “We regret this incident occurred as maintaining the
confidentiality of market participant data at all times is vital
to the operation of our markets and systems,” CME Group said in
the statement. Information on about 500 trades out of a total of
nearly 1 million transactions was disclosed on April 1, CME
Group said.  The Dodd-Frank Act, the 2010 regulatory overhaul, gave the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange
Commission authority to write rules requiring swaps to be
processed by clearinghouses and to have that trade data reported
to the agencies and the public. The law, enacted in response to
the 2008 credit crisis, set up so-called swap data repositories
as record-keepers for information about buyers and sellers,
volume and prices.  Leak Alerted  CME customers alerted the company to the leak on April 2
and the issue was fixed by the next morning, the company said.
Trade details are meant to be kept private as they can be acted
on by competing market participants to gain advantage.  In March, CME Group won regulatory approval from the CFTC
to have information about swaps routed to its own database over
the objections of the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. and
banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The DTCC has said the CME plan fails to comply with more
than a year of CFTC rulemaking and would lead to worse oversight
of the market because data will be fragmented.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 