-- Coal-Ash Recyclers Seen Aided in EPA’s Water-Discharge Plan
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-04-22T20:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/coal-ash-recyclers-seen-aided-in-u-s-epa-water-discharge-plan.html
Headwaters Inc. (HW)  and other companies
that recycle waste from coal-fired power plants may benefit from
less-restrictive rules that U.S. regulators have signaled they
may adopt.  In  proposing rules  covering the waste power plants send
into waterways, the Environmental Protection Agency said it may
regulate coal ash as “non-hazardous municipal and solid
waste,” rather than as the more serious “hazardous
substance.” The possibility of the more serious categorization
being invoked had depressed the ash-recycling business, and
risked undermining the industry, the companies had warned.  “We applaud EPA’s announcement that the evidence the
agency has collected shows coal ash does not warrant regulation
as a hazardous waste,” Kirk Benson, chief executive officer of
South Jordan, Utah-based Headwaters, the largest seller of
products made from coal ash, said today in a statement. “This
indication by EPA will help restore certainty to the beneficial
use market and makes environmental and economic sense.”  The EPA’s proposal April 20 for regulating the water
discharge from steam-electric  power plants  covers primarily coal
and nuclear facilities, which that account for half the toxic
pollutants in U.S. water bodies.  Regulators proposed a range of options. Costs to comply
with the rules range from $185 million to $954 million, agency
economists estimated. The more expensive options would target
more units and more sources of waste, resulting in greater
pollution reduction, it said.  Holding Ponds  Because some coal-fired power plants mix the ash with water
and store it in ponds, the effluent limitations will affect how
the agency regulates coal ash. According to the EPA, its
proposal curbing water discharges from power plants would prod
many utilities to switch to so-called dry handling of coal ash,
thus curbing or eliminating the use of the ash ponds. Those ash
ponds can rupture or leak.  “The agency preference may be for folks to switch to dry-
handling procedures, and so kill two birds with one stone,”
Daniel Deeb, a partner at the  law firm  Schiff Hardin and former
director of the National Wildlife Federation  environmental
group, said in an interview. “This is a very significant
proposal for the agency to make.”  The EPA had proposed two approaches for such rules in 2010,
including labeling it hazardous, which would add stricter
standards for plant owners. Republicans in Congress and groups
lobbying for companies such as Headwaters pressed the agency to
abandon that approach.  Page 52  On page 52 of the almost 500 pages of effluent rules, the
agency said its “current thinking” is that coal ash could be
adequately regulated without the hazardous label.  “With this announcement, EPA has sent a positive message
to recycling markets that the agency’s earlier proposal to
regulate coal ash as a hazardous waste was ill-conceived,
unwarranted and ultimately unnecessary,” John Ward, the head of
government relations for the American Coal Ash Association, said
today in a  blog post . “What coal ash recyclers need next from
 Washington  is regulatory certainty, which means statements of
what will happen rather than what might happen.”  Ward’s group represents companies such as power producers
 XCel Energy Inc. (XEL)  and cement-maker  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)   TVA Spill  Environmental groups, citing a spill of 1 billion gallons
of toxic waste by the  Tennessee Valley Authority  in 2008, argue
that tighter regulation is overdue, and have pressed for the
hazardous designation, citing the pollutants it can contain and
the risks of further spills.  The EPA hasn’t said when the final rule for coal ash will
be adopted, and environmental groups have sued the agency to
force the decision. If EPA issues tough rules under the effluent
guidelines, it can ease off on the coal-ash requirements, said
Abigail Dillen, a lawyer for Earthjustice, which has  sued the
EPA  to issue the rules.  “Until we see where EPA is going, it’s hard to evaluate”
the mix of proposals, she said in an interview.  The new water-discharges regulations will add to measures
on coal-fired generators issued since President  Barack Obama 
took office in 2009. The administration’s most-expensive rule
would cut mercury and other toxic air emissions from such
plants. The April 20 measure would prevent similar minerals,
arsenic and mercury, in water releases from the plants.  Coal is under mounting pressure from cheap natural gas,
tougher federal pollution standards and state-level energy
efficiency requirements. The  Sierra Club ’s coal campaign in
early March said more than 142 plants has been closed.  American
Electric Power (AEP)  Co. in February said it would shut three plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  