-- CommonWealth Focusing on Property Strategy Amid Clash
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-04-22T20:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/commonwealth-focusing-on-property-strategy-amid-clash.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH) , whose second-
largest  shareholders  want to oust the board, is better off
keeping its management structure as investors are poised to
benefit from its plan of focusing on downtown U.S. office
buildings, President Adam Portnoy said.  The real estate investment trust published an investor
presentation on its website today detailing its strategy in
response to criticism from Corvex Management LP and Related
Cos., who say the company has  underperformed  because of the
costs of its external manager, Reit Management & Research LLC,
or RMR. The investors, after proposing a $2.9 billion buyout
that was rejected, are soliciting votes to remove the board.  Bringing CommonWealth management in-house would be more
expensive, boosting general and administrative costs and hurting
shareholders, according to Portnoy, an owner of RMR with his
father, Barry. The stock will rise as the Newton, Massachusetts-
based REIT sells suburban properties in favor of downtown
offices, which have better growth potential, Portnoy said.  “We still have a lot of work to do, but I think we’re on
the right path,” Portnoy said in a telephone interview. “The
biggest benefit that shareholders are getting is the lower G&A
costs that are being experienced by CommonWealth.”  Stock Decline  CommonWealth shares fell 24 percent in the five years
through last week, compared with an 11 percent gain in the
 Bloomberg REIT Index. (BBREIT)  The stock closed April 19 at $22.17, up 40
percent since Feb. 25, the day before Corvex and Related made
their activist efforts public. The investors say the shares
could rise to $35 if the trustees were removed and reach $44 by
the end of 2014, according to an April 18 presentation.  CommonWealth has bought $3.7 billion of properties in
central business districts and sold $1.5 billion of suburban
office real estate since the start of 2008, according to the
investor presentation. Rents and demand for downtown space are
rising, while suburban areas have lagged behind, the REIT said.  “We happen to be operating in a very tough sector,”
Portnoy said. “That has more to do with what’s been going on
with the performance of the company than anything else.”  CommonWealth had 94 properties for sale at the end of 2012.
It sold 18 of them as of today, according to the presentation.  “The sales market has gotten a lot more robust even for
turnaround or value-add properties in the U.S.,” Portnoy said.
“It’s taken a long time for this turnaround to come about.”  Management Fees  CommonWealth said in the presentation that its general and
administrative expenses are lower than that of its peers. RMR
gets fees from business and property management, and not from
acquisitions, dispositions, leasing or financing, the REIT said.  RMR, which has 820 employees dedicated to real estate and
manages four other REITs, “is able to leverage its economies of
scale to lower costs and add value to each of its managed
companies,” CommonWealth said in the presentation.  “The Portnoys are asking shareholders to continue to
believe in their inherently conflicted structure and their so-
called strategic plan” that has led to share underperformance,
Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for Corvex and Related, said in an e-
mail. “Corvex and Related remain singularly focused on allowing
all shareholders to exercise their rights, effect change and
restore shareholder value -- rights the Portnoys and CWH board
have spent the last eight weeks desperately trying to
suppress.”  Seeking Removal  Corvex, founded by Keith Meister, and Related, whose chief
executive officer is Jeff Blau, sent a letter to investors last
week lobbying them to remove the board after the landlord
spurned the companies’ buyout offer. The REIT’s trustees and
 management  “are solely beholden” to the Portnoys, they said.  CommonWealth’s trustees sent their own letter to investors
in response, saying the activists aren’t entitled to seek the
consents under its bylaws. The company said in its presentation
today that removing the board and RMR would have negative
effects including hurting lease negotiations, disrupting
projects and adding uncertainty surrounding the transition.  Corvex and Related, based in New York, hold 9.2 percent of
CommonWealth’s stock, making them the largest shareholders
behind Vanguard Group Inc., which owns 9.5 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  CommonWealth rose 2.4 percent to $22.71 at the close of New
York trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  