-- Corn Drops to 1-Week Low on Demand Concern for U.S. Grain
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-04-22T18:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/corn-slumps-to-one-week-low-on-demand-concerns-for-u-s-grain.html
Corn dropped to the lowest in more
than a week on speculation that planting will accelerate in the
U.S., the world’s biggest grower and exporter. Wheat and
soybeans also declined.  Warmer, drier weather through May 6 will help firm muddy
soils and allow for increased corn sowing across the Midwest,
especially from Nebraska to Missouri and in parts of the
southern Mississippi River Valley, Commodity Weather Group LLC
said in a report. As of April 14,  planting  was 2 percent
completed, the slowest pace since 1993, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show.  “People are looking at  weather forecasts  that are more
favorable for planting corn,”  Shawn McCambridge , the senior
grain analyst for Jefferies Bache LLC in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “Rains this month have improved soil
moisture for seed germination and early plant growth.”  Corn futures for delivery in July slumped 1.5 percent to
close at $6.235 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Earlier, the price touched $6.1825, the lowest since
April 10. Futures for delivery in December after the harvest
dropped 2.6 percent to $5.33.  Soybeans fell as a bird flu outbreak in  China  added to
concern that demand for the oilseed in poultry and livestock
feed will wane. Imports fell 20 percent to 3.841 million metric
tons in March from a year earlier, the Customs General
Administration said today.  The death toll from the H7N9 virus in China has climbed to
21, Xinhua News Agency reported today. The outbreak has caused
losses for the nation’s poultry industry as consumers avoid
chicken.  “The rising death toll from avian flu is intensifying
concerns that China’s corn and soybean imports may decline,”
 Hiroyuki Kikukawa , general manager for research at Nihon Unicom
Inc., said by telephone from  Tokyo  today.  Soybean futures for July delivery retreated 1.3 percent to
$13.6425 a bushel in Chicago, the biggest decline in a week.  Wheat futures for delivery in July fell 1.3 percent to
$7.025 a bushel on the CBOT.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  