-- CP All Said to Prepare Takeover Offer for Thai Retailer
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-04-22T10:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/cp-all-said-to-prepare-takeover-offer-for-thailands-siam.html
CP All (CPALL)  Pcl, the world’s third-
biggest operator of 7-Eleven convenience stores, is preparing a
takeover offer for  Siam Makro Pcl (MAKRO) , said people with knowledge of
the matter.  A deal between the Bangkok-based companies may be announced
as soon as this week, two people said, asking not to be
identified as the information is private. Utrecht, Netherlands-
based SHV Holdings NV owns about 64 percent of Siam Makro, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  CP All and Tesco Plc are adding outlets in the nation of 67
million people after the government raised minimum wages and
introduced price guarantees for agricultural crops to boost
rural incomes. Siam Makro has a market value of about 163.7
billion baht ($5.7 billion), making a takeover potentially the
largest ever of a Thai company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s still a good deal all around,” said Andrew Yates,
head of international equity sales for  Asia Plus Securities Pcl (ASP) 
in Bangkok. “The Dutch can’t or won’t grow it, so it makes
sense to sell. CP can grow it and they would rather not see a
competitor buy it, so price is largely irrelevant for them. It
shows the power of the Thai domestic economy.”  Joost van Klink, SHV’s company secretary, declined to
comment in an e-mailed response to questions today. Officials at
CP All and Siam Makro could not be reached.  CP’s Tumble  Siam Makro has surged 30 percent in the past six trading
sessions. The retailer was suspended from trading today after
saying it’s “in the process of disclosing significant
information.”  CP All fell 6 percent, its biggest decline since May 9, to
43.50 baht in Bangkok today, trimming the company’s market value
to about 391 billion baht.  Siam Makro trades at about 38 times analyst estimates for
2013 earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Big C
Supercenter Pcl (BIGC) , the nation’s second-biggest operator of
hypermarket stores, fetches a multiple of about 24, and the SET
Index trades at about 14 times estimated earnings.  “There is a concern that CP All may acquire Siam Makro at
a very expensive price,” said Chakrit Puechpan, the head of
domestic equities at  MFC Asset Management Pcl (MFC) , which oversees
the equivalent of $10.5 billion. CP All “may have to raise a
large amount of funds from new borrowings or share sales to fund
the purchase. Even with the current market price, Siam Makro is
already trading at very high valuations.”  Asia Crisis  CP All, controlled by billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s
Charoen Pokphand Group, last year said it may open 7-Eleven
stores in southern  China  and  Vietnam . Dhanin, who bought a $9.4
billion stake in Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. in February, said
this month that he’s seeking more acquisitions in China.  Charoen Pokphand was once Siam Makro’s largest shareholder
with a stake of as much as 47 percent in 1997, the same year
that the devaluation of  Thailand ’s baht triggered a financial
crisis that pushed many Asian economies into recession.  After the crisis, Dhanin sold stakes in companies including
Siam Makro and Lotus Supercenter, which was bought by Tesco. In
May 2005, a Charoen Pokphand unit sold 7 percent of Siam Makro
back to the company that controlled the retailer for 60 baht per
share. The group still owns about 1 percent of Siam Makro.  New Stores  Siam Makro operated 57 Makro stores and five Siam Frozen
stores by the end of 2012. It opened five new Makro stores in
2012, helping to boost revenue by 15 percent to 112 billion baht
last year, the company said on Feb. 27. The Bangkok-based
company’s profit rose 37 percent to 3.56 billion baht in 2012.  At its current market value, a Siam Makro acquisition would
top the largest on record in Thailand, the $5.5 billion purchase
of PTT Aromatics & Refining Pcl by PTT Chemical Pcl in 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SHV, a closely held energy company, hired advisers and aims
to complete the sale of its holding in Bangkok-based Siam Makro
by the end of this year, the Thai-language Prachachat reported
on its website on April 1, without saying where it obtained the
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  