-- Credit Suisse Earning More Than UBS Trails With Investors
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-04-23T08:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/credit-suisse-earning-more-than-ubs-still-trails-with-investors.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  will
probably post higher profit than  UBS AG (UBSN)  for a fourth straight
quarter when the largest Swiss banks report results over the
next week.  UBS’s underperformance hasn’t prevented it from trading at
a higher price relative to estimated earnings and book value, as
some investors embrace the Zurich-based bank’s focus on  wealth
management  and question Credit Suisse’s decision to remain a
full-service investment bank.  “UBS made it clear that it will focus on private
banking,” said  Florian Esterer , a senior portfolio manager who
helps oversee about $3.8 billion at MainFirst Schweiz AG in
Zurich. “Credit Suisse is being punished for still being active
in all areas of the investment bank, without there being
evidence that it has enough scale or that it can make good
returns on equity.”  Credit Suisse will probably report first-quarter net income
of 1.31 billion Swiss francs ($1.4 billion) tomorrow, up from 44
million francs a year earlier, when it booked a charge tied to
its own debt, according to the  average estimate  of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. UBS  profit  probably fell by half
to 410.2 million francs, hurt by costs related to its
reorganization, a survey of five analysts found. UBS reports
earnings April 30.  Credit Suisse had  net income  of 1.35 billion francs in
2012, compared with a 2.51 billion-franc  loss  at UBS.  Even so, Credit Suisse traded at 9.8 times estimated 2013
earnings and 0.97 times book value at the market close
yesterday, while UBS traded at 16.8 times this year’s estimated
profit and 1.16 times book value, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Disappearing Act  Concentrating on  money management , which carries lower
 capital requirements  than securities businesses, enabled UBS
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  to shrink the company
faster than competitors. The 52-year-old CEO announced plans on
Oct. 30 to retreat from capital-intensive debt trading and to
eliminate 10,000 jobs to bolster profitability.  Credit Suisse CEO Brady Dougan, 53, plans to keep a full-
fledged investment bank. Dougan has announced 4.4 billion francs
in cost-cutting programs since 2011, which he plans to complete
by the end of 2015 to boost earnings. The firm also trimmed
risk-weighted assets at the investment bank.  UBS shrank its assets, excluding derivatives, by 1.2
trillion francs, or 59 percent, to 841.2 billion francs from
2006 through last year, and plans to cut this so-called funded
balance sheet to about 600 billion francs by the end of 2015.
Credit Suisse, which trimmed assets by 26 percent in the same
period, to 924.3 billion francs, plans to bring the figure below
900 billion francs this year.  ‘More Upside’  UBS and Credit Suisse use different accounting standards
for their financial reports, making UBS’s assets appear greater
because it doesn’t net out derivatives like Credit Suisse.
Although UBS is 5.2 percent smaller by assets excluding
derivatives, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from company
reports, its market value of 57.5 billion francs is 41 percent
larger than Credit Suisse’s.  UBS rose 0.8 percent to 14.98 francs by 10:42 a.m. in Swiss
trading, bringing the  gain  in the past 12 months to 34 percent.
That exceeds the 14 percent  increase  in Credit Suisse and the 22
percent advance in the 40-company  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index  over the past year.  “Credit Suisse’s deleveraging plan is nearly at its end,
but UBS’s has a lot more to go,” said Andrew Lim, a London-
based analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank. “This hasn’t
actually been done before in terms of the magnitude of what UBS
is trying to achieve. There is a lot more upside to be seen in
terms of return on equity improvement and the amount of capital
that can be returned.”  Dividend Optimism  UBS is seeking a return on equity, a measure of
profitability, of at least 15 percent starting in 2015, while
Credit Suisse targets the same over the business cycle. UBS’s
common equity ratio under fully applied Basel III rules was 9.8
percent at the end of 2012, and Credit Suisse’s was 8 percent.  Lim rates UBS a buy and Credit Suisse neutral. Among 41
analysts who follow the two banks, 54 percent have  buy ratings 
on UBS, compared with 42 percent for Credit Suisse.  Morgan Stanley analysts last month removed Credit Suisse
from their “most preferred” list and added UBS, citing better
dividend prospects.  “We think confidence will build over UBS potentially
having a special dividend in 2015 from faster deleveraging,”
the analysts, led by Huw van Steenis, wrote in a March 25
report. “Meanwhile, we think Credit Suisse will deliver on
costs and top line but think may take longer to return to a 100
percent cash dividend.”  ‘Good News’  UBS plans to raise its  dividend  for 2012 by 50 percent to
15 centimes a share, after paying its first cash dividend in
five years the previous year. Credit Suisse proposed a payout of
10 centimes in cash and 65 centimes in shares for 2012, after
letting shareholders choose the previous year whether they
wanted 75 centimes a share in cash or in stock to help the
company increase its  capital ratios .  Credit Suisse is seen earning more than UBS this year and
next, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The good news for Credit Suisse is that unlike UBS they
have an investment bank which can make money,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA who rates
Credit Suisse outperform and UBS neutral.  UBS’s decision to scale back its investment bank followed
more than $50 billion of losses during the subprime crisis that
resulted in a state rescue, and a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading by former employee Kweku Adoboli in 2011.  “There is a lot more potential at UBS to fulfill,” Lim
said. “If you’re shrinking your assets so aggressively, and
maintaining or indeed improving your profitability, then it’s a
great thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  