-- Daimler Gets Supreme Court Hearing on Human-Rights Suit
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-04-22T14:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/daimler-gets-supreme-court-hearing-on-human-rights-suit.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  will
consider giving companies new protection from human-rights
suits, agreeing to hear a  Daimler AG (DAI)  appeal stemming from
allegations that a company unit collaborated in torture and
killings in  Argentina .  The German automaker is being sued under the Alien Tort
Statute, a law the Supreme Court scaled back last week in a
victory for corporations.  The Daimler appeal doesn’t directly concern that law,
instead contending that the company lacks sufficient ties to
 California  to give courts there the authority to hear the case.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is backing the appeal.  Daimler’s Argentine Mercedes-Benz unit is accused of
collaborating with state security forces during the so-called
Dirty War from 1976 to 1983. The company allegedly identified
workers seen as union agitators, knowing security forces would
then kidnap, torture and in some cases kill the people. The
company denies the allegations.  A San Francisco-based federal appeals court said the suit
could go forward in a federal court in  San Jose , California.  Daimler, based in Stuttgart,  Germany , contends the courts
in California lack “personal jurisdiction” over the company.
Under that legal concept, a defendant doesn’t have to face
lawsuits in a state unless it has a certain minimum level of
contacts with the jurisdiction.  Next Term  The court will hear arguments in its 2013-14 term, which
starts in October and runs through the following June.  The 1789 Alien Tort Statute has been a favorite tool of
human-rights advocates seeking to hold companies responsible for
overseas atrocities. The law lay dormant for almost two
centuries before being revived in the 1970s as a means of
pressing lawsuits.  Last week’s Supreme Court ruling threw out a suit accusing
two foreign-based units of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  of facilitating
torture and executions in Nigeria. The majority said the Alien
Tort Statute generally doesn’t apply to conduct beyond U.S.
borders.  Multinational companies have faced dozens of Alien Tort
Statute suits blaming them for human rights violations,
environmental wrongdoing and labor abuses.  The case is DaimlerChrysler v. Bauman, 11-965.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  