-- Darrelle Revis in Tampa Says He’s Got Nothing to Prove to Jets
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-22T17:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/darrelle-revis-in-tampa-says-he-s-got-nothing-to-prove-to-jets.html
Darrelle Revis  said he has nothing
to prove to anyone, including his former employer, a day after
the All-Pro cornerback was traded to the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers 
from the New York Jets.  Revis, speaking at an introductory news conference at the
team’s headquarters in Tampa,  Florida , said today that since
learning he was being shopped to other National Football League
franchises by the Jets in February, it felt “like the team is
giving up on you.”  “It’s a blessing how highly this organization looks at
me,” Revis said. “It didn’t happen in New York for some
reason.”  The Jets get the Buccaneers’ first-round pick in this
week’s draft -- the 13th overall -- along with a third- or
fourth-round pick in the 2014 draft.  The trade is the most significant step by Jets General
Manager John Idzik to rebuild a franchise that missed the NFL
playoffs the past two seasons.  In a move that ended months of speculation about his
future, Revis agreed to a six-year contract with the Buccaneers,
who didn’t disclose financial terms. NFL.com said the total
value is $96 million and includes no guaranteed money, a deal
that makes the cornerback one of the NFL’s highest-paid non-
quarterbacks.  “Mine is unique in a way, but I have to play,” Revis said
of his contract. “I have to play ball and I have to go out
there and perform. The contract will take care of itself.”  Revis Questions  Idzik had faced questions about Revis’s future with the
team since being hired in January after the firing of Mike Tannenbaum.  “It was never our goal to have Darrelle leave the Jets,”
Idzik said last night on a conference call. “We wanted Darrelle
to remain a Jet for the long term, ideally, but Tampa reached
out. They expressed a sustained and sincere interest. We
ultimately came to the conclusion that this was the best thing
to do for the Jets at this time.”  Calling it a “rare and unique opportunity,” Buccaneers
General Manager Mark Dominik said he had doubts the deal would
ever be completed until the day it was.  “When you think of those players of this magnitude that
get traded ever, it doesn’t happen very often,” Dominik said at
the televised news conference. “There were times I wasn’t sure
this was going to happen. I never fully believed that way until
I actually received the trade papers.”  Revis, 27, has emerged as one of the best defensive players
in the league since being selected in the first round of the
2007 draft. An All-Pro choice in three of his first five
seasons, Revis played only two games last year before tearing a
knee ligament. He went through a series of medical tests
yesterday in Tampa before the trade was completed.  Health Issue  Today he declined to get into specifics about when he’ll be
able to join his new team on the field.  “We’re not going to really get into the health issue right
now,” Revis said. “I’m working as hard as I can.”  Revis said on Twitter yesterday that his six years with the
Jets were “unbelievable.”  “I put my body on the line every day and did everything I
could to help the team win,” he said in a Twitter post. “I
experienced a lot and learned a lot. The memories I had in  New
York  I will keep dearly to my heart.”  The Jets relied on Revis’s one-on-one coverage skills to
shut down opponents’ top receivers. His ability to limit the
NFL’s best pass catchers earned him the nickname “Revis
Island,” a phrase he trademarked.  The home page of the Buccaneers’ website today reads
“Treasure Island” in welcoming Revis to the team.  Secondary Improvement  The Buccaneers, who went 7-9 last season in Greg Schiano’s
first season as coach, have been trying to upgrade their
secondary and this offseason signed free agent safety Dashon Goldson, a two-time Pro Bowl selection, to a five-year contract
the Tampa Bay Tribune said is worth $41 million.  Tampa Bay , which allowed an NFL-high 4,758 passing yards
last season, visits the Jets on Sept. 8 in the opening week of
the NFL’s regular season, giving Revis the opportunity to face
his former team.  The Jets were almost $20 million over the NFL’s cap on
player salaries when Idzik was hired in January and risked
losing Revis without compensation as an unrestricted free agent
after the 2013 season, when he was due $6 million.  “We deliberated for quite a while because I know it’s
important to our fans, and it’s important to us,” Jets owner
 Woody Johnson  said. “We wanted to come up with a decision that
was the best for the  New York Jets . That’s the decision we
arrived at. And I think it was the correct one.”  Two Picks  The Jets will now have two of the first 13 picks in the
April 25-27 draft, having previously owned the ninth selection.
The only other time the Jets had two of the draft’s top 13 picks
was in 2000, when they took defensive ends Shaun Ellis and John Abraham with the 12th and 13th overall selections.  “We’re going to get some very valued players,” said
Idzik, who was previously with the Seahawks, where he primarily
managed the salary cap and handled contract negotiations.
“They’re going to help us in years to come.”  New York’s 2014 selection from Tampa Bay will become a
third-round choice if Revis is on the Buccaneers’ roster on the
third day of the NFL’s 2014 league year. Idzik said Revis’s knee
injury had an effect on compensation.  “It definitely muddies the water a little bit,” Idzik
said. “If we had the luxury of time, if we had the luxury of
Darrelle not having been injured, not having gone through rehab,
then I think things would be a lot clearer both from our
standpoint and in the case of potential trade suitors.”  No Playoffs  The Jets had a combined 14-18 record the past two seasons
following back-to-back appearances in the American Football
Conference championship game. In addition to Tannenbaum, the
Jets fired offensive coordinator  Tony Sparano  and quarterbacks
coach Matt Cavanaugh, and had defensive coordinator Mike Pettine
leave to take the same job with the  Buffalo Bills . They also cut
linebacker  Bart Scott .  The Jets’ rebuilding now includes parting ways with their
best defensive player.  “Darrelle Revis was an outstanding player for us,” Ryan
said. “I believe that he is the best corner in football without
question. But make no mistake, we will play great defense and
the standard we’ve set as the New York Jets will not be
diminished.”  Revis, for his part, today also preferred to look forward.  “We’re not going to compare the two organizations,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  