-- Deloitte Loses Bid to Delay SEC Suit Over China Documents
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-22T19:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/deloitte-loses-bid-to-delay-sec-suit-over-china-documents.html
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd.
lost a bid to delay a lawsuit brought by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission seeking documents in an investigation of the
auditor’s former client Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler in  Washington  today
rejected Shanghai-based Deloitte’s argument that the case should
be put on hold while an administrative judge considers a
separate case the regulator brought against the China-based
affiliates of the Big Four accounting firms.  “There is no significant burden placed on Deloitte by
requiring it to litigate these two very different proceedings
simultaneously,” Kessler said.  The decision may quicken the pace of litigation over the
Chinese documents sought by the regulator more than 22 months
ago.  The Deloitte case has been on hold since August when the
U.S. sought a resolution from Chinese regulators. Chinese law
bans the removal offshore of audit papers, and foreign
regulators aren’t allowed to work inside the country.  Talks broke down, and the SEC moved to restart the case in
December. The agency that month also brought an administrative
action against D&T  Shanghai , Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, KPMG
Huazhen and PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs, claiming
they have refused to cooperate with accounting investigations
into companies whose securities are publicly traded in the U.S.  Chinese Law  The auditors said Chinese law prevents them from complying
with the SEC’s demands, hindering U.S. efforts to probe
allegations of fraud.  D&T Shanghai resigned as Longtop’s auditor after
discovering improprieties during the year ended March 31, 2011,
according to the SEC. The SEC issued a subpoena for documents it
said may contain basic information necessary to determine
whether there was a fraud, who was behind it and how it was
conducted.  The  New York  Stock Exchange delisted Longtop’s American
depositary shares in August 2011.  Deloitte lawyers Michael Warden and Miles Ruthberg didn’t
immediately respond to e-mail messages seeking comment on the
ruling.  Deloitte sought to keep the case on hold until at least a
judge in the administrative action has a chance to rule on
requests to dismiss it filed by the accounting firms.  Deloitte’s Arguments  Deloitte argued in court filings and at an April 11 hearing
that lifting the stay would put the court into the middle of an
international dispute between  China  and the U.S. government.  The action might undermine a resolution to a three-year
impasse over whether auditors can share work documents with
regulators investigating possible accounting fraud at companies
selling securities in the U.S., Deloitte said.  Delaying the case is an effort by Deloitte “to kick the
can down the road” and prevent investigators from learning
“what led to this massive financial fraud” with $1 billion in
losses to investors, including some in the U.S., David Mendel,
an SEC lawyer told Kessler during the hearing.  The judge said today that the SEC demonstrated that the
only way it can obtain the documents needed for its Longtop
investigation is through the federal court suit. Waiting for
resolution of the administrative case, which doesn’t involve the
Longtop probe, might take more than a year.  “The SEC has a responsibility to complete this
investigation and pursue these documents in a timely fashion in
the venue available to it,” Kessler wrote.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., 11-mc-00512, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 