-- Democrats Risk Backlash After Opposing Obama Gun Plan
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-04-22T14:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/democrats-risk-backlash-after-opposing-obama-gun-plan.html
Four Democratic senators who defied
President  Barack Obama  to help defeat gun-safety legislation are
facing the wrath of activists who promise to make them pay a
political price.  President Barack Obama said it was a “shameful day” in
Washington when the Senate rejected a watered-down bill
including expanded background checks for  gun-buyers  on April 17.
Several groups say they plan to punish the four Democrats
through newspaper and television ads, protests outside their
offices, and automated telephone calls to constituents.  “The level of anger around this is higher than on anything
I’ve seen in years, decades,” said  Matt Bennett  of Third Way, a
policy group aligned with Democrats whose founders previously
worked on gun-policy issues. “These senators do not have a
suitable explanation for what they did.”  Three of the senators are up for re-election in 2014:  Max Baucus  of  Montana ,  Mark Pryor  of  Arkansas  and  Mark Begich  of
Alaska. North Dakota’s Heidi Heitkamp was elected in November to
her first six-year term. All are from states that voted for
Republican  Mitt Romney  for president last year. And while the
outside groups will target both Democrats and Republicans who
voted against the legislation, they are particularly angry at
the Democrats who broke ranks and some of the groups are
targeting them over Republicans in their first wave of ads.  “We’re shocked,” said Po Murray, a spokeswoman for the
Newtown Action Alliance, a group founded to press for stricter
gun laws after 20 schoolchildren were killed in Newtown,
Connecticut, on Dec. 14. “We can’t believe those whom we’ve
elected to protect our life and liberty would choose special
interests instead.”  Assault Weapons  Though the measure was blocked, the debate about  gun
control  has changed from where it was for almost 20 years, when
many Democrats avoided the topic altogether. The last major gun-
related law was a 1994 crime bill that included an assault-
weapons ban. Democrats lost control of Congress later in the
year amid opposition to that and other initiatives. The ban
lapsed in 2004.  Still, political observers expressed skepticism that the
groups’ efforts would succeed in mostly rural states with a
strong gun culture.  “These votes don’t hurt Begich, Pryor and Baucus,” said
 Jennifer Duffy , a Senate analyst at the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report in Washington. “In fact, some of these groups
going into these states probably helps them.”  Sandy Hook  The measure to expand background checks, a remnant of
Obama’s proposals after the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary
School in Newtown, was defeated by the Senate 54-46, with 60
votes required.  Federal law requires a background check to buy a gun from a
licensed dealer. The failed amendment would have required checks
for purchases over the Internet and between private parties at
gun shows.  Obama proposed bans on assault weapons and high-capacity
ammunition magazines like those gunman Adam Lanza used to kill
the 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook. They were dropped
from the Senate bill after opposition by the  National Rifle
Association  and its allies in Congress.  The NRA has long kept a legislative scorecard that
measures, on an “A” to “F” scale, lawmakers’ support for its
agenda. It uses the tally to guide members on whom to support in
elections.  The calculation made by the lawmakers including Baucus, who
has an A+ rating from the NRA, was that the pro-gun culture of
his state and the gun lobby pose a greater political danger than
firearm-safety groups.  Baucus’s Employers  Baucus, chairman of the Finance Committee, said in an
interview before the vote that there wasn’t much Democratic
leaders could do to win his support.  Baucus said his “employers are the state of Montana,”
when asked about breaking with fellow Democrats.  Begich voiced no regrets in an interview the day after the
vote. “I voted what has been consistent with where I have been
for the last 25 years,” he said.  Heitkamp, in an interview with the  Dickinson Press 
published online April 18, said comments from her constituents
indicated 5-to-1 opposition to the legislation.  “This was what North Dakotans believe,” she said.  Pryor’s office didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Mandatory background checks for most gun purchasers are
supported by 91 percent of U.S. voters, including 96 percent of
Democrats, 88 percent of Republicans and 88 percent of gun-
owning households, according to a Quinnipiac University poll
conducted March 27-April 1.  NRA Comment  The NRA’s chief lobbyist, Chris Cox, said in a statement
after the vote that more background checks “will not reduce
violent crime or keep our kids safe in their schools.” The
nation’s largest gun lobby, which claims 4 million members,
maintains that more should be done to prosecute violent
criminals and improve mental-health care.  The groups supporting gun restrictions say their goal is to
serve as a counterweight to the NRA and other gun-rights groups.  “The senators have made a calculation the NRA isn’t going
away,” said Jon Carson, executive director of Organizing for
Action, a nonprofit group that is the successor to Obama’s
campaign organization. “We have more people on our side, and we
need to call out these senators.”  Carson said his group plans events across the country to
praise four Republicans who supported the background-check plan
and single out the Democrats and Republicans who voted it down.  Full-Page Ads  A group called the Progressive Change Campaign Committee is
taking out full-page ads in local newspapers targeting Pryor,
Begich, Baucus and Heitkamp and will make television spots next
week, said  Adam Green , its co-founder.  Mayors Against Illegal Guns began making automated phone
calls across the U.S. after the vote and plans demonstrations
outside the offices of senators who voted no and are vulnerable
in the next election.  “It would be satisfying for us to go after each and every
one of them, but the core audience is people who ought to know
better and people who will be vulnerable next time around,”
said Mark Glaze, director of the group. It was co-founded by New
York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  The mayors’ group targeted Heitkamp in ads before last
week’s vote. In March, she said in a statement, “There are far
better uses for Mayor Bloomberg’s $156,000 than buying ads
attacking a way of life he clearly does not understand.”  ‘Isn’t Right’  The four Democrats may also face repercussions from members
of their own party. Senator  Barbara Boxer  of California said
lawmakers who voted against the gun plan should be ousted.  “They have to be replaced,” she said on San Francisco’s
KQED radio. “The people have to say no, this isn’t right.”  Former Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , an  Arizona 
Democrat who survived a gunshot to the head in 2011, wrote in a
New York Times opinion article that senators who opposed the
measure acted from “political fear” and “cold calculations.”  Political observers said they were skeptical that criticism
of the Democrats will be effective in states where guns are a
cultural mainstay. In Montana, Baucus had one of his toughest
re-election races after he supported the 1994 crime bill that
banned assault weapons.  “A lot of people in this state hunt and have guns,” said
 David Parker , an assistant professor at Montana State University
in Bozeman. He said Baucus has no serious primary challengers in
sight and the ads probably will have little effect.  Senator Tester  Still, Montana’s other Democratic senator, Jon Tester, who
was re-elected last year, voted in favor of expanding background
checks.  Alaska is a “gun-toting state” and Begich would only lose
politically by changing his stance, said Jerry McBeath, a
professor of political science at the University of Alaska
Fairbanks.  “Would it be Democrats who are going to put money in the
race against Begich so he’ll be defeated, so the Democrats will
lose the Senate?” McBeath said. “They’re blowing smoke.”  The groups’ influence could be seen in Arkansas, where the
guns issue may seek to find a candidate to run against Pryor in
the primary election.  ‘Primary Challenger’  “I can certainly see it drawing a primary challenger for
him,” said William McLean, associate professor of political
science at Arkansas State University in Jonesboro. “There are
enough progressives in Arkansas that if there’s money, then
there’s potentially a challenger.”  In previous campaigns in California and New York, the
mayors’ group has attacked lawmakers on issues other than guns,
an approach it probably will revisit in these states.  While the four Democrats opposed expanding background
checks, two other Democrats up for re-election in pro-gun
states,  Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina  and  Mary Landrieu  of
Louisiana, voted in favor of the background-check measure.  Bennett of Third Way said the four “no” votes won’t lead
the NRA to defend the Democrats from attacks by groups favoring
gun restrictions or from Republican election opponents.  “One thing they may have miscalculated is the NRA is about
building Republican majorities,” Bennett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  