-- Detroit Is Keeping Restructuring Options Open, Buckfire Says
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-04-22T16:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/detroit-is-keeping-restructuring-options-open-buckfire-says.html
Detroit  is keeping its options open
in deciding how to rescue the city while protecting residents
and pensioners, said Kenneth Buckfire, co-president at Miller
Buckfire & Co., the turnaround advisory firm acquired by  Stifel
Financial Corp. (SF)   “The policymakers will decide very soon what they want us
to do,” Buckfire said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen. “Everything has to
be on the table when you consider an equation like this.”  Buckfire’s firm is advising the city as it restructures its
finances under state-appointed emergency manager Kevyn Orr.
Unlike a corporate restructuring, which prioritizes creditors,
the city must also consider taxpayers, residents and pensioner
and health-care obligations throughout the turnaround
negotiations, Buckfire said.  “You have to work for the citizens in a municipal
restructuring,” Buckfire said. “That is something too often
ignored by people who focus on the creditors and the other
holders of liabilities.”  Detroit’s challenge is to honor “the promises made to its
future citizens, as well as promises that past administrations
have made to creditors,” he said, including bondholders,
pension funds and health-care beneficiaries.  Miller Buckfire announced last week it hired  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ’s Norma Corio as co-president. Corio was most recently
head of the special investments group at JPMorgan, where she
worked for 30 years. She was appointed treasurer in 2008 to help
JPMorgan navigate the financial crisis.  St. Louis-based Stifel acquired all of Miller Buckfire in
December after investing $40 million in June 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  