-- Deutsche Bank Says Vik Is Seeking $8 Billion Over Fund Losses
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-04-22T14:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/deutsche-bank-margin-call-on-vik-turns-into-2-5-billion-dispute.html
Alexander Vik went to  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ’s  London  office in October 2008 to meet account managers who
congratulated the Norwegian entrepreneur on how well his
Sebastian Holdings Inc. investment fund was doing.  Within a month, as global markets tumbled into crisis, the
same bankers demanded about $530 million against the fund’s
currency bets and began to liquidate its positions.  Vik, 58, claims the fund had about $8 billion in losses and
missed profits, Deutsche Bank said in court documents released
at the start of a 12-week trial today in London. A judge will
have to decide whether Sebastian’s calculation of lost trading
is accurate, said John Day, a lawyer at London-based litigation
firm DaySparkes.  “Quite apart from the spectacular sums at stake, one of
the key questions for the court will be whether the losses that
Sebastian is claiming following the closing out of its positions
were too speculative,” said Day, who isn’t involved in the
suit. “This case could well have potentially far-reaching
implications for the wider banking community.”  The Sebastian trial is one of a host of legal and
regulatory challenges that could effect the profitability of
 Germany ’s biggest lender. Deutsche Bank raised its litigation
reserves by about a third to 2.4 billion euros ($3.1 billion) in
March, to cover costs linked to U.S. mortgage lawsuits and other
regulatory probes, while it also faces probes into carbon-credit
trading and interest-rate manipulation.  Remains Unpaid  Deutsche Bank said Vik’s claims are unfounded.  The Vik lawsuit “is about a margin call that was missed
and remains unpaid,” Sebastian Howell, spokesman for Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Bank, said in an e-mail.  Deutsche Bank said in court documents released today that
Sebastian was seeking damages of more than $8 billion, a figure
it described as “ambitious.”  Vik, the captain of the Harvard College golf team while
studying there in the 1970s, declined to comment through his
lawyer, Jonathan Leslie.  The London trial will focus on investments made by Klaus Said, a former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  banker hired by Vik in
2006 as a foreign-exchange trader. Sebastian, whose sole
director and shareholder is Vik, said in court documents from
2011 that Deutsche Bank allowed Said to breach pre-agreed
trading limits and rack up losses of about $750 million on
“exotic” currency derivatives.  Sebastian Holdings relied on the bank to manage its risk
and report losses, the investment fund said in the lawsuit.  “The bank at least suspected, and more probably was
consciously aware, that Mr. Said was not acting with” Vik’s
authority. As a result, Sebastian said, the October 2008 margin
calls weren’t valid.  Monaco, Greenwich  Said, now head of foreign exchange at CRT Capital Group LLC
in  New York , said he wouldn’t testify at the trial and declined
to comment when reached by phone.  Deutsche Bank cited e-mails and messages written by Said
taking responsibility for the losses, in court documents today.
“This is an absolutely perfect storm,” Said wrote, referring
to 2008 market conditions.  “The mistakes were mine -- errors of judgment and lack of
foresight, but not maliciousness or carelessness,” he wrote
later in a letter to Vik’s wife, apologizing for the trades,
Deutsche Bank said in court documents.  “What did these parties agree” to?, Deutsche Bank lawyer
David Foxton, asked during opening arguments today. “Deutsche
Bank were not assuming any responsibility for monitoring”
Sebastian’s or Said’s trading.  Xcelera  Vik said in a 2006 interview that he operated the fund from
 Monaco , dividing his time between the principality and a mansion
in Greenwich,  Connecticut . He made more than $250 million with
his brother selling stock in Xcelera Inc., an Internet firm they
founded together, according to a Boston class action filed
against the company in 2001 after its value plummeted. That
lawsuit was dismissed in 2008.  Deutsche Bank argued in court documents that it acted
properly in requesting the margin payments, transferring money
from a separate equities trading account and liquidating
positions. The lender is seeking about $246 million from
Sebastian as well as damages for breach of contract.  As well as losses of $750 million from the foreign-exchange
trades, Sebastian said it missed out on profits of about $700
million from having to close currency, gold and futures
positions as well as losing a $1 billion capital fund it held
with the bank, according to its court documents.  The case is: Deutsche Bank AG v. Sebastian Holdings Inc.,
 High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division , Commercial Court,
09-83.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  