-- Djibouti Expects AngloGold to Begin Gold Drilling in September
-- B y   S a r a   J e r v i n g
-- 2013-04-22T08:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/djibouti-expects-anglogold-to-begin-gold-drilling-in-september.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s
third-biggest gold producer, and its partner  Stratex
International Plc (STI)  are expected to begin drilling for the metal
in Djibouti in September, an Energy Ministry official said.  The companies, which obtained 10 exploration licenses in
the Horn of  Africa  country, identified two blocks that may hold
“high concentrations” of gold, Abdourahman Omar Haga, director
of natural resources in the ministry, said in an interview at a
mining conference in  Dar es Salaam  on April 18. They will
continue to explore the remaining eight blocks, he said.  The first stage of drilling is expected to take less than
four months, Haga said. Thani Ashanti Alliance Co., a joint
venture between AngloGold and Dubai-based Thani Investments,
will spearhead development if sufficient reserves are proven, he
said.  Djibouti, which hosts about 2,500 U.S. military personnel
at the Camp Lemonnier military base, has a $1.1 billion economy
with fewer than 1 million people. The economy relies on services
related to the country’s strategic location on the  Red Sea , one
of the world’s busiest shipping lanes.  The joint venture is planning to drill by the fourth
quarter “subject to monies being available, the arrangement of
appropriate logistical support and approvals,” AngloGold said
in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  The gold price has fallen 15 percent in 2013 after rising
sixfold in a 12-year rally through last year. The metal fell 14
percent in a two-day drop through April 15, the worst slide
since 1983.  ‘Successful Business’  “We have a port, a good investment code and tax
exemptions” he said. “It’s easy to have successful businesses
here. We just hope that the price of gold doesn’t continue to
drop.”  Thani and Stratex are exploring an area of land between
Lake Assal and Lake Abbe in the southwestern part of the
country, where gold deposits are embedded in volcanic rock. Lake
Assal lies 155 meters (509 feet) below  sea level  and is Africa’s
lowest point on land.  Djibouti’s mining industry, which includes production of
minerals including gypsum, diatomite and ignimbrite, accounts
for less than 1 percent of total economic output, according to
the  African Development Bank .  Salt Investment SA , owned by Washington-based Emerging
 Capital Partners , plans to begin exporting salt from Lake Assal,
which has a 60 square kilometer (23 square mile) salt crust and
100 million metric tons of the mineral, making it the world’s
largest undeveloped salt reserve.  JB Djibouti Mining Ltd., a unit of JB Group of  India ,
obtained a gold exploitation license in 2011. The company has
yet to begin building a mine.  “We have a very high gold anomaly,” Haga said. “If the
results give us only one mine, it’s nice for us because we are a
small country.”  Djibouti is also in the process of renewing its mining
code, which hasn’t been updated since 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Jerving in Nairobi at 
 sjerving@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  