-- Dudley Says More Needs to Be Done to Aid EU, U.S. Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-04-22T13:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/dudley-says-more-needs-to-be-done-to-aid-eu-u-s-growth.html
New York  Federal Reserve Bank
President William C. Dudley said European economic weakness and
U.S. budget woes mean “more needs to be done” to shore up the
global economy and financial regulation.  “In the United States, the good news is that the economic
outlook appears to be gradually improving,” Dudley said today
at a conference in New York. “For  Europe , the near-term
macroeconomic outlook seems less bright.”  Dudley’s remarks show central bankers’ frustration with the
slow pace of economic recovery on both sides of the Atlantic
following the worst recession since the Great Depression.
Efforts to revive growth through monetary stimulus have been
offset in part by budget cutting from fiscal policy makers.  “The good news is that the peripheral countries have made
substantial efforts to bring down their structural budget
deficits,” he said. His remarks on the  U.S. economy  were
similar to those in his speeches last week in  Staten Island  and
in March to the  Economic Club of New York .  “The household sector is far along in the deleveraging
process, the housing sector is recovering, the banking system is
healthier and credit conditions are easing, the corporate sector
is highly profitable and awash in cash,” Dudley said today in
his assessment of the U.S. economy.  Dudley has expressed support for continuing Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s $85 billion a month of bond purchases, especially
after the March jobs report from the Labor Department showed the
 unemployment rate  fell to 7.6 percent, as people abandoned the
 labor force , and the pace of employment creation slowed from the
268,000 jobs added in February.  ‘Fiscal Restraint’  The slowdown, “along with the large amount of fiscal
restraint hitting the economy now, makes me more cautious,”
Dudley said in a speech last week. “We have seen only a
moderate improvement in labor market conditions over the past
six months or so.”  “ Monetary policy  has been effective at fostering easier
financial market conditions,” Dudley said today at the
Transatlantic Economic Interdependence and Policy Challenges
conference, cosponsored by the New York Fed and the European
Commission.  “Nevertheless, the  United States  could be doing better,”
Dudley said. “The U.S. fiscal policy program, for example, does
not appear well-calibrated to the current set of economic
circumstances. We have too much fiscal restraint in the short
term, and too little consolidation in the long term.”  Debt Sales  Treasury 10-year note yields declined to almost four-month
lows as the U.S. prepares to sell $35 billion in two-year debt
tomorrow. The benchmark 10-year yield was one basis point lower
at 1.69 percent at 9:32 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.67 percent on April 17, the
lowest level since Dec. 12.  Europe’s efforts to establish a “pan-European banking
union would generate a large number of benefits,” Dudley said.  The  European Central Bank  is set to take on oversight
powers next year over all euro-area banks after the legislation
underpinning the supervisory system was signed off April 18 in
Brussels. The EU also needs a common resolution authority and a
“credible” deposit insurance framework for banking union to
succeed, Dudley said.  “It would demonstrate a commitment toward greater
integration that would enhance the credibility that monetary
union is indeed irreversible,” Dudley said of the initiative.
“It would underscore the fact that a euro is a euro and will
remain a euro throughout Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  