-- Dutch Court Hears Appeal by SNS Investors Who Lost Everything
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-04-22T10:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/dutch-court-hears-appeal-by-sns-investors-who-lost-everything.html
A Dutch court began considering a
legal appeal by investors in  SNS Reaal NV (SR) , the country’s fourth-
largest bank, after the government nationalized it and then
refused to pay them compensation.  “The minister is sorry for the losses,” Richard de Haan,
a lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP in Amsterdam representing Finance
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, told the  Enterprise Chamber of the
Amsterdam Court of Appeal  today in sessions due to last two
days. “However, these losses were not the consequence of the
expropriation.”  Dijsselbloem set compensation for SNS Reaal’s bond and
shareholders at zero after the February takeover, saying
taxpayers will be required to pay 3.7 billion euros ($4.8
billion) in capital injections and write-offs and 6.1 billion
euros in loans and guarantees to help rescue the bank. Losses on
real estate had brought it to the brink of collapse.  Dutch law says the Netherlands must compensate investors,
though it can take into account the company’s future prospects
had SNS not been nationalized. Dijsselbloem said last month that
investors wouldn’t get a cent from the government because there
wouldn’t have been any capital left for them had the firm been
liquidated.  SNS would have debt of 6.6 billion euros compared with 2.1
billion euros in assets had it been liquidated rather than
nationalized, leaving it with a 4.5 billion-euro shortfall to
pay creditors, government lawyers said. At least 565 million
euros in state aid that SNS received in 2008 would also need to
be deducted before repaying investors, they said.  The court hasn’t provided a date for a ruling in the case.  Expropriating Assets  Dijsselbloem, sworn in on Nov. 5, became the first finance
minister in the Netherlands to use powers granted under
legislation introduced last year allowing the central bank to
transfer assets and liabilities to a troubled bank. He may
expropriate assets in case of a grave and immediate threat to
the stability of the financial system, according to the law.  Expropriation of the assets of SNS Reaal’s creditors has
reduced rescue costs for the Netherlands by about 1 billion
euros, the government has said.  The highest administrative court ruled on Feb. 25 that
Dijsselbloem was entitled to intervene, making the
nationalization irrevocable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  