-- Dzhokhar Tsarnaev’s Rights, and the Public’s
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-22T23:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/dzhokhar-tsarnaev-s-rights-and-the-public-s.html
Even if no one ever tells him so,
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has the right to remain silent. And even if he
never utters another word, there is probably more than enough
evidence to convict him.  So all the concern about whether authorities gave him a
 Miranda warning , informing him of his right to remain silent and
to have a lawyer, is sort of beside the point. Sort of -- but
not entirely.  Tsarnaev is a suspected criminal, not an enemy combatant,
as the  Justice Department  properly acknowledged by  charging him 
in federal court with using a weapon of mass destruction.
Depending on what his and his brother’s motives turn out to be,
he may also be a terrorist, which is why the FBI has properly
decided not to read him his rights yet.  The main purpose of the  Miranda warning  is to protect the
rights of the accused. Practically speaking, however, it helps
protect  law enforcement  at least as much: Without it, any
information authorities get from a suspect is inadmissible in
court. They are always free to ask whatever they want. They are
not always free to present it as evidence.  There are a few exceptions to this rule, and the relevant
one in the Boston Marathon case is what is known as the “public-
safety exception.” If police have reason to believe that there
is a ticking time bomb, say, or if a fleeing suspect  tosses a
loaded gun  into the soap aisle at the supermarket, then
authorities can question him without reading him his rights and
still use the evidence against him. Three years ago, the FBI
 expanded  this exemption. Now -- at least according to the FBI --
it can question a terrorist “to collect valuable and timely
intelligence not related to any immediate threat.”  No one knows exactly why the FBI has invoked the exception
now, only that  it has . Nor has the FBI’s expansive reading been
tested in court. A more specific explanation of its use in this
case and a more general opinion of the legality of the new
reading are essential.  Regardless of its extent -- and the exemption shouldn’t be
open-ended -- it won’t much affect the fate of 19-year-old
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. It appears the Justice Department can easily
build a criminal case based on the voluminous video, forensic
and eyewitness evidence collected in the last week. Each hour
brings more news about the what, where and when: the bombs in
the backpacks, the fatal shooting of a campus police officer,
the car chase through the suburban streets, the hideout and
eventual capture in a backyard boat.  What remains are the why and the how. “Why did young men
who grew up and studied here, as part of our communities and our
country, resort to such violence?” President  Barack Obama  asked
 last week . “How did they plan and carry out these attacks, and
did they receive any help?”  Not just the investigators deserve to know the answers to
those questions. That’s why legal rules such as the Miranda
warning can be so important, and should be suspended only
sparingly: They increase the chances the public will get a full
accounting of the crime. Otherwise, anything Tsarnaev says may
never find its way into trial. (Tsarnaev, who remains in serious
condition and unable to speak, is  reportedly responding  to some
questions in writing.)  The criminal-justice system isn’t always good at providing
such answers. Most cases, of course, never reach trial. Some
trials, especially ones involving terrorists, are closed. Some
become media spectacles. And some questions, especially ones
about a disaffected 19-year-old’s motivations, may be
essentially unanswerable.  By all means, interrogate Dzhokhar Tsarnaev about his
political motivations and terrorist connections, without a
lawyer present if national security demands. Eventually he will
get, and deserves, a lawyer. And the U.S. will get, and
deserves, a public trial. It may not be perfect, but it is
America’s first, best shot at getting answers.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 