-- E-Books, Sony Music, Glaxo, IBM: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-04-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/e-books-sony-music-glaxo-ibm-intellectual-property.html
Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin offered to
overhaul pricing models for digital books to settle a European
Union antitrust probe into whether they blocked competition.  Penguin won’t “restrict, limit or impede” e-book
retailers’ discounts or their ability to “set, alter or reduce
retail prices for e-books” for two years, according to details
of the proposed changes as published in the EU’s Official
Journal April 19.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest technology
company, and four publishers previously offered similar remedies
to allay European concerns.  The EU said Penguin, together with the four publishers and
Apple, “may have breached EU antitrust rules that prohibit
cartels and restrictive practices by jointly switching the sale
of e-books from a wholesale model to agency contracts containing
the same key terms,” the Brussels-based European Commission
said in a  statement . The companies “may have engaged in a
concerted practice with the object of raising retail prices of
e-books” or blocking lower prices in  Europe , it said.  The EU’s antitrust regulator is giving competitors and
customers until May 19 to comment on the proposed remedies,
which could then become legally binding in a settlement that
would end the investigation without imposing fines or
determining that the companies violated competition rules. The
commission said it will conduct another such market test “if
substantial changes to the commitments are subsequently made.”  Penguin said that “subject to the market test currently
under way, it has reached an agreement with the European
Commission to settle its investigation,” according to an e-
mailed statement on Friday.  “Penguin’s position that it has done nothing wrong remains
unchanged and the company continues to believe that the agency
pricing model operates in the best interests of consumers and
authors,” the company said in the statement.  For more, click here.  Patent  Glaxo Gets OFT Complaint for Paying to Delay Seroxat Copies  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  was sent an antitrust complaint by U.K.
regulators who say the company may have colluded with generic-
drug makers to keep copies of its Seroxat antidepressant off the
market.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, may have paid Alpharma
Ltd., Generics (U.K.) Ltd. and a unit of  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to delay the release of cheaper, copycat
versions of the drug, the U.K. Office of Fair Trading  said  on
its website. Seroxat was one of Glaxo’s best-selling drugs from
2002 through 2004, when the agreements were in place, the OFT
said.  “The introduction of generic medicines can lead to strong
competition on price, which can drive savings for the NHS, to
the benefit of patients and, ultimately, taxpayers,” said Ann
Pope, a director at the OFT, referring to the U.K.’s publicly
funded  National Health Service .  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generics producers might harm consumers. Les
Laboratoires Servier,  H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN)  and Teva, the world’s
largest generic-drug maker, were sent statements of objections
last year by the European Union’s antitrust watchdog over
possible delays for generic drugs.  The OFT probe covers matters already examined by the EU
without subsequent sanctions, David Daley, a spokesman for the
London-based company, said by e-mail.  Glaxo “supports fair competition and we very strongly
believe that we acted within the law, as the holder of valid
patents for paroxetine, in entering the agreements under
investigation,” Daley said in an e-mail, referring to the
active ingredient in Seroxat.  Glaxo and the generic companies were sent so-called
statements of objections, the OFT said. Daley said the company
will need time to review the documents before considering any
further action.  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  For trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Songwriter Settles Suit Against Sony and Alicia Keys  Earl Shuman, who wrote the song “(Hey There) Lonely Girl”
has settled a suit filed in December against  Sony Music ,  Alicia
Keys  and several other defendants. He claimed that Keys’ latest
hit, “Girl on Fire,” sampled several seconds of his song
without authorization or payment. The song, which he co-wrote
with Leon Carr, was a hit in 1969 and 1980.  The terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed.  Los Angeles  attorney Philip Kaplan, who represented Shuman,
didn’t return a call seeking comment. Sony Music, a division of
 Sony Corp. (6758) , declined to comment.  The case is Shuman v. Sony Entertainment, 2:12-cv-10572,
U.S. District Court for the Central District of  California  (Los
Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Deals  Venture Capital Investments Drop in First Quarter of 2013  From January through March, according to the  National
Venture Capital Association , 863 companies received $5.867
billion in venture capital investments.  The amounts reflect a decline of 12 percent in dollar
amounts and 15 percent in the number of deals from the fourth
quarter of 2012, when $6.7 billion was invested in 1,013 deals.  The NVCA said that the life sciences and clean technology
sectors faced the most severe decreases, while there were
“notable” increases in the media and entertainment industry.  For more, click here.  Lenovo Said to Be in Talks to Buy Parts of IBM Server Unit  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the Chinese personal-computer maker, is
the most likely bidder for parts of  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s server division, a person familiar with the
matter said.  The business, which sells servers running x86 processors,
may fetch $2.5 billion to $4.5 billion depending on what assets
and liabilities are included, said the person, who asked to not
be named because the talks are private. An agreement may still
be several weeks away, the person said.  Lenovo used the 2005 purchase of IBM’s PC unit as a
steppingstone to become the world’s second-largest producer.  The talks were  previously reported  in CRN, a publication
aimed at technology integrators. In response to the story,
Lenovo said it was in “preliminary” discussions about a
potential acquisition with a third party, which it didn’t name.  Jeffrey Shafer, a Lenovo spokesman, said in an e-mail he
had no additional comment beyond that statement.  IBM Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said on his
company’s earnings call that he wouldn’t comment on rumors.  Ed Barbini , a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM, also
declined to comment on the Lenovo talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  