-- Hezbollah Says Syrian Rebel Threat Creates a ‘Moral’ Duty
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-04-23T07:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/lebanon-defense-a-duty-after-army-failure-hezbollah-says.html
Hezbollah has a “national and
moral” duty to defend Lebanese residents from Syrian rebels
following the Beirut government’s failure to protect border
villages, one of its leaders said.  Nabil Qawooq’s remarks were reported a day after the Shiite
border town of Hermel in Lebanon’s northeast came under rocket
fire from  Syria . Seven rockets landed in Hermel and villages
around it without causing casualties, the Lebanese Army said in
an April 21 statement.  Prior to the attack, residents in the nearby village of al-
Qasr received  text messages  warning that the Free Syria Army,
which is fighting to unseat Syrian President Bashar al-Assad,
would bombard the two communities, the  Daily Star  reported.
Hezbollah backs the Assad government.  “Are we expected to leave our people in the border
villages subject to murder, abduction, slaughter and
displacement?” Qawooq said at a memorial for a Hezbollah
fighter, according to the official National News Agency.  Syrian opposition groups and Lebanese political figures
opposed to Hezbollah have accused the group of fighting
alongside Assad, an Alawite, whose religion is an offshoot of
Shiite Islam. Syria’s insurgents are mostly Sunni. Hezbollah is
considered a terrorist group by the U.S. and  Israel .  Necessary Steps  The Syrian National Coalition, the main political
opposition group, has called on the Lebanese government to take
the necessary steps to end Hezbollah’s involvement in Syria.
Sheikh Ahmad al-Assir, a Lebanese Sunni cleric who opposes
Hezbollah, issued a so-called fatwa for all Lebanese to defend
the Syrian town of Qusair from the Shiite militia’s attacks,
according to state-run  news agency  NNA.  Assir established the Free Resistance Brigades in the
southern Lebanese city of Sidon to protect Syrians from
Hezbollah, and has urged those who feel threatened by the Shiite
militia to form military groups, NNA reported.  Tension between Sunnis and Shiites in Lebanon has risen
since the uprising against Assad started more than two years
ago.  George Sabra, the Syrian National Council’s vice president,
will replace Moaz al-Khatib as leader following his resignation,
according to DPA. A vote will be held on May 11, the news agency
said.  Hezbollah has denied involvement in the Syrian fighting and
has said it’s helping Lebanese Shiites living in border towns
and villages to defend themselves against rebel assaults. Syrian
government forces have attacked suspected rebel supply routes
inside Lebanon with artillery and warplanes.  Indiscriminate Attacks  Human Rights Watch  said in a statement yesterday that all
parties to the conflict in Syria should stop indiscriminate
cross-border attacks on inhabited areas in Lebanon.  “Even if fighters are present in Lebanon, there is no
excuse for any warring party to conduct indiscriminate strikes
on residential areas,” said  Nadim Houry , deputy  Middle East 
director at  Human Rights  Watch. “All sides need to take all
feasible precautions to protect civilians.”  The uprising against Assad has killed “well over” 70,000
people, according to a United Nations estimate last month.  Suburb Killings  At least 101 people died during six days of clashes between
Assad’s troops and opposition forces in the Damascus suburb of
Jdaidet Al-Fadel, including 10 women, three people under 18 and
24 opposition fighters, the opposition Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights said in an e-mail. Some of the victims died
fighting, while others were executed, the group said. The number
of dead could rise to 250 as there are many people unaccounted
for.  The casualties occurred as government troops sought to
drive rebels out of the suburb of Jdaidet Al-Fadel, Observatory
founder Rami Abdel Rahman said in an interview from Coventry,
 England . He said the suburb was now under government control.  Syria’s official SANA news agency said yesterday the troops
have carried out several “operations against terrorists and
their dens” in Jdaidet Al-Fadel and Darayya, inflicting losses
and destroying their weapons. The opposition Local Coordination
Committees said on April 21 that government forces killed more
than 450 people in Jdaidet Al-Fadel, mostly women and children.
Reporters cannot reach the area, making it impossible to
reconcile or check the casualty figures.  Aid Doubled  The U.S. will double its non-lethal aid to anti-Assad
rebels, Secretary of State  John Kerry  announced at a Friends of
Syria conference in  Turkey  on April 21.  The new $123 million in aid “underscores” U.S. support
for a political solution to the crisis and “for the
opposition’s advancement of an inclusive, tolerant vision” for
a post-Assad Syria, according to the announcement. Kerry also
announced about $25 million in additional food assistance.  Some portion of the non-lethal aid will be used to provide
the military opposition with equipment that could include night-
vision goggles, radios, military vehicles and  body armor .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  