-- ECB’s Noyer Says Cyprus Bailout Is No Template
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-22T17:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/ecb-s-noyer-says-cyprus-bailout-is-no-template.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Christian Noyer  said the European Union’s flawed
Cyprus rescue won’t serve as a model for defusing future crises.  “This was an extreme situation of moral hazard with big
depositors looking for abnormal yields in the domestic banking
system,” Noyer said today in a speech in New York. “It
justified an exceptional treatment. Cyprus is neither a
precedent nor a template for future crisis management.”  The Mediterranean island is the fifth euro-zone country to
tap international aid in the region’s sovereign debt crisis. The
rescue talks in March roiled markets as lawmakers rejected an
initial plan that included a tax on insured  bank deposits . Under
the final accord,  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , the country’s second-
largest lender, was shut down and losses are to be imposed only
on depositors with more than 100,000 euros ($130,470).  The bailout negotiations were “certainly a traumatic
episode,” said Noyer, who also heads the French central bank.
“Obviously, the decision process was not optimal.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the Cyprus
rescue should be used as a template for any further bailouts and
that it’s necessary for deposit holders to contribute, business
magazine Wirtschaftswoche reported on April 20, citing an
interview.  With the Cyprus bailout agreement signed, another “major
concern” for the euro area now is “the stagnation of bank
credit, which especially affects” small and medium-sized
companies, Noyer said today.  ‘Necessary Financing’  “Big corporates can issue at very favorable rates while at
the same time, too many SMEs are deprived of necessary
financing,” he said. “Part of this weakness is due to low
demand factors.”  ECB policy makers are currently looking at options to
support an economic recovery later this year. President  Mario Draghi  has signaled that considerations range from cutting
 interest rates  to introducing a lending program for small and
medium-sized companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in New York at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  