-- Egypt’s IMF Loan Accord Unlikely Before Fourth Quarter, EFG Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-04-22T08:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/egypt-s-imf-loan-accord-unlikely-before-fourth-quarter-efg-says.html
Egypt  is unlikely to reach a loan
accord with the International Monetary Fund before the fourth
quarter, exposing the local currency to more pressure,
investment bank  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO)  said.  The $4.8 billion loan agreement requires the government to
take “tough, unpopular economic decisions,” EFG-Hermes
analysts Simon Kitchen and Mohamed Abu Basha wrote in an e-
mailed report dated yesterday. Talks between the Arab nation and
IMF officials this month in Cairo and  Washington  ended without a
deal, disrupting a bond rally.  Egypt’s attempts to secure IMF assistance over the past two
years have failed as political turmoil that followed the 2011
uprising prompted successive governments to renege on two
initial agreements with the Washington-based lender. Under an
IMF-backed program, Egypt will seek to enact economic measures,
including a reduction of energy subsidies, a step governments
under the deposed President  Hosni Mubarak  had failed to take.  “The government has done little in implementing meaningful
fiscal reforms thus far,” EFG-Hermes analysts wrote in the
report. The draft budget for the next fiscal year ending in June
2014 “shows an unrealistic timeline for reforms, where the
government expects to take a number of inflation-generating
reform initiatives in less than eight months,” they wrote.  ‘Renewed Pressure’  A delay in IMF support, which the government expects to
unlock more than $10 billion in additional funding, will leave
the pound under “renewed pressure” toward mid-2013 “if not
earlier,” the analysts wrote. The currency has weakened more
than 10 percent since the central bank started limiting access
to dollars through foreign-exchange auctions started Dec. 30 to
stem the drop in reserves, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Central Bank Governor Hisham Ramez said an agreement with
the IMF may be reached this month or in May, the state-run
Middle East News Agency reported today. The IMF said in a
statement yesterday that “work will continue with the objective
of reaching agreement on an IMF stand-by arrangement to support
the authorities’ national economic program in the coming
weeks.” A stand-by accord needs the approval of the IMF board.  Reserves have plunged more than 60 percent since the
uprising to $13.4 billion in March, leading to the emergence of
an unregulated market for dollars. Additional aid from Libya and
Qatar will be used to cover the country’s essential needs, EFG-
Hermes said, leaving the black market “to remain a key source
for providing needed dollar liquidity for the private sector at
least.”  Shares of Talaat Moustafa Group Holding, Egypt’s biggest
publicly traded real-estate developer, offer a “good play” on
expectations of inflation and currency devaluation, EFG said.
The shares have dropped 6.6 percent in 2013, compared with a  3.8
percent decline  in the benchmark  EGX 30 Index. (EGX30)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  