-- Elan Board Rejects Royalty Pharma Takeover Bid as Too Low
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-22T16:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/elan-says-royalty-pharma-s-takeover-offer-undervalues-drugmaker.html
Elan Corp. (ELN) ’s board unanimously
rejected Royalty Pharma’s takeover bid, advising shareholders
not to take action.  Royalty Pharma’s offer price was set at $11.25 per American
depository receipt last week after Dublin-based Elan set a stock
buyback at that price. The ADRs rose 0.8 percent to $12.05 as of
12:17 p.m. in New York, indicating investors expect a higher
bid.  “The offer from Royalty Pharma grossly undervalues Elan’s
current business platform and our future prospects,” Chairman
Robert Ingram said in a statement today.  Elan, led by Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin, is
returning to shareholders a portion of the $3.25 billion
received after selling its stake in the multiple sclerosis drug
Tysabri to U.S. partner  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  New York-based Royalty
Pharma’s takeover offer challenges Martin’s plan to embark on
company acquisitions to expand its product portfolio.  Elan rose 4.1 percent to close at 9.27 euros in Dublin. The
stock has gained 18 percent this year.  The Irish drugmaker repurchased 14.8 percent of outstanding
shares last week, and 92.3 percent of the shares were sold by a
single corporate stakeholder,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , which owned 18
percent of the company.  J&J’s relationship with Elan had already been winding down
after an Alzheimer’s drug they were jointly developing with
Pfizer Inc., bapineuzumab, failed in a late-stage clinical trial
last year.  Founded in 1996, Royalty Pharma owns royalty interests in
37 approved and marketed pharmaceutical products. In 2004, the
firm bought Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center’s U.S.
royalty interest in Amgen Inc.’s Neupogen drug. Pablo Legorreta,
Royalty’s founder, previously worked as a banker at Lazard.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  