-- Telecom Italia Is Said to Consider 30% Network Stake Sale
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-04-23T07:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/telecom-italia-is-said-to-weigh-selling-30-of-network-to-lender.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TI) , the phone
company that’s exploring a separation of its fixed-line assets,
is considering a sale of an initial 30 percent stake in a new
company to state lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  The carrier may let Rome-based CDP increase its holding
over time, said the people, asking not to be identified because
the discussions are preliminary and no agreement has been
reached. Telecom Italia may transfer as much as 10 billion euros
($13 billion) in debt to the new company, which will own its
fixed-line network, and CDP may invest about 2 billion euros
initially, said one of the people. Telecom Italia could also
consider an initial public offering of the division in the
future, another person said.  Telecom Italia’s board is scheduled to meet May 8 to
discuss the spinoff project, as the Milan-based company
separately explores the feasibility of a merger with  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s wireless unit in  Italy . Putting the spinoff plan
into motion before a potential combination with Hutchison could
shorten the regulatory review if and when a deal is reached,
said the people.  The network spinoff plan “is a great opportunity to boost
investments and competition in Italy,” said Maurizio Decina, a
member of Italy’s telecommunications regulatory commission.
“For Telecom Italia’s competitors, a single network would also
be a guarantee for complete equal access.”  Shares Rise  A representative at Telecom Italia didn’t have a comment 
when reached by Bloomberg News. A CDP spokesman declined to 
comment.  Telecom Italia rose as much as 2.2 percent to 59 euro cents
in Milan, giving it a market value of 10.9 billion euros.
The shares  rose  as much as 3.8 percent to $7.65 in U.S. trading 
yesterday.  Bloomberg News  reported the spinoff details after 
the close of the Italian markets yesterday.  Credit-default swaps insuring Telecom Italia’s debt for
five years fell as much as 1.6 percent to 307.1 basis points,
reversing earlier gains and signaling an improvement in
creditworthiness. The derivatives pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Divesting Assets  Italy’s former phone monopoly is divesting assets and
cutting jobs as it looks for ways to reduce net debt adjusted
for some items that topped 28 billion euros last year and to
raise money for investments. A split would soften regulatory
scrutiny of the carrier and let it focus on faster-growing
services such as data and wireless.  Directors last discussed the spinoff proposal at a board
meeting on April 11, when they also set up a panel to look into
a possible merger with Hong Kong-based Hutchison’s 3 Italia
unit. The division has a so-called fair value of 1.5 billion
euros, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  In 2008, Telecom Italia created Open Access, a division
that manages the grid and offers access to competitors, about
two years after  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  established a similar, fully-owned
unit called Openreach. Yet, to fully separate a fixed-line
network -- considered strategic assets by many governments --
would be unseen among European carriers in recent years.  “Separating the network would allow Telecom Italia to make
more profitable investments in next-generation networks,” said
Carlo Alberto Carnevale-Maffe, a professor of business strategy
at Milan’s  Bocconi University .  Led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Franco  Bernabe (BNBC) ,
Telecom Italia is about 22.4 percent owned by Telco SpA, whose
investors include  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  and  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)   Telecom Italia’s fixed-line network may be worth 13 billion
euros to 15 billion euros, according to Marco Fossati, whose
family’s Findim Group SA is Telecom Italia’s second-biggest
shareholder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  