-- Elisa Climbs as Nordea Advises Buying on Outlook: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-04-22T09:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/elisa-climbs-as-nordea-advises-buying-on-outlook-helsinki-mover.html
Elisa Oyj (ELI1V) ,  Finland ’s largest
wireless carrier by subscribers, rose the most in two months as
banks, including Nordea Bank AB, said easing price competition
and cost cuts will improve second-quarter results.  Elisa rose as much as 2.8 percent, the most since Feb. 22.
Shares in the Helsinki-based company gained 1 percent to trade
at 13.58 euros by 12:10 p.m. in the Finnish capital. Trading
volume exceeded 460,000 shares, more than half of the average
daily figure during the past three months. The stock has lost
15.5 percent during the past 12 months.  “The situation is set to improve materially during the
second quarter,” Sami Sarkamies, an analyst at Nordea, said in
a note today. He raised his recommendation to buy from sell,
increasing the price target to 15 euros from 14 euros.  Price competition, which eroded first-quarter profits, may
be easing after rival  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  signaled its intention to
raise prices, according to Sarkamies.  The recent promotional offers in Finland may have been
“too aggressive” and TeliaSonera is seeking to increase fees
especially for mobile data, the Stockholm-based company’s Chief
Executive Officer Per-Arne Blomquist said last week.  Elisa’s first-quarter net income of 40.1 million euros
($52.3 million) missed the  consensus estimate  by 8 percent after
promotions, including two-year mobile packages with the first
year discounted by as much as 50 percent, weighed on profits.  The company seeks to offset the impact of competition by
decreasing the number of products and cutting costs in
administration, customer service and sales. These measures will
improve profitability in the second half of the year and in
2014, Chief Financial Officer Jari Kinnunen said last week.  “The harsh reaction to the company’s weak first-quarter
report offers a good opportunity to grasp a dividend yield of
over 9 percent,” Mikael Rautanen and Timo Rahkonen, analysts at
Helsinki-based Inderes Oy, said today in a note. They placed
Elisa among Inderes’ list of top 3 Finnish stocks to buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  