-- ENRC Slides as More Mining Executives Said to Quit: London Mover
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-04-22T11:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/enrc-slides-as-more-mining-executives-said-to-quit-london-mover.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) ,
an iron ore and ferrochrome producer in Kazakhstan, slumped in
London trading after three executives were said to have quit and
another take a leave of absence amid a possible buyout bid.  ENRC fell as much as 9.9 percent before paring losses and
trading down 2.8 percent at 282.90 pence as of 12:15 p.m. local
time. The shares have tumbled 50 percent in the past year
because of lower commodity prices and questions over corporate
governance.  Company secretary Victoria Penrice, head of human resources
Tony McCarthy and Stuart Nolan, group head of reward, resigned,
a person familiar with the matter said, confirming a report in
the Financial Times. Victor Hanna, head of  Africa , took a
voluntary leave of absence, the person said. ENRC declined to
comment. None of the four could be reached today.  The latest moves follow the resignation of Chief Commercial
Officer Jim Cochrane on April 11. On the same day, ENRC replaced
Dechert LLP, a U.S. law firm hired to investigate corruption
allegations. Shareholder  Alexander Machkevitch  on April 19 said
he’s considering joining his two fellow founders of ENRC and the
Kazakh government in making an offer for the mining company,
sending the shares up 27 percent.  Discussions are at a preliminary stage and there can be no
certainty that an offer will ultimately be made for ENRC,
Machkevitch said. The company has iron ore, ferroalloy and
power-production operations in Kazakhstan, copper and cobalt
businesses in Africa, and a Brazilian iron ore project.  “The offer may make a lot of sense given the ongoing
concerns over corporate governance and transparency,” Numis
Corp. said in a note.  Investigate Payments  ENRC appointed Mehmet Dalman chairman in February 2012 to
oversee a reorganization and improve corporate governance after
corruption allegations. The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office is
investigating payments made by an ENRC unit in Kazakhstan, and
anti-corruption groups have questioned its dealings in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.  In 2010, ENRC made a deal with Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler to take control of copper and cobalt mines he’d obtained
from the DRC government, which had seized them from Vancouver-
based First Quantum Ltd.  Anti-corruption groups including Global Witness have
criticized the transaction, arguing Gertler obtained the assets
at knock-down prices from the state as a result of his close
relationship with the DRC president. Gertler denies he purchased
companies at below-market rates. First Quantum also sued ENRC,
which settled for $1.25 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  