-- Merkel’s Power Price Talks With German State Leaders Break Down
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-04-22T13:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/merkel-s-power-price-talks-with-german-state-leaders-break-down.html
Talks between  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government and state leaders on proposals to stop power
prices from rising in Germany failed, delaying concrete steps
from being taken until after elections in September.  After Merkel’s meeting with state leaders failed to produce
an agreement on the so-called power-price break proposed by two
of her cabinet ministers last month, she had ordered her chief
of staff to continue negotiating with the states to find a
solution before the summer recess.  Those meetings have shown that “a consensus over measures
that can be quickly implemented ahead of federal elections can’t
be reached,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s spokesman, said today.
Talks on a comprehensive overhaul of the country’s clean-energy
subsidy system will continue, Seibert told a news conference in
Berlin.  The government has been trying to prevent a voter backlash
after costs for  Germany ’s clean-energy expansion spiraled as the
government sought to more than triple the share of renewables in
the power mix by 2050 while phasing out nuclear generation.
Consumers in  Europe ’s biggest economy have seen power bills
climb after a fee they pay for renewables jumped 47 percent to a
record.  “It was foreseeable that the government’s proposal wasn’t
capable of winning a majority,” Michael Juerdens, a spokesman
for the Social Democratic Party-led state government of  Lower
Saxony , said today by phone, without elaborating.  Economy Minister Philipp Roesler and Environment Minister
Peter Altmaier in February proposed reducing subsidies for both
existing and new renewable sites and allowing fewer exceptions
for energy-intensive companies. They estimated the measures
would save consumers 1.86 billion euros ($2.4 billion) next
year.  Without reform, “prices will continue to climb,” said
Holger Schlienkamp, a spokesman for the  Economy Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  