-- Hermes Sales Rise Least Since 2009 on Slowing Leather-Goods Gain
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-04-22T09:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/hermes-first-quarter-revenue-rises-10-on-asian-luxury-demand.html
Hermes International SCA (RMS) , the
French maker of Kelly handbags, reported the slowest revenue
growth in more than three years because of diminishing gains in
the  leather-goods  unit and a drop in watch sales.  Revenue in the first quarter of 2013 climbed 10 percent to
856.8 million euros ($1.1 billion), Paris-based Hermes said
today in a statement. Analysts predicted 854 million euros,
according to the average of five estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Excluding currency swings, sales advanced 13 percent,
the least since the last three months of 2009.  Weaker performances in leather-goods and watches took the
shine off a stronger showing from the clothing unit. Leather-
goods sales, Hermes’s biggest source of revenue, gained 7.3
percent excluding currency swings, about half the rate of the
year-earlier quarter and the slowest since the third quarter of
2007. The slowdown may have been caused by reduced output, said
Rodolphe Ozun, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “The slowdown in leather goods highlights in our view the
normalization of production in this segment and should continue
in the coming quarters,” Ozun wrote in a report.  Hermes  rose  1 percent to 251.30 euros at 11:15 a.m. in
Paris, mirroring gains by stocks across  Europe . That gave the
saddle maker a market value of 26.5 billion euros.  All product categories posted revenue growth except
tableware and watches, Hermes said. Sales of timepieces declined
5.3 percent, excluding currency shifts, as the Chinese market
slowed at the start of the year, Hermes said.  Chinese Demand  The comments on softening Chinese demand “could have a
negative read-across on the hard-luxury names” such as  Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , Josephine Chevallier, an analyst at
Natixis Securities, said in a note to clients. LVMH, which owns
22.3 percent of Hermes, said last week that retailers bought
fewer watches than expected in the first quarter.  Richemont, the owner of the Vacheron Constantin and IWC
brands, fell as much as 0.7 percent in Zurich.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) ,
the maker of Omega watches, dropped as much as 1.1 percent.  Luxury-goods makers have reported divergent sales trends
this year. LVMH last week posted its slowest quarterly growth in
fashion and leather-goods revenue since 2009, citing a drop in
Japanese tourism and fewer store visitors in  China .  Burberry
Group Plc (BRBY)  reported revenue that beat estimates as sales of its
more expensive products compensated for weak shopper numbers.  Hermes is aiming for revenue growth of about 10 percent in
2013, Chief Executive Officer  Patrick Thomas  said last month.
Production capacity for leather goods will increase steadily
over 2013 after Hermes built two workshops last year, the
company said today.  Currency Impact  Currency fluctuations were “unfavorable” in the quarter
and reduced revenue by 19 million euros, Hermes said.  Sales of clothing and fashion accessories increased 18
percent, while silk and textiles had a 15 percent gain and
perfume revenue rose 18 percent, Hermes said.  “Demand for Hermes collections remains strong, favored by
a growing requirement for quality, personality and timelessness
of objects and clothes,” Hermes said, adding it will continue
to follow its strategy.  Revenue excluding currency shifts gained 14 percent in
 Asia , 12 percent in Europe and 11 percent in the Americas. In
 Japan , where sales advanced 7 percent, the environment seems to
be more positive, the company said.  Tableware sales fell 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  