-- Tesoro Plans West Coast Rail Operation to Tap Shale Crude Boom
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-04-22T23:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/tesoro-plans-west-coast-rail-operation-to-tap-shale-crude-boom.html
Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  plans to build a
complex in Washington that would unload crude from trains and
put it on vessels, the latest move to get oil from the central
U.S. to refining centers on the West Coast.  Tesoro and Savage Companies are forming a joint venture at
the Port of Vancouver that would be able to move 120,000 barrels
of oil a day and might be online in 2014, the companies said in
a statement yesterday. Approval from port commissioners and
regulators is needed.  That project and another bought in February by  Global
Partners LP (GLP)  show companies are taking extra steps to get crude
from the middle of the U.S., where output is increasing, to
refineries on the coasts, which are seeking to replace shrinking
output from California and Alaska.  “It illustrates the changing dynamics,” Dave Hackett,
president of Irvine, California-based oil consultant Stillwater
Associates, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “The
market keeps running into bottlenecks and keeps having to solve
the logistics problems and figure out how to get around the
bottlenecks by building additional capacity.”  Plains Marketing LP’s posted price for Williston Basin
sweet crude out of North Dakota was $76.19 a barrel yesterday,
more than $24 below Brent, the European benchmark that
waterborne crudes are priced against. The spot price for Kern
River crude in California was $90.60 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Railing crude from the middle of the country to the West
Coast can cost $13 a barrel,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  said in an
investor presentation March 20. Shipping crude to another port
would add to the cost.  California Permitting  Unloading trains directly at a California refinery is
unfeasible because obtaining state permits would take too long,
Hackett said.  “Why are they building it there rather than building it
next to refineries in California?” he said. “Because they
can’t build it in California, they can’t get it done fast
enough. It’s all of this permitting, it’s very difficult to
do.”  Tesoro owns five West Coast refineries. It plans to shut
the Kapolei plant in Hawaii by the end of this month. Its
Anacortes, Washington, plant has a rail-unloading operation that
will allow it to process 50,000 barrels a day of Bakken crude
this quarter, the company said in its first-quarter earnings
call.  Tesoro Refineries  Tesoro’s refineries in Northern California, Los Angeles and
Alaska can process 339,000 barrels a day combined. The company
has agreed to purchase  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 266,000-barrel-a-day refinery in
Carson, California, near Los Angeles.  “This project is the ideal next step for Tesoro as we
drive additional feedstock cost advantage to the remaining
refineries in our West Coast system,” Greg Goff, chief
executive of San Antonio-based Tesoro, said in a statement.  Global Partners announced Feb. 19 that it purchased a crude
oil and ethanol complex in the Port of St. Helens in Oregon that
has rail-unloading capability, 200,000 barrels of storage
capacity and access to a marine terminal.  Global Partners also operates a rail-unloading plant in
Albany, New York, that puts Bakken crude onto barges for East
Coast refiners.  “Just as we have for East Coast refiners since 2011,
Global can now supply cost-competitive crude from the U.S. and
Canadian mid-continent to refiners on the West Coast,” Eric Slifka, chief executive officer of Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Global, said in a written statement.  Crude oil production in Alaska fell by 6,000 barrels to
549,000 barrels a day in January, 74 percent below the peak of
2.09 million in March 1988, according to U.S. Energy Department
data. Output in California has fallen by more than half from its
1.11 million-barrel-a-day peak in February 1986 to 529,000
barrels a day in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  