-- EU CO2 Market Eyes Assurance as Ministers to Discuss Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-04-22T16:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/europe-s-carbon-market-eyes-assurances-on-fix-from-eu-ministers.html
Investors in  Europe ’s 54 billion-
euro ($70 billion) carbon market will be looking at the bloc’s
ministers meeting in Dublin this week for assurances that
governments will try to keep alive a plan to bolster prices.  Environment ministers from the 27 nations in the European
Union gather today to start their informal bi-annual meeting,
which takes place less than a week after the European Parliament
declined to support a rescue plan for the EU emissions-trading
system, the pillar of the EU’s climate policy. They will discuss
policies for 2030 at a joint working lunch tomorrow with
national energy chiefs, who are scheduled to arrive in the Irish
capital for a separate meeting.  The Parliament on April 16 rejected a measure to curb
oversupply in Europe’s cap-and-trade program amid concerns it
will raise energy prices and undermine industry’s
competitiveness. Its negative verdict triggered a record decline
in emission prices. EU governments, which are split on the
proposal for the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program, have an
option of saving the fix, known as  backloading .  “It’s not tabled for a specific discussion, but I’m sure
it’ll come up in the context of the discussions tomorrow on our
informal lunch on climate and energy policies,” Irish
Environment Minister Phil Hogan told reporters before the
meeting today. “ Member states  want to see the emissions-trading
system continued, so it’s a question of seeing what amendments
can be put forward at the Parliament level or at the council, in
June or later on, maybe in July.”  Record Low  EU allowances for delivery in December slumped as much as
10.8 percent to 2.82 euros a metric ton before closing at 2.89
euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. They fell to
a record low 2.46 euros last week following the Parliament’s
vote.  The backloading strategy designed by the European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, aims to help carbon
prices rebound by delaying auctions of 900 million permits from
2013-2015 to 2019-2020. That would reduce a glut of allowances
aggravated by an economic slowdown, which has curbed industrial
output and damped demand for emission rights. The EU program
doesn’t allow any price floors or ceilings.  “The market is currently supported by the hope of some
market participants that backloading will come back,” said Ingo Ramming, co-head of commodity solutions at Commerzbank in
 London . “I am not sure if this is realistic but focus will be
on this week’s meetings in Dublin.”  Carbon Market  The proposal to intervene in the carbon market has divided
industry, the Parliament and EU governments. To be enacted, it
needs support from the European assembly and 255 out of 345
government votes. While most countries endorse backloading they
are short of a qualified majority as  Germany  and nations
including  Portugal  and the Czech Republic remain undecided.  Any effort to revive the rescue plan will require the full
support of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , according to Itamar Orlandi, analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London.
Merkel has so far avoided a verdict on the proposal, which has
pitted Germany’s climate and economy chiefs against each other.
Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  supports backloading, while
Economy Minister Philipp Roesler of Merkel’s coalition partner
Free Democratic Party opposes the market intervention.  Energy Policy  “Merkel needs to decide between the likely positive impact
of backloading on her domestic  energy policy  and avoiding the
ugly image of overruling her junior coalition partner,” Orlandi
said. “She could therefore delay a decision until a politically
more convenient moment closer to the September elections.”  A potential abstention by Germany in the council of EU
ministers would effectively mean a vote against backloading.
That would put Europe’s biggest economy in one camp with  Poland ,
 Greece  and Cyprus, who object to the plan amid concerns it would
raise energy prices and hurt the industry’s competitiveness.  “It’s unlikely that they will come to a definitive
conclusion on the existing proposal, which has been rejected by
the European Parliament, until after the general elections, but
we’re prepared to wait and see if there’s any modest changes
that can be made that can meet the wishes of the council,
commission and the Parliament,” Hogan said. His country holds
the EU rotating presidency until the end of June.  Fix Supporters  Supporters of the fix, including the U.K., Denmark and
 France , argue that the EU emissions trading system needs
strengthening after prices dropped to a level that fails to
encourage green investments. EU permits for December have lost
as much 85 percent in the past four years, defying expectations
by policy makers before the system started in 2005 that the cost
of discharging one ton of  greenhouse gases  would be 25 euros to
30 euros.  The carbon rescue plan is necessary to stimulate investment
in clean technologies and avoid fragmentation of the EU single
energy market through a patchwork of national policies, 42
companies and associations including Germany’s largest utility
 EON SE (EOAN)  said earlier this month.  While the first element of the backloading strategy, a
change to the EU emissions-trading law, was rejected by the
Parliament last week, lawmakers stopped short of adopting an
official position against the rescue plan. Instead, the measure
was sent back to the environment committee, which now has two
months to propose a solution.  “The only way I see some shift in the Parliament is if the
council takes a position and the only way to get the council
moving is Merkel,” Bas Eickhout, a Dutch member of the Greens
group in the European assembly said in a phone interview on
April 19. “The other option is the commission, which can put
forward a new proposal and hopefully that would put new dynamics
in the Parliament.”  Climate Policies  The divisions on the stopgap measure for the carbon market
highlight the difficulty for the EU to agree the shape of
post-2020 climate policies. The commission has repeatedly said
that new emission-reduction targets should be set as soon as
possible to ensure regulatory predictability for investors. It
wants to propose new legislation toward the end of this year,
before a global climate deal for post-2020 that nations
worldwide aim to reach by 2015.  Bulgaria, the  Czech Republic ,  Hungary , Poland, Slovakia and
Romania said in a joint statement last week that decisions on EU
climate policy for 2030 and negotiations on the global framework
“should go hand in hand.”  Environment ministers from those six countries “agreed
that it is necessary to have a long-term vision but stressed the
need to take into account national and sectoral circumstances
and the assessments on how member states have delivered current
targets and how it impacted their development,” according to
the statement after their meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Dublin at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  