-- Euro-Area Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Improves in April
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-04-22T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/euro-area-consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-improves-in-april.html
Euro-area  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly increased in April, adding to signs the currency
bloc will emerge from a recession in the second quarter.  An index of household confidence in the 17-nation euro zone
rose to minus 22.3 from minus 23.5 in March, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had forecast a dip
to minus 24, according to the median of 29 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey .  Record unemployment of 12 percent and spending cuts across
the euro area have eroded consumer spending power even as
inflation has fallen below the European Central Bank’s 2 percent
ceiling for the first time in more than two years.  Retail sales 
fell 0.3 percent in February, the last month for which data are
available.  “Problems in the euro-area economic landscape still loom
large” and “the way out is to restore competitiveness,” ECB
President Mario Draghi said in Amsterdam on April 15. ECB
Governing Council member Jens Weidmann said four days later the
bank would only cut interest rates if economic data worsen.  The euro-area economy has contracted for five quarters and
is forecast to shrink 0.1 percent in the first three months of
2013 before returning to growth, the median of 25 economists’
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey shows. The European
Commission sees the economy shrinking 0.3 percent this year.  Weaker Sales  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the maker of specialty chemicals and Dulux
paint, will look to make more cutbacks to offset a slump in
 Europe . Keith Nichols, Akzo’s chief financial officer, said on
April 18 that the “trends of weaker demand” seen in 2012 have
continued. “Europe remains weak,” he said. “We do not expect
a quick rebound.”  Carrefour SA (CA) ,  France ’s biggest retailer, on April 18
reported weaker first-quarter sales as cold weather and slow
consumption in Europe weighed on demand. The retailer expects
consumption to remain under pressure in Europe, said Chief
Financial Officer Pierre-Jean Sivignon.  The commission is scheduled to publish the final numbers
for April  consumer confidence  and the wider indicator of euro-
area economic confidence on April 29. 