-- Texas Instruments Forecasts Top Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-04-22T20:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/texas-instruments-forecasts-top-analysts-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, forecast second-quarter sales and profit
that may surpass some analysts’ estimates as customers boosted
orders ahead of a projected rebound in demand.  Profit in the current period will be 37 cents to 45 cents a
share on revenue of $2.93 billion to $3.17 billion, the Dallas-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts on average had
estimated profit of 38 cents and sales of $3.04 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments’  customer  list spans the electronics
industry, from aerospace-equipment makers to car-parts
suppliers, making its results a harbinger of demand across the
chip business. As automakers add more advanced features to
vehicles, they’re buying more chips to run them, and some
industrial-machine makers are also increasing orders, said
Vernon Essi, an analyst at Needham & Co.  “The industrial area has got a lot of good nooks and
crannies for them to hide,” said Essi, who has a hold  rating  on
the company’s stock. “With cars, it’s secular.”  Texas Instruments  shares  climbed in extended trading. The
stock rose 1.6 percent to $34.81 at the close in New York.
Shares have advanced 13 percent this year, compared with a 9.7
percent gain in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  Industrial Applications  In a midquarter update on March 7, Texas Instruments raised
the lower end of its first-quarter sales and profit forecasts.
At the time, the company said that orders were increasing for
chips used in industrial applications, while demand remained
weak for chips used in personal computers and phone-systems
equipment.  First-quarter  net income  rose to $362 million, or 32 cents
a share, from $265 million, or 22 cents, in the same period a
year earlier. Sales fell 7.6 percent to $2.89 billion. Analysts
had estimated a profit of 30 cents on $2.85 billion of revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Electronics-parts distributors such as  Avnet Inc. (AVT)  and  Arrow
Electronics Inc. (ARW)  are the company’s biggest customers, according
to a Bloomberg  supply-chain  analysis.  Texas Instruments is in the process of exiting the market
for digital chips used in smartphones and tablets, and the
company said on Nov. 14 that it would cut 1,700 jobs as part of
that shift. The staff reduction was estimated to pare expenses
by about $450 million a year by the end of 2013, Texas
Instruments said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  