-- Mexico Bonds Correlation to Treasuries Breaking on Carry Trade
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-22T23:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/mexico-bonds-correlation-to-treasuries-breaking-on-carry-trade.html
The correlation between  Mexico ’s
 local bonds  and U.S. Treasuries is turning negative for the
first time in eight months as foreigners facing near-zero
 interest rates  at home profit from the peso’s carry returns.  The 60-day  correlation coefficient  between 10-year Mexican
 government bonds  and similar-maturity Treasuries fell to -0.04
today, the first negative reading since Aug. 2. A reading of 1
means the two securities move in lockstep while -1 indicates
they move in opposite directions. Investors who bought the peso
with funds borrowed in the U.S. have netted a 5.8 percent return
in dollar terms this year, the best performance among the most-
traded 16 currencies in the world.  “Probably what’s working more readily in Mexico is the
carry trade and the need for yield,”  Enrique Alvarez , the head
of Latin America fixed-income research at IdeaGlobal in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “When I’m talking about
carry and yield, I’m talking about the yen trade essentially --
short the yen and long the peso. You need to park those funds
somewhere, obviously that filters back into the bonos market.”  The peso slipped 0.4 percent against the yen today, paring
its gain in 2013 to 19.8 percent. Mexico’s currency declined 0.1
percent against the dollar, paring its advance this year to 4.7
percent.  Investors who bought the peso with funds borrowed in the
 Japan  have netted a 21.1 percent return in yen terms this year,
the best performance among the most-traded 16 tenders against
the national currency of the world’s third-biggest economy.  Yields on benchmark Mexico peso bonds due in 2024 tumbled
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.58 percent, a
record-low close, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexico has been benefiting from a surge in inflows from
Japanese investors seeking higher-yielding assets. Japanese
Finance Minister Taro Aso said last week that his nation’s
policies went unopposed at the Group of 20 meeting in
 Washington , signaling further weakening of the yen as the
central bank pushes ahead with stimulus measures. Investment in
Mexico from Japanese mutual funds, known as Toshins, almost
tripled in the seven months through March to a record 268
billion yen ($2.7 billion), according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  