-- Exxon Seen Booking Tankers to U.S. at Lowest Rates of 2013
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-04-22T16:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/exxon-seen-booking-tankers-to-u-s-at-lowest-rates-of-2013-1-.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
biggest energy company by market value, booked two tankers to
haul oil to the U.S.  Gulf Coast  via the  Suez Canal  in May at
what may be this year’s lowest rates, a shipbroker said.  The very large crude carriers, each able to haul 2 million
barrels of oil, will load in the  Persian Gulf  on May 7, Athens-
based Optima Shipbrokers Ltd. said in an e-mailed report today.
The ships were chartered at rates of 15.75 and 16 industry-
standard Worldscale points, it said. Those would be the lowest
levels so far in 2013 for the route, according to figures
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hire costs for tankers hauling Middle East crude to the
Gulf Coast slipped 0.2 percent to 18.3 Worldscale points today,
according to the London-based  Baltic Exchange . That’s down 26
percent from the start of the year. Charter costs on the journey
declined in the third quarter of every year starting in 2007,
according to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market is very weak, and I think this summer will be
just as bad as the previous two,” Dag Kilen, an analyst at
Fearnley Consultants A/S, part of Norway’s second-largest
shipbroker, said by e-mail. Rates could get “potentially even
worse if  oil prices  remain under downward pressure, as it will
tighten OPEC output.”  Return Voyages  Shipowners will seek to cover fuel costs by securing
charters for return voyages after vessels unload their original
cargoes, Kilen said. Exxon Mobil spokesman Richard Scrase in
Leatherhead,  England , declined to comment by phone today.  VLCCs built in 2010 and carrying Middle East oil to the
U.S. were losing $2,140 a week on average as of April 19,
according to figures from  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s biggest
shipbroker. The ships were earning $31,227 a year earlier.  Hire  costs  for VLCCs on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan
journey were little changed today at 32.06 Worldscale points,
figures from the Baltic Exchange showed. The ships’ daily losses
widened to $714 from $254 on April 19.  The exchange’s assessments don’t account for owners’
efforts to improve returns by securing cargoes for return
voyages or reducing speed to burn less fuel. The price of fuel,
or bunkers, the industry’s main expense, fell 1.4 percent to
$599.88 a metric ton today, figures compiled by Bloomberg from
25 ports showed.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, added
0.6 percent to 638, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  