-- Facebook Trial Over ‘Timeline’ Trademark Rights Delayed
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-22T17:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/facebook-trial-over-timeline-trademark-rights-delayed.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s trial over its
right to use the word “timeline” to describe user profiles has
been delayed at least a day and possibly longer.  A jury trial in the trademark infringement case filed in
2011 by the operator of  timelines.com  was scheduled to start
today at the federal courthouse in  Chicago .  More than 90 minutes after conferring with lawyers and
declaring a recess, U.S. District Judge John W. Darrah retook
the bench and said the matter would be taken up tomorrow
afternoon or, if necessary, would be postponed to May 7 for a
status conference.  The judge offered no explanation for the delay. Douglas
Albritton, an attorney for Timelines Inc., declined to
immediately comment on the postponement. Lawyers for  Facebook 
also declined to comment.  Facebook is the world’s most-popular social networking
website. The  Menlo Park , California-based company has more than
a billion monthly users, according to its website.  Timelines’ website allows its users to create or add
content to historical chronologies documenting topics including
space exploration, political assassinations, wars and sporting
events.  Internet Chronologies  Chicago-based Timelines sued Facebook a week after the
social network announced it was converting user-profile pages
previously known as walls to individual chronologies called
timelines.  The website Timelines, which has about 94,000 visitors a
month, contends it has held a U.S. trademark on the use of
“timelines” for user-created Internet chronologies since 2009.  The company is seeking an order barring Facebook from using
the word, according to its amended complaint. It’s also seeking
compensation equivalent to Facebook’s Timeline-derived ad
revenue, Albritton said in a phone interview earlier this month.  Facebook yesterday filed papers asking Darrah to strike
Timelines’ request for a jury, arguing that the demands for
injunctive relief and wrongful profits are arguments for
equitable relief that should be decided by a judge.  Facebook has also countersued, claiming the trademark is
too generic to warrant federal rights protection. Darrah on
April 1 denied a defense motion for judgment on the issue,
setting the matter for a  jury trial .  The case is Timelines Inc. v. Facebook Inc., 11-cv-06867,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  