-- Fed Rule on Overseas Bank Units May Spark Reprisal, EU Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-22T22:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/fed-rule-for-overseas-bank-units-may-spark-retaliation-eu-warns.html
The European Union intensified its
campaign against U.S. Federal Reserve proposals to toughen
oversight of bank units belonging to overseas lenders, warning
of “potential retaliation” against the plans.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, last
week sent a three-page critique of the draft measures to Fed
Chairman  Ben Bernanke , saying that they risk driving up costs at
EU-based banks, leaving them at a competitive disadvantage. The
move follows a meeting this month between Barnier and U.S.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, where the Frenchman pressed for
a change of course.  The proposals are “a radical departure from the existing
U.S. policy,” and may undermine efforts to ensure that large
banks can be safely wound down if they fail, Barnier wrote in
his April 18 letter to Bernanke, obtained by  Bloomberg News . The
standards “could spark a protectionist reaction from other
jurisdictions, which could ultimately have a substantial
negative impact on the global economic recovery.”  Under the draft  Fed plans , published in December, foreign
lenders would be forced to organize their U.S. subsidiaries
under a locally regulated holding company, with its own reserves
of capital and easy-to-sell assets that could be tapped in
crises. Bernanke has said the measure would be an “important
step” in addressing “the risks that large, interconnected
financial institutions pose to U.S. financial stability.”  Rigorous Regulation  The Fed proposals shouldn’t apply to banks that are already
subject to rigorous regulation in the country where their
headquarters are based, according to Barnier’s letter.  Banks would be required to comply with the new Fed rules if
they have consolidated assets of $50 billion, with U.S.
subsidiaries accounting for $10 billion.  “The U.S. operations of large foreign institutions have
changed in recent years -- marked in part by significantly
greater reliance on potentially unstable, short-term wholesale
funding and rapid growth in their capital markets activities,”
said  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman.  The “targeted adjustments” to the Fed’s supervision
“create a more consistent regulatory structure for all firms
operating in the  United States ,” Hagenbaugh said. The U.K.,
“the most comparable host country to the United States, has
already required that subsidiaries of large foreign financial
firms in  London  meet local capital and liquidity requirements.”  Home Country  The proposals would allow overseas-based banks to maintain
branches in the U.S. without setting up the holding company
structure. Branches allow banks to carry out some activities
overseas, with regulatory oversight still largely conducted by
the lender’s home country regulator.  The measures, which are open for comment until the end of
April, would take effect from July 1, 2015.  The draft Fed rules are one of two main battles Barnier is
waging to change draft U.S. financial rules.  Barnier was among nine overseas finance officials that
signed a separate letter last week urging Lew to limit the
cross-border reach of swaps rules that they say are fragmenting
the market for over-the-counter derivatives.  “We fully understand the American concern to safeguard
financial stability, but we would like to ensure that there is a
fair, level playing field for European banks operating in the
U.S., and that the regulatory approach to them is
proportionate,”  Chantal Hughes , Barnier’s spokeswoman, said by
e-mail. She confirmed the authenticity of the April 18 letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  