-- Ferro Seen Securing Decade-High Chemical Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-04-23T20:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/ferro-seen-securing-decade-high-chemical-bid-real-m-a.html
Ferro Corp. (FOE)  shareholders are
betting an increased takeover offer from A. Schulman Inc. and a
push from activists to overhaul the board will compel the
chemical company’s management to agree to a deal.  Ferro, a Mayfield Heights, Ohio-based maker of chemicals
used in coatings and ceramics, said March 4 it had rejected an
offer of $6.50 a share -- that it later called a “low-ball”
bid -- from plastics maker Schulman, based about 34 miles (55
kilometers) away in Akron,  Ohio . With Schulman reiterating
yesterday it may raise the bid if it can look at Ferro’s books,
the stock has  traded  above the offer every day as investors
wager the takeover succeeds at a higher level. Credit Suisse
Group AG estimates a winning bid to be $7.50 a share, while
First Analysis Securities Corp. says it may be as much as $9.  At $9 a share, Schulman would be paying 68 percent more
than Ferro’s stock price before any approach was disclosed, the
biggest premium in more than a decade for a specialty chemicals
deal larger than $500 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. As Ferro’s management refuses to negotiate, a plan
from activists FrontFour Capital Group LLC and Quinpario
Partners LLC to overhaul the  board  next month could help pave
the way for a transaction, Elevation LLC said.  “FrontFour and Quinpario are looking out for their own
interests, but those certainly align quite nicely with holders
of Ferro,” Andrew Berkin, co-chief investment officer at Los
Angeles-based Vericimetry Advisors LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “If a company gets a takeover offer, we want
management to give it serious consideration. Instead, Ferro
seems to have summarily rejected Schulman. The market’s
anticipating that this is just the initial step and that a deal
could get done at a higher price.”  Rejected Proposal  Berkin co-manages Vericimetry’s small-cap value  fund  that
owns shares of both Ferro and Schulman.  Schulman’s proposal to buy Ferro for $6.50 a share in cash
and stock values the company at about $875 million, including
net debt and outstanding exercisable options, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The board rejected the bid, which was 21
percent higher than Ferro’s average share price in the 20 days
before the proposal.  “The Ferro Board carefully considered A. Schulman’s
unsolicited proposal and unanimously determined that it was
inadequate and not in the best interests of Ferro
shareholders,” the company said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. “The Ferro Board and management team
believe that the continued execution of the Company’s value
creation strategy will deliver greater value to Ferro
shareholders.”  Activist Investors  Schulman’s trying to strike a deal while Ferro has an
interim chief executive offer and tries to recover from a 56
percent two-year  stock decline  and a record net  loss  last year.
Ferro is also battling activist investors FrontFour and
Quinpario, which in January nominated three people for election
to the nine-member board because of “historic and current
under-performance.”  FrontFour and Quinpario together have said that while
Schulman’s initial bid is too low, Ferro should negotiate for a
better price. They said that if their nominees are elected at
Ferro’s May 15 annual shareholder  meeting , they will “fully
explore any and all potential strategic alternatives,”
including talks with Schulman.  “We believe that Ferro’s Board has done a disservice to
shareholders by its outright rejection of A. Schulman’s offer,”
the firms said in an April 18 statement. David Lorber, co-
founder of FrontFour, declined to comment further. Missy Zona, a
spokeswoman at Quinpario, said CEO Jeffry Quinn wasn’t available
to comment. Lorber and Quinn are among the three nominees.  Board Slate  Schulman is probably waiting to see if FrontFour and
Quinpario’s nominees win enough votes before revising its
proposal, said Betty Chan, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based
analyst for Elevation’s event-driven team.  “Given Ferro’s mismanagement, FrontFour will probably win
their slate,” Chan said in an e-mail. “Schulman is waiting for
this to happen before they make their next move. They will
likely need to bump.”  Schulman CEO Joe Gingo said he’s rooting for the activist
shareholders to win board seats in the hopes new directors can
persuade the group to open its books. He said Ferro’s proxy
statement last week includes “misrepresentation” about
Schulman’s ability to complete the acquisition and about its
willingness to improve the offer.  Price Negotiations  “I didn’t really appreciate the implication we gave this
‘low-ball’ offer,” Gingo said in a phone interview yesterday.
“We are more than willing to talk about not just the price, but
the structure.”  Since the proposal was announced, Ferro shares have traded
 as high as  $6.99 on an intraday basis and closed yesterday at
$6.76, which is 4 percent higher than the bid.  Today, the stock gained 4.3 percent to $7.05, the biggest
gain since the offer was announced.  Gamco Investors Inc. (GBL) , which
owns about a 16.2 percent stake in Ferro, said today in a
regulatory filing that it intends to support the activist
investors’ three board nominees.  Some investors are wagering that a revised offer could be
in the “mid to high” $7 level, said Elevation’s Chan. John McNulty, a New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse, said that a
$1 increase to the current bid would make it “more
reasonable,” according to a March 4 report.  Decade-High Premium  An even higher bid may be warranted because Ferro’s
products are sold to customers in parts of the  U.S. economy 
starting to show signs of recovery, such as construction and
automobile manufacturing, said  Michael Harrison , a Chicago-based
analyst for First Analysis. Ferro also exited its solar paste
and pharmaceutical businesses to focus on more profitable units
and cut costs.  “They’re going a little bit back to basics around the
remainder of the company, which is still a very vibrant set of
businesses,” Harrison said in a phone interview. He estimates a
takeover could get done at $9 a share, which is 68 percent
higher than Ferro’s 20-day average price before Schulman’s
proposal was made public.  That would rank as the highest premium for a specialty
chemicals deal larger than $500 million since 2000, when  Valspar
Corp. (VAL)  paid a 126 percent premium for Lilly Industries Inc., data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  On the other hand, paying more than $6.50 a share may not
make sense for Schulman or add to its earnings, according to
Greg Schooley, a New York-based partner in the private-equity
practice at consulting firm  A.T. Kearney .  ‘Starting Point’  “It was a pretty good offer to begin with,” Schooley, who
advises on industrial transactions and has worked with Ferro in
the past, said in a phone interview.  Without a deal, analysts are projecting Ferro’s shares will
climb to just $7.33 within the next 12 months,  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s less than analysts project
for a sweetened bid.  “Ferro does seem to be undervalued and doesn’t seem to be
doing anything right,” Kathleen Renck, New York-based head of
event-driven research at FBN Securities Inc., said in a phone
interview. “We’re certainly hoping that FrontFour wins board
seats because they would love it if somebody would buy the
company. Obviously $6.50 is just the starting point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  