-- FIFA Anti-Corruption Adviser Quits ‘Least Productive Project’
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-22T20:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/fifa-anti-corruption-adviser-quits-least-productive-project-.html
A member of an anti-corruption
group advising soccer’s governing body on reform has quit,
saying it was the “least productive project” of her career.  Alexandra Wrage, president of Canada-based  Trace
International , a non-profit organization that provides anti-
bribery compliance advice to multinational companies, had been
part of FIFA’s Independent Governance Committee, a group set up
in 2011 following a series of corruption scandals at soccer’s
governing body.  “I resigned because it was not having any impact,” Wrage
said in a telephone interview. “It’s been the least productive
project I’ve ever been involved in. There’s no doubt about
that.”  FIFA members will meet in May in Mauritius for their annual
Congress, where they’ll vote on a package of new governance
measures being created to improve transparency and promote
propriety at the organization. The Zurich-based body was rocked
following allegations of wrongdoing linked to the selection
process for its $5 billion  World Cup  and claims of corruption
ahead of its 2011 presidential election.  Wrage, who claimed no expense costs from FIFA during her
14-month advisory role, said going to the Congress wasn’t an
option because “I’d have just been lying on the beach.”  “None of our items made it onto the agenda,” she said.
“I don’t need a trip to Mauritius to have them not vote on our
issues.”  FIFA didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The advisers’ recommendations that won’t be taken forward
to the Congress include disclosure of senior executive pay and
adding independent board members and independent integrity
checks for new members to FIFA’s decision-making executive
committee. Fixed age and term limits also aren’t being voted on.
Instead, members will be asked if they’re in favor of such
limits.  FIFA’s Idea  “The strangest thing is that people forget this was FIFA’s
idea,” Wrage said. “They could have done nothing. They
weathered lots of scandals before, so why do it and work to
undermine the effort? I suppose they thought they were going to
get easy good optics without fundamental change.”  Wrage, who’s advised several multinational companies,
described FIFA as “byzantine and impenetrable” and her
experience as “more baffling than frustrating.”  “This is not impossibly complicated work,” she said.
“There’s widely held international best practice and they
rejected them,” she said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  