-- FIFA Executive Board Pay Would Be Disclosed by New Member Gulati
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-22T18:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/fifa-executive-board-pay-would-be-disclosed-by-new-member-gulati.html
U.S. Soccer President  Sunil Gulati ,
who was elected to FIFA’s executive board three days ago, said
he’s willing to publish details of his compensation  in that
role.  Gulati, 53, secured a spot on the sport’s global governing
body’s decision-making committee in a narrow victory over
Mexican counterpart Justino Campeo at a Congress of regional
governing body Concacaf.  The American is also part of an advisory panel tasked with
advising FIFA on reforms following a series of scandals.  FIFA’s 
members will vote on a package of restructuring measures that
don’t include publishing executive pay next month.  “The answer would be yes, with a caveat,” Gulati told
reporters on a conference call today when asked if he would
disclose his pay.  “I don’t know what the rules of the road are there, but in
the absence of that, it’s my belief that FIFA should, in fact,
disclose the compensation of directors. I would have no problem
of disclosing if it’s not a violation of any provision with FIFA
for directors.”  FIFA, which last month announced revenue of $1.2 billion
for 2012 and a 7 percent increase in cash reserves to $1.4
billion, makes most of its money from its quadrennial  World Cup ,
which is sports’ most-watched event. It will be staged in  Brazil 
next year before moving to  Russia  in 2018 and Qatar in 2022.  Controversial Vote  The selection process for the events in Russia and Qatar,
which beat the U.S. in the final runoff, was beset by
controversy. Two executives were suspended before the 2010
ballot following a newspaper sting in which they were recorded
offering to sell their votes. A year later, when FIFA President
Sepp Blatter was running for a fourth term, his only challenger
quit a day before an investigation was opened into allegations
he tried to bribe voters in the Caribbean.  Gulati’s promotion to the FIFA executive board came after
delegates in  Panama  heard allegations of impropriety against
former Concacaf head  Jack Warner  and former Concacaf general
secretary Chuck Blazer. Gulati will take over a seat held by
Blazer since 1997.  Two years ago, Blazer accused Warner of corruption. Warner
and Blazer resigned later in 2011 and a report from a Concacaf
committee Friday accused both of enriching themselves through
fraud. Both denied the accusations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  