-- Fisker Said to Miss First Energy Department Loan Payment
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-04-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/fisker-misses-first-loan-payment-due-to-u-s-energy-department.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., the
troubled electric-car maker, missed its first payment on a $529
million U.S. Energy Department loan, according to an agency
official.  Fisker, based in Anaheim,  California , was supposed to make
the payment yesterday on about $193 million it had drawn down
from the loan. The Energy Department official asked not to be
identified because information about the loan isn’t public.  The agency recovered $21 million on April 11 from Fisker’s
“reserve account” that wasn’t part of the loan amount, Aoife McCarthy, an Energy Department spokeswoman, said by e-mail. The
agency cut off Fisker’s access to its loan in June 2011 when the
carmaker failed to meet production milestones. On April 5,
Fisker dismissed about three-quarters of its 200 workers.  “They’re not saying anything today,” spokesman Tony
Knight of Sitrick & Co., an outside public relations agency
representing Fisker, said yesterday in response to inquiries
about the loan payment. “The next thing will be Wednesday at
the hearing,” he said by telephone.  Henrik Fisker, the company’s former executive chairman and
founder,  Tony Posawatz , the chief executive officer, and
Bernhard Koehler, the chief operating officer, are scheduled to
testify tomorrow at a hearing of a subcommittee of the Oversight
and Government Reform Committee in the U.S. House of
Representatives.  Nicholas Whitcombe, supervisory senior investment officer
at the Energy Department, is also scheduled to appear before the
panel, which has criticized the agency for loans to other
companies, including failed California solar-panel maker
Solyndra LLC, which entered bankruptcy liquidation in 2011.  Fisker made about 2,500 of its $103,000 plug-in Karmas
before halting production last year. The halt disrupted its
plans to use its U.S. loan to restart a shuttered Delaware
factory owned by the predecessor of  General Motors Co. (GM)  The
Karmas it produced were assembled in  Finland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 