-- Forint Heads for Longest Slide Since January Before Rate Meeting
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-23T09:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/forint-retreats-fourth-day-before-rate-cut-move-budapest-mover.html
The forint weakened for a fifth
day, set for the longest losing streak since January, as
investors speculated  Hungary ’s central bank will cut rates for a
ninth consecutive month today.  The Monetary Council will probably reduce its  benchmark
rate  from a record-low 5 percent to 4.75 percent, according to
25 out of 26 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Daniel Hewitt , a
London-based economist at Barclays Plc, forecasts a 50 basis-
point cut. Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said
policies to help kickstart economic growth more effectively have
only just started, according to an interview with state news
service MTI on April 18.  “The central bank will try and avoid too many surprises on
the rate-setting side as it works on more policy tools to boost
economic growth,”  Benoit Anne , a London-based strategist at
Societe Generale SA, wrote in a research report today. “The
government and central bank will increasingly focus on a much
lower policy rate and weaker currency as the year progresses and
the economy fails to recover.”  Hungary’s currency retreated 0.5 percent to 300.50 per euro
by 10:55 a.m. in Budapest. Yields on the government’s five-year
bonds slid eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.98
percent, a record low.  Hungary’s forward rate agreements used to wager on interest
in one month fell two basis points to 4.57 percent, within one
basis point of a record low. The FRA contracts traded 25 basis
points below the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate.  Manufacturing Contraction  Services and manufacturing output in the euro area,
Hungary’s biggest trading partner, contracted for a 15th month
in April as the currency bloc struggled to emerge from a
recession, data from London-based Markit Economics showed today.  German factory and service company indexes also
unexpectedly dropped to show contraction.  “The worse-than-expected German PMI data is not helping
risk appetite, which may be negative for the forint,” Karoly Bamli, a Budapest-based trader at Commerzbank AG, wrote by e-
mail today.  The central bank proposes limiting eligibility for its two-
week bill facility, the main instrument of monetary policy, to
exclude foreign banks not active in lending in Hungary, Matolcsy
told MTI last week. The planned move will amount to a further
effective rate cut, according to analysts at banks including
Erste Group Bank AG and Barclays.  “The statement released after the meeting will be closely
watched for any hints on the future interest rate trajectory
and/or details of other changes in the monetary policy toolkit,
especially the planned re-design of the two-week facility,”
Mariann Trippon, a Budapest-based economist at CIB Bank Zrt., a
unit of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, wrote in a research report today.  The central bank will announce the rate decision at 2 p.m.
in Budapest, followed by a statement at 3 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  