-- Fraga Says He’s Disturbed by Brazil’s Focus on Consumption
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-04-22T22:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/fraga-says-he-s-disturbed-by-brazil-policy-focus-on-consumption.html
Arminio Fraga ,  Brazil ’s former
central bank president, is concerned by the government’s push to
foster growth by encouraging consumers to spend more on credit.  The speed of loan growth in Brazil merits “some
monitoring,” Fraga, founder of Gavea Investimentos Ltda., said
in remarks at an event organized by the  Brazilian-American
Chamber of Commerce  in  New York . Brazil is using state-owned
banks aggressively to promote its goals, said Fraga, who was
president of Brazil’s central bank from 1999 to 2002.  “The excessive emphasis on consumption disturbs me,”
Fraga, 55, said. “You’re borrowing a lot now, but time will
come that people will have to pay. You need to do some things on
the fiscal and monetary front and also pay attention, with a
prudential mindset, keeping an eye on what these loan portfolios
look like.”  Lending by state-backed Banco do Brasil SA, Caixa Economica
Federal and Brazil’s development bank, BNDES, surged 27 percent
to 1.1 trillion reais ($546 billion) in 2012 as President  Dilma Rousseff  urged more lending to spur an economy that grew the
slowest since 2009. Moody’s Investors Service lowered the long-
term ratings of BNDES and Caixa last month, citing dwindling
capital ratios as the banks’ credit growth was triple that of
commercial banks including Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Banco
Bradesco SA.  ’Gloomy’ Mood  “Markets have become very gloomy on Brazil,” Fraga said.
“I don’t think I’ve seen the mood so bad in a long time. I see
some reason for that, but I think it’s probably overdone.”  Latin-America’s largest economy grew 0.9 percent last year,
the slowest pace since 2009. The government is aware of the need
to increase the investment rate in Brazil, he said.  “Prices are down, so if you don’t have a catastrophic view
of the country, there certainly are opportunities,” he said in
an interview today.  New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. acquired Gavea, a
private equity firm and hedge fund, for an undisclosed amount in
2010. The company, which has offices in Fraga’s native  Rio de
Janeiro  as well as  Sao Paulo , managed about $7.3 billion in
assets as of March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  