-- France Telecom Debt Rating Cut by S&P as Mobile Bills Shrink
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-04-22T15:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/france-telecom-debt-rating-cut-by-s-p-on-wireless-tariff-decline.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  had its debt
rating cut one step by Standard & Poor’s, which cited pricing
pressure in the French wireless market and a bigger-than-
anticipated decline in earnings this year.  The long-term rating was reduced to BBB+, the third-lowest
investment grade, while the outlook is stable, S&P said in a
statement today. Moody’s Investors Service, which ranks the debt
one step higher at A3, said April 10 it may cut its rating.
 France  Telecom reported net debt of 30.5 billion euros ($39.7
billion) as of the end of 2012.  The change reflects expectations that Paris-based France
Telecom’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization “will decline more in 2013 than we previously
expected, due to mounting competitive and price pressures since
late last year in the French mobile market and slowdowns in the
group’s key European markets since second half of 2012,”
especially in  Poland , S&P said in its statement.  Credit-default swaps insuring France Telecom’s debt for
five years climbed 1.8 percent to 117 basis points, signaling a
deterioration in creditworthiness. The derivatives pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Today’s cut brings France Telecom’s rating to the same
level as Bonn-based  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  France Telecom, owner
of the Orange brand, is deemed safer than competitor  Telefonica
SA (TEF) , though it’s behind  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  based on S&P’s rating.  Falling Prices  France Telecom’s shares gained 0.5 percent to 7.64 euros in
Paris, after rising as much as 1.2 percent earlier in the day.  The former French phone monopoly, which is scheduled to
report first-quarter revenue on April 24, last year cut its
dividend forecast, as have other European rivals, in an effort
to save cash and preserve its debt rating. The company has
forecast its operating cash flow will stabilize or rebound only
in 2014.  At home, the company is betting on being able to charge
more for speedier mobile packages. France Telecom said in
February it will work on cost cuts to help stabilize cash flow.
It has to navigate rival  Iliad SA (ILD) ’s low-cost strategy as well as
Socialist President Francois Hollande’s tough stance against
firings.  Wireless tariffs in France have fallen faster since
newcomer Iliad began offering monthly subscriptions starting at
2 euros last year. France Telecom, which made about 56 percent
of its Ebitda from France, has been trying to diversify in
faster-growing regions such as  Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  