-- LG Display Profit Misses Estimates on Stalling Apple Sales
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-04-22T12:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/lg-display-swings-to-profit-on-higher-sales-of-television-panels.html
LG Display Co. (034220) , the world’s second-
largest flat-panel maker, posted first-quarter profit that
missed analyst estimates on falling sales of smaller displays to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and a weaker currency.  Net income was  3.49 billion won  ($3.1 million) in the three
months ended March 31, compared with a 129 billion-won loss a
year earlier, the Seoul-based company said in a statement today.
The average of  25 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was
for profit of 76 billion won.  Weakening consumer appetite for Apple’s iPhones and a lack
of new devices from the company are damping earnings at its
suppliers. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., assembler of the
iPhone and iPad in  China , reported its biggest revenue slide in
at least 13 years, and  Cirrus Logic Inc. (CRUS) , a maker of chips,
reported an inventory glut that suggested slowing iPhone sales.  “Apple is losing dominance and will likely delay launching
a successor to the iPhone 5 until at least September,” Harrison Cho, an analyst for Seoul-based Samsung Securities Co., said
before the earnings release. “LG Display might have to wait
until the third quarter to see strong profits as Apple’s new
devices are mostly expected to be out in the second half.”  Apple Profit  Apple’s quarterly profit is projected to shrink for the
first time in a decade when the Cupertino, California-based
company reports earnings tomorrow. LG Display rose 2.2 percent
to 30,450 won at the close of trading in  Seoul , while the
benchmark Kospi index climbed 1 percent.  Profit also was affected by rising debt payments as the
falling won raised the costs of overseas borrowings. LG Display
had a total of 13.7 trillion won in debt by the end of the first
quarter, said Jean Lee, a spokeswoman for the company, who
declined to provide additional details.  The South Korean won fell 4.9 percent versus the dollar
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The overseas debt was higher than what the market had
expected because the won weakened more than what we had
thought,” said Kwon Sung Ryul, an analyst at Dongbu Securities
in Seoul.  LG’s operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods
sold and administrative expenses, was 151.3 billion won on sales
of 6.8 trillion won.  The company is betting that high-end screens, including TV
panels using organic light-emitting diodes, or OLEDs, will lift
profit and make up for a drop in sales to Apple. Demand in the
world’s largest nation is expected to rise in the second half of
the year, Vice President Kim Byung Soo said.  “China demand was relatively strong compared to that of
 North America  and  Europe ,” said Lee Sung Chul, a Seoul-based
analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. “Chinese TV vendors
aggressively promoted their TV sales during the quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  