-- Gensler Raises Renewed Doubt Over Libor Benchmark Integrity
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-04-22T15:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/gensler-raises-renewed-doubt-over-libor-benchmark-integrity-1-.html
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  raised fresh doubt about
Libor’s integrity as a market benchmark, saying banks’ reported
borrowing costs remain distorted.  On 85 percent of occasions in 2012, the 18 firms that
contribute to dollar Libor left the rate at which they said they
could borrow in the interbank market unchanged, even as the cost
of insuring their debt against default using credit-default
swaps soared, Gensler, 55, said in a speech at the  City Week 
conference in  London  today.  “This was during a period when there were a number of
uncertainties in the market driven by elections, changing
economic outlook and other events,” Gensler said. “And yet
somehow these banks said they could still borrow at exactly the
same rate for four to five months.”  Gensler is among global regulators leading a push to base
market benchmarks such as the London interbank offered rate on
data from actual trades after an investigation by U.S. and U.K.
regulators uncovered widespread attempts by banks to rig Libor
for profit.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  have been fined more than $2.5 billion and at least
a dozen more firms are still under investigation.  “Libor, Euribor and other similar interest-rate benchmarks
are unsustainable in the long run,” Gensler said. “These
benchmarks, referencing markets with insufficient transactions,
particularly in longer tenors, undermine market integrity and
threaten financial stability.”  Long-Run Instability  Libor is calculated daily through a survey in London that
asks firms how much it costs them to borrow cash from each other
for various durations in different currencies. The top and
bottom quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are
averaged and published for individual currencies in London.
Because benchmarks such as Libor and its European counterpart
Euribor are based on estimates, rather than actual trade data,
they are vulnerable to manipulation by traders.  The financial crisis of 2008 all but froze the  interbank
market , and the latest round of Basel rules on bank capital may
discourage firms further from lending to one another in the
interbank market, Gensler said. That may worsen the scarcity of
actual transactions on which to base Libor, he said.  “Continuing to support Libor and Euribor in the name of
stability may have the opposite effect,” he said. “Using
benchmarks that threaten market integrity may create more
instability in the long run.”  ‘Too Big to Replace’  Alternatives include the overnight swaps rate and short-
term collateralized financing rates such as general collateral
repo rates, he said. Replacement rates could run in parallel
with their predecessors for a period -- before the obsolete
benchmark is discontinued at a set date, he said.  “We must move forward in a coordinated global effort to
identify alternative  interest rate  benchmarks anchored in
observable transactions and plan a smooth and orderly transition
from benchmarks referencing unsecured, interbank markets,” he
said. “It’s best that we not fall prey to accepting that Libor
or any benchmark is ‘too big to replace.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  