-- German Banks Blast Merkel Proprietary Trading Split Plan
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-04-22T12:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/german-banks-blast-merkel-proprietary-trading-split-plan.html
Germany’s banks criticized plans by
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government to force them to separate
some investment-banking operations from units that work for
corporate and retail clients.  The coalition’s proposal will raise costs and erode the
ability of banks to provide clients with a complete array of
services, Deutsche Kreditwirtschaft, a lobby for Germany’s five
biggest banking groups, said in a statement drafted for a
parliamentary hearing on the bill taking place in Berlin today.
The “go-it-alone” approach leap frogs that of some European
partners and won’t reduce risk at banks, according to the 27-
page study of the bill posted on the lower-house website.  The government legislation seeks to preserve Germany’s so-
called universal banking model of investment- and retail-banking
arms under one roof by watering down plans suggested by a group
commissioned by the European Union and led by Bank of Finland
Governor Erkki Liikanen. The central banker suggested a split to
protect depositors and taxpayers in case securities units ran up
losses.  Five months to the day before federal elections, Merkel’s
government is treading a fine line between a banking industry
for whom the proposals go too far and the Social Democratic-led
opposition, which says they don’t go far enough.  Merkel’s Cabinet approved a draft bill in February that
would force deposit-taking banks to split into separately
capitalized units the trading they do for their own profit along
with lending and guarantees to hedge funds.  ‘Most Obvious’  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest lender, is the “most
obvious” candidate for setting up a separate subsidiary for the
affected activities, Fitch Ratings Ltd. said in February.
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and the local unit
of  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  may also be among the firms required to
establish the units or close down the businesses, Fitch said.  Deutsche Kreditwirtschaft said its members doubt that the
work banks conduct to provide liquidity for clients in a given
market, known as market-making, can be differentiated from the
proprietary trading that the law seeks to move to separately
capitalized entities. Germany has no need to “rush”
legislation by passing the law this year, it said.  The German law would force deposit-taking banks to hive off
businesses including high-frequency trading when the associated
activities exceed 100 billion euros ($130 billion), or 20
percent of the balance sheet.  Merkel’s Christian Democrats, facing federal elections on
Sept. 22, are sparring with the SPD over regulating financial
markets after the coalition curbed manager pay, banned some
short-selling and made banks pay into a resolution fund.  Germany ’s “Liikanen Light” plan “is best seen as yet
another salvo in the government’s strategy to steal every idea
of the opposition on financial regulation, making them devoid of
election themes,” Bernhard Speyer, who leads the banking,
financial markets and regulation team at Deutsche Bank’s DB
research unit, said in a study published in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  