-- German Stocks Rise, Snapping Six-Day Drop; Daimler Gains
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-04-22T15:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/german-stocks-rise-snapping-six-day-drop-daimler-gains.html
German stocks advanced, after the
benchmark index posted its longest losing streak since November
2011, as Italy elected a president, and the Bank of  Japan ’s
stimulus policies were unopposed at a Group of 20 meeting.  Daimler AG (DAI)  added 1.8 percent as a gauge of European
carmakers rose. SMA Solar Technology AG rallied 4.7 percent as
Switzerland’s ABB Ltd. agreed to acquire Power-One Inc. for
about $1 billion.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  slid to a record low after
Bankhaus Metzler cut its rating on the shares. K+S AG fell to a
five-month low after delaying the start of a new plant.  The benchmark DAX rose 0.2 percent to 7,478.11 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt , snapping six days of declines. The
measure dropped 3.7 percent last week amid a slump in commodity
prices and as disappointing economic reports from the U.S. and
 China  bolstered concern that a global recovery is faltering. The
broader HDAX Index gained 0.3 percent today.  “This is good news; he is a trustworthy person and he will
likely try to form again a government of technicians,” Giacomo Chiorino, a strategist at Banca Patrimoni Sella & C. in Biella,
 Italy , said in a phone interview, referring to the re-election
of Giorgio Napolitano as Italy’s president. “All the economic
and political problems are still there, but at least we are in a
better position than last Friday.”  Napolitano was elected to a second term after accepting a
last-minute appeal from party leaders to run again. The 87-year-
old incumbent won the backing of parties led by former premier
Silvio Berlusconi, caretaker Prime Minister Mario Monti and
outgoing Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani. His re-
election came two months after inconclusive elections.  Japanese Stimulus  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda emerged from the G-20 meeting
saying he was emboldened to press ahead with the campaign to
defeat deflation. The central bank meets this week after
pledging April 4 to double the monetary base in two years.  Shares pared gains of as much as 1.1 percent after a report
showed sales of previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly dropped
in March. Purchases fell 0.6 percent to a 4.92 million annual
rate last month, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . The  median  forecast of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected sales would increase
to a 5 million rate.  “The market is worrying about the state of the world
economy,” said  Philippe Gijsels , a strategist at BNP Paribas
Fortis in Brussels, in a phone interview. “I would not call
this a classical risk-off move, what I see is more fear of a
slowdown in the developed world.”  Carmakers Advance  Daimler, the world’s third-largest maker of luxury cars,
rose 1.8 percent to 39.53 euros. Volkswagen AG added 0.8 percent
to 142.10 euros and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG climbed 0.6
percent to 65.24 euros, following a gauge of carmakers higher on
the Stoxx  Europe  600 index.  SMA Solar surged 4.7 percent to 18.32 euros. ABB agreed to
buy Power-One to expand in inverters that allow solar power to
be fed into grids. Solarworld AG climbed 2.4 percent to 69.3
euro cents.  Commerzbank dropped 4.5 percent to 1.09 euro, a record low.
Guido Hoymann, an analyst at Metzler, cut his price estimate on
 Germany ’s second-biggest lender to 1.10 euro from 1.30 euro,
saying it will struggle to boost earnings amid intensifying
competition. He also forecast cumulative losses of 2.7 billion
euros ($3.5 billion) in the next four years from real-estate and
shipping loans.  K+S lost 3.7 percent to 32.36 euros. Europe’s largest
potash maker said it delayed the start of a new plant in
Saskatchewan,  Canada , by about six months as spending on the
project will exceed target by 26 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands in  DAX (DAX)  companies was
4.2 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  