-- German Anti-Euro Party Courts CDU Donors in Challenge to Merkel
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-04-22T10:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/german-anti-euro-party-courts-cdu-donors-in-challenge-to-merkel.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  faces a
fresh challenge five months before national elections as an
anti-euro party seeks to draw support from donors including
those close to her Christian Democratic Union party.  The  Alternative for Germany  party, or AfD, has raised about
600,000 euros ($784,000) from new members and plans to seek
donations from Germany’s business community, the party’s
treasurer, Norbert Stenzel, said today in an interview. Stenzel,
who was a member of the CDU’s business wing as well as the
 Chamber of Commerce , said he’ll use his industry contacts to
seek support for AfD’s agenda to scrap the single currency.  “I have contacts with all kinds of people” in the
business world, Stenzel, the managing director of Wetterauer
Lieferbeton, a Hesse  concrete producer  who was a CDU member for
over 30 years until late 2012, said by phone from Bad Nauheim,
north of  Frankfurt . “The resonance has been very good so far.”  Merkel will need to guard her flank as members of her party
grow weary of the three-year-old euro debt crisis. While polls
suggest she may win a third term, Merkel was still only able to
pass aid for Cyprus in the German parliament last week with the
help of opposition votes.  The AfD, formed earlier this month, urges “dissolution of
the euro area in its current form” and says it aims for at
least 10 percent of the vote in the Sept. 22 elections.  The new party’s fundraising drive was first reported in  Der
Spiegel . Stenzel, 65, said a six-person team is still planning a
possible mail campaign or direct letters to potential donors.  CDU Contacts  The AfD treasurer said he had no plans to raid the contact
list of the CDU business wing, the  Wirtschaftsrat , though he
noted that such information was available to everybody. The
Wirtschaftsrat, headed by CDU party member Kurt Lauk, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call seeking comment.  The fundraising drive will rely on individual donations,
Stenzel said. The highest single donation so far was 5,000
euros, he said.  Germany ’s government and coalition parties denounced the
new political grouping last week, with Merkel’s chief spokesman,
Steffen Seibert, condemning a “go-it-alone mentality.”  Bernd Lucke, an economics professor at Hamburg University
and party leader for AfD, says Germany doesn’t need the euro and
called for a system of parallel currency to ease euro members
out of the bloc.  “What we’re seeking is the dissolution of the euro
currency area, mainly through an exit of the southern countries
from the euro, in an orderly, gentle fashion over several
years,” Lucke told ZDF television last week. Lucke was a member
of Merkel’s CDU for 33 years.  Austerity Criticism  The chancellor needs to maintain her lead in the polls amid
criticism of her adherence to austerity as the euro area faces a
second year of recession and record unemployment.  The AfD polled at 3 percent in an  Infratest-Dimap  survey
taken April 16-17 and released yesterday, below the 5 percent
threshold to win parliamentary seats. Merkel’s CDU-led bloc
topped the weekly poll, losing a percentage point to 41 percent,
with her Free Democratic Party allies at 4 percent. The main
opposition  Social Democrats  took 27 percent in the poll of 1,000
potential voters, unchanged from the previous week. The
opposition Green party garnered 14 percent support, down a
point.  Infratest earlier this month identified a potential
wellspring of support for AfD, with 24 percent of respondents
saying that they “could imagine” voting for the newcomer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  