-- Gillard Fails to Dent Opposition’s Lead as September Vote Looms
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-04-22T22:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/gillard-fails-to-dent-opposition-s-lead-as-september-vote-looms.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s ruling  Labor Party  failed to win back voters this
month, leaving it on course to lose an election scheduled in
less than five months, an opinion poll showed.  Labor’s support remained at 45 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, while  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition
held at 55 percent, according to a Newspoll published in the
Australian newspaper today, two weeks after the previous survey.
Gillard’s satisfaction level rose 2 percentage points to 30
percent.  Australia ’s first female prime minister is seeking momentum
for Labor after its credibility was damaged last month by the
party’s third leadership battle in as many years. Gillard, whose
government delivers the annual budget on May 14, is trying to
focus attention on the nation’s economic strengths and pledges
to boost spending on education and disability payments even as
tax revenue is hurt by a stronger currency.  The  budget deficit  was A$23.6 billion ($24 billion) for the
first eight months of the financial year, A$5.7 billion wider
than earlier projected, primarily due to reduced tax revenue and
higher personal benefit payments, according to government
figures released on April 12.  “We have made the choice that we won’t match that
underperformance in the revenue by cutting and cutting and
cutting government expenditure,” Gillard said in an interview
in Melbourne yesterday. “The cuts would hurt people and it
would be bad for our economy to take too much out of our
economy.”  The  Newspoll  survey of 1,129 people taken April 19-21 had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. On the
primary vote, which tallies respondents’ first voting
preference, Labor remained unchanged on 32 percent, against the
coalition’s 46 percent, down 2 points.  On the question of who would make the better prime
minister, Gillard fell 2 points to 35 percent and Abbott was
unchanged on 40 percent, the poll showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Batchelor at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net  