-- Gillard Backs Abe Reflation Even as Currency Hurts Australia
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-04-23T03:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/gillard-backs-abe-reflation-even-as-high-aussie-hurts-australia.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  added her voice to global endorsements of  Japan ’s
efforts to revive its economy, even as a sinking yen contributes
to undermining her country’s manufacturing competitiveness.  “The Japanese economy certainly does need to take steps to
pursue growth, so we are pleased that the new prime minister
seems very focused on getting growth,” Gillard said in an
interview in Melbourne late yesterday. Her remarks followed the
Group of 20’s endorsement last week of Japan’s stepped-up
monetary stimulus as something “intended to stop deflation and
support domestic demand” rather than weaken its currency.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s reflation policy has
triggered a slide in the yen that left it flirting today with
100 per dollar, a level unseen since 2009, buttressing Japan’s
export competitiveness. By contrast,  Australia  has coped with a
local dollar averaging about $1 in the past three years, the
strongest performance since the early 1980s.  “We do support free trading of currencies and we have a
very freely traded currency and we have to live with a very big
currency appreciation as a result -- with all of the pressure
that it brings on manufacturing,” Gillard said in the
interview, after delivering a speech on ties with  China .  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0224 as of 1:42 p.m. in
Sydney, after appreciating 44 percent over the past four years.
Japan’s currency was at 98.67 per  U.S. dollar , down 18 percent
since mid-November, when it became clear that Abe would win
national elections and hence a mandate for his reflation policy.  China Policy  Gillard yesterday also refrained from criticizing the
 exchange rate  of China, Australia’s biggest trade partner. Asked
whether the  yuan  was overvalued, the prime minister said that
“I won’t be specifying what level any one currency should be
at, but philosophically we do look for freer-trading
currencies.”  Australia’s unemployment rate climbed to 5.6 percent in
March from 5.4 percent the previous month, marking the highest
level since November 2009. In the manufacturing hub of Victoria,
joblessness climbed to 5.6 percent in March as the state lost
9,300 jobs, the biggest decline among the states and
territories.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden unit said this month it will
cut about 500 jobs in Australia, citing the local dollar’s
strength, and currency devaluations in competing markets.  Japan’s Efforts  Japan, too, has seen its manufacturing sector slide in
recent years as overseas demand diminished and exporters
struggled with a surging exchange rate that only turned around
in November. Factory jobs in December fell below 10 million for
the first time since 1961.  Abe and his newly installed central bank chief,  Haruhiko Kuroda , have mounted a campaign to end 15 years of deflation and
spur growth in the world’s third-largest economy. While the
efforts have stoked a rally in Japanese stocks, trade rivals
including  South Korea  have complained at the competitive damage
to their companies from the slide in the yen.  Gillard, trailing the Liberal-National coalition in opinion
polls ahead of Sept. 14 national elections, is seeking to woo
voters with pledges to boost spending on education and
disability payments even as  tax revenue  is hurt by a stronger
currency.  This month, she  unveiled  a plan to increase education
spending by A$14.5 billion ($14.9 billion) over six years in
what she called the biggest overhaul of school funding in 40
years. New South Wales, the largest state by population, became
the first of the nation’s eight states and territories to commit
to the plan at a signing ceremony in Sydney today.  Tax Shortfalls  The planned education reforms depend on the state and
territory governments -- who will be required to contribute
about a third of the cost -- signing up to it by June 30.
Improvements in education are “closest to my heart,” Gillard
said in an April 11 interview.  “Structural spends need to be matched with structural
savings,” she said in yesterday’s interview. “We will be
making savings in the budget to support these new
expenditures.”  Australia faces years of deficits due to tax shortfalls and
declining prices for resources, an independent research group
said yesterday. Australia’s state and federal governments may
post combined deficits in the next decade of about 4 percent of
gross domestic product, or about A$60 billion a year, the
Grattan Institute report said. Extra spending on health is the
biggest cost, it said.  The  budget deficit  was A$23.6 billion for the first eight
months of the financial year, already A$5.7 billion wider than
earlier projected, primarily due to reduced tax revenue and
higher personal benefit payments, according to Treasury figures
released on April 12.  Swan’s Budget  In its October mid-year review, the government forecast a
budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12 months ending June
30. It recorded a A$44 billion deficit last fiscal year.
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  will release the annual budget on May 14.  “We have made the choice that we won’t match that
underperformance in the revenue by cutting and cutting and
cutting government expenditure,” Gillard said. “The cuts would
hurt people and it would be bad for our economy to take too much
out of our economy.”  Labor’s support remained at 45 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, while  Tony Abbott ’s coalition held at 55
percent, according to a  Newspoll  published in the Australian
newspaper today, two weeks after the previous survey. Gillard’s
satisfaction level rose 2 percentage points to 30 percent.  The survey of 1,129 people taken April 19-21 had a margin
of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  