-- Gleacher Investor Urges ‘Rebirth’ as Asset Manager
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-04-22T15:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/gleacher-investor-urges-rebirth-as-asset-manager.html
Gleacher & Co. (GLCH) , the brokerage that
closed its fixed-income business, should seek a “rapid
rebirth” as an asset manager, according to activist shareholder
Clinton Group Inc.  Clinton Group, part of a coalition with a 7.7 percent stake
in the brokerage, urged stockholders in a regulatory filing
today to vote for its slate of directors, who would then use
Gleacher’s brand to build a money-management business. Other
investors favor liquidating the firm, Clinton Group said.  “We believe that new, objective and highly qualified
directors can help the company execute a rapid rebirth, driving
profitability through a fast turnaround plan that focuses on new
areas of financial services,” Clinton Group wrote. A rebuilt
firm could also engage in proprietary investing with some
related  investment banking , according to the filing.  Gleacher said April 10 that it’s closing the fixed-income
business, which generated most of the New York-based firm’s
revenue, as salesmen defected and customers suspended trading.
The brokerage was in talks to combine with Sterne Agee Group
Inc., people familiar with the matter said at the time.
Gleacher’s stock, which has dropped 63 percent in the past two
years, was little changed at 72 cents at 11:18 a.m. in New York.  Thomas Hughes, Gleacher’s chief executive officer, and Lee Fensterstock, a former CEO, are among Clinton’s nominees for the
board, according to the filing. New York-based MatlinPatterson
Global Advisers LLC, a private-equity firm, holds about 29
percent of Gleacher, and Eric Gleacher, the merger banker who
founded the company and resigned in January, owns 12 percent,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Gleacher said today in a regulatory filing that it will
hold its annual meeting on May 23. The firm said it expects
Clinton Group and MatlinPatterson to nominate directors and that
it has no recommendation how stockholders should vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  