-- Goldman Partner to Help Raise Funds for Crick Institute
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-04-22T12:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/goldman-partner-to-help-raise-funds-for-crick-institute.html
Charles Manby, a senior partner at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., will lead a 100 million-pound ($152
million) fundraising campaign for the  Francis Crick Institute ,
which will be Europe’s largest biomedical research center.  Manby will be chairman of the 16-member board collecting
the money for  Cancer Research UK , which is contributing to the
institute’s 650 million-pound construction cost and its 120
million-pound annual budget. The board includes the chief
executive officers of International Standard Asset Management,
 Ted Baker Plc (TED) , Ingenious, Newton Investment Management,  New York
Times Co. (NYT) , and  WPP Plc (WPP) , Cancer Research UK said today in an e-
mailed  statement .  The institute will open in London in 2015. Paul Nurse, a
2001  Nobel Prize  winner in physiology or medicine for work on
cell cycle regulation, is leading a four-year effort to build
the facility. At 1 million square feet and with as many as 1,500
employees, including 1,250 scientists, he said the Crick
Institute will become Europe’s biggest science research center
in one building.  “The institute will take new approaches in carrying out
biomedical research aimed at speeding up scientific discovery
and the application of those discoveries,” Nurse said in the
statement. “We need the funds to make this a reality.”  CEO Members  International Standard Asset Management CEO  Stanley Fink ,
Ted Baker CEO Ray Kelvin, Ingenious CEO Patrick McKenna, Newton
Investment CEO Helena Morrissey, WPP CEO  Martin Sorrell  and  New
York  Times CEO  Mark Thompson  will work with Manby to raise money
for the institute, according to the cancer charity.  Other members of the Cancer Research UK fundraising board
are Sherry Coutu, an investor who serves on the finance board of
 Cambridge University ; former HSBC Holdings Plc CEO Michael Geoghegan; David Harding, founder and president of Winton
Capital Management LLC; Richard Hayden, chairman of Haymarket
Financial; Autonomy Corp. co-founder Mike Lynch; Hayat Palumbo,
chairman of the Walbrook Club; Andrew Pisker, co-founder of
Richmond Park Partners LLP and former CEO of Dresdner Kleinwort
Wasserstein; Lee Portnoi, former chairman of TIS Group Ltd; and
Mark Yallop, U.K. group country CEO at UBS AG.  The U.K. government-funded  Medical Research Council  is
paying 300 million pounds of the Crick’s construction costs, the
Wellcome Trust is providing 120 million pounds and London-based
 Cancer Research  UK is contributing 160 million pounds.  Imperial
College London ,  King’s College London  and  University College
London  are pitching in 40 million pounds each. The total
includes contingency funds.  The expected 120 million-pound annual budget will come from
the same sources. Cancer Research will fund 40 million pounds to
50 million pounds a year and the Wellcome Trust will give an
undetermined amount, the heads of both groups said. The
remainder will come from the government and the universities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  