-- Guinea Arrests Steinmetz Group Executives as U.S. Probe Widens
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h ,   O u g n a   C a m a r a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-04-22T14:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/guinea-arrests-steinmetz-group-executives-as-u-s-probe-widens.html
Guinea  arrested two executives of
BSG Resources Ltd., the mining company controlled by  Israel ’s
richest person Beny Steinmetz, as a U.S. investigation into how
it won rights to a “lucrative” iron-ore deposit widened.  Local police arrested Ibrahima Sory Toure, vice president
of BSGR and director of public relations, as part of a probe
into whether bribes were paid to win two licenses covering the
Simandou deposit, Toure’s lawyer, Momo Sacko, said today. A
security official for BSGR in Guinea, Issaga Bangoura, was also
apprehended, according to a statement from the Justice Ministry.  “Their arrest follows suspicious activities aimed at
removing themselves from the ongoing process,” the ministry
said. Toure was preparing to leave Guinea and Bangoura was
wanted by his military unit for being absent without permission,
according to the e-mailed statement, which described the men as
“key witnesses” to the probe.  Sacko, who is also representing Bangoura, dismissed claims
against the official.  “Investigators thought they could find documents to cross-
check allegations of corruption but they do not find anything,”
Sacko said by telephone from the capital, Conakry.  BSGR said the men had been illegally detained on
unsubstantiated grounds. “This is a further example of an
illegitimate government resorting to harassment of BSG Resources
and its officials,” the Guernsey-based company said in an e-
mailed statement.  Simandou Permits  BSGR acquired rights to part of the Simandou project, one
of the world’s richest iron-ore deposits, in 2008 after Rio
Tinto Group was ordered by the government to give up a section
of its license area. BSGR subsequently sold 51 percent of its
Simandou stake to  Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE5)  in 2010 for $2.5 billion. A
$10 billion mining operation was planned at the site.  Investigators seized computers and other documents in a
raid of Toure’s house on April 19, Sacko said today.  The arrests are the latest in the probe first revealed by
the  U.S. Department of Justice  last week. Frederic Cilins,
described by Guinean Justice Minister Christian Sow as an agent
of BSGR, was arrested in the U.S. on April 14 and charged with
plotting to destroy documents and induce a witness to give false
testimony to a grand jury, according to a criminal complaint
filed in federal court in  New York .  That witness is Mamadie Toure, the wife of former Guinean
President Lansana Conte, a person with knowledge of the probe
said last week. Guinea has accused BSGR of agreeing to pay her,
and companies linked to her, $5 million to help it win the
Simandou permits in 2008, according to an Oct. 30 letter to
BSGR’s local joint venture and seen by Bloomberg.  Cilins Charges  From March to April 14, Cilins allegedly offered to pay the
witness, described in the complaint as the former wife of a now-
deceased high-ranking Guinea government official, to deliver
documents subpoenaed by the jury and documents requested by the
FBI so he could destroy them, according to the complaint.  BSGR said in a statement last week that Cilins isn’t one of
the company’s 6,000 employees and that allegations of fraud in
obtaining its mining rights are baseless.  Mamadie Toure was the fourth wife of former President
Conte, who died in 2008. The witness is helping the U.S. with
its investigation in the hope of obtaining immunity for her own
potential criminal conduct, the U.S. complaint states.  Guinea Probe  The  Department of Justice ’s April 15 statement that it was
investigating the possible payment of bribes to win “lucrative
mining rights” followed the start of a probe by Guinea in 2012
into how BSGR gained its permits. The company may have bribed
Mamadie Toure to obtain licenses, including for Blocks 1 and 2
at Simandou, Guinea officials alleged in the Oct. 30 letter.  “The investigation takes place within the framework of a
collaboration between both departments of justice of Guinea and
the U.S.,” Ibrahima Beavogui, a spokesman for Guinea’s Justice
Ministry, said by phone. “American investigators are currently
in Guinea within the framework of this investigation.”  Steinmetz, 57, is Israel’s richest person with a net worth
of about $8.5 billion, according to Bloomberg Billionaires
analysis. His BSG Investments has interests in mining, real
estate and  capital markets , according to its website.  The federal grand-jury investigation concerns transfers of
money into the U.S. from outside the country as part of a scheme
to obtain mining concessions in Guinea including in the Simandou
region, according to the complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Cilins, 13-mj-00975, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Ougna Camara in Conakry at 
 ocamara@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  