-- Li Ka-Shing’s Port, Workers Wage Ad War as Strike Continues
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-04-22T09:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/li-ka-shing-port-workers-wage-ad-war-as-strike-enters-26th-day.html
Li Ka-shing ’s Hong Kong port
operator and striking workers published advertisements today in
an attempt to win public support as a strike over wages extends
to almost four weeks.  Hongkong International Terminals Ltd. , one of the operators
at the world’s third-biggest container port, said the 20 percent
raise contract workers are demanding will “create an impact
across other industries and cause irreparable damage to Hong
Kong,” according to its advertisement in the South China
Morning Post. The workers ran an advertisement in the Chinese-
language Ming Pao Daily with a headline questioning whether Li
really understands their situation.  The escalating protests come after some port workers were
told they will lose their jobs as Global Stevedoring Services
Co., one of the contractors which employs them, decided April 19
to wind up operations because it wasn’t able to meet the
workers’ salary demand. More than 50 port workers and family
members protested outside Li’s mansion yesterday, Wen Wei Po
reported today.  Contract workers of Hongkong International Terminals were
offered a 7 percent raise by their employers, the company said
in an e-mail on April 17. The workers had asked for a 23 percent
increase.  The port operator also said it couldn’t meet lawmaker Lee
Cheuk-yan and the union’s request to have direct negotiations
with workers because the company doesn’t employ them.  Matthew Cheung, secretary for labor and welfare, will meet
striking workers at 6 p.m. today in Hong Kong, according to a
statement on the government website.  Following Suit  “They are targeting the union and the strikers because
they don’t want a union victory after the strike, which may
cause other workers to follow suit,” Lee, who is also general
secretary of the  Hong Kong Confederation of Trade Unions , said
by phone today.  Workers are asking for the pay increase to catch up with
inflation over the past 18 years, according to the advertisement
ran by the Union of Hong Kong Dockers today. Workers are paid
less than what they earned in 1995, it said.  “This is not a mere fight by hundreds or thousands of port
workers,” the union’s advertisement said. “It is also all Hong
Kong workers’ fight for their dignity.”  The union called for another rally outside Li’s Cheung Kong
Center headquarters on April 26.  Dozens of workers pitched tents around the 70-story Cheung
Kong Center in the business district after a protest march on
April 17 as government mediators struggled to narrow the
differences. The strike prompted shipping lines to divert
vessels to Shenzhen,  China , from Hong Kong’s harbor, and is the
biggest revolt against Li, 84, Asia’s richest man.  Living Costs  About 450 workers, mostly crane operators and stevedores,
walked out on March 28, seeking higher wages and better working
conditions as rising living costs and record home prices spur
discontent in the former British colony.  Hongkong International Terminals is operated by  Hutchison
Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , whose largest shareholder is Li’s Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. Hutchison Port, along with partner  Cosco Pacific
Ltd. (1199) , dominates half of the capacity at Hong Kong, the world’s
third-largest container port behind Shanghai and  Singapore .  Hutchison Port was unchanged to close at 81 cents in
Singapore trading. Shares of  Hutchison Whampoa (13)  slipped 0.3
percent HK$80.60 in Hong Kong, while the city’s Hang Seng Index
rose 0.1 percent.  The dockworkers at the Hong Kong port earn HK$55 ($7) an
hour, according to the union. That’s less than the HK$60.70 they
were paid in 1995, the union said. The workers had a pay cut in
2003 during the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome,
or SARS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  