-- Michelin Quarterly Sales Drop as Europe Recession Widens
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-04-23T07:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/michelin-quarterly-sales-drop-as-europe-recession-widens.html
Michelin & Cie. (ML) ,  Europe ’s largest
tiremaker, said first-quarter revenue fell 8.1 percent as a
recession reducing car sales in its home region widened to hurt
demand at bulldozer and military-plane manufacturers.  Sales dropped to 4.88 billion euros ($6.36 billion) from
5.3 billion euros a year earlier, Clermont-Ferrand, France-based
Michelin said yesterday in a statement. Revenue missed the 4.97
billion-euro average of four analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The tiremaker, reiterating forecasts of “steady”
volume and “stable” earnings for 2013, said it may look at
reorganizing in the absence of a market recovery.  Demand for earthmovers is “falling sharply” in Europe and
 North America , and sales of farm tractors and defense aircraft
are also declining, Michelin said. The manufacturer is seeking
more growth outside Europe and marketing more so-called
specialty tires used on large vehicles amid a car-market
contraction that French auto producer  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
expects at as much as 5 percent this year.  “If volumes stay at the levels at which they are today,
that would imply some European restructuring,” Chief Financial
Officer Marc Henry said on a conference call with analysts.
“This is under scrutiny of course, but nothing is said yet.”  The shares  dropped  as much as 2.77 euros, or 4.6 percent,
to 57.23 euros and were down 2.3 percent as of 9:22 a.m. in
Paris trading. The French manufacturer has declined 18 percent
this year, valuing the company at 10.8 billion euros.  Shrinking Market  The European car market is at the smallest in two decades
after a decline of 10 percent in March that dragged down first-
quarter registrations 9.7 percent to a record-low 3.1 million
vehicles. The region accounted for about 40 percent of
Michelin’s sales last year.  First-quarter revenue from car and light-truck tires fell
6.5 percent to 2.58 billion euros, while heavy-truck tire sales
declined 7.9 percent to 1.48 billion euros. Revenue from
specialty tires, Michelin’s most profitable product line,
tumbled 13 percent to 818 million euros.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s biggest maker of mining
equipment, cut its 2013 forecast yesterday and lowered its
outlook for demand from commodities producers “significantly.”
 Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s largest plane manufacturer, said on
April 19 that it’s scaling back the production rate of the 747-8
jumbo jet amid a slowdown in the global air-cargo market.  Cash Flow  Michelin is still predicting an increase in replacement
sales of giant tires for mining vehicles, Henry said on the call
yesterday. Other earthmover markets are “difficult,” with
declines in sales to producers of the vehicles, and industrywide
farm-tractor tire sales are “almost flat,” the manufacturer
said in an online  presentation .  The company also reiterated a forecast that the return on
capital employed will exceed 10 percent and that it will post
positive free  cash flow .  Rubber prices  are trading near a five-month low, which may
reduce the burden of spending on raw materials at auto-parts
makers such as Michelin. The price for September delivery
declined yesterday.  Falling raw-material costs may help full-year operating
profit by 550 million euros, offsetting a possible 330 million-
euro earnings reduction resulting from product-price cuts,
Michelin said.  “The decrease in input costs should generate incremental
gross profit for global tire manufacturers, given relatively
strong volume in the U.S. and  Asia  offsetting weakness in
Europe,”  Kevin Tynan , a Bloomberg Industries analyst, said in a
report dated April 17. “Declining rubber prices have correlated
with narrower gross margins, as a reflection on weaker consumer
demand for higher-margin replacement tires.”  Exchange-rate effects may hurt full-year earnings by less
than 100 million euros, Henry said. Currency shifts reduced
sales by 61 million euros in the first quarter, Michelin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  