-- IMF Urges Sudan to Use $3 Billion Oil Payment to Support Reforms
-- B y   M i c h a e l   G u n n
-- 2013-04-22T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/imf-urges-sudan-to-use-3-billion-oil-payment-to-support-reforms.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
urged  Sudan  to divert more than $3 billion in compensation it’s
set to receive from  South Sudan  to back reforms that will
provide the government with more reliable revenue streams.  Sudan will get the funds over three-and-a-half years as
part of an agreement last year to help the country cope with the
loss of oil revenue it suffered when South Sudan seceded in July
2011. The country will also collect transportation and
processing fees from South Sudan, which exports its crude via
Sudanese pipelines to a terminal at Port Sudan on the  Red Sea .  “Given the temporary nature of some of these revenues for
Sudan, it is critical that they be used wisely to support
reforms that will put the economy on a sound long-term
footing,” Paul Jenkins, the IMF’s representative in Sudan, said
in an e-mailed response to questions on April 21.  Sudan’s economy contracted 4.4 percent in 2012 after South
Sudan at independence took three-quarters of the formerly united
country’s output of 490,000 barrels a day. The economy was also
by hit by a loss of revenue after South Sudan stopped oil
production in January 2012 in a dispute over export fees that
brought the two countries to the brink of war.  South Sudan restarted output this month after the two
countries agreed to resume transfers and the first shipment may
arrive at  Port Sudan  by the end of May, according to Suna,
Sudan’s state news agency. The agreement will unlock “sizable
revenues for both parties” and boost foreign-exchange earnings,
Jenkins said.  Oil in South Sudan is pumped mainly by China National
Petroleum Corp., Petroliam Nasional Bhd of Malaysia and India’s
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  Trucks, Pipelines  South Sudan is seeking alternative routes to ship its
crude. The government last month signed an agreement with
Ethiopia and  Djibouti  to move its oil by truck and it’s also in
discussions on building two other pipelines through Kenya and
Djibouti.  Sudan’s gross domestic product is expected to expand 1.2
percent this year and 2.6 percent in 2014, according to the
IMF’s World Economic Outlook published on April 16. The
forecasts were made before the agreement to restart oil exports,
said Jenkins.  “The long-term challenge facing Sudan is to re-orient its
economy away from reliance on oil and other extractive
industries,” Jenkins said. “Reinvigorating agriculture, the
source of the livelihoods for the majority of the population, is
especially critical. Sudan should also focus on strengthening
its tax system to boost government revenues.”  Sudan last year announced a range of measures to increase
income including raising the  value-added tax  to 17 percent from
15 percent, doubling the tax on banking profits to 30 percent
and phasing out subsidies for fuel and sugar, according to the
IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Gunn in Nairobi at 
 mgunn14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  