-- India Stocks Lure Most Flows in 5 Weeks on Rate Cut Hopes
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-04-23T01:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/india-stocks-lure-most-flows-in-5-weeks-on-rate-cut-hopes.html
Overseas funds  bought the most
Indian equities in five weeks on speculation slowing wholesale-
price inflation and falling commodity prices will spur the
central bank to cut  interest rates  next week.  Foreigners bought $292.1 million more of local stocks than
they sold last week, the most since the period ended March 15,
data from the nation’s market regulator showed. The purchases
bolstered this year’s net inflows to $10.6 billion, the second-
largest amount among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg,
behind  Japan .  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for April delivery
rose 0.3 percent to 5,850 at 9:20 a.m. in Singapore, heading for
seventh day of gains.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex posted its steepest advance in more
than four months last week as data showed  wholesale-price  growth
slowed to a 40-month low in March. Brent oil slid below $100 a
barrel for the first time since July last week and gold fell the
most since 1983, reducing import costs for the two commodities
that fueled India’s record current-account gap in the last
quarter of 2012. The country ships in more than 80 percent of
its oil and is the world’s largest bullion buyer.  “India will benefit from the lower  oil prices  as it is a
net importer of oil and the drop in gold, given that they are
heavy importers, will help the current-account deficit,” James Thom, a  fund manager  at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said in a
phone interview from Singapore April 19.  Ignite Growth  The shortfall in the nation’s current account, together
with a  consumer-inflation  rate that exceeds 10 percent, has
deterred the  Reserve Bank  of India from making further cuts to
borrowing costs after 25 basis-point reductions in January and
March. The central bank may reduce its key rate by another 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, at a May 3 review,
according to 14 of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
other two predict no change.  Another rate cut would help revive economic growth, Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in an April 19 interview
from  Washington , where he was attending meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank . Chidambaram also
met investors in the U.S. and  Canada  in a bid to woo capital to
fund the current-account deficit.  “Conditions are shaping up positively for us,” Ashima Goyal, a member of the  Reserve Bank of India ’s technical
advisory committee, said in an interview April 16. She is part
of the panel that makes recommendations to RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on setting monetary policy. “As inflation comes down
as a result of commodity prices softening, policy makers can
encourage growth more,” Goyal said.  Corporate Earnings  Declines in oil and gold may help cut India’s import costs
by almost $7 billion in the 12 months ending March 2014,
Barclays Plc analysts wrote in an April 17 note.  The Sensex fell 7.3 percent in the five weeks to April 12
on concern the slowest economic expansion since 2003 and the
highest inflation rate among major emerging nations will curb
profit growth. Net income at about 43 percent of the 30 Sensex-
listed companies trailed analysts’ forecasts in the three months
ended Dec. 31, compared with 40 percent in the previous two
quarters,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  “India has been a bit of a laggard,” Aberdeen’s Thom
said.  The index trades at 12.9 times  projected 12-month profit ,
down from this year’s peak of 13.8 in January. The  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  trades at 10.6 times. Indian markets were closed
for a holiday April 19.  Foreign Investment  Inflation in Asia’s third-biggest economy, as measured by
the wholesale-price index, slowed to a more than three-year low
of 5.96 percent in March. The consumer gauge increased 10.39
percent last month from a year earlier. India’s gross domestic
product rose 5 percent last fiscal year, the weakest pace since
2003, according to statistics agency estimates.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government has been taking
steps since September to open  India’s economy  to more foreign
investment, curb the budget shortfall and speed up stalled
infrastructure projects. The measures prompted foreign investors
to buy a net $24.5 billion of stocks last year, the most among
10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg. The Sensex rallied 26
percent in 2012, the measure’s best performance in three years.  Foreigners have been net sellers of Indian stocks in just
two of the past 13 years, based on data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 2000. Inflows climbed to a record $29.3 billion in
2010, making the Sensex the best performer among the world’s 10
biggest markets that year. The largest-ever outflow in 2008 amid
the global financial crisis triggered the biggest  annual slump 
of 52 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  