-- India’s Nifty Futures Signal Stocks May Extend Last Week’s Rally
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-04-22T02:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/india-s-nifty-futures-signal-stocks-may-extend-last-week-s-rally.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures rose,
signaling stocks may extend the biggest weekly increase in more
than four months.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for April delivery added 0.4
percent to 5,814, at 10:19 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index rose 1.7 percent to 5,783.10 on April 18, while the
S&P BSE Sensex index advanced 1.5 percent to 19,016.46. The Bank
of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares rose
0.8 percent on April 19, when Indian markets were shut for a
public holiday.  The Sensex climbed 4.2 percent last week as April 15 data
showed wholesale prices slowed to a 40-month low in March.
Stocks also rose as slumping oil and gold prices lowered import
costs for commodities that contributed to a record current-
account gap for the nation in the last quarter of 2012.  India ’s
trade deficit shrank to $10.3 billion in March from $13.5
billion a year earlier, the government said on April 18.  “Positive momentum could remain for a while,” Amar Ambani, head of research at India Infoline Ltd., wrote in an e-
mail. “The cool-off in inflation has renewed hopes of a rate
cut.”  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said a further cut
in interest rates by the central bank would help revive economic
growth, and flagged the possibility of bettering his target for
the  budget deficit . Chidambaram made the comments in an April 19
interview from Washington, where he was attending meetings of
the  International Monetary Fund  and the World Bank.  Wipro Earnings  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , the technology-services company controlled by
billionaire  Azim Premji , may move after reporting a 17 percent
gain in fourth-quarter profit on April 19. Cairn India Ltd. and
UltraTech Cement Ltd. are due to report earnings today.  Last week’s rally drove the Sensex’s valuation to 12.8
times  projected 12-month profits , the highest level since April
2. The gauge is still down 2.1 percent this year amid concerns
about the current-account deficit, slowing economic  growth  and
the highest  inflation  rate among major emerging nations.  International investors bought a net $45.1 million of
Indian shares on April 17, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Foreigners’ net equity investment in stocks this year is $10.3
billion, the data show. Inflows last year totaled $24.5 billion,
the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  “Profit booking cannot be ruled out” this week given last
week’s rally, Sanjeev Zarbade, vice president of private client
group research at Kotak Securities Ltd., said by e-mail on April
18. “Investors need to be watchful of any event that would
trigger  risk aversion  leading to flow of funds out of emerging
markets including India.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  