-- India Offers to Foot Bill for 30% of Solar Construction Costs
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2013-04-22T14:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/india-offers-to-foot-bill-for-30-of-solar-construction-costs.html
India  proposed to fund almost a
third of solar-plant construction costs as it outlined rules for
a second phase of project auctions today.  The country, seeking bids next month to build 750 megawatts
of capacity, is offering grants of as much as 25 million rupees
($46,000) a megawatt or 30 percent of project costs, according
to the draft  guidelines  published on the website of the Ministry
of New and  Renewable Energy .  The proposals mark the first time the solar industry has
attracted such extensive direct grants in India. The government,
which has previously used the funding model to build roads,
railways and coal-fired  power plants , is seeking to boost
renewable-energy output to curb chronic blackouts that shave an
estimated 1.2 percentage points off annual economic growth.  The country is proposing a minimum solar-plant size of 10
megawatts in the second auction, with a fixed power-purchase
price of 5.45 rupees a kilowatt-hour for 25 years, according to
the guidelines.  The draft rules, which are open for consultation until
April 30, don’t specify the capacity of solar cells and modules
to be purchased as part of local content requirements. India has
rejected claims by U.S. suppliers that it has violated World
Trade Organization rules on equipment imports.  The South Asian country, the world’s second most-populous
nation, will probably auction more solar megawatts than planned
this fiscal year in a bid to cut power shortages, Tarun Kapoor,
joint secretary at the New and Renewable Energy Ministry, said
March 14. India has targeted more than the 1,650 megawatts for
the year through March 2014. It plans an eightfold expansion of
solar capacity by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  