-- International Paper's Xpedx, Unisource to Explore Merger
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-04-22T20:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/international-paper-says-xpedx-unisource-to-explore-merger.html
International Paper Co. (IP) , the
world’s largest maker of office paper, is in talks about
combining its xpedx unit with Bain Capital’s Unisource Worldwide
Inc. to form the biggest distributor of office and copier paper.  A deal may be in the form of a so-called Reverse Morris
Trust in which International Paper would contribute xpedx’s
assets, the Memphis, Tennessee-based company said today in a
statement. It “would be spun off to International Paper
shareholders and immediately thereafter merged with Unisource in
a transaction intended to be tax-free to International Paper and
its shareholders,” according to the statement.  “It’s a significant move by International Paper to create
value with a unit that has underperformed its cost of capital,”
Joshua Zaret, a New York-based analyst at Longbow Research LLC,
said today by telephone. “With about $10 billion of combined
revenue, IP is betting that synergies from a merger will
generate greater returns than from continuing to restructure
xpedx.”  International Paper and Unisource will decide how to divide
ownership of the new company through further talks, according to
the statement. The combined companies would be  North America ’s
largest distributor of products such as office and copier paper,
Zaret said.  International Paper  rose  3.2 percent to $47.15 in  New York .
The shares have gained 18 percent this year.  Resurrecting xpedx  “This is a unique opportunity for xpedx and Unisource to
create a new company that is stronger, more competitive and
provide even greater value to customers,” International Paper
Chief Executive Officer John Faraci said today in the statement.  Unisource, based in Norcross,  Georgia , is closely held and
is “one of the largest independent distributors and marketers
of more than 150,000 national and private-label products” in
North America, according to its website. The company is majority
owned by Boston-based Bain, according to a separate statement
from Unisource.  “International Paper’s been trying to resurrect xpedx and
make some money for a while,”  Paul Quinn , a Vancouver-based
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said today by telephone.
“They’ve made progress, but they’re clearly looking at other
ways to boost profitability.”  Xpedx operating profit fell 17 percent last year to $71
million on sales of $6.04 billion, according to a presentation
on International Paper’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  