-- Investors Aren’t Driving the Housing Recovery, Chang Says
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-04-22T16:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/investors-aren-t-driving-the-housing-recovery-chang-says.html
The U.S. housing recovery is being
driven more by buyers seeking a place to live than by investors,
said Oliver Chang, a former Morgan Stanley analyst and proponent
of bringing institutional capital to rental housing.  Purchases by owner-occupants seeking to take advantage of
 mortgage  rates that are close to a record low have been the
biggest factor in rising home  prices  and sales following the
worst housing crash since the Great Depression, according to
Chang, who left Morgan Stanley last year to co-found Sylvan Road
Capital LLC, an Atlanta-based single-family home rental
investment fund.  “It’s possible that investors are less in the driver’s
seat and more along for the ride,” Chang wrote in a note before
the Information Management Network conference on single-family
rentals that starts today in Miami. “The housing recovery
appears to be broad-based and here to stay, although not because
of the entrance of institutional investors into the space.”  Private-equity funds, real estate investment trusts and
high-net-worth investors have raised more than $10 billion to
buy homes to rent, seeking to take advantage of prices 29
percent below the 2006 peak and rising demand for rentals from
Americans blocked out of homeownership.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
world’s largest private-equity firm, has spent more than $4
billion to buy 24,000 rental homes in the past year.  Sales Fall  Sales of previously owned U.S.  homes  fell 0.6 percent in
March from the previous month as a tight supply of inventory --
especially listings of bank-owned homes or others selling for a
loss --limited the number of deals, the National Association of
Realtors reported today from  Washington . The median home  price 
climbed 11.8 percent from a year earlier to $184,300, the
biggest gain since November 2005, according to the group.  “The share of existing home sales which took place under
distressed conditions fell again, to 21 percent -- the lowest
level in the five-year history of this series,”  Paul Diggle ,
property economist with Capital Economics Ltd., wrote today in a
note from  London . “Looked at another way, excluding distressed
sales, existing home sales rose by 4.7 percent month-over-month
and 23 percent year-over-year in March.”  While large investors have been credited with being leaders
of the recovery, they “represent a minuscule portion of the
total housing market,” Chang said in his report. “It’s a good
thing that owner-occupied buyers are driving sales and price
increases -- it means that there is some level of increasing
fundamental demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  