-- Irish Troika Officials Arrive as Stakes Rise Before Bailo
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-04-22T09:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/irish-troika-officials-arrive-as-stakes-rise-before-bailo.html
Ireland’s bailout masters start
their tenth review of the rescue tomorrow as a labor-union
rejection of public-sector pay cuts complicates the government’s
plan to regain economic sovereignty.  The troika of the  European Central Bank , the  International
Monetary Fund , and the European Commission arrive in Dublin to
examine Ireland’s progress, as the state seeks to exit the
bailout program at the end of the year.  The troika arrive a week after Irish public sector trade
unions rejected government proposals last week to reduce
salaries for some of the best-paid public workers by at least
5.5 percent, dealing Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  his biggest
setback since taking office in 2011. Kenny told lawmakers last
week his government is committed to making the 300 million euros
($391 million) in payroll savings this year.  “After the rejection of the pay deal last week, intense
discussions on the options now available for the government may
be the most fraught,”  Dermot O’Leary , an economist at  Goodbody
Stockbrokers , said in a note today.  The government is aiming to resolve the impasse before the
cuts need to be implemented in July, Finance Minister  Michael
Noonan  was quoted as telling the Irish Times in an interview
published today. Separately, the newspaper said the 2014 budget
will contain a “strong gesture” to taxpayers to show the era
of austerity is drawing to a close, citing an unnamed government
minister.  Deficit Narrows  Noonan will this week is due to release his medium-term
economic and budgetary plan. The fiscal deficit this year may
narrow to 7.4 percent of gross domestic product, beating the
program target of 7.5 percent, the ministry said today.  “With public finances better than targets in the first
quarter, Ireland is likely to pass the latest review and thus
receive the latest tranche of aid,” said O’Leary.
“Nevertheless, with some important issues remaining, the report
card is not going to be totally unblemished.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  