-- MISC Slides as Petronas Pulls $3 Billion Bid: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-04-22T09:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/misc-slides-as-petronas-pulls-3-billion-bid-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
MISC Bhd. (MISC) , the world’s second-
largest shipper of liquefied natural gas, tumbled the most in 14
years in  Kuala Lumpur  stock trading after Petroliam Nasional Bhd.
withdrew its 9.16 billion ringgit ($3 billion) buyout offer.  The stock fell 14 percent to close at 4.57 ringgit, its
steepest drop since September 1998. That’s 17 percent below
Petronas’s failed final offer of 5.50 ringgit per share. The
shares earlier dropped as much as 15 percent. MISC was the
 second-biggest decliner  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index today.  Petronas, as  Malaysia ’s state oil and gas company is known,
pulled its bid after failing to win enough minority shareholder
support to take the company private, MISC said in a statement on
April 19. It earlier raised its offer from 5.30 ringgit per
share after some minority shareholders, including the Employees
Provident Fund, complained the first bid was too low.  “We are surprised by the outcome as we had expected a
better reception,” Cezzane See, an analyst at K&N Kenanga
Holdings Bhd., wrote in a report today. Kenanga reverted back to
its underperform rating and 4.61 ringgit price target held
before the buyout bid. That means it now expects the stock to
return less than fixed deposit rates over the next 12 months.  MISC traded at 4.45 ringgit before Petronas announced its
initial offer on January 31. The state energy company, which
already owned  63 percent  of MISC, came 3.9 percentage points
short of the acceptance level required to take it private,
according to an April 19 stock exchange filing.  ‘Not Fair’  Petronas said in January a buyout would have provided it
with greater flexibility in deciding its strategic direction.
MISC shut its container-ship business last year to focus on LNG
tankers after the cargo-box unit made losses of $789 million
over three years due to global overcapacity and falling rates.  Independent adviser AmInvestment Bank Bhd. said earlier
this month the revised bid was “not fair but reasonable”
taking into account the “risks and challenges” faced by MISC.
It had urged minority shareholders to accept the offer.  Investors should use today’s drop to accumulate as
prospects for MISC “remain bright,” Ahmad Maghfur Usman, an
analyst at RHB Capital Bhd., wrote in a report today. The
shipping group could benefit from its parent’s expansion in
Australia and  Canada  and could list its LNG shipping division to
raise capital to acquire more vessels, he said.  “Such a move will crystalize the valuations of the
shipping conglomerate,” said Ahmad Maghfur, who upgraded the
stock to  buy  from neutral with a price target of 5.88 ringgit.
“Petronas won’t be making a new offer for six months at least.
Beyond that, however, we do not discount the possibility.”  MISC operates the world’s biggest fleet of LNG ships after
Qatar Gas Transport Co., according to Clarkson Plc, the world’s
largest shipbroker.  “Dissenting minorities believe that there is greater value
from the offer price,” Wong Ming Tek, an analyst at HwangDBS
Vickers Research Sdn., wrote in a report today. “Longer-term
investors are looking beyond the current weakness in petroleum
and chemical tanker rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  