-- Israel Welcomes Hagel, a Friend Bearing Gifts
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-04-22T16:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/israel-welcomes-hagel-a-friend-bearing-gifts.html
A few days ago, the chief of staff
of the  Israel Defense Forces , Benny Gantz, pushed back against
the idea -- which has recently gained much currency among Iran-
watchers -- that it was too late for his country to act alone
against Iran’s nuclear facilities, should sanctions, subterfuge
and diplomacy fail.  “The IDF has the capability of attacking the nuclear
installations by itself,”  Gantz said .  The general isn’t given to bluster, so this was a
noteworthy statement. He felt comfortable making it because he
knew that in a few days he would be welcoming to Israel a friend
bearing some useful gifts.  The friend is the new American secretary of defense, Chuck Hagel. And the gifts? Well, they are gifts the Iranian regime
would prefer  Israel  didn’t possess: advanced radar packages that
extend Israel’s ability to see east (and west, north and south,
but east is what matters most at the moment), KC-135 refueling
tankers, and V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor transport aircraft. The
tankers will extend the range of Israel’s bombers, and the
Ospreys are particularly useful for inserting commandos into
enemy territory. The sale of Ospreys (these gifts come with a
price tag, but the generous U.S. aid package means they’re
subsidized) is particularly notable, because Israel will be the
first American ally allowed to buy them.  Hagel’s Role  What is also notable is Hagel’s role in the sale. You
remember Hagel, yes? The former senator from  Nebraska   accused  of
being an anti-Semite by a columnist in the Wall Street Journal?
The foreign policy “realist” who was said to coddle Israel’s
terrorist enemies? The appeaser whose appointment, according to
 Alan Dershowitz , would  encourage  Iran “to proceed with their
development of nuclear weapons without fear of an attack from
the  United States ?”  Hagel is now exhibiting his anti-Zionist animus in an
unusual way, by spending two days in Israel as the guest of its
new hardline defense minister, Moshe Ya’alon (and the reports
I’ve received from Israel suggest the two are getting along
well). Hagel chose to make Israel his first overseas stop to
counter the stream of accusations leveled against him by his
opponents. Or, more to the point, by the opponents of his new
boss, President  Barack Obama , who has also been the target of
partisan attacks accusing him of loathing Israel. Obama managed
to mostly shut down that line of invective by visiting Israel
himself last month, to the general acclaim of Israel’s citizens
and leaders.  By all accounts -- including Israeli accounts -- Hagel,
like Obama, is deeply interested in enhancing Israel’s military
edge in the region, affirming the ironclad alliance between the
two nations and bluntly asserting the U.S. position on  Iran’s
nuclear program . According to  Bloomberg News ’s Gopal Ratnam,
Hagel was asked whether the U.S. was using this weapons sale to
signal to Iran that a military strike was on the table. Hagel’s
response: “I don’t think there’s any question that it’s another
very clear signal to Iran.”  In the past, Hagel has made statements on Iran that were
substantially more equivocal. So the question is this: Is Hagel
just toeing the line of the administration that now employs him?
Or is there something else at work?  One senior Defense Department official, who requested
anonymity to speak freely, suggested to me that Hagel’s now-
daily exposure to intelligence concerning Iran’s nefarious
activities around the globe has awakened him to the depth of the
threat. This seems plausible. When he was outside the
administration, Hagel was known for bluntly challenging
conventional wisdom (including Israel’s conventional wisdom).
Now that he’s inside, he understands -- as Obama long ago came
to understand -- that it isn’t so easy to simply will the
Iranian regime to cooperate.  Projecting Peace  The Obama administration is touting the new weapons package
as proof of its anti- Iran  bona fides. (The Arab allies of the
U.S., who fear Iran as much as the Israelis do, will be getting
visits by Hagel later this week, and they, too, will be the
recipients of expensive weapons-systems upgrades.) But Hagel’s
visit to Israel has another purpose, one that serves the
interest of peace.  Israeli leaders who think the U.S. is hostile to their
concerns are more likely to take dangerous action against Iran.
Hagel, by visiting, by spending time with military leaders, by
expressing an understanding of Israel’s history and its
anxieties, will, with any luck, convince his counterparts that
he understands why they are so worried, even if he doesn’t agree
with them on every aspect of the Iranian threat.  It’s one of the oddities of the American-Israeli
relationship: A few kind words can have a greater impact than a
host of expensive weapons systems.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 