-- Israel Reaches Security Deal With El Al to End Airline Strikes
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-04-22T17:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/israel-reaches-security-deal-with-el-al-to-end-airline-strikes.html
Israel ’s  Finance Ministry  reached
an accord with  El Al Israel Airlines (ELAL)  Ltd. over its security
costs, a deal the Histadrut labor union federation said would
end a strike that has disrupted flights since yesterday.  The agreement also removed a threat by airport workers to
walk off the job tomorrow, Histadrut said by text message. El Al
flights, along with those of two other local airlines, were
halted since yesterday morning in protest at an aviation accord
with the European Union. El Al spokeswomen didn’t immediately
answer calls to their mobile phones after office hours.  The Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement that it
agreed to compensate Israel’s airline for its security costs
that otherwise would make it less competitive. Finance Minister
Yair Lapid said he saw no reason for the strike to continue.  The government has said the “Open Skies” agreement with
the EU will increase competition in  air travel , resulting in
lower fares and more tourist arrivals. The airline workers say
the accord will destroy the Israeli civil aviation industry by
opening them to unfair competition.  The government will pay 97.5 percent of El Al’s security
costs as part of the new accord, up from a previous 80 percent,
the  Haaretz  newspaper said on its website.  Lapid called “Open Skies” a “done deal” and a good
agreement for the citizens of Israel, for the Israeli economy,
and for tourism.  El Al closed up 2.5 percent to 0.544 shekel today, after
dropping by more than 13 percent in the two previous trading
sessions over the strike.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  