-- Titanic Tycoon Sues to End to Mine Deal With Citic Pacific
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-04-23T04:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/titanic-tycoon-palmer-seeks-end-to-mine-deal-with-citic-pacific.html
Clive Palmer , the Australian mining
entrepreneur who’s planning to build a replica of the Titanic,
is suing to end a partnership with  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267)  in an $8
billion iron ore mine.  Palmer’s Mineralogy Pty sued Citic Pacific’s Sino Iron unit
in the Supreme Court of  Western Australia  and in the Supreme
Court of New South Wales claiming the company’s mining rights
and site-lease agreements ought to be terminated for failing to
pay royalties. A two-day trial started today in Perth.  “Citic Pacific is trying to avoid payments over the
delayed Sino Iron ore project in Western  Australia  because it is
in financial difficulties,” Palmer said in a March 27
statement. “They’ve made mistakes and now they’re trying to
avoid making payments.”  Citic Pacific is “willing and able to pay royalties, when
the liability to do so arises,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement. “Our view on when a royalty becomes payable has
remained consistent and reflective of current contractual
agreements. We welcome a declaration from the court on this
matter.”  The development, the biggest magnetite  iron ore  project in
Australia, has been beset by problems including a more than
four-fold budget blowout and wrong currency bets that cost
HK$14.6 billion ($1.9 billion) in 2008. Last week, the company
said the mine, originally slated to begin output in the first
half of 2011, wouldn’t make its first shipment of iron ore
concentrate until the second half of May.  Royalty Payments  Citic Pacific’s debt will continue to rise because its  cash
flow  is insufficient to pay for the mine development, Alan Gao,
vice president at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a March 6
report. Moody’s has a negative outlook on Citic Pacific’s Ba1
debt rating, Gao said.  Citic Pacific slipped 5.8 percent in Hong Kong trading to
yesterday since the company said Nov. 19 it was fighting
Palmer’s attempts to terminate its mining rights. The  Hang Seng
Index  has risen 3.7 percent over the same period.  In the New South Wales lawsuit, Mineralogy claimed it was
owed a A$200 million royalty payment, which was due yesterday. A
hearing over whether the lawsuit should continue in Sydney or be
moved to Perth is scheduled for April 30 in Sydney.  Citic Pacific, controlled by  China ’s biggest state-owned
investment company, has disputed Palmer’s claims saying in its
2012 annual report that changes in the iron ore market make it
impossible to calculate the amount owed under the contract with
Mineralogy. Palmer said last year he expected to eventually
receive $500 million a year in royalties from the mine.  Liability  ‘‘Citic Pacific continues to assess its liability,” the
company said in a statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on
March 22. “The date by which a payment under those clauses
would be required has not yet been reached.”  The  Supreme Court  of Western Australia declined to provide
any documents related to the dispute and today’s trial.  Citic Pacific has blamed  Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd. ,
the contractor building the mine, for the delays and cost
overruns, spurring another dispute with Palmer who has sided
with the contractor, known as MCC. MCC agreed to contribute $858
million in January to cover some of the cost overruns.  “MCC has had to endure repeated changes to the project’s
scope of works and has at all times acted in the best interests
of their stakeholders, including Citic and Mineralogy,” Palmer
said in the March 27 statement. “It is an indictment on Citic
Pacific directors that they haven’t accepted responsibility for
this matter which now has the potential to damage relations
between Australia and China.”  Sundance Resources  The dispute between Palmer and Citic Pacific coincides with
another failed Sino-Australian venture.  Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL) 
on April 8 terminated an agreement with Sichuan Hanlong Group
after the Chinese company failed to secure funding to pay for
its planned acquisition of the Australian miner.  “We’ve seen in the last weeks Sino-Australian tie ups
continuing to implode with what we’ve seen with Sundance and
Hanlong,” Evan Lucas, IG Markets Ltd. markets strategist, said
in a phone interview April 19. “That was also a major headache
with regards to relations.”  Palmer has urged Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to expand
ties with China, Australia’s  third-biggest source  of foreign
investment in the year ended June 30, 2012.  “Calling on Julia Gillard to finalize trade agreement
between Australia and China,” Palmer said in an April 8 posting
on Twitter. “Two terms of talking about it isn’t good enough.”  Titanic Plans  China is Australia’s  biggest  trading partner, with February
transactions valued at A$9.7 billion, according to the bureau of
statistics. Gillard, visiting Beijing on April 9, said
Australian and Chinese leaders made a “breakthrough” in
relations agreeing to hold annual talks in an effort to boost
ties.  Palmer has an agreement with Nanjing-based CSC Jinling
Shipyard to build a 21st-century replica of the Titanic. CSC
Jinling is also building four 64,000 deadweight tonne bulk
carriers for the Australian entrepreneur, whose investments also
include golf courses, hotels, a soccer team and a horse stud.  The Titanic II, scheduled to sail from  England  to  New York 
on its maiden voyage by the end of 2016, will likely cost at
least $500 million,  Greg Johnson , an analyst with Shore Capital
Group in  London , said last year. The original RMS Titanic, whose
popularity was underscored by the 1997 James Cameron movie that
won 11 Academy Awards, sank on its maiden voyage in 1912 after
colliding with an iceberg. The sinking caused the deaths of
1,502 people.  The mining magnate stopped short of calling his version of
the Titanic unsinkable, as the White Star Line had referred to
its original.  “Anything will sink if you put a hole in it,” Palmer told
a New York news conference in February.  The Western Australia case is Mineralogy Pty v Sino Iron
Pty. CIV 2338/2012, Supreme Court of Western Australia (Perth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  