-- HIV Drug Cocktail Protect Hearts of Children With Virus
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-04-22T20:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/hiv-drug-cocktail-protect-hearts-of-children-with-virus.html
Potent cocktails of AIDS drugs
appear to protect the hearts of HIV-infected children against
the ravages of the virus, according to a study.  Children and teens with HIV who took combinations of at
least three antiretroviral medicines had fewer instances of
 heart disease  and damage than kids in an older study who
received little to no medicine, according to research today in
 JAMA Pediatrics . In the early 1990s, children with HIV weren’t
treated with AIDS drugs or only received a single medicine.  Before the current treatments, called  highly active
antiretroviral therapies , or HAART, became available, about half
of kids with HIV who died did so because their hearts were
damaged, said  Steven Lipshultz , the lead study author. The
results released today indicate that long-term, or lifelong, use
of combination therapies to clear the virus may prevent cardiac
harm, researchers said.  “One of the miracles of modern medicine related to HIV is
coming up with medicines that can’t eliminate HIV but they
dramatically reduce it,” Lipshultz, a professor of pediatrics
at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, said today
in a telephone interview.  “In addition to dramatically
reducing it, it seems to help have a more healthy heart because
there’s less virus and an overall normal immune system in these
healthy children.”  Ultrasound Change  Because of heart damaged caused by HIV, doctors have
required kids with the virus to undergo routine echocardiograms,
or ultrasounds of their heart, Lipshultz said. Today’s study
also shows that frequent ultrasounds, which cost more than
$1,000, can now be stopped, he said.  “The routine monitoring by echo cardiograms is probably
not necessary except for in those who we might have a concern,”
he said. The findings also have more practical implications in
 developing countries  where HIV rates are the highest and
ultrasounds are not always available, he said.  Researchers in the study looked at 325 children who were
HIV positive at birth and received a cocktail of antiretroviral
medicines and 189 children who were exposed to HIV but not
infected with the disease. They also looked at another 70 HIV-
infected children from an older study who didn’t get the drugs.  The condition of the heart in children who received the
drug cocktail was “significantly closer to normal” than those
kids who were HIV positive and didn’t received the drugs,
Lipshultz said.  The researchers are now trying to determine which part of
the antiretroviral therapies are the most helpful to the heart
and which may cause damage to the heart, he said. They are also
reviewing the blood work of these studies to see if they can
come up with a blood test to determine heart damage rather than
using an ultrasound.  Antiretroviral treatments include  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Prezista,  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Truvada,  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ’s Sustiva and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Ziagen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  