-- Liverpool Is Under Pressure to Trade Luis Suarez: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-22T07:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/liverpool-is-under-pressure-to-trade-luis-suarez-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Suarez Fallout  Liverpool is under mounting pressure to transfer Luis Suarez after the Uruguayan striker bit Chelsea defender
Branislav Ivanovic during yesterday’s 2-2 Premier League draw at
Anfield, the  Daily Mail reported .  Although Suarez apologized for his actions on Twitter and
also via a statement on his team’s website, he’s fighting to
save his Liverpool career after manager Brendan Rodgers said
that “all players can be replaced,” the Mail added.  Poll Position  Former Premier League referee Graham Poll, writing in a
 column in the Mail , called on the Football Association to ban
Suarez for at least the rest of the season.  Poll said the seven-game suspension given to Suarez by the
Dutch soccer association following a similar incident in a 2010
game in the Netherlands could serve as a guideline for  England ’s
governing body.  Lewandowski Waits  Borussia Dortmund striker Robert Lewandowski will wait to
discover whether Manchester United keeps Wayne Rooney and Javier Hernandez before deciding on a potential move to Old Trafford,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Lewandowski, who is also a target for German champion
Bayern Munich, has told associates he prefers a move to the
Premier League, with United his favored option ahead of Arsenal
and Chelsea, the newspaper added. United has conceded it would
have to create space for another forward to be added to its
roster, the Telegraph said.  Ferdinand, Hernandez  Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson is confident
defender Rio Ferdinand will agree on a contract extension to
stay at the club, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Ferguson also told Mexican striker Hernandez that he has a
big future at United and the Red Devils won’t consider selling
him in the offseason, the newspaper added. Real Madrid and
Juventus are monitoring the situation of Hernandez, who’s made
just two Premier League starts since Jan. 1, the Mirror said.  Monaco Move  Monaco is considering a move for Arsenal right back Bacary Sagna, who is said to have rejected the Gunners’ latest offer of
a contract extension, the  Daily Mail reported .  Sagna also has attracted interest from clubs in Italy and
 Russia , while Arsenal has looked at Feyenoord’s Daryl Janmaat,
Sochaux’s Sebastien Corchia and Matt Lowton of Aston Villa as
potential replacements, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  