-- Jets Go From Favorite to Underdog in NFL Opener With Revis Trade
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-22T06:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/jets-go-from-favorite-to-underdog-in-nfl-opener-with-revis-trade.html
Darrelle Revis is already making
his presence felt for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who are now
favored by oddsmakers against the New York Jets when the teams
meet in the opening week of the National Football League season.  The Jets yesterday traded the three-time All-Pro cornerback
to the Buccaneers for a first-round pick in this week’s draft
and a third- or fourth-round selection in 2014. Revis, who spent
his first six seasons in New York, agreed to a new six-year
contract with Tampa Bay and should strengthen a defense that
allowed the NFL’s most passing yards last season.  Before losing a player described by coach Rex Ryan as the
best cornerback in the NFL, the Jets were the 1-point favorites
for the Sept. 8 game at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New
Jersey, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The
Buccaneers are now favored by 2 1/2 points.  “Nobody can tell how does a trade make you better, make
you worse,” Ryan said last night on a media conference call.
“Are you talking about for one week, are you talking about a
season, are you talking about a future? Nobody really knows.
Nobody has the answer to that.”  The Jets’ odds of winning the Super Bowl have lengthened to
100-1 from 50-1 without Revis, tied for the fourth-worst among
the NFL’s 32 teams. Only the  Arizona  Cardinals, Oakland Raiders
and Jacksonville Jaguars have longer title odds, with the
Buffalo Bills and Tennessee Titans also at 100-1.  The Buccaneers, who have missed the playoffs the past five
years, had their odds of winning the Super Bowl shortened to
40-1 from 50-1, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book.  While Revis is coming off a torn knee ligament that limited
him to two games for the Jets last season, ESPN cited a
Buccaneers official it didn’t identify as saying the team has no
doubt he’ll be ready to play the Sept. 8 season-opener.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  