-- JPMorgan, Barclays Seen Topping OTC Commodity Derivatives Market
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-04-22T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/jpmorgan-barclays-seen-topping-otc-commodity-derivatives-market.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  were the top firms for providing over-the-counter commodity
derivatives to companies hedging energy and metals exposure,
while investors favored  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , a Greenwich
Associates survey found.  Barclays and JPMorgan, which tied for No. 1 position, had
relationships with 39 percent of the global corporations
surveyed about their OTC dealers to hedge energy exposure, ahead
of Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the survey found. JPMorgan
also led in metals. Among investors, 59 percent said they had a
relationship with Goldman Sachs, 54 percent named JPMorgan and
47 percent used Barclays.  “Banks are rethinking their approach to the commodities
business in light of new capital requirements and regulations,”
Andrew Awad, a consultant with  Stamford , Connecticut-based
researcher Greenwich Associates, said in a statement today.
“The landscape is becoming far more fragmented, as few banks
want to be all things to all people and more find specific
segments.”  Commodities revenue at the 10 largest banks slumped 24
percent last year to $6 billion amid low volatility and client
flows as Goldman ranked No. 1, followed by JPMorgan, according
to a Feb. 15 report from analytics company Coalition. Increasing
concerns about regulation and capital sensitivity also led banks
to re-examine commodity strategies, it said.  Fifty-five percent in the Greenwich survey said they used
JPMorgan to hedge their metals exposure, while 34 percent used
Barclays. Thirty-three percent named Citigroup and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and 26 percent said they hedged with Societe Generale SA.  Top Ranking  JPMorgan led the ranks in energy because of its dominance
in the U.S. and Asia, according to the survey. Barclays tied
with Morgan Stanley for the top position in  Europe .  Speculation about investors leaving commodities because of
regulatory changes “appears to be overblown,” according to
Greenwich Associates. Investment managers will continue to use
OTC markets for index business, while hedge funds are likely to
move to futures over time as regulations are enforced, Awad
said.  Barclays, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan
declined to comment for this story. Greenwich Associates
surveyed 276 corporations that hedge their energy exposure and
98 that hedge metals, as well as 68 commodity investors that use
OTC derivatives between September and November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  