-- JPMorgan Said to Plan CMBS Deal With Sales at Post-Crisis Peak
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-04-22T16:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/jpmorgan-said-to-plan-cmbs-deal-with-sales-at-post-crisis-peak.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is marketing
$500 million of commercial-mortgage bonds, capping what probably
will be the busiest month in the $550 billion market in more
than five years.  The lender plans to issue securities linked to 82
properties spanning the U.S. from  California  to  Kentucky ,
according to a person familiar with the offering who asked not
to be identified because terms aren’t public. Hotel loans
account for 64.2 percent of the deal, the person said.  Issuance of bonds tied to commercial real estate in April
is poised to surpass the $8.3 billion sold in January, which
marked the highest monthly volume since December 2007, according
to JPMorgan. Volume was $6.9 billion through April 19, the bank
said. Investors are reversing course after pulling back amid the
glut of offerings, debt analysts at New York-based JPMorgan said
in a report last week.  “After some weakness to start the month, pricing spreads
have begun to snap back despite the uptick in supply,” the
analysts led by Ed Reardon wrote.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc sold
top-ranked securities maturing in about 10 years to yield 81
basis points, or 0.81 percentage point, more than the benchmark
swap rate on April 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with 85 basis points on similar debt issued by the
lenders on March 6, the data show.  Risk Demand  Demand for riskier portions of the deals is building. Wells
Fargo and RBS sold bonds rated BBB-, the lowest investment-grade
ranking, to pay a spread of 310 basis points more than swaps
this month, compared with 375 basis points in March, people
familiar with the transaction said.  Investors are buying the bonds as the  Federal Reserve ’s
effort to stimulate economic growth by suppressing borrowing
costs pushes investors toward riskier assets.  Insurance companies boosted purchases of lower-ranking
commercial-mortgage debt this year by nine percentage points,
accounting for 33 percent of subordinate debt purchases from new
deals, the JPMorgan analysts said in a separate report on April
12.  Issuance of commercial-mortgage bonds is poised to climb 50
percent to $70 billion in 2013, according to Credit Suisse Group
AG. Banks have arranged about $28.6 billion in sales this year,
Bloomberg data show. A record $232 billion was issued in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  