-- Juventus, PSG Move Closer to Domestic Soccer Titles With Wins
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-04-22T02:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/juventus-psg-move-closer-to-domestic-soccer-titles-with-wins.html
Juventus moved a step closer to
back-to-back Italian league soccer titles with a 1-0 win against
AC Milan. Paris Saint-Germain defeated Nice 3-0 to stay on track
for its first French championship in 19 years.  Arturo Vidal’s second-half penalty kick in Turin last night
sealed the victory that leaves Juve needing four points from its
last five games to win a record-extending 29th Serie A title.  Juventus has 77 points atop the standings, 11 more than
second-place Napoli, and could clinch the Scudetto as early as
next weekend if it beats local rival Torino and Napoli fails to
beat to last-place Pescara.  “We still need four points so we just have to keep
going,” Vidal said on Juve’s website. “Next Sunday we’ve got
the derby against Torino and we have to prepare well for it.”  Napoli needed a stoppage-time winner from Lorenzo Insigne
to win 3-2 at home against Cagliari yesterday. Fiorentina moved
to within a point of third-place AC Milan as Brazilian
midfielder Romulo scored in the 86th minute to seal a 4-3 win
over Torino.  Goals by Jeremy Menez, Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Clement
Chantome restored PSG’s nine-point cushion atop  France ’s Ligue 1
with five games remaining. Second-place Marseille overcame Brest
by a solitary goal two days ago, while Lyon is third after a 2-1
win at Montpellier on April 19.  Ibrahimovic’s 65th-minute penalty kick made him the first
player since Jean-Pierre Papin in 1991-92 to score 27 goals in a
French top-flight season, according to Infostrada Sports.  “Without my teammates I wouldn’t have been able to score
as much this season,” Ibrahimovic said on PSG’s website. “If I
can help my team win while breaking records, it doesn’t get much
better.”  Champions League Tuneups  In Spain,  Radamel Falcao  scored his 25th La Liga goal of
the season as Atletico  Madrid  won 1-0 at Sevilla last night to
move 13 points clear of fourth-place Real Sociedad, which drew
0-0 with Osasuna.  Two days ago, leader Barcelona and second-place Real Madrid
tuned up for their Champions League semifinal openers against
German clubs this week with wins. Barca beat Levante 1-0 to keep
its 13-point advantage over Real, which had a 3-1 victory
against Real Betis. There are six games remaining.  Barca visits Bayern Munich tomorrow to open their two-match
semifinal in  Europe ’s elite club competition, with Borussia
Dortmund hosting Real Madrid the following day.  Bayern, which clinched its 23rd German league championship
earlier this month, routed Hannover 6-1 two days ago. Dortmund
beat Mainz 2-0 to stay 20 points behind the Bundesliga leader.  In the Dutch league, Feyenoord beat Vitesse Arnhem 2-0
yesterday. Also this weekend, PSV Eindhoven won 3-1 at AZ
Alkmaar and Ajax drew 1-1 with Heerenveen.  Ajax leads with 67 points, ahead of PSV and Feyenoord, who
both have 63.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 