-- K+S Delays Canada Potash Plant Start as Budget Rises 26%
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-04-22T14:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/k-s-delays-canada-potash-plant-start-as-budget-rises-26-.html
K+S AG (SDF) ,  Europe ’s largest potash
maker, delayed the starting date of a new plant in Saskatchewan
by about six months as spending on the project will exceed
targets by 26 percent. The stock fell to a five-month low.  The budget for developing the Canadian site was increased
to C$4.1 billion ($4 billion) from the C$3.25 billion announced
in November 2011, Kassel, Germany-based K+S said today in a
statement. Operations will start in mid-2016 rather than at the
end of 2015, the company said.  “The new plant will be the main source for distributing to
the emerging regions in Asia” and South America, and as well to
North America, Chief Executive Officer Norbert Steiner said in
the statement. The plant “will earn a 15 percent premium on the
cost of capital before taxes.”  The company is expecting volume for potash, a fertilizer
ingredient, to hold steady this year after 2012 was the second-
best year ever for the unit. K+S is placing what it calls the
Legacy Project in Saskatchewan at the heart of plans to expand
globally as ore grades decline in older German mines, limiting
production, which currently stands at 7.5 million tons of potash
and magnesium products.  K+S  fell  as much as 4.1 percent to 32.21 euros, the lowest
intraday price since Nov. 22, and was 4 percent lower at 4:05
p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has dropped 8 percent this year,
valuing the company at 6.17 billion euros ($8.04 billion).  Capacity Strategy  By 2023, the German crop nutrient supplier plans to add
2.86 million metric tons in potash capacity annually from the
site, with potential for volume to rise to 4 million tons by
about a decade later. The new mine will help the company
maintain a global market share of more than 10 percent, K+S said
when it announced the investment in 2011.  The higher costs, which stem from infrastructure
investment, plant component modifications and higher material
and labor costs, will be funded partly by new debt, K+S said
today. The Legacy Project will still achieve 2 million tons of
production capacity by the end of 2017, it said.  “The dividend policy of the company will remain unaffected
by the decision to increase the capital expenditure,” Steiner
said.  K+S’s potash business has performed better than rivals
because it’s less focused on the two large consumer countries
China and  India , Steiner said in March. Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. and  Russia ’s OAO Uralkali have both cut
production amid faltering export volumes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  