-- King & Spalding, K&L Gates, Skadden Arps: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-22T11:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/king-spalding-k-l-gates-skadden-arps-business-of-law.html
King & Spalding LLP recruited
Australian arbitration and construction lawyer Peter Megens as a
partner in the Singapore office starting in July. Megens was at
King & Wood Mallesons in  Melbourne , where he was co-head of the
firm’s arbitration practice and a senior member of its
construction team.  “Our firm has made a strategic decision to invest further
in our marquee international arbitration practice, and
especially in our international construction disputes
capability,” Reggie Smith, leader of global disputes at King &
Spalding, said in a statement. “Peter’s stature as an
outstanding construction disputes lawyer fits this bill, and
nicely complements our world-class commercial and investment
treaty arbitration practice serving the Asia-Pacific region from
Singapore.”  Megens has more than 30 years’ experience representing
clients in disputes arising out of construction, energy, mining
and infrastructure projects, the firm said.  King & Spalding’s Singapore office serves as a hub for the
firm’s energy, project finance and international arbitration
work throughout the Asia-Pacific region.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
 Europe , the  Middle East  and  Asia .  Kaye Scholer’s Tuchman Joins Herrick Feinstein’s to Head Group  Herrick, Feinstein LLP announced that Louis Tuchman has
joined the firm’s New York office as a partner and the newly
appointed co-chairman of the firm’s tax and personal planning
group. Tuchman was a partner in Kaye Scholer LLP’s tax
department.  “From federal, state and cross-border taxation issues to
joint ventures, bankruptcy, real estate, partnerships and LLCs,
Louis brings invaluable experience in a range of areas,”
partner Daniel A. Swick, who co-heads Herrick’s tax and personal
planning group said in a statement.  Tuchman’s practice includes a focus on corporate taxation
matters including mergers and acquisitions, net operating loss
carryovers and consolidated returns, the firm said.  Herrick, Feinstein has 170 lawyers based in  New York City .  James Kaplan Joins Quarles & Brady’s Chicago Office  James I. Kaplan joined Quarles & Brady LLP’s  Chicago  office
as a partner in the corporate services practice group. Prior to
joining the firm, Kaplan was a partner and chairman of the
Midwest banking practice at DLA Piper LLP in Chicago.  He has experience in financial services regulatory matters,
as well as banking, compliance, securities and shareholder
disputes and other shareholder matters, the firm said. Kaplan’s
transactional experience includes banking, trust, securities,
asset management, brokerage and public and private offerings. He
was also the founding general counsel at Brown Brothers Harriman
& Co private bank.  Quarles & Brady has more than 400 attorneys at nine U.S.
offices.  K&L Gates Expands Charleston Office With Two Partners  K&L Gates LLP hired Michael D. Bryan and Julius H. Hines as
partners in the corporate/mergers and acquisitions and
commercial disputes practices, respectively. Bryan joins K&L
Gates from Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP, where he
headed the firm’s sustainable energy group. Hines was previously
a leader of the firm’s admiralty and maritime practice group at
Womble Carlyle Sandridge & Rice LLP.  Bryan represents clients in the agricultural and industrial
biotechnology, manufacturing, health-care and retail industries,
the firm said.  A maritime lawyer and proctor in admiralty, Hines works
with shipping clients in investigating and handling marine
incidents such as oil spills, vessel collisions and accidental
injury and death, and represents them in federal and state court
litigation, the firm said.  K&L Gates has 48 offices in the U.S., Asia,  Australia ,
Europe, the Middle East, and  South America .  Proskauer Hires Equity Capital Markets Lawyer From UBS  Proskauer Rose LLP added to its IPO and equity capital
markets practice with the hire of Robin M. Feiner as senior
counsel in the firm’s global capital markets group in the New
York. Feiner has more than 17 years of equity transaction
experience, including senior positions at  UBS Investment Bank 
and Citigroup Global Markets Inc.  Feiner was most recently executive director of Equity
Capital Markets/Equity Corporate Finance at UBS. In that role,
she helped book-run transactions for global companies listing in
the U.S., in addition to creating UBS’s Annual IPO Conference.  “Her stellar reputation with top-tier investment banks and
ability to deliver best-in-class execution with leading
knowledge of legal practices and industry trends will serve our
clients well in meeting their IPO and other complex equity
transaction needs,” Frank Lopez, co-head of the Global Capital
Markets Group, said in a statement.  Prior to UBS, Feiner spent seven years as a director in the
Equity Capital Markets/Transaction Advisory Group at Citigroup
Global Markets Inc., where she executed more than 50 IPOs, the
firm said.  Proskauer has 13 offices in the Americas, Europe and Asia.  David Van Horne Joins Goodwin Procter in San Francisco  Goodwin Procter LLP announced that David W. Van Horne, Jr.
has joined the firm’s business law department in its  San
Francisco  office as a member of the technology companies group.
He was most recently at Gunderson Dettmer, Stough Villeneuve
Franklin & Hachigian LLP where he was a partner in its Silicon
Valley office.  Van Horne will focus on representing emerging growth
companies as well as advising venture capital funds and
structuring investments, the firm said. He has experience with
corporate formation and governance matters, venture capital
financing and M&A transactions. His clients include  Accel
Partners , August Capital, Kleiner Perkins and DotNetNuke, among
others.  “David’s keen sense of trends, particularly in the
expanding San Francisco/Silicon Valley market, will provide
existing and prospective clients with an invaluable resource as
they seek to grow and evolve,” Bradley Bugdanowitz, chairman of
the firm’s San Francisco office, said in a statement.  Goodwin Procter has 860 lawyers at nine offices in the
U.S., Hong Kong and London.  News  Law Firm  Quits Political Intelligence Work After Senator’s Query  The law firm being questioned by a U.S. senator over
whether one of its lobbyists obtained and shared confidential
government information on Medicare rates will no longer work
with so-called political intelligence firms.  Greenberg Traurig  LLP has “concluded that providing
government relations services to an entity in the ‘political
intelligence’ area may lead to misunderstanding and unintended
use of those services, even when compliant with legal and
ethical standards,” Jill Perry, a firm spokeswoman, wrote in an
e-mail. “We will not represent such firms in the future.”  Mark Hayes, a Greenberg Traurig lobbyist, discussed the
possibility of a rate change in an April 1 e-mail sent to Height
Analytics LLC, a Washington-based investor firm that provides
analysis and information about government decisions, a business
known as political intelligence. In turn, Height advised its
clients in a memo that helped boost insurer stocks 45 minutes
before the official Medicare announcement.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, is probing
whether government information was leaked. Last week both the
health insurer  Humana Inc. (HUM)  and Height said they were cutting
ties with Greenberg Traurig after Grassley announced he was
reviewing the situation.  According to an e-mail review by Bloomberg, Hayes told
Height that “very credible sources” had said the government
would reduce a payment cut for Medicare Advantage plans like
Humana’s. Grassley has pushed for a law that would require those
who seek profitable tidbits of information to register with the
government.  Height has said it did nothing wrong. “Our report was
based on careful and close analysis of the facts, and was solid,
sound research in accordance with applicable laws and
regulations,” Andrew Parmentier, Height’s managing partner,
said in an April 17 statement to the firm’s clients. “Our
analyst made an independent call based on multiple data points
and he was correct on the big issue.”  Greenberg Traurig said it, too, hadn’t found evidence of
any illegal activity.  “The firm and its shareholders had no financial connection
with Height’s activities and Height has acknowledged using a
variety of sources before issuing its alert,” Perry wrote. “We
have found no information that any of our shareholders had
access to any material confidential government information.”  For more, click here.  Volcker Recusal Vowed by OCC’s Top Lawyer Who Left Promontory  The top lawyer at the U.S. regulator of national banks left
a consulting job where she was paid $1.2 million and advised
some of the biggest firms now overseen by her agency, her
financial disclosures show,  Bloomberg News ’s Jesse Hamilton
reports.  Amy Friend was managing director at Promontory Financial
Group LLC before rejoining the Office of Comptroller of the
Currency as chief counsel in February. She will recuse herself
for a year from discussions of the so-called Volcker rule to ban
proprietary trading at banks and from matters affecting
Promontory or six former clients, according to an OCC memo.  Friend arrived at the OCC as Promontory was drawing
attention for its influence as a middleman between banks and
regulators and for its hiring of ex-officials including Julie Williams, Friend’s predecessor as OCC chief counsel, and  Mary Schapiro , ex-chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Promontory also was a subject of a Senate hearing last week into
a failed $2 billion review of U.S. foreclosure missteps.  Promontory clients listed in Friend’s filing include three
of the top six U.S. banks by assets --  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Other firms, not previously
known as Promontory clients, were  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  Fidelity
Investments ,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , Grosvenor Capital
Management LP, LPL Financial Holdings Inc., MidCountry Financial
Corp.,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NABZY) , Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. and the LexisNexis unit of  Reed Elsevier Plc. (REL)   Friend said in an interview that when Comptroller of the
Currency  Thomas Curry  asked her to come back to the agency, “I
thought about it carefully” before agreeing.  “I really enjoyed Promontory, but in my heart, I really am
a public servant,” Friend said.  Friend spent a decade as an OCC lawyer until 2008. For the
next two years she was the Senate Banking Committee’s chief
counsel under former Senator  Chris Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat,
helping craft the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 and a 2009 law to limit
credit-card fees and increase notifications.  Dodd said in a statement that Friend “is one of the most
fierce public advocates” he’s worked with.  Friend previously worked on the staffs of Senator Chuck Schumer of New York and Representative  Rosa DeLauro  of
Connecticut, both Democrats.  The OCC memo on Friend’s recusal states that she won’t
participate in Volcker talks. That’s because she advised some
Promontory clients on the matter, OCC ethics counsel Jen Dickey
said. Five U.S. regulators, including the OCC, proposed the
Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker rule in October 2011 and have been
negotiating toward a final version while big banks have warned
against it being too complex or restrictive.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Skadden Advises AB InBev on U.S. Approval for Modelo Deal  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and the U.S. Justice Department
filed an agreement in court that resolves an antitrust lawsuit
and allows the brewer’s $20.1 billion purchase of Grupo Modelo
SAB to proceed.  AB InBev, in a filing April 19 in federal court in
Washington, made binding commitments to turn winemaker
 Constellation (STZ)  Brands Inc. into a competing brewer that will
produce and control all Modelo brands in the U.S., including
Corona, the country’s biggest import. The government said the
accord could save beer drinkers almost $1 billion a year due to
lower prices.  Skadden Arps  Slate Meagher & Flom LLP represented Anheuser-
Busch InBev in the transaction and in regulatory approval. The
antitrust regulatory team includes partners:  Steven Sunshine ,
Ian John, James Keyte, Karen Hoffman Lent and Gregory Craig, on
litigation.  The agreement permits AB InBev, the world’s biggest
beermaker, to intensify its push into fast-growing  emerging
markets . It also allows Constellation to buy the stake that
Modelo holds in their joint U.S. distribution venture for $1.85
billion, as announced at the time of AB InBev’s original bid.
The Leuven, Belgium-based company expects the Modelo merger to
deliver cost and revenue benefits of at least $1 billion a year
as it extends its global lead over No. 2  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)   The company said in a statement it expects to close the
transaction in June.  The case is U.S. v. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, 13-cv-00127,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  For more, click here.  Firm News  Matthew McTygue to Head Edwards Wildman’s Boston Office  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP appointed Matthew V.P. McTygue,
a partner in the firm’s business law department and co-chairman
of the debt finance and capital markets group, partner-in-charge
of the Boston office. He succeeds Jed Hendrick, who has led the
Boston office for the past 18 years. Hendrick will assume a new
role at the firm as department chairman of the public policy and
government relations practice and will spend more time on his
practice and professional commitments.  McTygue, who specializes in debt finance and private equity
transactions, will oversee the growth of the firm’s office,
continue to foster a supportive and inclusive work environment,
and enhance the firm’s profile in the Boston community, the firm
said. He joined Edwards Wildman in 1998.  “Matt has been deeply involved in running and
participating in multiple firm committees, along with the debt
finance practice at our firm,” Robert L. Shuftan, managing
partner of Edwards Wildman said in a statement. “We are
confident he will build on Jed’s impressive achievements for the
firm in the Boston market.”  During Hendrick’s leadership, the office grew in key
practice areas, including private equity and venture capital,
intellectual property, public finance, insurance and
reinsurance, and litigation, the firm said.  Edwards Wildman Palmer has 625 lawyers at 15 offices in the
U.S., London and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  