-- Kroton Surges on $2.49 Billion Acquisition: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2013-04-22T19:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/kroton-to-buy-anhanguera-for-2-49-billion-in-education-deal.html
Kroton Educacional SA (KROT3)  rallied the
most ever after agreeing to buy Anhanguera Educacional SA for 5
billion reais ($2.49 billion) in an all-stock deal that will
create the world’s biggest for-profit education company.  Kroton rose as much as 12 percent to 28.18 reais in Sao
Paulo after it said in a regulatory filing today that it will
pay 1.36 shares for each Anhanguera stock. That values
Anhanguera shares at 34.38 reais apiece, based on Friday’s
closing price before adjusting for a scheduled dividend payment.
Anhanguera also rallied, gaining as much as 9.8 percent to 37.49
reais.  The deal will form the world’s largest for-profit education
company by market value with more than 1 million students,
overtaking  Japan ’s  Benesse Holdings Inc. (9783) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This is the fourth school  acquisition  by
Kroton since the 1.3 billion-real purchase of Uniao Norte do
Parana de Ensino Ltda,  Brazil ’s largest distance-learning
institution, was announced in December 2011.  “This represents the creation of a unique company with a
strong presence in higher learning -- long distance and on
campus,” Kroton Chief Executive Officer Rodrigo Calvo Galindo
said in a conference call today.  ‘Positive’  The combined school will operate in all Brazilian states
and has room to reduce costs, Planner Corretora in Sao Paulo
said today in a report to clients.  “Both companies have a lot of upside in margins operating
alone, and both companies operating together the upside is even
greater,” Anhanguera CEO Ricardo Scavazza said on another
conference call today. Galindo and Scavazza declined to provide
estimates for potential cost reductions or revenue gains on the
call.  Kroton is the biggest distance learning institution in
Brazil and Anhanguera has a greater number of on-campus
students.  “The companies complement each other in operations,” said
Sandra Peres, an analyst in  Sao Paulo  at Coinvalores. “It has
very good perspectives.”  The companies will have the opportunity to significantly
increase the use of  student loans  provided through a government
program known as Fies, available only to on-campus students.  “This is a huge opportunity,” Peres said. “It decreases
dropout and default rates.”  The companies will operate separately until the antitrust
regulator, known as Cade, approves the acquisition. Cade, based
in Brasilia, has 330 days to issue a decision.  Anhanguera and Kroton operate in 80 cities and overlap in
four, Galindo said in a press conference in Sao Paulo.  “This gives us complete confidence that this will be
approved,” he said.  Done With Acquisitions  Kroton and Anhanguera will not seek new acquisitions for
several years while the new company is being created, the
company executives said.  That leaves room for competitor  Estacio Participacoes SA. (ESTC3) ,
which fell 0.5 percent to 43.60 reais at 3:36 p.m., to grow,
said Matheus Mufarej, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based Victoire
Brasil Investimentos, which owns 96,000 shares of Anhanguera and
31,000 of Estacio.  “I believe in the mid-term that this will be a positive,
since with Anhanguera and Kroton occupied in digesting this
merger, other attractive assets will be available and the
company is capitalized exactly for that,” he said in an e-mail
response to questions.  Kroton gained 7.7 percent to 27.09 reais in Sao Paulo as
Anhanguera rose 6.5 percent to 36.38 reais.  Justifiable Rally?  Galindo will be the CEO of the combined company, andScavazza will join the board, the companies said. Kroton, based
in  Belo Horizonte , will have 57.48 percent of the new company
while Valinhos-based Anhanguera will own 42.52 percent. Kroton
will issue 198.8 million new shares as part of the deal.  Kroton gained 9 percent in Sao Paulo so far this year
before today, compared with Anhanguera’s 1.2 percent decline and
Estacio Participacoes SA’s 5.1 percent gain. The Bovespa Small
Caps index fell 5.9 percent in the period.  “The big challenge is to measure the potential operational
synergies and try to understand to what point the positive
market reaction is justifiable, or not,” Mufarej said.  Fator Corretora in Sao Paulo increased its rating for
Anhanguera to buy from hold after the deal and reiterated its
buy rating for Kroton.  “I don’t see this in any way but positive for both
companies,” Renato Prado, an analyst, said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  