-- Napolitano Pledges to Forge Government After Swearing In
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-22T16:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/napolitano-pledges-to-forge-government-deal-after-oath-of-office.html
Italian President Giorgio
Napolitano, the 87-year-old head of state, admonished the
fractious lawmakers who brought him back for a second term and
pledged to break the country’s political impasse.  Napolitano’s re-election on April 20 “represented the
result of a long series of omissions and mistakes, of closures
and irresponsibility” by politicians, the president said today
in a speech to parliament after taking the oath of office for
his new term. “We can no longer, in any way, shirk the
responsibility of proposing practical solutions and timely
decisions for reforms that are immediately needed for the
survival and progress of Italian democracy and society.”  Napolitano is getting a second chance to play broker and
come up with a majority in a parliament divided by the
inconclusive Feb. 24-25 elections. He will seek to forge a
compromise on the successor to caretaker Prime Minister Mario
Monti, and if the parties don’t comply, Napolitano said he will
take action.  “If I find myself confronted with the deafness I
encountered in the past, I won’t hesitate to put the
consequences before the country,” Napolitano said.  Full Powers  The re-appointment restores full powers to Napolitano. By
Italian law, presidents in the final months of their mandates
are stripped of the ability to dissolve parliament and call new
elections. That power may help Napolitano coerce lawmakers who,
during a first round of negotiations in March, resisted
compromise.  Napolitano may begin meeting with political leaders
tomorrow. He must resolve a deadlock in the Senate where two of
the top three forces must agree to work together.  Compromise  The parliamentary vote to re-elect Napolitano may indicate
the path to a new government as the rival forces of the
Democratic Party and Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty came
together to support the head of state. A deal between those
groups, Parliament’s top two forces, would yield a majority in
the upper house.  Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the third-biggest party,
has shunned cooperation and opposed Napolitano’s re-election.  The new government must re-write the electoral law to make
it easier for a single force to capture a parliamentary
majority, Napolitano said in his speech, reiterating a priority
of his that he has pushed on parliament since last year.  “The missed opportunities to reform the electoral law of
2005 are unforgivable,” Napolitano said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  