-- Napolitano Opens Consultations to Form Italian Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-23T10:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/napolitano-opens-new-round-of-italian-government-formation-talks.html
Italian President Giorgio
Napolitano, strengthened by his reappointment yesterday, started
a new round of consultations aimed at forging consensus for a
government.  “We can no longer, in any way, shirk the responsibility of
proposing practical solutions and timely decisions for reforms
that are immediately needed for the survival and progress of
Italian democracy and society,” Napolitano, 87, said in a
speech to Parliament in Rome after his swearing-in.  Napolitano began the talks by meeting the heads of both
chambers of Parliament starting at 10:30 and ends the day with
the three biggest parties -- Five Star Movement, People of
Liberty and the Democratic Party -- beginning at 5:30 p.m.  Napolitano will probably find political parties more open
to compromise than last month, when his first round of talks
after inconclusive elections failed to yield results. The
Democratic Party and Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
People of Liberty set the stage on April 20 for a possible
coalition government by coming together to give Napolitano a
second seven-year term.  Grand Coalition  “We think President Napolitano’s re-election is strongly
tied up with the formation of a grand coalition,” Fabio Fois,
an economist with Barclays Plc, said in an April 21 research
report. “This should reinforce the resilience of the Italian
 government securities .”  Yields on Italian two-year bonds fell to a record-low of
1.1405 percent at 1:OO p.m. in Rome, while the 10-year rate dropped 
below 4 percent for the first time since November 2010.  “While the initial market reaction has been positive, we
view the outcome as a temporary fix,” Citigroup Inc. analysts
including Mauro Baragiola wrote in an e-mail yesterday. “It
buys some time and reduces the level of political risk in the
short term, but we fear the enthusiasm may not last long, as
Italy remains in a dangerous deadlock with few politically
strong and respected men behind Napolitano.”  A deal would relieve Prime Minister  Mario Monti  of his
caretaker role and give Italy the parliamentary majority it
needs to pass economic stimulus measures and shield the country
from bond-market speculation. The Italian Parliament has been
deadlocked since elections Feb. 24-25 split the Senate into
three blocs making it hard to respond to the country’s longest
recession in more than two years.  Recession, Debt  The economy has contracted for eight straight quarters and
the government forecasts it will shrink 1.3 percent this year.
Unemployment has climbed to near a 20-year high of almost 12
percent and the country’s debt is set to reach a record 130
percent of gross domestic produce, second in the euro region to
 Greece .  Napolitano may ask former Prime Minister Giuliano Amato to
lead a government, with Angelino Alfano of People of Liberty and
Enrico Letta of the  Democratic Party  as his deputies, newspaper
 Corriere della Sera  reported. Another option would be Letta as
premier with Alfano as his deputy, Corriere said.  Allies of Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi within the Democratic
Party will push today for the 37-year-old to become its
candidate for prime minister when the party meets to today to
choose a new leader, lawmaker Matteo Orfini said yesterday.  The political impasse eased on April 19 with the
resignation of Democratic Party General Secretary Pier Luigi
Bersani, who had shunned Berlusconi’s offer of a coalition
government. Bersani, who won a majority in the Chamber of
Deputies in the February election, made good on his pledge to
resign after Napolitano’s re-election.  The improved relations between the Democratic Party and
People of Liberty may leave Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement,
the third-biggest parliamentary force, in opposition. Grillo, an
ex-comic and anti-establishment crusader, has said the re-
election of Napolitano to an unprecedented second-term was a
“coup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  