-- Netflix Seen Cracking Down on Sharing to Bolster Profit
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-04-22T20:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/netflix-seen-cracking-down-on-sharing-to-bolster-profit.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  has won over consumers
and Hollywood with its mix of TV reruns, old movies and original
shows, all for $7.99-a-month with liberal policies that let
family and friends share one account.  Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings may now be able to
squeeze more profit from his 33.3 million customers by
tightening up those policies or boosting prices. As many as 10
million people are watching the online video service without
paying, according to Michael Pachter, a Wedbush Securities
analyst in Los Angeles.  Netflix’s options include limiting the number of people or
computers that could share one account or charging extra, for
example, to let a college student in another town use his
parents’ account. The company today doesn’t actively restrict
the number of PCs, tablets or phones that can use one account or
the number of people who can sign in, though it limits each
account to playing two video streams simultaneously.  “It’s time to change,” Pachter said in an interview.
“They can say they’re cracking down on piracy. They can appeal
to fairness. It’s great if the parent has a subscription and the
kid watches it in the college dorm.”  Investors will be looking for clues to new revenue
opportunities when Los Gatos, California-based Netflix reports
first-quarter results after markets close today. The shares have
risen  88 percent  this year, second-most in the S&P 500 behind
Best Buy Co., as profit and subscriber gains beat Wall Street
estimates. They rose 6.7 percent to $174.37 at the close in New
York, before the results.  Sales Help  Tightening up sharing would help sales. A pricing or policy
change could boost revenue per subscriber by 5 percent in 2014,
accelerate new signups and fatten profit margins, according to
Goldman Sachs & Co. analyst Heath Terry.  Hastings, 52, has a number of options, said Pachter, who
has an underperform  rating  on the stock. He could charge extra
for access to kids’ programming. The company could also levy $3
each time a user wanted to register more than a limited number
of devices per account.  The topic of raising prices is touchy. Netflix lost 800,000
domestic customers in the third quarter of 2011 when it raised
the cost of combined streaming and DVD-by-mail service by 60
percent to $15.98 a month from $9.99 previously.  Hastings has said Netflix has no plans to change prices. In
January, he said the company still had “a year and a half of
probation” left after the 2011 subscriber revolt.  “It wouldn’t take much to have that issue flare up again
or for us to lose trust,” Hastings said.  Family Plans  Under current policy, Netflix lets people stream to two
different devices at the same time using one subscription, said
Joris Evers, a spokesman. That allows family members or friends
to share a single account and watch different programs. He
declined to comment on future plans.  The company’s terms of use limits customers to six
authorized, Netflix-ready devices. The policy isn’t enforced.  Netflix is considering family accounts that would let
people keep individual queues and see personal recommendations,
company executives said last May at a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
conference. While Netflix hasn’t discussed prices, Hastings
suggested families now paying for two accounts might save money.  In general, consumers don’t see sharing accounts as theft,
according to John Rose, managing director of the media,
technology and telecom practice for Boston Consulting Group in
New York. Raising prices on every customer creates a risk in
competitive markets where consumers have many choices, he said.  “In the digital world, you don’t want to become the
pariah, for people to rise up against you and look elsewhere for
their content,” said Rose, a former EMI Group executive who
struck digital music deals with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Subscriber Outlook  Hastings might offer a range of plans, including individual
accounts, surcharges for additional users or some combination,
Terry, the Goldman analyst, wrote on April 11. He has a neutral
rating on the stock.  If Hastings does that, Netflix might reach 53 million
domestic subscribers in 2017, Terry estimates. The company could
also just raise prices. Goldman estimates average revenue per
user will rise 5 percent next year.  “The improving quality of content, better personalization
of the service and higher price points from competitors would
justify moderately higher prices,” Terry wrote.  Netflix is expected to report its U.S. online subscribers
increased by 1.8 million to 29 million from year-end, the
average of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Analysts project  profit  rose to 20 cents a share, compared with
an 8-cent loss a year earlier, on sales that grew 17 percent to
$1.02 billion.  Studio Contracts  The company has been trying to increase consumer loyalty by
building a film and television library that stands out from
competitors such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the largest Web retailer,
Hulu LLC and  Redbox Instant by Verizon .  Hastings has agreed to spend $5.63 billion over the next
several years on exclusive content and original programs. He
says subscriber gains -- his goal is to reach 90 million U.S.
customers in the next two decades -- will pay for such deals.  The exclusive Netflix horror series “Hemlock Grove”
became available for viewing on April 19, and the resuscitated
show “Arrested Development” premieres on May 26. The original
series “House of Cards” was its most-watched program ever.  Hollywood studios that were reluctant to sign exclusive
deals with Netflix now welcome its big paychecks amid dwindling
DVD sales and the growing popularity of online viewing. Some 59
percent of teens in a recent Piper Jaffray Cos. survey said they
expect to get most of their online viewing from Netflix in five
years, up from 48 percent a year earlier.  Consumer Clout  “Despite all the bad PR, the mindshare of Netflix seems to
be increasing,” said Michael Olson, a Piper Jaffray analyst in
 Minneapolis  who rates the stock neutral. Of 38 analysts who
follow the company, 11 say buy, 19 hold and 8 recommend selling.  The company’s original and exclusive content, such as its
film deals with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  DreamWorks Animation SKG
Inc. (DWA) , give Netflix more clout with consumers than it had in
2011, according to  Tony Wible , a Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
analyst in Philadelphia. He recommended the stock in January for
the first time in six years.  Hastings, in a Facebook post this month, said subscribers
since January had streamed 4 billion hours of video. That
implies 87 minutes of daily streaming per subscriber, putting
Netflix on par with the Disney Channel, the most-watched cable
network, said Rich Greenfield, an analyst with BTIG Research.  Netflix shares could be pressured if Hastings resumes a
costly international expansion. Investors have been cheered by
Hastings’s suggestion that geographic growth will occur at a
slower pace to maintain profit, Olson said.  “Depending on what they invest in for content and for
international, they can do between $2 in earnings per share, up
to $8,” said Olson, who has a buy rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  