-- Nets’ Owner Says Another Top Player Needed to Reach Elite Status
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-22T16:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/nets-owner-says-another-top-player-needed-to-reach-elite-status.html
Brooklyn Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov  said the team needs “one more good player” to reach
the top level of the  National Basketball Association , and that
it remains on track to fulfill his prediction of a title by
2015.  The Nets beat the Chicago Bulls 106-89 in Brooklyn on April
20 in the first game of their opening-round playoff series. The
two teams play again tonight at 8 p.m.  In an interview with Bloomberg Television in Moscow on
April 19, Prokhorov said the team needs “only two things” to
reach the level of the defending-champion  Miami Heat  and
Oklahoma City Thunder, who met in the NBA Finals last season.  “One more good player, and we need time to make a really
strong team,” Prokhorov said.  The Nets were 49-33 during the regular season, their first
since the team moved into Brooklyn’s Barclays Center from  New
Jersey . In the offseason, the Nets acquired six-time All-Star
 Joe Johnson  and brought back point guard  Deron Williams , a
three-time All-Star.  Center Brook Lopez led the team with 19.4 points per game.
Williams scored 18.9 points per game, and added a team-high 7.7
assists per game.  Title Prediction  Prokhorov declared when he bought the team in 2010 that it
would win an NBA title by the end of the 2014-2015 season, and
said last week it remains on track. The 47-year-old billionaire
said the prediction could fulfill itself this year because in
sports, “every team have a chance.”  “If we have a great team spirit, great passion, we can
beat anyone in the league,” he said. “We are not underdogs,
that’s for sure.”  Signing another elite player might prove difficult for
Prokhorov and the Nets, who have the third-highest payroll in
the league behind the Los Angeles Lakers and Heat, according to
ESPN. Brooklyn’s payroll is roughly $83.1 million, over the
leaguewide salary cap. It will have to pay about $12.8 million
in luxury taxes this season, the network said last month.  Prokhorov was speaking at an event in Moscow promoting a
hip-hop dance group from Philadelphia which he has brought to
 Russia  as part of a cultural exchange program he sponsors with
the Brooklyn Academy of Music.  -- With assistance from Ryan Chilcote in London. Editors:
Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  