-- New Immigration Bill Has One Terrible Flaw
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-04-22T22:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/new-immigration-bill-has-one-terrible-flaw.html
“Amnesty” is the swear word many
conservatives apply to the new bipartisan immigration bill. The
same invective was used to sink the last major attempt to change
American immigration laws, during President George W. Bush’s
second term. Some critics say that offering legal status to
illegal immigrants is simply wrong in principle.  Yet that isn’t the most troubling aspect of the bill. What
ought to be drawing more opposition is the proposal to bring
hundreds of thousands of “temporary guest workers” to the U.S.  That’s not to deny that legalization poses risks of its
own. If enforcement of the laws is lax, it could encourage more
people to come here illegally in the hope of the next round of
legalization. If we can be reasonably assured of strong
enforcement, on the other hand, offering legal status to many or
most undocumented immigrants already in the U.S. may be the best
way to handle past policy mistakes. Although there’s room to
argue about whether the bill offers this assurance, I think
Senator Marco Rubio and other supporters of the legislation are
right in principle to offer legal status.  The guest-worker program is where they go wrong. For the
Republican politicians who have in the past been its main
supporters, this provision is like a dessert with no calories:
Businesses get the benefit of the temporary workers’ labor and
they get to make some money, but the rest of us don’t have to
make room for immigrants in our society, and Republicans don’t
have to worry how they will vote.  That’s exactly what’s wrong with the idea. One of the worst
things about illegal immigration is that it creates a class of
people who contribute their labor to this country but aren’t
full participants in it and lack the rights and responsibilities
of everyone else. A guest-worker program doesn’t solve this
problem. It formalizes it.  Two Tiers  So we would have a two-tier labor market. Most people who
work in the U.S. can quit their jobs without worrying that
they’ll be ejected from the country after 60 days of
unemployment. Temporary workers would have no such security.
Most people can leave one industry for another. The temporary
agricultural workers in the bill would have no such freedom.
Some foreigners may choose this fate as better than their
alternatives. It seems unfair, though, to ask Americans to
compete with workers who will be more willing to put up with bad
working conditions because of this artificially precarious
situation.  Organized labor and its liberal allies have traditionally
opposed guest-worker programs. President Bill Clinton  came out
strongly  against the idea when he was in office, citing the work
of Barbara Jordan’s bipartisan commission on immigration. That
commission  found  that such programs were bad for workers and
didn’t reduce illegal immigration as advertised. Instead they
increased it: Guest workers overstayed their terms, and family
members and friends came to join them.  This time around, union leaders are going along with the
guest-worker program. Perhaps they think it’s a price worth
paying to legalize illegal immigrants, and that after it passes
they can push to liberalize the program to make it easier for
guest workers to become citizens.  In that case, the program will end up backfiring on the
Republican politicians who most avidly support it. If they say
no to liberalization, they will be portrayed as anti-Hispanic --
the very image they are trying to dispel by backing this bill.
If they say yes, they will be increasing the number of low-wage
voters, which is what they wanted to avoid by supporting a
guest-worker program.  Bad Choices  Enforcing the program’s limits would involve similarly bad
choices. One of the chief arguments for this bill is to stop
enforcing immigration laws in ways that break up families. What
happens when a guest worker has finished his three-year term and
has no job -- but has brought his family here? (Or had a child,
who would be a U.S. citizen?) Will we then deport him? Or will
we just let him overstay his visa and go into the shadows as an
illegal immigrant?  Supporters of the bill should rethink these provisions.
Opponents should train their fire on them. Many Americans
support legalizing illegal immigrants because it seems more
humane and practical than mass deportations. Guest-worker
programs seem at odds with those impulses, because they’re
neither humane nor practical.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  