-- Nintendo CEO Seen Missing Profit Target as Wii U Founders
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-04-23T08:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/nintendo-ceo-seen-missing-profit-target-as-wii-u-founders.html
Nintendo Co. President Satoru Iwata
has pledged that the “Super Mario” game creator will post a
100 billion-yen ($1 billion) operating profit this fiscal year
as new software titles boost sales. Analysts say he’ll fail.  Iwata will announce a second straight annual loss tomorrow,
losing 18.7 billion yen in the 12 months ended March 31,
according to the average of 15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
For the year started April 1, Nintendo may post operating income
of 70 billion yen, according to the average of 19 estimates --
short of a target he said was a personal “ commitment .”  Nintendo’s Wii U, its first new home-gaming console since
2006, is failing to meet sales targets amid a delay of software
releases that Iwata said were crucial to winning over consumers
who increasingly play games on smartphones and tablet computers.
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and Microsoft Corp. are also preparing to release
upgraded consoles this year, adding pressure on the 53-year-old
executive, who’s been in the role since 2002.  “Iwata hasn’t produced good results in recent years,”
said Hideki Yasuda, a Tokyo-based analyst at Ace Securities Co.
“He can’t avoid being criticized.”  Yasuda rates the stock neutral, or hold. Only 4 of 20
 analysts  tracked by Bloomberg recommend buying Nintendo shares,
while 13 recommend holding them and 3 recommend investors sell.  Yasuhiro Minagawa, a spokesman for Kyoto-based Nintendo,
declined to comment on the difference between its commitment and
analysts’ forecasts. The company will release earnings after the
close of trade tomorrow.  Analyst Estimates  Nintendo fell 1.8 percent to 11,420 yen at the 3 p.m. close
of trade in  Osaka , trimming its gain this year to 25 percent,
compared with a 30 percent surge in  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average. Sony has jumped 70 percent in Tokyo.  Even as a weaker yen boosts the repatriated value of
overseas earnings for Japanese exporters such as Nintendo, it
may not be enough to meet Iwata’s profit target as the Wii U
struggles to gain traction.  “I don’t think Nintendo can achieve 100 billion yen,”
said Yoshikazu Shimada, an analyst at Tachibana Securities Co.
“It’s hard for Nintendo to meet the target despite the weak
yen’s tailwind.”  To help win back gamers from mobile devices, the company
last year released the Wii U, combining TV screen action with a
touch-screen controller in the company’s first new console since
the original Wii was released in 2006.  Mistake Repeated  To avoid repeating the mistake Nintendo made with its 3DS
handheld player, which had its price cut within six months of a
2011 debut on a lack of software, Iwata promised to keep the
pipeline of games for the Wii U strong.  Preparing software would drive demand for hardware such as
the Wii U, Iwata said in June before the machine’s debut.  He couldn’t maintain it as Nintendo halted new software for
the Wii U at the start of this year because of development
delays, Iwata said Jan. 31.  In Japan, the release of “Pikmin 3” in Japan was delayed
to July from this spring, according to the company’s
announcements. “Game & Wario” was pushed back to March 28 from
the beginning of the year.  “He has been one step behind in some strategic points,”
said  Eiji Maeda , an analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
“Contents are important to increase game fans. But Nintendo
couldn’t provide game titles.”  The company may have sold 3.5 million Wii Us last fiscal
year, missing its target of 4 million, Takeshi Koyama, a Tokyo-
based analyst at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , said in a report
April 16. The company may sell 9 million units this fiscal year,
he said.  Sony, Microsoft  Nintendo also faces tougher competition for game players
from rival console makers in a market that is shrinking amid the
shift to mobile devices.  Sony said in February it will release a Playstation 4
before the year-end holiday season, its first upgrade in seven
years. Microsoft may unveil the successor to its  Xbox 360  at the
gaming industry’s E3 expo in June or a separate event in May,
three people familiar with the plans said this month.  U.S. retail sales of video-game hardware, software and
accessories fell 10 percent to $992.5 million last month,
according to NPD Group Inc. Hardware sales fell the most,
declining 32 percent from a year earlier, the  Port Washington ,
New York-based research firm said April 18.  Sliding Yen  While Nintendo struggles with its main business, a
weakening of the yen may give some relief. The Japanese currency
has depreciated about 12 percent against the  U.S. dollar  this
year and touched a four-year low of 99.95 on April 11.  That may enable the company to post net income of 14
billion yen tomorrow, the company said in January.  While the currency helps, refreshing the game development
pipeline is critical to a sustained turnaround, with Nintendo
planning to add titles including “Pikmin 3” and “Wii Fit U.”  “Nintendo can achieve the target if it can release the
game software as planned,” said Yasuda at Ace Securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  