-- No Ricin Found at Poison-Letter Suspect’s Home, FBI Says
-- B y   M a r t y   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-04-22T19:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/no-ricin-found-at-poison-letter-suspect-s-home-fbi-says.html
No ricin was found during a search
of the Mississippi home of the man charged with sending letters
tainted with the toxic substance to President  Barack Obama  and a
U.S. senator, an FBI agent testified.  Agent Brandon Grant also told a federal judge in Oxford,
Mississippi, during a hearing today that investigators found no
trace of the deadly poison in defendant Paul Kevin Curtis’s
vehicle, his ex-wife’s home or his parents’ house.  The substances found in the letters now indicates “a very
crude form of ricin,” Grant said, while noting that final test
results as to the toxicity of the mailed substance aren’t
complete.  Curtis, 45, of Corinth, is accused of mailing envelopes to
Obama and U.S. Senator  Roger Wicker , a Mississippi Republican,
that were intercepted April 16, the day after two bombs went off
at the Boston Marathon finish line, and found to contain “a
suspicious granular substance” that tested positive for ricin.
He faces charges of using the mail to convey threats to people
including Obama and faces a maximum of 15 years in prison if
convicted.  U.S. Magistrate Judge S. Allan Alexander in Oxford is
conducting a hearing to determine whether Curtis will be bound
over for a grand jury and whether he will be released on bail.
After a lunch break today, she recessed the hearing until
tomorrow morning.  Postmarked Letters  The letters were postmarked April 8 and both read in part:
“No one wanted to listen to me before. There are still ‘Missing
Pieces’ Maybe I have your attention now Even if that means
someone must die” and were signed “I am KC and I approve this
message.”  Ricin is made from castor beans, according to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s harmful and
potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, according to the CDC
website.  Grant said today it appeared someone had “put castor beans
into a food processor or blender and ground them up.”  Grant also testified that while no postage stamps or
envelopes were found in Curtis’s home, some were found in his
car. He said he didn’t know if those found in the vehicle were
self-sealing as were the ones used in the mailings.  ‘Dirty Word’  A “dirty word” search of Curtis’s computer didn’t come up
with any searches or anything related to ricin, Grant said,
adding that the computer is still being analyzed.  Curtis’s attorney, Christi McCoy of Oxford, argued in court
last week that all the evidence against her client was
circumstantial unless he could be linked to the ricin.  McCoy today in court raised the possibility that Curtis was
being framed for the mailings by a Tupelo man recently arrested
on child molestation charges with whom Curtis had a long-running
e-mail feud.  In 2007, Curtis was reported by his wife to the Bonneville
Police Department, Grant and Victor Dickerson of the U.S. Secret
Service said in an affidavit supporting the criminal complaint
against him. They said she told them he was “extremely
delusional, anti-government, and felt the government was spying
on him with drones.”  Previous Letters  Inquiries with Wicker’s staff turned up previous letters to
his Washington office with the sign-off “this is Kevin Curtis
and I approve this message,” according to the affidavit. Curtis
also wrote a blog post in September 2010 saying he was working
on a novel about black market body parts titled “Missing
Pieces,” according to the agents.  A third, similar letter with a suspicious substance was
sent on April 8 to a judge in Lee County, where Curtis lives,
the agents said.  All three letters were on yellow paper and bore  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , postmarks, the agents said. Letters sent from
northern Mississippi, where Curtis lives, usually bear a Memphis
postmark, according to the affidavit.  Ricin poisoning symptoms depend on the purity, route of
exposure and the dose. Initial symptoms from inhalation occur as
early as four to six hours after the exposure, and include
difficulty breathing and a cough, according to the CDC.  The symptoms can progress rapidly to fluid within the lungs
and eventually respiratory failure. Deaths from the poison
usually happen within 36 to 72 hours. While no antidote exists,
doctors can counteract the effects of the poisoning by helping
victims breathe or giving them fluids.  The case is U.S. v. Curtis, 13-mj-00019, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Mississippi  (Oxford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marty Russell in federal court in Oxford, Mississippi, at 
 marty.russell56@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  