-- North West Avoids Target by Dominating Arctic: Corporate
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-04-22T20:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/north-west-s-arctic-dominance-avoids-target.html
North West Company Inc. (NWC) , the oldest
Canadian grocer, is trading at a record high as its dominance of
remote markets from the Arctic to the South Pacific shields it
from U.S. competitors such as  Target Corp. (TGT)   The Winnipeg-based company has carved out a market niche in
northwest Canada where a pack of gum can cost C$7, as well as
 Alaska , the Caribbean and islands such as Samoa. Shares in North
West, which was formed in 1779 and originally sold fur on
canoes, closed up 1.1 percent to C$24.48 today in Toronto,
eclipsing an April 15 peak and reaching the highest since it
went public in 1990.  “North West Co. will not be impacted negatively by the
U.S. retailers’ moves into Canada,” Andrew Hamlin, a  fund
manager  at  Aston Hill Financial Inc. (AHF) , which manages C$6.7
billion ($6.5 billion), including North West shares. “There is
no competition where it operates.”  Minneapolis-based Target, the second-largest U.S. food
distributor which began operating in Canada in March, plans to
open 125 to 135 stores in 2013, increasing pressure on retailers
such as  Loblaw Cos Ltd. (L)  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s
largest retailer, said Jan. 22 it will spend C$450 million to
renovate and add at least 37 superstores to 379 locations in
Canada in the next year. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based
retailer will also expand fresh food options, said Shelley
Broader, chief executive officer of the Canadian unit.  Nunavut, Fiji  North West’s 146 Northern stores sell food, financial
services and general merchandise in Canadian cities such as
Iqaluit, Nunavut, where temperatures reached minus 24 degrees
Celsius (minus 11 Fahrenheit) last week. It also has 36 Giant
Tiger discount stores in urban areas in western Canada, 31 AC
Value Centers in Alaska and 12 Cost-U-Less warehouse stores in
islands such as Grand Cayman,  Hawaii  and Fiji.  “These communities are hard to reach and we have
relationships with these communities, aboriginal residents, we
partner with local organizations,” CEO  Edward Kennedy  said in a
phone interview from Winnipeg. “If you’re a larger retailer --
keep in mind these are still small markets -- all that trouble
and effort to acclimatize yourself culturally to the community
to put in a fairly small store in a very high cost of doing
business environment, it doesn’t look very attractive.”  North West closed at C$24.22 at 4 p.m. in Toronto on April
19, for a market value of C$1.12 billion. It has gained 71
percent in the five years through yesterday, including
reinvested dividends, compared with a 2 percent loss for the
broad Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite index.  Target gained 22 percent this year and Wal-Mart has risen
26 percent.  Competitive Dividend  The company’s estimated dividend yield of 5 percent
outpaces its closest competitor  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  at 3 percent,
Jennifer Bartashus, a food retail analyst at Bloomberg
Industries said in an April 10 note.  Safeway  gained  21 percent this year and had revenue of
$44.2 billion last year.  North West’s profit rose 12 percent to C$65.15 million in
the year ended Jan. 31, as sales increased 1.2 percent to C$1.51
billion.  Wal-Mart is reaching into the north through the Web. The
number of items shipped by the retailer to the Yukon,  Northwest
Territories , and Nunavut has increased 300 percent over the same
time last year and Wal-Mart expects even higher growth for this
region in 2013, according to Alex Roberton, director of
corporate affairs for Wal-Mart  Canada .  Northern Access  “It’s a priority for us to provide access for our products
to remote communities and we’re continuing to focus on that as
an area of growth,” Roberton said in a phone interview. “We
are seeing an increase in searches on our website from Nunavut
and the Territories.”  While barriers to entry have protected North West’s
merchandising dominance in the north, its high prices in areas
where many aboriginal communities live in poverty and where the
company’s stores are sometimes the only option, have also drawn
criticism from residents.  The not-for-profit group  Feeding My Family  held a protest
in June outside a North West store in Nunavut and one of their
members, Israel Mablick, said that she paid C$17.99 for a 12-
pack of Pepsi and C$20.39 for a bag of frozen vegetables at a
North West store this year. A similar box of  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  soft
drinks sold at Loblaw this week for C$4.99 in Toronto while a
bag of vegetables was C$2.99. Aboriginals face “deep and severe
food insecurity” due to high costs, the  United Nations   said 
last year. While First Nations communities across Canada face
chronic food problems, the remoteness of towns like Iqaluit,
which can only be reached by air or ship, exacerbates the
problem.  Lightning Rod  “We are a lightning rod, no question, compared to Wal-
Mart, which sells into the North, has no physical presence,
employs no one, donates nothing, pays no taxes in the North, but
it ships to the North,” Kennedy said. Other retailers “may be
worried about Target but we’re more thinking about community
perception and how we can bring them the best. It’s a risk in
our business that’s somewhat unique to what other retailers are
facing.”  “We’ve passed through every nickel of cost efficiency to
the customer,” Kennedy said.  Wal-Mart donated $2.5 million over five years to Evergreen,
a community environmental group that operates across the
country, including in Nunavut. “Our primary function and our
social value is helping Canadians lower their cost of living,”
Roberton said.  Though Northern stores will drive revenue growth in 2013,
the company will open “a couple new” Giant Tiger junior
discount stores this year, Kennedy said. North West last year
closed six of these discount outlets, which sell clothing,
household products and food in rural markets.  Inuit Art  “In retail today the urban marketplace is getting more and
more crowded and it’s harder to differentiate,” Kennedy said.
“We like rural. We like remote. We like second-world, third-
world infrastructure. We’re more comfortable dealing in those
situations. That’s our expertise.”  Focusing on the north is good strategy, said Neil Linsdell,
analyst at Industrial Alliance Securities in Toronto. The
company’s general merchandise sales, which made up 20 percent of
revenue last year, are volatile. North West has a wide
geographic presence in the north through its ownership of Inuit
Marketing Service, Canada’s largest distributer of Inuit art,
and Sealift Express, a food catalog service for northern
residents.  Safe Dividend  “The locations of North West’s stores in remote regions of
Alaska and Canada, combined with the extent of its operations,
provide significant barriers to new entrants,” Linsdell wrote
in a March 21 note to clients when he initiated coverage of the
company. He rates the stock a buy and has a price target of
C$25. The dividend is “healthy and sustainable,” Linsdell
said.  The stock has two buys and five holds with an average price
target of C$24.33 from six of the seven analysts who cover it,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If we can keep driving down costs, and keep finding ways
to reduce prices, it creates more disposable income for
customers and we can capture more of that,” Kennedy said.
“It’s a virtuous circle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  