-- Norwegian Soars to Record on Better Earnings Outlook: Oslo Mover
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-04-22T12:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/norwegian-soars-to-record-on-better-earnings-outlook-oslo-mover.html
Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  rose to
the highest level in almost 10 years in Oslo after  Europe ’s
fourth-biggest discount carrier narrowed its loss and as U.S.
approval for Boeing Co.’s Dreamliner battery helped its outlook.  Norwegian gained as much as 7.6 percent to 272 kroner, the
 highest intraday level  since the company started trading its
shares in Oslo on Dec. 18, 2003. The stock traded 5.8 percent
higher as of 2 p.m. with about 2.6 million shares having been
traded, more than seven times the average daily volume during
the last three months.  The Scandinavian carrier on April 18 reported a first
quarter loss of 117.2 million kroner ($20.1 million), narrowing
from 285.5 million kroner a year earlier and beating the 233.4
million-kroner loss that was expected, according to the average
of seven  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The better-than-expected start to the year and positive
news about the Dreamliner, of which Norwegian has ordered eight,
suggest the carrier will report strong sales during the next two
quarters, according to Kenneth Sivertsen, an analyst at Arctic
Securities ASA.  “The first quarter is always the tricky quarter for an
airline,” he said by phone from Oslo today. The Fornebu,
Norway-based company is likely to use its first 787 on short-
haul European routes before placing the jet on the long-haul
routes it’s designed for, he said.  Norwegian is scheduled to introduce three 787s this year,
four next year and the eighth in 2015, with five leased and
three bought outright.  Finnair Sale  “Norwegian should have a fairly good couple of quarters,”
Sivertsen said.  Finnair Oyj’s 53 million-euro ($69.1 million) sale of its
4.7 percent stake in Norwegian may also be helping drive the
airline’s stock today, since the holding had “created some
overhang in the share price,” the analyst said.  Vantaa, Finland-based Finnair will record a capital gain of
34 million euros from the transaction, it said today. The shares
were transferred in 2007 in connection with Norwegian’s purchase
of Swedish unit FlyNordic via a stock-swap.  Shares in Norwegian have gained 87 percent this year,
valuing the airline at 9.35 billion kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  