-- Nuveen’s 8.56% Annualized High-Yield Returning Most: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-04-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/nuveen-s-8-56-annualized-high-yield-returning-most-muni-credit.html
John Miller  at Nuveen Asset
Management LLC, who beat all of his municipal bond-fund rivals
last quarter, is betting a U.S. housing rebound will help extend
the longest rally since 2010 in high-yield local debt.  The  Nuveen High Yield Municipal Bond Fund (NHMRX)  earned 2.14
percent in the first three months of 2013. It outperformed all
other open-ended, national muni funds that are at least three
years old, oversee $500 million or more and target institutional
clients, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Goldman Sachs High
Yield Municipal Fund (GHYIX)  followed with a 2.09 percent return.  Bond buyers seeking extra yield as the  Federal Reserve 
holds its  target interest rate  near zero have spurred junk-grade
munis to beat all tax-exempt debt for five straight quarters,
the longest streak since December 2010. With residential real
estate prices rising the most since 2006 last month, Miller, 46,
is looking to land-secured munis to bolster earnings. Debt sold
for multiple-housing developments is drawing Ben Barber, 43, who
helps manage the Goldman Sachs fund in New York.  Many housing-related munis “are still undervalued,” said
Miller, who’s based in  Chicago . The $9.3 billion Nuveen fund
also outpaced its peers for all of 2012. “We’re going to get
more performance out of that sector.”  Peers Ahead  All 10 of the best-performing funds last quarter focus on
speculative-grade munis, securities rated below BBB- by  Standard
& Poor’s  or Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service. The leaders all
earned at least 1.1 percent in the period, double the gain of
the broader local-debt market.  Buyers willing to take the extra risk have added $1.2
billion to high-yield muni mutual funds this year, after pouring
in $9.6 billion in 2012, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  They are escaping yields that remain below historical
averages as the Fed extends its program of monthly bond
purchases to bolster the economy. Twenty-year general
obligations yielded  3.89 percent  last week, compared with a
five-decade average of about 5.9 percent, according to a Bond
Buyer index.  While the rally in junk-grade munis has compressed their
extra yield, Miller said the segment has more room to gain. His
fund’s three-year average annual earning is 11.5 percent, better
than 98 percent of its peers, Bloomberg data show.  Above Average  The yield spread on 20-year high-yield munis over benchmark
securities fell to 2.73 percentage points March 28, the smallest
since 2010, Nuveen data show. Still, that gap has averaged 2.36
percentage points since 1995.  “It’s going to be more of an income story, but good
attractive income,” said Miller, who oversees $86.5 billion of
munis in total. “And there’s still a little bit more spread
tightening to go.”  As a growing economy prompts bets that  interest rates  are
set to rise, investors such as New York-based BlackRock Inc.,
the world’s largest asset manager, have recommended scaling back
on lower-rated munis.  Higher interest rates will erode high-yield gains,
according to  Peter Hayes , head of munis at BlackRock, which
oversees $109 billion of local debt. He suggests buying munis
with a higher credit ranking, from four to six levels below the
top grade.  Yield Forecast  Yields on 30-year Treasuries will climb about 0.5
percentage point to 3.38 percent by year-end, according to the
median forecast of 55 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Barber, who helps manage $30 billion of munis at Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, said he’s reduced the average maturity
of his high-yield fund by six months to defend against the
potential for rising interest rates. He’s also increased
allocations of munis rated one to three steps above junk by 2
percent, while decreasing speculative-grade debt by the same
amount.  He’s also looking to  Puerto Rico  for gains, boosting the
$3.9 billion high-yield fund’s holdings of commonwealth debt in
the first quarter to 7.2 percent, from 6.1 percent at the end of
2012.  Debt sold on the island, which is graded one step above
junk by the three major rating companies, takes up about 3.2
percent of the Barclays Plc municipal index.  Miller is positioning the Nuveen fund to benefit as the
housing market buoys the national economy in its rebound from
the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  Property Support  The Fed last week said the economic expansion remained
“moderate,” with the help of rising housing prices and
increasing demand for home loans. Residential property values in
20 cities climbed  8.1 percent  in January from the same month
last year, the biggest increase since June 2006, according to
the S&P/Case-Shiller index.  Nuveen has revenue bonds backed by drywall distributor USG
Corp. among its top 10 holdings, according to Bloomberg data as
of March 31.  The debt, which is state tax-exempt and subject to the
alternative-minimum tax at the federal level, financed a solid-
waste facility in  Pennsylvania .  In the $3.7 trillion municipal market this week,  Wisconsin 
leads issuers planning to sell $7.7 billion of long-term debt,
Bloomberg data show. Localities issued about  $20 billion 
combined the past two weeks, the most since December.  Munis are gaining in the face of the supply wave. Ten-year
benchmark munis yield  1.76 percent , the lowest since January,
Bloomberg Valuation data show. That’s still eclipsing the 1.71
percent interest rate on comparable-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the two yields, at about  103 percent , is a
measure of relative value between the two asset classes. The
percentage has been below 100 on only one day in the past month,
showing munis have cheapened in comparison with federal debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  