-- NYC Fliers Confront Delays on FAA Controller Furloughs
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-22T22:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/nyc-fliers-confront-delays-on-faa-controller-furloughs.html
Flights to and from New York City-
area airports are experiencing delays of almost two hours today
because of weather, maintenance and the automatic U.S. budget
cuts that furloughed air-traffic controllers.  The disruptions in the nation’s busiest air-travel market
affected the three largest U.S. airlines.  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the biggest, has a hub at New Jersey’s Newark
Liberty airport, while  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
American Airlines are the largest at New York’s LaGuardia.  “Controllers will space planes farther apart so they can
manage traffic with current staff, which will lead to delays at
airports including New York’s LaGuardia,” the Federal Aviation
Administration said today in an e-mailed statement. Yesterday
there were 400 flight delays attributable to the furloughs.  LaGuardia had delays of one hour, 43 minutes for some
arrivals as of 6 p.m. local time as wind added to the slowdown,
while departures ran about 60 minutes late, according to the
FAA’s travel  website . Flights to New York’s Kennedy airport were
as much as two hours, 43 minutes late, partly due to runway
maintenance.  Newark  also had delays.  Some arrivals were an average of 22 minutes late in
 Charlotte , North Carolina, because of staffing shortages, the
FAA’s website showed, while thunderstorms slowed air traffic in
Miami and Denver’s airport grappled with snow and ice.  Tarmac Rule  Urged on by two trade groups, the U.S. Transportation
Department said it’s considering whether to suspend enforcement
of regulations preventing lengthy tarmac delays.  Airlines for America , which represents large carriers, and
the Regional Airline Association asked for a moratorium on the
rule on April 19 because budget cuts make delays more likely,
the Transportation Department said in a statement. Airlines
can’t let domestic flights sit on the tarmac for more than three
hours without giving passengers a chance to leave the plane.  United waived flight-change fees for today and tomorrow for
Los Angeles itineraries.  The Chicago-based carrier saw “alarming pockets of
degradation” at LaGuardia and Los Angeles both last night and
today because of the furloughs, Megan McCarthy, a spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  “We are concerned about how this is going to evolve and
affect air travel reliability for our customers,” she said.
“Unfortunately there has been no indication of a plan from the
FAA on how to handle the growing problem.”  Los Angeles  Flights yesterday into Los Angeles were delayed an average
of three hours due to staffing shortages, and when a shift of
workers left at midnight the airport was still behind by 200
flights from earlier in the day, Doug Church, a spokesman for
the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, said in an e-
mail. One airline landed planes at nearby Ontario airport, and
shuttled passengers by bus to the Los Angeles airport, he said.  An average of about 10 percent of controllers will be on
furlough on any given day, according to the union, which
represents about 15,000 FAA-employed controllers.  Delays may “worsen throughout the week” and the furloughs
“should be halted immediately,” the union said today in a
statement.  Delta said on its website that it is  “disappointed”  by
the furloughs, and said there may be delays at 10 airports
including LaGuardia, Kennedy, Newark, Chicago O’Hare, Los
Angeles and San Francisco.  Little Visibility  American issued a similar warning to passengers last week.
A lack of details from the FAA make it “difficult to
communicate exactly how customers will be affected,”  Andrea Huguely , a spokeswoman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier,
said in an April 20 e-mail.  FAA Administrator Michael Huerta warned last week that
delays at major U.S. airports may reach more than two hours with
fewer controllers on duty because of the spending cuts known as
sequestration. The agency has “no choice” about layoffs for
those employees and maintenance workers, he said.  The Airlines for America group last week sued the FAA,
saying the cutbacks are based on a flawed reading of the law and
furloughs would snarl airports and hurt the economy.  FAA leaders could use discretion and make mandatory budget
cuts in other areas that don’t affect the agency’s mission of
managing U.S. airspace, Delta General Counsel Ben Hirst said in
an April 19 letter to the agency in which he cited memos from
U.S. solicitors general under the most recent Democratic and
Republican administrations that had the same conclusion.  Flight delays and cancellations may result in “demand
destruction” and a lower second-quarter revenue outlook, Daniel McKenzie, an analyst at Buckingham Research in New York, wrote
today in a note to clients.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , which has its hometown base at
Kennedy, joins United, Delta and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  among
carriers with greater risk of delays, he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  