-- Okada Review Finds Wynn Resorts Probe ‘Deeply Flawed’
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-22T12:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/okada-review-finds-wynn-resorts-probe-deeply-flawed-.html
An independent review commissioned
by Kazuo Okada’s lawyers found that  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s
investigation that cost the Japanese billionaire his 20 percent
stake in the casino operator was “deeply flawed.”  The review by former Homeland Security Secretary  Michael Chertoff  found that Wynn Resorts’ independent investigation,
conducted by former FBI Director  Louis Freeh , was “structurally
deficient, one-sided, and seemingly advocacy-driven,” Okada’s
 Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  said today in a statement.  “This confirms what I have maintained since the day the
Freeh report was issued and the Wynn Board moved to strip me of
my stake in a company I helped found,” Okada said in the
statement. “It’s obvious that the biased report was part of
Steve Wynn’s campaign to eliminate me as a rival to his power
within Wynn Resorts.”  Wynn Resorts last year forcibly redeemed the shares of its
largest shareholder for $1.9 billion, about $800 million less
than what Okada says was their market value. Las Vegas-based
Wynn Resorts, citing the Freeh report, alleged Okada was
“unsuitable” as a controlling shareholders because of “prima
facie violations” of U.S. anti-bribery laws.  The review by Chertoff found that Freeh’s law firm “viewed
itself as an advocate first and an impartial investigator
second” in preparing the report.  Freeh and his colleagues
“cherry-picked evidence and stretched to reach conclusions that
would be helpful to the Wynn Resorts Board,” according to
today’s statement.  $135 Million Gift  Okada, 70, is the chairman of Tokyo-based Universal
Entertainment. He helped  Steve Wynn  finance the casino operator
that went public in October 2002 and was its largest individual
shareholder until February of last year. He has said Steve Wynn
wanted him out because he opposed a $135 million gift to the
University of Macau.  Okada, who resigned from Wynn Resorts’ board of directors
ahead of a shareholders vote to oust him earlier this year,
faces a U.S. criminal investigation of possible bribery related
to his Philippine casino project, according to an April 8 filing
by the  Justice Department  in   Nevada  state court in Las Vegas.  The Justice Department asked the judge to halt the lawsuit,
in which Wynn Resorts accuses Okada of breach of fiduciary duty
and Okada seeks to undo the redemption of his shares, in so far
as it pertains to the same allegations that are under
investigation, according to the filing.  The U.S. is also investigating Wynn Macau Ltd.’s donation
to the University of Macau Development Foundation.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, A-12-656710-B, Clark
County District Court, Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  