-- Homex Slumps as Slim Fix Seen as Short-Term: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-22T18:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/homex-slumps-as-slim-fix-seen-as-short-term-mexico-city-mover.html
Desarrolladora Homex SAB shares and
bonds fell amid speculation that the Mexican homebuilder’s sale
of its stake in two prisons to companies controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim  won’t stop the drain on operating cash.  Shares of Homex, the country’s biggest homebuilder by
sales, sunk 7.2 percent to 15.67 pesos at 1:05 p.m. in Mexico
City, after surging a record 40 percent on April 19 on the
announcement of the prison sale. Today’s drop was the biggest on
Mexico’s benchmark IPC index. Homex bonds due 2020 fell 3.83
cents to 75.28 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While cash flow from the prison deal “produces significant
liquidity relief” for Homex, it’s unclear how much time the
proceeds buy the Culiacan, Mexico-based homebuilder, Barclays
Plc analysts Autumn Graham and Christopher Buck wrote today in a
note to clients. The company said on April 19 it will raise
about 4 billion pesos ($325 million) in the sale to Slim’s Grupo
Financiero Inbursa SAB and Impulsora del Desarrollo y el Empleo
en America Latina SAB.  “We still find debt levels to be unmanageable,” Grupo
Bursatil Mexicano SA analyst Javier Gayol wrote in an e-mailed
note to clients. “This only buys the company a bit of time
before more measures are implemented.”  Homex is scheduled to report its first-quarter  earnings  on
April 25. The company’s cash fell 1.7 billion pesos last year,
the biggest drop since Bloomberg started compiling the data in
2001.  The company said in the filing on April 19 it will use
about half of the money from the asset sale as working capital
and the rest to pay down debt ahead of schedule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  