-- Homex Out of Prison With Billionaire Slim’s 20-Cent Gift
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-22T15:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/homex-out-of-prison-with-billionaire-slim-s-20-cent-gift.html
Carlos Slim , the world’s richest
man, is giving a lifeline to Mexican homebuilder Desarrolladora
Homex SAB.  Homex’s $400 million of bonds due in 2020 soared a record
20 cents to 79.11 cents on the dollar after the builder said on
April 19 that it agreed to sell its stake in two prisons to
companies controlled by Slim. The notes sank as low as 53.44
cents on April 17 after Homex said it would seek to raise cash
from asset sales and junior debt issuance, while rivals Urbi
Desarrollos Urbanos SAB and Corp. Geo SAB hired banks to advise
on possible restructurings. Urbi said last week it will use a
30-day grace period to make an interest payment due April 19.  Homex, which said it will raise about 4 billion pesos ($326
million) in the sale to Slim’s  Ideal (IDEALB1)  and Grupo Financiero
Inbursa SAB, is trying to regain investor confidence as the
industry struggles to stem a cash drain fueled by a government-
subsidized housing program to promote urban apartment buildings.
The projects, which require longer planning and building than
single-home construction, prompted Homex’s  cash  to dwindle by
1.7 billion pesos last year, the biggest drop since Bloomberg
started compiling the data in 2001.  “He sees Homex’s back against the wall, he saw something
he liked and it’s like you made a deal with the ‘Godfather’ --he
makes them an offer they can’t refuse,” Ray Zucaro, who helps
manage $300 million of emerging-market debt at SW Asset
Management in Newport Beach,  California , said in a telephone
interview. “It gives them a breath of fresh air.”  Inbursa Loans  Vania Fueyo, a spokeswoman for Culiacan, Mexico-based
Homex, said in an e-mailed response to questions that the money
from the sale positions Homex “strategically” to eventually
pull ahead “in an environment of reduced competition.”  The company said in the filing it will use about half of
the money as working capital and the rest to pay down debt ahead
of schedule. Slim’s bank, Inbursa, and construction firm
Impulsora del Desarrollo y el Empleo en America Latina SAB,
known as Ideal, will buy the stake in the prisons, one in
Morelos state and the other in Chiapas. Homex expects to stay on
as builder of the prison in Morelos and to participate in the
operations of both prisons, according to the statement.  Homex had bank loans from Inbursa totaling at least 1.8
billion pesos as of the end of 2012, according to the builder’s
fourth-quarter report.  As the transaction buys Homex time to adapt to the changing
homebuilder industry, it’s giving Slim the opportunity to enter
the prison business, according to an e-mail from the
billionaire’s son, Inbursa Chairman Marco Antonio Slim.  Urbi Payment  Urbi (URBI*)  said April 19 that it wouldn’t make a $6.4 million
bond payment due last week. The Mexicali, Mexico-based company
said it planned to use the 30-day grace period for payment while
it reviews its business, according to a regulatory filing. The
company’s bonds due in 2022 rose 0.16 cents to 32.33 cents per
dollar on April 19.  The company said on April 15 that it hired Rothschild and
other advisers to review its finances and help analyze options
including a debt restructuring.  Geo said on April 12 that it hired Fians Capital to provide
advice with the “principal objective of generating efficiencies
and reviewing alternatives for restructuring its debt,”
according to a filing with the Mexican stock exchange. Its bonds
due in 2022 rose 2.44 cents to 52.39 cents on the dollar last
week.  Urbi spokesman David Aguilar declined to comment on the
company’s efforts to restructure debt.  Geo (GEOB)  spokesman Alejandro
Haiducovich declined to comment on the Mexico City-based
company’s restructuring process.  ‘Extremely Favorably’  “You would think that there would be a temptation to
follow the same path,” Jim Harper, director of corporate
research at BCP Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview
from Greenwich,  Connecticut . “In this business, sometimes
willingness to pay is equally important and sometimes more
important than capacity to pay, and they’ve shown willingness to
pay in spades. The market obviously has reacted extremely
favorably and kudos to them.”  Homex’s shares jumped a record 40 percent on April 19 to
16.89 pesos. The Mexico  Habita (HABITA)  Index of six homebuilders soared
15 percent, led by Homex. Corp. Geo rose 13 percent.  Buying Time  While the prison sale “bought some time,” it doesn’t
resolve the deeper concerns of investors, according to Claudio Robertson, the head of fixed-income trading at Investment
Placement Group in San Diego.  “There are no indications the current situation will
radically change without government involvement,” he said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “They still need to address
their core business. There’s still no information on what they
are keeping and how their cash flow will be impacted.”  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps dropped two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 89 basis points at 11:03 a.m. in
New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso slid 0.6 percent to 12.3391 per dollar. Yields on
interbank rate futures due in December, known as TIIE, fell nine
basis points to 4.19 percent last week.  Jacob Steinfeld and Marcela Nagib, analysts at JPMorgan,
raised their recommendation on Homex bonds to marketweight from
underweight after the transaction was announced April 19.  “This sale is positive for the credit, not only because it
improves the company’s liquidity position, but also because it
was able to execute on an asset in such a difficult market
environment,” they wrote in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  