-- Orbital Sciences Rocket Flies in Test Before Cargo Runs
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-04-22T20:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/orbital-sciences-rocket-lifts-off-in-key-test-before-cargo-runs.html
Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  yesterday
launched its 130-foot Antares rocket for the first time, a
milestone in the company’s plans to deliver cargo to the
International Space Station.  The unmanned rocket lifted off from the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Wallops Flight Facility
on Virginia’s Eastern Shore. Orbital is seeking to follow Elon Musk’s Space Exploration Technologies Corp., or SpaceX, which
last May became the first company to dock a commercial craft at
the station.  Shares of Orbital rose 2.7 percent to close today at $16.65
in  New York  trading.  Yesterday’s test launch delivered a mock cargo ship into
orbit that separated from the rocket after about 10 minutes,
destined to burn up in Earth’s atmosphere in a few weeks. No
contact will be made with the  space station  on this mission.  “Today did go extremely smoothly, and it’s a real
testament to the team that it did,” Frank Culbertson, an
Orbital executive vice president and former astronaut, said
during a press conference after the launch. “Making it look
easy takes a lot of hard work and overcoming a lot of
challenges.”  The company intends to dock with the space station in June
or July, and then make regular cargo deliveries as early as
September under a $1.9 billion contract.  Past Delays  The launch came after several delays. An attempt on April
17 was scrubbed 12 minutes before liftoff because a data cable
prematurely disconnected from the rocket. An April 20 attempt
was called off because of high winds. A launch planned for last
August was scrapped in part because of faulty fuel valves at the
Wallops Island launchpad, Barron Beneski, an Orbital spokesman,
said last year.  Orbital is now moving away from technical and development
risks and toward production, said  Patrick McCarthy , managing
director at Arlington, Virginia-based FBR Capital Markets & Co.,
who rates Orbital shares outperform.  “That’s when stocks tend to work really well,” he said in
a phone interview.  For Orbital, the stakes are high because any setback raises
the risk that  NASA  could award a greater share of future supply
missions to Hawthorne, California-based SpaceX, William Loomis,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said in a
phone interview before the launch  “Orbital has to perform well if they want to be
competitive,” Loomis said. “As each milestone gets behind
them, there’s less risk.”  Stock Gains  Shares of Orbital have gained 21 percent this year after
falling 5.2 percent in 2012. A successful launch might boost
shares about 5 percent, Loomis, who has a buy rating on the
company, wrote in an April 12 note to clients.  NASA is relying on companies such as Orbital and SpaceX to
supply the space station with food and other cargo, after
retiring its shuttle fleet in 2011. NASA also has agreements
with the governments of  Europe ,  Japan  and  Russia  for the work.  The launch “lays the groundwork for the first Antares
cargo mission to the International Space Station later this
year,”  John Holdren , a science and technology adviser to
President  Barack Obama , said in a statement. “The growing
potential of America’s commercial space industry and NASA’s use
of public-private partnerships are central to President Obama’s
strategy to ensure U.S. leadership in space exploration.”  Supply Trips  Orbital’s contract with NASA includes eight cargo resupply
flights to the station. Closely held SpaceX has a $1.6 billion
contract for a dozen supply trips.  In Orbital’s missions, an Antares rocket would launch an
unmanned supply ship known as Cygnus into orbit. The one-way
spacecraft would then navigate to the space station and deliver
about 2 tons of crew supplies, spare parts and science
experiments per trip. It, too, will burn upon re-entering
Earth’s atmosphere.  Orbital’s launch was also a milestone for the NASA
facility, located 157 miles (253 kilometers) from the nation’s
capital.  Antares (ANT)  was the largest rocket launched from the site
in its 67-year history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  