-- Emerging Stocks Rise Led by Philippines as Hungary Slumps
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-04-22T21:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/most-emerging-stocks-rise-on-thai-bank-earnings-insurers-drop.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, led by
Philippine companies, on speculation falling deposit rates will
spur demand for the nation’s equities. Hungarian equities
tumbled to the lowest level in about a month.  Ayala Corp. (AC)  jumped 5.4 percent in  Manila , helping drive the
Philippine Stock Exchange Index to a record. Erste Group Bank AG
led the Czech PX index higher.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) ,  Africa ’s
third-largest producer of the metal, climbed a second day as
gold extended its rebound. Billionaire  Eike Batista ’s OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA surged 18 percent in Sao Paulo,
sending  Brazil ’s Bovespa index up a third day.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.1 percent to
1,011.96 in New York as 436 stocks gained, while 342 retreated.
The Philippine peso halted a three-day gain on speculation the
central bank will lower the interest rate on its special deposit
accounts for a third time this year. Earlier today, stocks fell
after a drop in American home sales.  “A cut in SDA rates will entice people to look for other
investment havens offering higher yields, such as the equities
market,”  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at BDO
Unibank Inc. in Manila, said by phone.  Consumer discretionary and technology shares led the gains
in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The emerging-markets index
has lost 4.1 percent this year, trailing a 6.6 percent increase
in the MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks. The
emerging-markets measure trades at 10.6 times 12-month  projected 
profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.9 valuation, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.5 percent to $41.84. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a  measure  of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
lost 5 percent to 19.68.  The  Bovespa index  rose 0.7 percent, rebounding from earlier
losses. OGX extended a three-day rally to 29 percent after Folha
de S. Paulo newspaper reported that Moscow-based Lukoil may buy
a 40 percent stake. The company said in an e-mailed statement to
Bloomberg News that Folha’s report is “groundless.”  Russian stocks retreated, erasing earlier gains, as OAO
Gazprom slid after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cited the natural gas
export monopoly’s dividend plans in a report downgrading the
country’s equities.  The Budapest Stock Exchange Index slumped 1.4 percent as
the nation’s largest refiner Mol Nyrt. Latvia’s OMX Riga index
had the biggest decline among the 94 primary gauges tracked by
Bloomberg.  Hong Kong  Hong Kong stocks rose for a second day as infrastructure-
related stocks climbed on speculation demand will increase
following an earthquake in  China ’s southwestern province of
Sichuan. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  added less than
0.1 percent, while the Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.1
percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries lost one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 295 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  