-- Bombing Victims Mourned by Hundreds as Charges Filed
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-04-23T18:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/mourners-stand-15-deep-for-victim-at-moment-charges-filed.html
About 100 police officers stood at
attention as the casket of one of their own, Sean Collier, was
loaded into a hearse under a gray drizzle, after his sister
remembered a toddler who couldn’t let go of a threadbare blue
teddy bear.  Collier, a  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  officer
shot point-blank in his cruiser during the manhunt for the
 Boston  Marathon bombers, was eulogized today in a funeral at St.
Patrick Church in Stoneham, north of Boston.  His mother, Kelley Rogers, told the congregation of about
500 that her son wanted to be a police officer since he was 7
years old.  “He was smart, fun, just a little bit nerdy, and full of
kindness,” said his older sister, Nicole Collier Lynch, who
told the story of the blue bear. “I mourn the loss of my little
brother.”  A memorial service for Collier tomorrow at MIT is expected
to draw up to 10,000 people, according to a statement on the
institute’s website. White House officials said Vice President
 Joe Biden  will attend.  Eight-year-old Martin Richard, the youngest of three people
who died in the blasts, was buried this morning after a private
funeral Mass attended by his immediate family, his parents,
Denise and Bill Richard, said in a statement distributed by
Liberty Square Group, a Boston-based public relations adviser.
They said they plan a public memorial service in the coming
weeks.  Martin was known in the Boston neighborhood of Dorchester
as a cheerful kid who played several sports.  ‘Handsome Kid’  “He was a handsome kid with a big smile who loved
baseball,” said Mike Christopher, his Little League coach. “He
was everything you want in a little kid.”  Opening day for Martin’s team, the Rangers, will be on
April 27, when about 200 other Little Leaguers are scheduled to
march to a Dorchester ball field led by bagpipers and a fire
truck with flag bunting.  “We’re going to miss him, every game we play,”
Christopher said.  Lu Lingzi, a graduate student from  China  who never knew
she’d passed her exams toward a master’s degree in statistics in
 Boston University , was remembered yesterday as someone who
excelled in all she tried, from calligraphy to dance.  More than 1,000 students and faculty members filled an
auditorium last night for a memorial service at which
Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick  and university President
 Robert Brown  joined family members who traveled from China.  ‘Little Elf’  “She was our family’s Shirley Temple,” Lu’s sobbing
father, Lu Jun, said of his only child, according to her uncle
who translated. “The little elf and the little jolly girl
bringing everybody in the family ceaseless laughter,
lightheartedness and fun.”  Lu, 23, was called a generous friend and passionate piano
player who so missed her puppy back in China that she started
calling one of her friends by the same name, Jing Jing.  “I was so grateful that I found such a lovely sister in my
life,” said her roommate, Jing Li, a graduate student in the
School of Education. “But I had no idea that this friendship
could only last one year.”  15 Deep  The other victim of the blasts, Krystle Campbell, 29, of
Medford,  Massachusetts , was buried yesterday at almost the
moment U.S. authorities announced charges against Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev, 19, in the bombings.  A solitary bell tolled as pallbearers carried Campbell’s
casket up the stairs of St. Joseph Church in Medford in front of
more than 800 silent onlookers.  Mourners waiting to attend the  funeral  formed a line that
stretched down the block. Others stood 15-deep across the street
under an 18-foot American flag hanging from a tree. Twenty-eight
police on motorcycles then led a 98-car funeral procession to
Oak Grove Cemetery.  Patrick also attended Campbell’s funeral in Medford, where
she graduated from high school in 2001, as did Boston Mayor
Thomas Menino. Cardinal Sean O’Malley led the services.  The crowd of more than 500 standing opposite the church
came to “pay our respects to Krystle and the Campbell family,”
said Alyssa Settipanie, 22.  “Krystle and all the others were just innocent victims of
a terrible, terrible act,” said Charlestown resident Walter
Hope, 51, who stood across from the church as the funeral Mass
began at about 11:30 a.m. “It’s hard to imagine what could make
someone do such a thing.”  Site Handoff  About 2,000 apartment and condominium dwellers were allowed
back to their homes near the finish line today after the FBI
released the crime scene Monday, city spokeswoman Lisa Pollack
said.  Business owners were escorted back into their shops by city
workers. Those establishments will remain closed and the area
sealed off until the street is reopened sometime in the next few
days.  The FBI returned the site to Menino yesterday with a
symbolic handing-over of an American flag that flew at half-
staff during the evidence gathering. The release of the scene
kicked off the first step in the process: decontamination and
cleanup of the debris and blood left in the wake of the bomb
explosions.  “Handing over the flag represents the releasing of the
crime scene,” said John Guilfoil, Menino’s spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Larry Edelman  at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  