-- Pentagon Withholding From Lockheed Grows Over Management
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-22T18:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/pentagon-withholding-from-lockheed-grows-over-management.html
The Pentagon’s withholding of
payments from  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  over flaws in a business
system used to track costs and schedules for its F-35 fighter
has increased to $130 million.  The amount held back, equal to 5 percent of periodic
billings by the Bethesda, Maryland-based company, has climbed
from $47 million in October.  The  Defense Contract Management Agency  first raised
concerns in 2007 about internal company data generated for
Lockheed’s fighter programs -- the F-35, F-22 and F-16 jets. The
agency decertified the Pentagon-mandated Earned Value Management
System for the contractor’s aircraft operations in October 2010.  Withholding will continue until the agency determines
Lockheed’s aeronautics unit “has made significant progress to
successfully completing” a corrective action plan that the
agency approved on March 20, agency spokeswoman Jacqueline Noble
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Investors and analysts who follow the company have asked
Lockheed officials about the status of the Earned Value
Management System during quarterly conference calls on earnings.
Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, is due to
report first-quarter  earnings  tomorrow.  The topic also may come up the next day, during an F-35
hearing by a Senate Armed Services Committee panel convened by
Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia .  The F-35’s estimated cost for a fleet of 2,443 aircraft has
soared to $395.7 billion, up 70 percent from $233 billion in
2001 in current dollars, according to the Pentagon. It’s the
most expensive U.S. weapons system.  Continued Withholding  The withholding will continue until at least December, when
the company anticipates completing all its corrective actions,
Noble said. The agency will conduct a formal review after
Lockheed validates that its corrections have worked, she said.
Once the Pentagon approves the changes, the money that’s been
held back will be paid.  Lockheed Martin spokesman Ken Ross said in an e-mailed
statement today that the corrective action plan “details the
solutions and success criteria for remedying DCMA concerns.”  The agency’s acceptance of the plan “means we reached
agreement with our customer on a defined path to recertification
and sustainable earned value management practices,” Ross said.  A Pentagon rule that took effect in August 2011 requires
all new contracts to include language spelling out the potential
for withholding payments if deficiencies persist with five
primary business systems.  The requirement, intended to protect taxpayers from
overbilling, focuses on systems that companies use to estimate
costs for bids, purchase goods from subcontractors, manage
government property and materials and track costs and schedule
progress.  The maximum the Pentagon can withhold from the billings
under the regulation is 5 percent, the amount being applied to
Lockheed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  