-- Philips Misses Estimates on Lighting, Health Revenue Woes
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-04-22T07:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/philips-profit-misses-estimates-on-lighting-health-care-woes.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) 
reported first-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates on
declining sales at its lighting and health-care businesses.  Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and one-time
items were 421 million euros ($550 million), the world’s largest
lighting manufacturer said today. The average estimate of 14
analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for 441 million euros. The
stock dropped as much as 3.1 percent in Amsterdam trading.  “The world is an uncertain place right now,” Chief
Executive Officer Frans van Houten said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV, adding that U.S. hospitals are holding back on
spending amid the country’s health-care reform. In the lighting
business, sales were hit as construction companies cut orders
amid the economic slowdown, he said.  The results are a setback forvan Houten as he’s trying to
push the Amsterdam-based manufacturer into higher-margin areas
such as lighting products that save energy, health-care
equipment and wellness offerings to move away from a consumer-
electronics past. Philips’ consumer business has shrunk over the
years as customers flocked to competitors such as Sony Corp. or
Apple Inc. for mobile communications and music devices.  First-quarter sales dropped 0.9 percent to 5.26 billion
euros, missing the 5.48 billion-euro analyst estimate. Health-
care sales declined 3.7 percent while lighting revenue dropped 2
percent. The two units generate about 80 percent of Philips’
total sales. Sales at the consumer lifestyle unit rose 9
percent.  Cutting More Costs  “The decline of the health-care order intake by 5 percent
was very disappointing in the quarter,” said Jos Versteeg, an
analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers. He has a “buy” rating
on Philips shares.  The stock declined as much as 66.5 cents to 21 euros and
was down 2.7 percent as of 9:05 a.m. in Amsterdam, valuing the
company at 20.3 billion euros. Before today, Philips had gained
8.9 percent, while General Electric increased 3.6 percent in  New
York  and Siemens dropped 7.4 percent in  Frankfurt .  To counter weak demand,  Van Houten  is trying to reduce
costs. He said last month he sees opportunities to cut an
additional 1 billion euros in costs between 2014 and 2016 by
simplifying processes. This comes on top of an existing plan to
save 1.1 billion euros and cut 6,700 jobs by 2014, including
management layers to accelerate decision making.  Wellbeing Products  Van Houten has transferred the loss-making TV-unit into a
joint venture with  TPV Technology Ltd. (903)  and sold the
underperforming audio and video unit to Funai Electric Co.
Philips’ remaining consumer division focussed on health-and
wellbeing products such as beard stylers and grooming kits,
electronic toothbrushes, coffee machines and kitchen appliances.  Philips, which competes with  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  General
Electric Co. (GE)  in health-care equipment and lighting, has set a
target for earnings before interest, taxes and amortization of
10 to 12 percent of sales by 2013, on revenue growth of 4
percent to 6 percent on compound annual growth rate. Van Houten
has said he’ll update investors on these targets in September.  Van Houten, who took over in April 2011, today reiterated
that business in the first half will be ‘slow’’ because of
“adverse market trends” in  Europe  and the U.S. The company
reiterated its full-year targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  