-- Philippine Peso Falls on Speculation of SDA Rate Cut; Bonds Gain
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-22T02:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/philippine-peso-falls-on-speculation-of-sda-rate-cut-bonds-gain.html
The Philippine peso fell, halting a
three-day advance, while government bonds and stocks rose on
speculation the central bank will cut the interest rate on its
special deposit accounts for a third time this year.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, which meets April 25 to review
policy, reduced the rate it pays on 1.9 trillion pesos ($46
billion) in its special accounts by about half a percentage
point each in January and March. The central bank isn’t ruling
out a further cut in the so-called SDA rate and is “always
thinking of additional measures” to manage liquidity, Felipe
Medalla, a member of the authority’s Monetary Board, said on
April 18. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose above 7,000
for the first time.  “The consensus is for the BSP to cut the SDA rate by
another 50 basis points at this week’s meeting to bring down its
cost,” said Ricky Cebrero, head of Treasury at Philippine
National Bank in  Manila . The rate is currently at 2.5 percent.  The peso declined 0.2 percent to 41.127 per dollar as of
10:25 a.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange
rate used to price options, was little changed at 4.72 percent.  The yield on 3.875 percent bond due November 2019 fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.73 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate is at the
lowest since the notes were first sold in November.  Bangko Sentral is always ready to intervene to keep the
foreign-exchange market orderly, Assistant Governor Cyd Amador
told reporters on April 19. The monetary authority may deploy
prudential measures more actively to augment traditional
monetary policy and prevent asset bubbles from forming, Deputy
Governor Nestor Espenilla said separately on April 19.  The central bank announced on April 18 that it’s doubling
the amount of dollars residents can freely buy and broadened the
range of approved outward investments to spur capital outflows
and slow the peso’s gains.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  