-- Pimco’s Gross Urges U.K. to Ease Pace of Austerity, FT Reports
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-04-22T14:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/pimco-s-gross-urges-u-k-to-ease-pace-of-austerity-ft-reports.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
U.K. and much of Europe are wrong to pursue fiscal austerity
because it won’t deliver growth, the Financial Times reported.  The comments add to criticism from the  International
Monetary Fund  last week that Britain’s failure to grow means
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  should ease his
deficit-cutting plan. Gross was cited by the newspaper today as
saying bond investors want growth as much as equities investors.  “The U.K. and almost all of Europe have erred in terms of
believing that austerity, fiscal austerity in the short term, is
the way to produce real growth. It is not,” Gross was quoted as
saying in an interview. “You’ve got to spend money.”  Gross’s comments mark a turnaround from his 2010 view that
the U.K. budget gap -- then at 11 percent of gross domestic
product -- meant gilts were “resting on a bed of
nitroglycerine,” a suggestion that the then Labour government
of Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  should tighten policy.  Six years since the start of the financial crisis, the U.K.
has failed to recover the slump in output, and Osborne has had
to move out by two years his hope of balancing the budget by
2015, even amid the biggest fiscal retrenchment since World War
II.  “In the long term it is important to be fiscal and
austere. It is important to have a relatively average or low
rate of debt to GDP,” Gross was cited as telling the newspaper.
“The question in terms of the long term and the short term is
how quickly to do it.”  Fitch Downgrade  Osborne faces a new test of his economic stewardship as
data due this week will show if the U.K. has escaped another
recession, just days after the country lost its AAA grade from a
second ratings company.  Fitch Ratings  cut Britain by one level
to AA+ three days ago and predicted that debt will peak above
100 percent of  gross domestic product .  While the  median forecast  of 37 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  is for the economy to have skirted a slump and
expanded 0.1 percent in the first quarter, Bank of England
policy maker  Martin Weale  said on April 18 that he wouldn’t be
surprised if GDP fell. The Office for National Statistics will
release the data on April 25 in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  New York  at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  