-- Polish Bonds Rally on New Call for Rate Cut Amid Slower Growth
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-04-22T16:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/polish-bonds-rally-on-new-call-for-rate-cut-amid-slower-growth.html
The yield on Poland’s 10-year bonds
fell to a record low, making April the best month for the notes
since November 2008, after policy maker  Jerzy Hausner  said the
central bank will consider cutting rates further.  Policy makers will “certainly” think about cutting the
reference rate in May from a record-low of 3.25 percent, Jerzy Hausner told Dow Jones Newswires in an interview today. The
comments follow a reduction in this year’s economic growth
target by the  Finance Ministry  today and a call for lower
borrowing costs from fellow policy council member Andrzej
Bratkowski last week.  “We think the central bank will cut  interest rates  further
by 25 basis points in June,” Guillaume Tresca, a Paris-based
senior emerging-markets strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said
by phone today, adding “risks are tilted toward further cuts.”  The  yield  on 10-year government securities fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.38 percent at 6:27 p.m.
in Warsaw, dropping for the fourth day and extending this
month’s decline to 56 basis points. The zloty depreciated less
than 0.1 percent to 4.1057 against the euro, erasing gains of as
much as 0.3 percent earlier in the day.  Poland’s economic growth will slow to 1.5 percent this year
from 1.9 percent in 2012,  Ludwik Kotecki , chief economist at the
Finance Ministry, said at a news conference in Warsaw. The
general government deficit narrowed to 3.9 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, missing the government’s 3.5 percent
of GDP target, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said.  Nine-month forward rate agreements, derivatives used to
speculate on interest rates, traded 68 basis points below the
Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, showing a scope for almost three
quarter-point cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  