-- Pound Rises Versus Euro on Bets U.K. Avoided Another Recession
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-04-22T15:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/pound-approaches-one-month-low-versus-euro-after-u-k-downgrade.html
The pound rose against the euro,
following three weeks of losses, before a government report this
week that economists said will show the U.K. avoided falling
into a triple-dip recession last quarter.  Sterling advanced versus all except one of its 16 major
counterparts as a person familiar with the plan said Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will unveil the second phase of
a strategy to boost loans for small companies and consumers.
Gilts gained even after  Fitch Ratings  cut Britain’s credit
rating last week. The  Office for National Statistics  will
release its report on gross domestic product on Friday.  “Sterling sold off last week as a lot of bad news has been
priced in and now it seems to be stabilizing into the GDP
data,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “The market consensus
is for flat growth and not a triple-dip recession. Longer-term,
we still expect the pound weakness to continue.”  The pound gained 0.2 percent to 85.49 pence per euro at
4:40 p.m. in London after declining 1.5 percent during the
previous three weeks. Sterling rose 0.2 percent to $1.5263 after
falling to $1.5204, the weakest level since April 5.  Britain’s GDP expanded 0.1 percent in the first quarter
after shrinking 0.3 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median estimate of 37 economists  surveyed  by
 Bloomberg News .  Osborne’s Plan  Osborne may extend the Bank of England’s Funding for
Lending Scheme as soon as this week, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the measure hasn’t been
officially announced. The  International Monetary Fund , whose
delegation will visit London next month for an audit of the
U.K., has called on him to do more to aid the economy.  Sterling has declined 3.8 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 3.2 percent and the euro rose 1.9 percent.  Futures traders pared bets the pound will fall against the
dollar, figures from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
showed. The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds 
and other large speculators on a decline in the pound compared
with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 61,975 on
April 16, compared with net shorts of 69,969 a week earlier.  Gilts Gain  The 10-year gilt yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.65 percent after falling to 1.64 percent,
the lowest level since April 8. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 rose 0.11, or 1.10 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 100.87.  Fitch reduced the U.K.’s credit rating to AA+ from AAA on
April 19, citing a weaker economic and fiscal outlook as it
became the second company to cut the country’s ranking within
the past two months.  “Fitch’s downgrade is hardly a significant event for the
gilt market,” said Anders Vestergaard Fischer, a fixed-income
analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “The growth outlook
remains weak in the U.K. and the  Bank of England  may boost
stimulus by expanding its bond-buying program. Gilts are likely
to remain in a low-yield environment.”  U.K. money markets are indicating Bank of England policy
makers will expand their bond-buying  target , currently 375
billion pounds, by 80 billion pounds, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  JPMorgan based its calculation on indications of future
borrowing costs known as the sterling overnight index average,
or sonia. The contract for March 2014 was at 0.257 percent,
below the benchmark  interest rate  of 0.5 percent.  “There’s a need for the Bank of England to do something
given the weak backdrop from the euro area and what we see in
the U.K., where the economy isn’t significantly recovering,”
said Francis Diamond, a fixed-income strategist at JPMorgan in
London. “Our in-house model suggests the current level implies
around 80 billion pounds of additional QE,” he said, referring
to quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  