-- Princeton Names Provost Insider Eisgruber as Next President
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-04-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/princeton-names-provost-insider-eisgruber-as-next-president.html
Princeton University  chose a
longtime insider as president, following Yale, as universities
prepare for new challenges ranging from greater cost scrutiny to
international expansion to the advent of online education.  Princeton’s 20th president, Provost  Christopher Eisgruber ,
sat in the No. 2 role for almost a decade, gaining experience
during the financial crisis. Ivy League member  Yale University 
followed the same playbook in selecting Peter Salovey, its
provost since 2008, who held various administrative roles during
his three-decade tenure at the New Haven school.  The schools, along with fellow Ivy League member Dartmouth
College, will have new presidents by July 1. All of them looked
close to home for leadership, selecting alumni from academia
with administrative experience as president. In their choice,
the search committees steered clear of high-profile candidates
from politics and government such as Dartmouth alumnus  Timothy
Geithner , former  Treasury secretary , or  Hillary Clinton , former
secretary of state, who has a Yale law degree.  “They’re sending a message that they do not want any major
change, at least not now,” said Raymond D. Cotton, an attorney
who works with universities on compensation, leadership and
governance. “They didn’t bring in a change agent, but someone
to continue steering the ship in the direction it was already
going in.”  Constitutional Scholar  Eisgruber, 51, a constitutional scholar, has been
Princeton’s provost since 2004 and a member of the faculty since
2001. He replaces Shirley Tilghman, Princeton’s first female
leader, who took charge in 2001. She had been a faculty member
for 15 years before becoming its president.  Eisgruber has played a large role in many of the key
initiatives of recent years, some of which he now will be
responsible for bringing to fruition, Kathryn Hall, the chair of
the board of trustees who led the search, said in a statement.  “He is well prepared to provide strong leadership as
Princeton makes important decisions in areas ranging from online
learning to globalization to increasing the diversity of our
campus community, as well as in addressing challenges and
pursuing opportunities that we cannot foresee,” said Hall,
chief executive officer of Hall Capital Partners LLC in San
Francisco.  Among the challenges Eisgruber said he will face is
increasing the level of student-faculty engagement and to make
sure the research Princeton does is important.  Cost Issues  “I worry sometimes that this focus on cost, which is
understandable, may lead people to look for cheaper education,”
Eisgruber said in a telephone interview. “High-quality
education is expensive, and it is expensive for a fundamental
reason. Education is dependent on student-faculty engagement,
very good students in contact with very good faculty.”  Princeton was the first to replace loans with grants in
financial-aid packages for undergraduates.  “When they do graduate with loans, it is lower than what I
had,” Eisgruber said. “My recollection is I had $7,500 in debt
in 1983. Seventy-five percent of our graduates leave without any
debt.”  Princeton was also among the first elite universities to
embrace massive online open courses, also known as MOOCs. The
university signed on with provider Coursera last April.  Online Education  It is “very hard” to say where online education is going
and where the most effective varieties will be, he said.  “What we’re seeing is not likely to be the dominant form
five or 10 years from now,” Eisgruber said.  If there is the need for change, given the collegial nature
of universities, sometimes the best person to bring about
meaningful change is someone who knows and understands the
culture and is trusted by their colleagues, said Lawrence Bacow,
who ran  Tufts University  for a decade and is now a member of
 Harvard University ’s governing board.  Where institutions have had stable leadership, it is
natural to turn to a trusted colleague who knows the institution
well in times of uncertainty, Bacow said.  “It takes any outsider time to get up to speed,” Bacow
said in an e-mail. “Given all that is going on in higher
education, these transition costs may be higher today than in
less turbulent times.”  Princeton Alumnus  In addition to being a long-time faculty member, Eisgruber
is also an alumnus. He graduated in the class of 1983 and is the
author of several legal books. He examined the  Supreme Court 
nominating process in “The Next Justice: Repairing the Supreme
Court Appointments Process,” published in 2007.  In the first semester of the academic year, he taught a
freshman seminar on the Supreme Court and constitutional
democracy.  “He always speaks with a lot of interest and passion,
which I value,” said Lily Alberts, 22, an economics major from
Nashville. “I also value that he’s an alumnus.”  Eisgruber was a fellow student at Princeton with Supreme
Court Justice  Elena Kagan , a member of the  class of 1981 .  Justices Samuel Alito Jr. and  Sonia Sotomayor  also have
undergraduate degrees from Princeton.  Princeton’s 17-member  search committee  began meeting in
October, soon after Tilghman announced she would step down. The
committee included nine trustees, four faculty members, three
students and a staff member.  Career History  Eisgruber  became provost at Princeton when  Amy Gutmann 
vacated the job to become president of the  University of
Pennsylvania . He is the Laurance S. Rockefeller Professor of
Public Affairs in Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and the
University Center for Human Values. From 2001 to June 2004, he
served as director of Princeton’s Program in Law and Public
Affairs.  After graduating from the university with a degree in
physics, he became a Rhodes Scholar. Eisgruber earned a law
degree at the  University of Chicago , where he was editor-in-
chief of the law review. He was a law clerk to Supreme Court
Justice  John Paul Stevens .  Eisgruber taught at  New York  University’s law school for 11
years before coming to Princeton.  Princeton is the fifth-wealthiest school in higher
education, with an endowment of $17 billion as of June 2012,
according to the National Association of College and University
Business Officers and Commonfund Institute.  Unlike its Ivy peers, Princeton doesn’t operate a medical
school and has few graduate schools, making its finances less
complicated than a university such as Yale with  more than a
dozen professional schools.  Eisgruber, a law scholar, said there
are no plans for a law school.  A molecular biologist, Tilghman said in September that she
would step down at the end of the current school year. Tilghman,
66, said at the time she planned to return to teaching at the
school after a sabbatical.  Alumni of Princeton include first lady  Michelle Obama  and
 Eric Schmidt , chairman of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  The school was founded in
1746 as the College of  New Jersey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  