-- Protesters in India Seeking Justice for Raped Girl Battle Police
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-04-22T09:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/protesters-in-india-seeking-justice-for-raped-girl-battle-police.html
Hundreds of protesters clashed with
 police  in New Delhi today, pressing their demand that the city’s
top police official step down after the rape of a five-year-old
girl stoked new anger about women’s safety.  Demonstrators tried to pull down barriers outside a police
station in central Delhi as they demanded Police Commissioner
Neeraj Kumar’s resignation. More protesters gathered outside the
hospital where the girl was taken for treatment after the rape
last week.  “Delhi is a hotbed of anger because of the horrific way it
treats its women,” said Sunny Kumar, 24, a university student
holding a sign that said “Enough is Enough” outside the police
station. ‘There is a feeling among some men in Delhi that they
can get away with raping women.’’  India’s  parliament , which had been set to return from a
recess, was adjourned this morning as opposition lawmakers
protested at the government’s failure to protect women. The
kidnapping and rape of the girl drew new attention to the scale
of sexual crimes in the world’s largest democracy, four months
after the gang rape -- and subsequent death -- of a 23-year-old
student spurred calls for tougher sentences for rapists.  Two men have been arrested in the rape of the five year
old. Police say the girl was lured into an apartment where she
was kept for 40 hours.  The girl’s parents told local TV channels that officers
initially ignored their complaints and tried to bribe them to
keep quiet.  Kumar said he would not resign today in a televised press
conference because it will not improve the situation. Kumar said
he is investigating the parents’ complaints and will “make an
example” of any police officers who did not respond.  Sexual abuse of minors is widespread in homes, schools and
residential care facilities in  India  and the existing child
protection programs fail the most vulnerable, Human Rights Watch
said in February.  More than 7,200 children, including infants, are raped
every year, while many more cases go unreported, the New York-
based advocacy group said in its report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  