-- Putin Demands Proposals to Stem ‘Alarming’ Economic Slowdown
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-04-22T17:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/putin-demands-proposals-to-counter-alarming-economic-slowdown.html
Russia ’s economy is showing
“alarming signals” of a slowdown, requiring urgent action to
shield the world’s biggest energy exporter from global turmoil,
President  Vladimir Putin  said.  “I’m waiting for concrete proposals about measures that
will help us ensure stable economic growth and safeguard
ourselves against negative swings in the world economy, reduce
the risks for key industries and stimulate business activity,”
Putin said today in Sochi at a meeting of officials and analysts
that included  Elvira Nabiullina , his economic aide and incoming
central bank chief, and Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev .  While Putin highlighted the impact on Russia of a global
slump and “crisis developments in the world financial system,”
Economy Minister Andrei Belousov pointed to domestic factors
behind the stumbling growth, including high interest rates,
fiscal consolidation and a stronger ruble.  Putin is caught between calls to rev up the economy with
monetary and fiscal stimulus and the reluctance by the central
bank and  Finance Ministry  to ease policy. Russia’s $2 trillion
economy is growing at the weakest pace since a 2009 contraction
as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed exports and companies cut back
investment, prompting the Economy Ministry to lower this year’s
growth forecast to 2.4 percent from 3.6 percent. Russia risks
sliding into a recession without stimulus, Belousov has warned.  Ruble, Stocks  The ruble has lost about 2.6 percent against the dollar in
the past month, the worst performance among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Micex Index
sank as much as 1 percent and closed down 0.1 percent at
1,336.84 in Moscow, extending last week’s 3.4 percent drop.  Bank Rossii this month took the biggest step toward easing
monetary policy since raising all rates in September by cutting
some borrowing costs on less frequently used credit instruments.
Speaking at today’s meeting, outgoing central bank Chairman
Sergey Ignatiev said he saw a continued “declining trend” for
 interest rates , with the inflation rate remaining a key
consideration for policy makers.  The central bank, which is preparing for a transition of
leadership in June, wants to keep the pace of price growth
between 5 percent and 6 percent this year. Inflation slowed to 7
percent in March from 7.3 percent a month earlier.  Lending Growth  The situation in the financial industry is “stable,” with
the central bank prepared to use its existing credit mechanisms
to provide as much as 2 trillion rubles ($63 billion) in
liquidity if needed, Ignatiev said. Russian lending is growing
15 percent to 20 percent in nominal terms, a “normal” pace
that’s in line with central bank expectations, Ignatiev said.  High interest rates are contributing to Russia’s
“complicated” economic slowdown, according to Belousov, who
warned that steps to support growth shouldn’t risk the stability
of the budget.  While corporate investment was flat in the first quarter,
foreign direct investment grew to $15 billion, excluding the
effects of a buyout of energy venture TNK-BP by OAO Rosneft
under which  BP Plc (BP/)  purchased a 19.75 percent stake in the state-
owned  oil company , Belousov said.  Participants at the meeting, which lasted more than four
hours, agreed that rates on loans need to fall, Finance Minister
Anton Siluanov said, reiterating plans to borrow 1.2 trillion
rubles in 2013.  Safety Margin  “We don’t think it makes sense to consider increasing this
year’s borrowing,” he said. “It could affect loan rates to the
economy.”  While buffeted by lower demand for Russian exports, the
economy has a sufficient “margin of safety” to withstand a
downturn, Putin said. Real disposable incomes are growing and
prices for oil and other commodities remain high, adding to the
country’s international reserves and sovereign wealth funds,
Putin said.  The government shouldn’t abandon fiscal discipline to
revive the economy, Putin said. This year’s budget is the first
to use the so-called budget rule, under which federal spending
is capped based on long-term  oil prices .  “Some are suggesting kickstarting economic growth only by
means of budget measures, changing the budget rule for that
purpose,” he said. “Yet it’s obvious that budget measures
aren’t enough to solve the problem at hand, and changing the
budget rule will create certain risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  