-- Qualcomm’s Jacobs Gives $133 Million for Cornell’s Tech Campus
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-04-22T19:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/qualcomm-s-jacobs-gives-133-million-for-cornell-s-tech-campus.html
Qualcomm Inc. co-founder Irwin Jacobs and his wife Joan are donating $133 million to create an
innovation institute at  Cornell University ’s technology campus
in New York.  The gift will support curriculum initiatives, faculty and
graduate students in a two-year master’s program at the campus,
under development by Cornell and Technion-Israel Institute of
Technology, the schools’ presidents and New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said today.  “We believe strongly in the mission of this international
collaboration to drive innovation and to foster economic
development,” Joan and Irwin Jacobs, both Cornell alumni, said
in a statement. “We are proud of our long association with both
of these distinguished institutions and share their dedication
to inspire and train a next generation of entrepreneurs, forming
new companies and strengthening existing ones including, of
course, Qualcomm.”  The first students began in January at a temporary facility
as the groundbreaking for the Roosevelt Island campus takes
place next year.  Cornell , based in Ithaca,  New York , and Haifa-
based Technion won a contest to build the campus with a land
grant and $100 million for infrastructure improvements. A $350
million gift to Cornell from Atlantic Philanthropies and its
chairman, Charles Feeney, helped propel its bid. Bloomberg has
said the campus may generate hundreds of spinoff companies and
billions of dollars in economic activity over the next 30 years.  Irwin Jacobs served as chief executive officer of San
Diego-based Qualcomm, the biggest maker of semiconductors for
mobile phones, from 1985 until 2005 and as chairman until 2009.
The couple has a long history of supporting both institutions,
as well as cultural, medical, educational and civic
organizations, according to the statement.  The mayor is the founder and majority shareholder of
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 