-- Treasury Yields at Almost Four-Month Lows Before Auctions
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-04-22T21:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/treasury-yields-at-almost-four-month-lows-before-auctions.html
Volatility in the $11.4 trillion
U.S. Treasury market dropped to a record low as the  Federal
Reserve ’s unprecedented bond-buying program damps price swings
in the world’s biggest securities market.  A measure of market expectations of interest rate changes,
the Merrill Option Volatility Estimate, or MOVE, index fell to
50.58 basis points yesterday, the least on record. The average
for the past decade is 96.7 basis points.  “Volatility is low because of the Fed’s intervention in
the Treasury market, both with communication and quantitative
easing,” said  Zach Pandl , a senior interest-rate strategist in
 Minneapolis  at Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC,
which oversees $340 billion. “Volatility should pick up as the
economy recovers and as rates rise.”  The Fed has injected more than $2.5 trillion into the
economy to fulfill the twin mandates of full employment and
price stability in a program that’s known as quantitative
easing, or QE. The central bank is buying $85 billion in
Treasury and mortgage securities per month.  Wall Street’s biggest bond dealers see little chance the
Fed will slow the pace of debt purchases, designed to boost
economic growth before year-end, even as policy makers face
calls to curb the buying.  “The Fed is not going to quickly back away from support of
the Treasury market,” Pandl said. “If the Fed is managing the
process of rising rates, volatility could stay really low even
as it starts to exit from its easy policy stance.”  Of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers, 14 said in a Bloomberg
survey that the central bank won’t start to reduce its $85
billion monthly bond buying until the last three months of 2013.
Twelve forecast they will end in mid-2014 or later. Fifteen say
it will take until at least June 2015 for policy makers to raise
the record low benchmark interest-rate target of zero to 0.25
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  