-- Red Sox, MLB Make $646,500 Contribution for Boston Bombings Aid
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-22T04:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/red-sox-mlb-make-646-500-contribution-for-boston-bombings-aid.html
The Boston  Red Sox  and their fans
joined  Major League Baseball  and its players’ union to donate
$646,500 to a fund set up to help those most affected by the
April 15 Boston Marathon bombing.  The Red Sox made a $100,000 gift to The One Fund Boston,
while the MLB and the MLB Players Association contributed a
total of $500,000. An additional $46,500 was given from the Red
Sox Foundation as a result of fan donations made at Boston’s
Fenway Park during games of April 20-21.  Red Sox Chairman  Tom Werner  and  David Ortiz  presented the
check to Boston Mayor Thomas Menino yesterday.  “All of us are grateful to the first responders, doctors,
volunteers, city officials and the many who have been
instrumental in helping save lives in this great American
city,” MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  said in a statement. “We
commend the people of Boston on their remarkable strength and
solidarity, and the national pastime is honored to contribute to
the recovery.”  Three people were killed and more than 175 others injured
when two bombs exploded near the finish line of the Boston
Marathon. The race is always held on Patriots Day, a state
holiday in Massachusetts celebrated with pancake breakfasts, a
re-enactment of the Battle of Lexington and Concord, and a rare
morning baseball game at Fenway Park.  “When the game ends, many of the more than 37,000 fans
walk from Fenway Park to the finish line to cheer the Marathon
runners on Boylston Street,” Red Sox owner  John Henry  said.
“This tragedy directly affected many of our most ardent fans.
We continue to send our sympathies to all who have felt the
impact of these terribly sad events.”  Red Sox officials said they will continue to raise funds
and awareness for those affected by the Boston bombings in
conjunction with MLB and the MLBPA. Baseball will encourage fans
to donate to The One Fund during its national telecasts and
promote the charity with signage behind home plate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  