-- Reggie Jackson Pulls 3-Homer World Series Game Jersey From Sale
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-22T04:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/reggie-jackson-pulls-3-homer-world-series-game-jersey-from-sale.html
Reggie Jackson  and SCP Auctions are
no longer selling a jersey the former  New York  Yankees’ slugger
was believed to be wearing when he hit three home runs in Game 6
of the 1977  World Series .  The white pinstripe Yankees uniform was set to be auctioned
online through April 27, yet SCP Auctions said that detailed
analysis of video footage shows “subtle inconsistencies”
between the jersey and the one he wore on the field. SCP
Auctions said photographic evidence indicates that the jersey
had been worn by Jackson in the clubhouse after the game.  “Since taking this jersey home from Yankee Stadium on the
night of October 18, 1977, Reggie has kept this jersey for 35
years believing it to be the one he wore on the field,” the
Laguna Niguel, California-based auction house said in a
statement. “However, SCP Auctions and Reggie Jackson are in
agreement that further research is required to positively
validate this jersey as his game worn jersey from that night.”  The outfielder’s five home runs during the 1977 World
Series earned him Most Valuable Player honors and the nickname
“Mr. October,” which occupies the second line on his Hall of
Fame plaque. With the Yankees up three games to two, Jackson hit
home runs on three consecutive pitches from three different
pitchers in an 8-4 victory over the  Los Angeles Dodgers  at
Yankee Stadium. He was the first player since  Babe Ruth  in 1928
to hit three home runs in a World Series game.  Jackson had said earlier this month that he would use the
proceeds from the jersey sale to make “significant” donations
to family members, as well as his  Mr. October Foundation for
Kids , which promotes educational endeavors in minority
communities. SCP Auctions said the inconsistency was based
primarily on analysis of the pinstripe alignment relative to the
sewn on “NY” crest on the front of the jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  