-- Rehn: Lufthansa Strikes Part of Economic Rebalancing
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-22T20:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/rehn-lufthansa-strikes-part-of-economic-rebalancing.html
A  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  strike is a
symptom of economic rebalancing that eventually will help the
euro area recover from its financial crisis, European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said.  The Cologne-based airline suspended almost its entire
timetable for a full day as a strike over pay crippled
operations at  Europe ’s second-largest airline and upset travel
plans for 150,000 people. Lufthansa shares rose 1.4 percent to
14.11 euros in Frankfurt.  Europe is cutting debt and taking steps to make its
economies more competitive, particularly in southern countries
such as Spain that have sought assistance, Rehn said at a
conference in New York. At the same time, healthier northern
European nations are losing some of their longtime edge and may
have to give up ground, he said.  “The strikes of Lufthansa are in fact a symptom of this
rebalancing,” Rehn said. He said  Germany  is facing pressure to
increase wages at the same time its southern neighbors become
more competitive.  Companies across Europe have been struggling to rein in
costs as the euro zone confronts projections that its economy
will shrink for a second straight year.  At last weekend’s spring meetings of the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund, the U.S. led calls for the U.K. and
the euro-area to rethink whether axing budgets and cutting debt
is the right remedy for recession.  Speaking today at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
Rehn said the euro area is undergoing a “necessary” economic
rebalancing and “must stay the reform course.” He acknowledged
that the EU can’t rely on monetary policy as it seeks to restore
growth and said debt-cutting strategies have been flexible in
response to the prolonged downturn.  “We have received plenty of advice, also in recent days,
on the pace of fiscal consolidation in Europe,” Rehn said.
“Well, I will let you into a secret: The pace of consolidation
in Europe has already been slowing down since last year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  