-- Riksbank’s Svensson Leaves After Failing to Gain Support
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-04-22T11:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/riksbank-s-svensson-leaves-after-failing-to-gain-support.html
Riksbank Deputy Governor Lars E.O. Svensson will leave the Swedish central bank’s board when his
term expires next month after failing to win backing for his
calls for deeper interest rate cuts.  “It’s appropriate for me to leave,” Svensson said at a
press conference in  Stockholm  today. “I haven’t managed to gain
support for a  monetary policy  that I think would lead to a
better target fulfilment with both a higher inflation closer to
the target of 2 percent and a lower unemployment.”  Svensson, who taught at  Princeton University  alongside
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  early last decade, has
advocated for bigger rate cuts than the majority of the bank’s
board, arguing his colleagues’ policies since 2010 have cost the
largest Nordic economy 60,000 jobs.  Headline inflation reached zero in March, after prices fell
an annual 0.2 percent in February.  The krona gained 0.4 percent to 8.5064 per euro as of 10:12
a.m. in Stockholm after the announcement. The move left it the
day’s best-performing major currency against the dollar, the yen
and the euro, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Raising Earlier  “We saw immediately an effect on the krona,” said  Annika Winsth , chief economist at Nordea Bank AB. “He’s belonged to
the dovish camp and that means that there is a slightly bigger
likelihood that they will raise a little bit earlier than if he
had remained.”  Svensson’s six-year term expires on May 20. He and fellow
Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm were the only two of the board’s
six members to argue in favor of lower rates at the bank’s
policy meeting last week. Governor Stefan Ingves has warned that
keeping rates too low too long risks fueling unsustainable
credit growth.  “It’s healthy to have a person on the board that looks at
things from a different angle and, in that sense, his way to
work has been good,” said Winsth. “But it hasn’t been good for
the Riksbank and its reputation both in  Sweden  and abroad that
there’s been a tone that clearly is quite tough between board
members.”  The Replacements  “We would like to thank Lars E.O. Svensson on behalf of
the General Council for the valuable work he has done during his
time at the Riksbank,” Johan Gernandt, chairman of the general
council, and Sven-Erik Oesterberg, vice chairman, said in a
joint comment. “With his solid academic background he has
provided an excellent contribution to developing the analysis
work at the Riksbank and has successfully created interest in
monetary policy issues both in Sweden and abroad.”  The bank is also looking for a replacement for Deputy
Governor Barbro Wickman-Parak, who said last month that she will
leave when her term expires in May.  Winsth said replacements may include Mats Dillen, director
general at the National Institute of  Economic Research , and
Susanne Ackum, state secretary at the  Finance Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  