-- Russian Stocks Cut by JPMorgan Citing Gazprom to Putin Policies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-04-22T03:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/russian-stocks-cut-by-jpmorgan-citing-gazprom-to-putin-policies.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised
reducing Russian stock holdings as  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s proposed
dividend cut, falling oil prices and “policy stasis” in
President Vladimir Putin’s government overshadow low  valuations .  Russia was cut to underweight from neutral,  Adrian Mowat ,
JPMorgan’s chief Asia and emerging-market strategist, wrote in a
report dated April 20. The nation’s stock  market , the biggest
consensus overweight position among emerging-market fund
managers, is vulnerable to foreign outflows, Mowat said.  State-run Gazprom, Russia’s largest company by market value
and the stock with the biggest  weighting  in the  MSCI Russia (MXRU) 
Index, proposed this month reducing its annual dividend by about
33 percent. Mowat said the cut removes the “last and best bull
point” for the stock, which tumbled to the lowest  level  since
March 2009 in Moscow trading on April 19. Russia, which depends
on oil and gas for about half of government revenue, has made
little progress in curbing its  budget deficit  or improving the
nation’s pension system, the strategist said.  “Investors point to low valuations on Russian stocks as a
bull case, but they cannot really answer our questions about
what improvements they have seen recently in the policy
environment or the expectations of future improvements,” Mowat
wrote.  The MSCI Russia Index has tumbled 11 percent this year and
reached the lowest level since July on April 17. The gauge is
 valued  at 4.9 times estimated 12-month earnings, versus 10 times
for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly,
trades for 2.7 times projected 2013 profits after the stock
retreated 16 percent this year.  Brent crude futures gained 0.3 percent today, rising for a
third day from the lowest close since July. Prices have fallen
9.1 percent this month amid concern a slowing global economy
will hurt fuel demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  