-- S. Korea Minister Cancels Japan Trip After Aso Shrine Visit
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-04-22T08:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/s-korea-minister-cancels-japan-trip-after-aso-visits-war-shrine.html
South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se canceled a trip to Tokyo after Japanese Finance
Minister Taro Aso and other Cabinet members visited a shrine
seen in  Asia  as a symbol of wartime aggression.  Yun canceled a meeting with counterpart Fumio Kishida, said
a South Korean Foreign Ministry official who asked not to be
named in line with ministry policy. While the official declined
to give dates for the trip or a reason for the cancellation, the
ministry released a statement expressing “deep concerns and
regret” for the visits to  Yasukuni Shrine  over the weekend.
 China  also lodged a diplomatic protest.  The visits, timed with the shrine’s spring festival, were
the first by members of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government
since his  Liberal Democratic Party  regained power in December.
While Abe didn’t go to the shrine, he did send an offering, a
gesture that harkens back to  Japan ’s spirit of militarism, a
Chinese newspaper said today in a commentary.  Yun’s cancellation could impede efforts by Japan and  South
Korea  to coordinate a response to threats by North Korea, which
has warned of attacks in the region as it expands its nuclear
weapons program. Japan is also mired in territorial disputes
with South Korea and China even as it seeks to accelerate talks
on a trilateral free trade agreement.  ‘Private’ Visit  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said no
meeting between Yun and Kishida had been finalized. He said the
visits by three Cabinet members to Yasukuni, as well as Abe’s
donation, were made as “private citizens.” Aso’s visit
yesterday was preceded by similar trips by Keiji Furuya, the
minister in charge of the issue of Japanese citizens kidnapped
by  North Korea , and Internal Affairs Minister Yoshitaka Shindo.  The fact that Abe only sent an offering rather than visit
the shrine doesn’t change the nature of his act, and Japan has
no future if it insists going down the wrong road, according to
the commentary published today in the People’s Daily newspaper,
published by China’s ruling Communist Party.  The Yasukuni Shrine commemorates Japan’s war dead,
including World War II leaders convicted by an international
tribunal of  war crimes . The Tokyo shrine is viewed in China and
Korea as a symbol of military atrocities during Japan’s
occupation of Asia in the first half of the 20th century.  “Japan must face up to its past,” Chinese Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters in Beijing,
saying the government filed a formal protest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  