-- S&P Early Victory in U.S. Fraud Suit Seen as Unlikely
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-04-22T22:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/s-p-early-victory-in-u-s-fraud-suit-seen-as-unlikely.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) ’s Standard &
Poor’s unit is set to take its first stab at fending off the
U.S.  Justice Department ’s allegations that the company’s
mortgage-backed securities ratings were fraudulent.  The largest U.S. rating company by revenue faces a deadline
today to file its response in federal court in  Santa Ana ,
 California . Justice Department officials said when the complaint
was filed in February that S&P could face more than $5 billion
in civil penalties based on losses by federally insured
financial institutions that relied on S&P’s ratings.  “They won’t get the entire complaint dismissed at this
stage,”  John Hueston , a former federal prosecutor now at Irell
& Manella LLP in Los Angeles, said in a phone interview. “At
best, a part of it might get dismissed.”  S&P can’t support its request to dismiss the case by
supplying evidence to contradict the allegations, Hueston said.
It can only argue that the Justice Department will never be able
to prove its civil fraud claims even if all the facts alleged in
the complaint are true, the lawyer said.  S&P may argue that the government hasn’t been specific
enough in its fraud allegations as required by law, Hueston
said. Even if U.S. District Judge  David Carter  were to agree
with S&P, the judge most likely would allow the government to
file a new complaint to address such failings, he said.  The U.S. brought its claims under the 1989 Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act, which allows
it to seek civil penalties for fraud affecting federally insured
financial institutions.  CDO Ratings  The U.S. said in its Feb. 4 complaint that S&P knowingly
and intentionally defrauded investors in residential mortgage-
backed securities and collateralized-debt obligations that
included those securities for which the company provided credit
ratings.  McGraw-Hill shares fell the most in 25 years following the
government’s lawsuit. They had surged 51 percent through the
beginning of February from September 2011 when it bent to
pressure from Jana Partners LLC and the  Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan  with a proposal to spin off the deteriorating
education business.  The Justice Department probe, code-named “Alchemy,” began
in November 2009. The suit marked the culmination of a
“massive, multiyear investigation” by a team of almost two
dozen lawyers, Stuart Delery, principal deputy assistant
attorney general, said in February.  Conflicts of Interest  The Justice Department alleged that S&P lied about its
ratings being free of conflicts of interest because it
downplayed or disregarded credit risks to win more business from
investment banks and other issuers of the securities that paid
the company to provide the ratings and that sought the highest
possible ratings.  In its 119-page complaint, the government cited meetings,
messages and memos that it said show S&P analysts assigned
investment-grade ratings to securities based more on a desire to
win business than to be accurate.  The Justice Department cited e-mails from S&P employees
discussing the need to modify ratings criteria to win business
after the company’s grades were more conservative than
competitors.  “Losing one or even several deals due to criteria issues,
but this is so significant that it could have an impact on
future deals,” one analyst said in a May 2004 e-mail cited in
the lawsuit. “There’s no way we can get back on this one but we
need to address this now in preparation for future deals.”  ‘Structured by Cows’  In March 2007, an analyst wrote mock lyrics about the
weakening of the housing market to the tune of “Burning Down
the House” by the rock group Talking Heads. The government said
the analyst later sent a video of himself singing and dancing
the first verse “before an audience of laughing S&P co-
workers.”  In e-mails cited in the complaint, two S&P analysts joked
in April 2007 about the company’s willingness to rate deals.
Discussing the company’s model for collateralized debt
obligations, one messaged that a deal was “ridiculous” and
that S&P “should not be rating it,” according to the
complaint.  “We rate every deal,” the other replied, according to the
government. “It could be structured by cows and we would rate
it.”  S&P said in a statement in February, “The e-mail excerpts
cherry-picked by DOJ have been taken out of context, are
contradicted by other evidence, and do not reflect our culture,
integrity or how we do business.”  Two Audiences  S&P in its motion to dismiss will try to get out the
message that e-mails of individual employees cited in the
government’s complaint aren’t evidence of fraud, said Joe
Akrotirianakis, a formal federal prosecutor now with  Hobart
Linzer LLP  in  Los Angeles . Instead, the company will portray the
messages as evidence of vigorous internal debate, he said.  “They have two audiences,” Akrotirianakis said in a phone
interview. “One is Judge Carter, the other is the rest of the
public who are looking to see what they are going to say about
their business practices.”  S&P probably won’t be successful in dismissing the lawsuit
because the standard for throwing out a complaint is high, said
Neil Kaufman, chairman of the corporate department at Abrams
Fensterman. The company will eventually reach a settlement with
the government, the lawyer predicted.  “I doubt this case is going to trial,” Kaufman said. “I
think the government is looking for a scapegoat.”  Collapse, Defaults  The collapse in value of securities that packaged home
loans from the riskiest borrowers led to a credit seizure
starting in 2007 that sent the world’s largest economy into its
longest recession since 1933 as defaults soared and home values
plummeted.  S&P said in a Feb. 5 statement that the Justice
Department’s lawsuit is without merit.  “There was robust internal debate within S&P about how a
rapidly deteriorating housing market might affect the CDOs, and
we applied the collective judgment of our committee-based system
in good faith,” S&P said.  S&P is also contending with 18 lawsuits from state
attorneys general and the  District of Columbia  over ratings. The
company has moved 17 of the cases to federal court and is
seeking to consolidate them, arguing the cases are based on the
same allegations and that it’s more efficient to consider them
together for pretrial proceedings.  State Lawsuits  While its request to consolidate the  cases  is pending, the
ratings service has succeeded in halting at least three of the
lawsuits -- in  Pennsylvania ,  Iowa  and  Colorado . State attorneys
general have been fighting the effort to postpone the cases and
want to move them back to state court. A hearing on S&P’s
request to consolidate cases is scheduled for May 30 in
Louisville,  Kentucky , before a federal panel.  In December, S&P defeated a lawsuit by a Florida pension
fund based on claims that it misled investors that were similar
to the U.S. complaint.  The Boca Raton Firefighters and Police Pension Fund alleged
in a complaint in  New York  federal court that S&P deliberately
lowered and sacrificed ratings criteria to avoid losing market
share, putting short-term financial results ahead of the
company’s reputation.  The fund accused S&P of touting ratings models as “state
of the art” while deliberately not updating them because it
knew doing so would require lowering ratings and would cause the
company to lose  market share , according to the filing.  Puffery  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan  in December upheld
dismissal of the lawsuit. The court said statements about the
integrity and objectivity of S&P’s credit ratings can’t be the
basis of the complaint because they are merely “puffery,” or
statements that are too general to cause a reasonable investor
to rely on them, according to the decision.  “In short, no reasonable purchaser of McGraw-Hill common
stock would view statements such as these as meaningfully
altering the mix of available information about the company,”
the appeals court said.  McGraw-Hill completed the sale of its education and
publishing unit to  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  for $2.4 billion
in cash last month. The remaining company, to be renamed McGraw
Hill Financial Inc., is using part of the $1.9 billion it will
receive after tax to pay down short-term debt and repurchase
shares, with the rest possibly paying for “selective tuck-in
acquisitions,” according to a statement.  New Company  S&P will be at the center of the new company, accounting
for about half its revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company was founded in 1888 by James H. McGraw, the
great-grandfather of current Chief Executive Officer Harold “Terry” McGraw III, when he acquired The American Journal of
Railway Appliances, according to the company’s website. He later
merged his book-publishing department with John A. Hill’s,
creating the McGraw-Hill Book Co.  After McGraw-Hill announced the breakup, Terry McGraw said
he was putting aside concerns about abandoning the business’s
roots in publishing to serve “shareholders, employees and
customers.”  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  