-- Schaeffler Plans $1.31 Billion Bond to Reduce Loan Costs
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-04-22T11:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/schaeffler-plans-1-31-billion-bond-to-reduce-loan-costs.html
Schaeffler AG, a German bearing
maker and biggest investor in car-parts producer  Continental AG (CON) ,
plans to raise about 1 billion euros ($1.31 billion) in a bond
sale to help reduce debt costs and refinance loans.  The junk-rated company is selling senior secured bonds in
euros that mature in five years and can be bought back after two
years, as well as dollar notes maturing in eight years and
callable after three, according to people familiar with the
transaction. It’s Schaeffler’s first bond sale since June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Schaeffler’s debt is the legacy of a takeover offer for
Hanover, Germany-based Continental that backfired amid the 2008
credit crunch, leaving the closely held company with more than
90 percent of Continental’s shares and borrowings, which
exceeded 10 billion euros. By the end of 2012, Schaeffler’s net
financial debt had fallen to 6.8 billion euros from 7.1 billion
euros a year earlier, the company said on March 21.  “The remaining bank loan volume will be refinanced with
improved terms and conditions and extended maturities,” Marcus
Brans, a spokesman for Schaeffler, wrote in a statement on the
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company’s  website . “Through these
measures, the company’s debt maturity profile will be
significantly improved and cost of debt further reduced.”  Schaeffler’s bond sale will be the biggest junk offering
from a European issuer since satellite operator Intelsat
Luxembourg SA raised $3.5 billion in a three-part deal on March
20, according Bloomberg data. Moody’s Investors Service rates
Schaeffler B1 and Standard & Poor’s gives it an equivalent B+,
four steps below investment grade. Moody’s has assigned the new
bonds one grade higher at Ba3.  Debt Reduction  Schaeffler’s high debt levels versus cash flow,
unlikeliness to cut debt materially in the short to medium term,
and the “complexity” of its corporate organization constrain
the company’s credit rating, Falk Frey, a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Moody’s said today in a statement.  The manufacturer is forecasting sales growth of 4 percent
this year, about double the rate of global auto production.
Schaeffler also predicts earnings before interest and taxes at
about 13 percent of sales. Revenue rose 4 percent in 2012 to
11.1 billion euros while the operating margin narrowed to 12.7
percent from 15.8 percent a year earlier.  Elsewhere in European credit markets, Gestamp Automocion
SA, a Spanish maker of car parts, is meeting investors in  London 
today and in New York starting on April 29 for a sale of senior
secured bonds in euros and dollars. The company’s subsidiary,
Gestamp Funding Luxembourg SA, plans to sell a total of about
750 million euros of seven-year notes, according a statement on
its website.  Gestamp Sale  Gestamp entered into a senior term and revolving facilities
agreement on April 19 for a total of 850 million euros, the
company said. The bonds and loan facility will be used to
refinance existing credit facilities, it said.  Gestamp will refinance “most of its outstanding debt” in
“multi-step refinancing in the coming months,” S&P analysts
wrote in a report today. They assigned the company a credit
rating of BB, two grades below investment grade.  Italian household appliances manufacturer  Indesit Co. SpA (IND) 
is selling its first bond since 1999. The unrated Fabriano-based
company is raising 300 million euros from five-year bonds that
will be priced to yield 4.625 percent, according to people
familiar with the transaction who asked not to be identified
because the details are private.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the world’s biggest platinum producer,
is raising 750 million euros from eight-year bonds that will
yield 133 basis points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate,
according to a person with knowledge of that deal. It’s the
London-based company’s first bond sale since September,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  