-- Senate Republicans Seek Postponement on Labor Secretary Nominee
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-04-22T19:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/senate-republicans-seek-postponement-on-labor-secretary-nominee.html
Republicans on the Senate committee
weighing the nomination of  Thomas Perez  to be U.S. Labor
Secretary are seeking to postpone a panel vote this week that
would advance his selection to the full Senate.  The lawmakers say they want more time to examine Perez’s
role in persuading the city of  St. Paul , Minnesota, to drop a
Supreme Court case that lawmakers said would have undermined a
government enforcement tool in housing discrimination cases.  “We believe a president should have the service of his
cabinet but we also take seriously our obligation to review
carefully a nominee’s fitness for office,” the senators wrote
to Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee
Chairman  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat. It was signed by nine of
the panel’s 10 Republicans, including Senator  Lamar Alexander  of
Tennessee, the ranking Republican.  Among other things, the senators are demanding that Perez
comply with a request from congressional investigators that he
produce copies of all correspondence through his private e-mail
account while conducting government business.  Republicans in Congress are examining an agreement Perez
struck to keep the Justice Department out of two unrelated cases
against St. Paul that might have reaped as much as $200 million
for the  U.S. Treasury , in exchange for the city dropping the
Supreme Court case.  Perez is now the head of the Justice Department’s civil
rights division, and if confirmed by the Senate he would be the
only Hispanic so far in President  Barack Obama ’s second-term
cabinet.  If confirmed to replace Hilda Solis, who quit in January,
Perez would play a part in pushing Obama’s agenda on issues
including an immigration overhaul and raising the minimum wage
to $9 an hour from $7.25. Perez, 51, was Maryland’s labor
secretary from 2007 to 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  