-- Serb Bond Yields Drop to 3-Month Low on EU Nod for Entry Talks
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-04-22T12:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/serb-bond-yields-drop-to-3-month-low-on-eu-nod-for-entry-talks.html
Serbia ’s benchmark bonds rallied,
cutting the yield to an almost three-month low, as an accord
with Kosovo boosted prospects for European Union membership.  The yield on the former Yugoslav republic’s dollar notes
maturing in September 2021 declined 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 5.08 percent by 2:17 p.m. in Belgrade, the
lowest since Jan. 31. That compares with a 5.86 percent rate on
2022 dollar bonds from higher-rated euro-member Slovenia.  The European Commission said today it supports starting EU
membership talks with Serbia and pre-accession negotiations with
Kosovo, its former breakaway province, after the two nations
reached a deal on future relations on April 19. Investors should
have an overweight stance on Serbia bonds as the agreement is
“credit positive,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  “Although full EU accession is at least five years away
for Serbia, much of the economic benefits of membership will be
realized during the course of accession talks and the required
economic and social reforms that go hand in hand with it,”
London-based RBS analysts Abbas Ameli-Renani and Demetrios Efstathiou in London wrote in a research note dated April 19.  The Serbian bond yield has slid from more than 7 percent
before the EU granted the country the status of a candidate for
membership in March 2012.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the debt at
the third-highest non-investment grade of BB-, two steps below
 Croatia  and six below Slovenia, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A comparable Croat yield is down 73 basis points this month
to 4.58 percent after it received on March 26 the final approval
from the EU to become the bloc’s 28th member on July 1. Similar
dollar bonds from the former Soviet republic of  Georgia , rated
on par with Serbia at S&P, yield 4.51 percent.  ‘Big Positive’  The dinar gained as much as 0.5 percent against the euro
today to its strongest intraday level in a month before paring
the advance to 0.1 percent at 111.42. Societe Generale SA today
repeated its recommendation to buy the currency on expectations
it will gain to 108 per euro, according to a report.  “The latest news that Serbia and Kosovo may have reached
an agreement is a clearly big positive for dinar assets,”
SocGen analysts Esther Law in  London  and Dragoslav Velickovic in
Belgrade wrote in the research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  