-- Serbian Government Backs Accord With Kosovo Before Key EU Report
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-04-22T09:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/serbian-government-backs-accord-with-kosovo-before-key-eu-report.html
Serbia’s government formally backed
an April 19 agreement with Kosovo, paving the way for better
ties with the breakaway province that could win Serbia a date
for starting European Union membership talks.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet “accepted the first
agreement on the principles that regulate the normalization of
ties achieved in the dialogue on Kosovo” in Brussels, the
government’s press office said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Cabinet also “instructed ministries” to take steps to
install the accord and continue “with the implementation of
previous agreements,” it said.  Serbia and Kosovo have been at loggerheads since the wars
of the 1990s that led to the breakup of  Yugoslavia . Kosovo is
recognized by the U.S. and 22 of the EU’s 27 members. The bloc
will present a report at noon in Brussels today on Serbia’s
readiness to begin accession talks.  While Serbia seeks a start date for entry talks, Kosovo is
in line to sign a Stabilization and Association Agreement, the
first formal step toward membership in the bloc. Both nations
need deeper EU ties after the wars stunted the region’s
transition from communism.  Serbia  backed the deal a day after Kosovar Premier Hashim Thaci presented the accord to 120-seat parliament, where 89
lawmakers backed and five opposed the agreement.  The European Union-mediated accord gives Serbia and Kosovo
June 15 deadline to work out power sharing in telecommunications
and energy and make progress in clarifying fate of people
missing on both sides since the 1998-99 war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  