-- Slovenian Banks Are Symptom of Economic Woes: NLB Chief
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-22T10:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/slovenian-banks-are-symptom-of-economic-woes-nlb-chief.html
Slovenian banks like Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  are
a “symptom” of the country’s economic woes as the euro region
nation battles its second recession since 2009, according to
Janko Medja, the chief executive officer of NLB bank.  He spoke in a April 19 interview at Slovenia’s biggest bank
premises in the capital Ljubljana.  On banks and privatization:  “Slovenian banks are a symptom of the Slovenian economy.
Our economy is over-leveraged. Banks were used, in many cases,
just as tools for privatization goals. The real question is,
would the economy benefit if there was more privatization via
foreign investment, and the answer is most probably, yes.”  On priorities for NLB bank:  “We have two priorities. One is to raise capital in
accordance with the owner. This will be, of course, combined
with the so-called bad bank and we are cooperating with the
Finance Ministry and Banka Slovenije, the central bank. The
second priority is the restructuring of the loan portfolio to
companies with healthy potential.”  On bad-loan transfers:  “I believe the first tranches will be easy to determine,
while the later ones will probably be more difficult. We have
the list of assets for transfer ready. After the transfers,
which might last several months each, will there be sunshine and
all nice and cool? I think there is too much fear regarding this
situation that we have today. What I think is important is that
everybody will see that Slovenia is doing what it promised to
do. Will we then see greater credit lending to the economy? This
won’t happen overnight.”  On Slovenia’s need to attract foreign investors:  “Slovenia must first become attractive to foreign
investors since most of our NLB business is done in Slovenia and
since every investor is looking at the stability of the target
market. Slovenia needs to be attractive in terms of taxes and a
stable political environment and that the government pushes with
reforms to safeguard its credit rating.      ‘‘The second thing
is to clean up our legacy portfolio. I think next year some
procedures for the sale of banks could start. The bank’s
management has no preference on this. Where the state is the
owner, it’s the owners’ right to decide on strategy and what it
wants to do with its property.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  