-- Slovenia Yields Drop to 2-Week Low Before Foreign Bond Meetings
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-22T12:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/slovenia-yields-drop-to-2-week-low-before-foreign-bond-meetings.html
Slovenia’s dollar bond yields fell
to a two-week low before a series of international investor
meetings aimed at building market confidence.  The eastern European nation is seeking to avoid following
Cyprus as the sixth country using the euro to require a bailout.
The government hired BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank AG and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to organize a so-called non-deal roadshow
from today, Irena Ferkulj, a spokeswoman at the  Finance
Ministry , said in an e-mailed statement April 18.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s government raised twice
its target amount at a domestic debt sale last week. The yield
on its dollar bonds due October 2022 fell 16 basis points to
5.87 percent, the lowest level on a closing basis since April 8,
as of 1:28 p.m. in  London .  “The success of the T-Bill auction has really opened up
breathing space for Slovenia,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, said by e-mail
today. “We expect the government to go on a charm-offensive and
detail market-friendly reforms ahead of a new  bond issue .”  Slovenia may sell three-year or five-year benchmark bonds
with a possible size of 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) or 2
billion euros if it receives positive feedback from investors,
according to  David Schnautz , a strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 New York .  The meetings start in New York today, followed by Boston
tomorrow, Los Angeles on April 24, San Francisco April 25 and
London April 29, according to a person with knowledge of the
plans, who asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  