-- Samsung, Philips Sent EU Complaints Over Smart-Card Chips
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-23T00:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/smart-card-chipmakers-get-eu-antitrust-complaints-for-cartel.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Royal
Philips Electronics NV are among companies to receive European
Union antitrust complaints over claims they fixed the price of
microchips for smart cards.  The European Commission said yesterday it sent statements
of objections to a number of companies with its view “that they
may have participated in a cartel.” The commission didn’t
identify the companies. Philips, Samsung,  Infineon Technologies
AG (IFX)  and Renesas Technology Corp. said they received a complaint,
which can be a precursor to fines.  The Brussels-based EU agency  said  in 2009 it raided
companies that make chips for telephone SIM cards, bank cards
and  identity cards  because they may have fixed prices, allocated
customers and exchanged commercially sensitive information. The
complaint follows the collapse of settlement talks that could
have reduced fines by 10 percent.  “The essence of settlement is to benefit from a quicker,
more efficient procedure, and to reach a common understanding on
the existence and characteristics of a cartel,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in an e-mailed statement. “If
that is not possible, the commission will not hesitate to revert
to the normal procedure and to pursue the suspected
infringement.”  2008 Raids  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Renesas and  Atmel Corp. (ATML)  said
regulators searched their offices in 2008 as part of the EU
investigation.  NXP Semiconductors NV (NXPI) ,  Europe ’s third-largest
chipmaker, said earlier this year that it was also involved in
the probe and may be fined if the EU were to find it violated
competition rules. STMicroelectronics, NXP and Atmel said they
didn’t receive a statement of objections in the case.  Samsung received a complaint, spokesman Jason Kim said
yesterday. Kay Laudien, a spokesman for Neubiberg, Germany-based
Infineon, and Steve Klink, a spokesman for Amsterdam-based
Philips both confirmed their companies had received complaints
and that they were cooperating with regulators.  “Our lawyers are now reading through it, after which we
may be able to say more,” Laudien said.  Chipmakers have incurred hefty punishments for past
antitrust violations.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  was fined a record 1.06
billion euros ($1.38 billion) by the EU in 2009 for monopoly
abuse. The following year, the commission levied penalties
totaling 331.2 million euros on Infineon and eight other
manufacturers of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips
for personal computers and servers.  Car Navigation  The commission “does not intend to issue a statement of
objections” against NXP, which was spun off from Philips in
2006, “nor to impose a fine on NXP with respect to the alleged
cartel,” Lieke De Jong-Tops, a spokeswoman for Eindhoven, The
Netherlands-based NXP, said in an e-mail.  Yoichi Kobayashi, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Renesas, said
the company also got a statement of objections, declining to
comment further. Renesas, which was established in 2003 by
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , makes analog chips,
microcontrollers, and semiconductors for products including
mobile phones and car-navigation systems.  STMicroelectronics didn’t receive an EU complaint and
wasn’t involved in the settlement talks, Paris-based spokesman
Alexis Breton said in an e-mailed statement.  “Neither Atmel nor any of its affiliates have been charged
with anything related to this matter,” Peter Schuman, senior
director of  investor relations  at Atmel, said in a phone
interview. “We sold the smart card business in the third
quarter of 2010.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  