-- Sonangol, Cohydro of Congo Reach Agreement on Offshore Oil Block
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-04-22T12:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/sonangol-cohydro-of-congo-reach-agreement-on-offshore-oil-block.html
Sonangol EP,  Angola ’s state oil
company, and Cohydro of neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo
will develop a shared oil block off the coast of the two
countries, Congolese Oil Minister Crispin Atama said.  The nations each control half of the block, which is in a
so-called zone of common interest that overlaps with part of
Angola’s block 14 in the Atlantic Ocean, he said in an interview
in Kinshasa, the Congolese capital, on April 19.  “We have signed an accord with Angola so that this block
14 will be managed by the two republics,” Atama said. “Cohydro
of DRC and Sonangol from Angola will come together to decide how
we can manage the block together” in the zone of common
interest.  Angola and Congo have long-standing disagreements over
their maritime borders and access to the lucrative oil blocks
there. In 2007, the two countries agreed to put a portion of
block 14’s Negage Development Area in the common interest zone.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , which has a 31 percent interest in a
production-sharing contract for block 14, suspended development
in that area of the block while the two countries finalized
their accord, according to a supplement to the  San Ramon ,
California-based company’s 2010 annual report.  Congo currently pumps about 25,000 barrels a day and is
looking to expand output. Angola produced 1.78 million barrels a
day in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, making it
Africa’s second-biggest producer after  Nigeria .  Production Sharing  Cohydro signed a production-sharing agreement in 2006 to
develop the block with Nessergy Ltd., a company controlled by
Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler, according to a contract
published on the Mines Ministry website.  Nessergy is no longer part of the project, Atama said. He
declined to say how much the company had been paid to sell its
shares. A Gertler spokesman didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail requesting comment.  The two countries signed the deal with Nessergy in October,
according to Sonangol’s website. In January, Atama told
 Bloomberg News  the three parties were still working out the
details.  Details of the agreement with Sonangol and Nessergy aren’t
yet publicly available, even after a May 2011 decree by Congo’s
government requiring that contracts for any cession, sale, or
rental of the state’s natural resources be published within 60
days of execution.  Sonangol didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Atama is also on the executive committee of Congo’s
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, which promotes
public accounting of revenue from mining and oil deals to combat
corruption. A new law to improve transparency and attract
investment in the oil and gas industry should pass Congo’s
parliament by mid-June, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  