-- Standard & Poor’s Urges Judge to Dismiss U.S. Ratings Fraud Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/standard-poor-s-seeks-to-dismiss-u-s-ratings-fraud-suit-1-.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) ’s Standard &
Poor’s unit urged a federal judge to throw out the U.S. Justice
Department’s allegations that the company’s mortgage-backed
securities ratings were fraudulent.  S&P said in a filing yesterday in federal court in Santa
Ana, California, that government lawyers overreached in their
attempt to target the company. S&P issued credit ratings
identical to those given by its competitors for the securities
that are at issue in the government’s civil complaint, according
to the filing.  “If the government’s case appears to be a stretch, that is
because it is,” the company said. “S&P’s inability, together
with the Federal Reserve, Treasury and other market
participants, to predict the extent of the most catastrophic
meltdown since the Great Depression reveals a lack of prescience
but not fraud.”  The U.S. said in its Feb. 4 complaint that S&P knowingly
and intentionally defrauded investors in residential mortgage-
backed securities and collateralized-debt obligations that
included those securities for which the company provided credit
ratings. Justice Department officials said in February they may
seek more than $5 billion in civil penalties from S&P.  Government Claims  The government alleged that S&P lied about its ratings
being free of conflicts of interest because it downplayed or
disregarded credit risks to win more business from investment
banks and other issuers of the securities that paid the company
to provide the ratings and that sought the highest possible
ratings.  In its 119-page complaint, the Justice Department cited
meetings, messages and memos that it said showed S&P analysts
assigned investment-grade ratings to securities based more on a
desire to win business than to be accurate.  S&P said in yesterday’s filing that its public statements
regarding its ratings being objective, independent and
uninfluenced by conflicts of interest, which were cited in the
government’s complaint, can’t form the basis of fraud
allegations.  A federal appeals court in New York recently found in a
case brought by a Florida pension fund against S&P that
“statements concerning the ‘integrity and credibility and the
objectivity of S&P’s credit ratings’ were exactly ‘the type of
mere ‘puffery’ that we have previously held to be not
actionable,’” according to the company’s filing.  S&P Arguments  In addition, S&P argued, federal officials haven’t
sufficiently pleaded, as they are required to by law, that its
credit ratings were objectively false or subjectively
disbelieved by S&P when they were issued.  “The government cannot claim that an alleged dispute among
employees satisfies its obligation to plead with particularity
that the ratings were not S&P’s true opinion,” the company
said. “Internal squabbles about appropriate rating methodology
are insufficient to establish that a particular rating is
‘false’ or ‘not believed’ by the rating agency.”  S&P is unlikely to have the entire case dismissed at this
stage,  John Hueston , a former federal prosecutor now with Irell
& Manella LLP in Los Angeles, said in a phone interview before
the ratings company filed its request.  Even if U.S. District Judge David Carter would dismiss part
of the government’s allegations, he would likely give the
Justice Department a chance to remedy the deficiencies found in
the complaint, Hueston said.  Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in Los Angeles, declined to comment on S&P’s filing.  Shares Fall  McGraw-Hill fell the most in 25 years following the
government’s lawsuit. It’s shares had surged 51 percent through
the beginning of February from September 2011, when it bent to
pressure from Jana Partners LLC and the Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan with a proposal to spin off the deteriorating
education business.  The Justice Department probe, code-named “Alchemy,” began
in November 2009. The suit marked the culmination of a
“massive, multiyear investigation” by a team of almost two
dozen lawyers, Stuart Delery, principal deputy assistant
attorney general, said in February.  Riskiest Borrowers  The collapse in value of securities that packaged home
loans from the riskiest borrowers led to a credit seizure
starting in 2007 that sent the world’s largest economy into its
longest recession since 1933 as defaults soared and home values
plummeted.  S&P is also contending with 18 lawsuits from state
attorneys general and the District of Columbia over ratings. The
company has moved 17 of the cases to federal court and is
seeking to consolidate them, arguing the cases are based on the
same allegations and that it’s more efficient to consider them
together for pretrial proceedings.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-cv-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at +1-
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 