-- STMicroelectronics Forecasts Revenue Growth Amid Wireless Losses
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-04-23T09:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/stmicroelectronics-posts-171-million-loss-on-ericsson-venture.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ’s biggest competitor in  Europe , forecast new products and
chip demand will boost sales in the second half as it winds down
a wireless venture with Ericsson AB that has contributed to six
consecutive quarterly losses.  Europe’s biggest chipmaker predicted second-quarter sales
growth of about 7 percent, excluding the wireless business. The
projection “seems to be ahead of analog peers and implies share
gains,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts led by Didier Scemama wrote in a note to clients.  “Outside wireless we’ve had a good trend for about 15
weeks. We are still working on understanding the sustainability
of it, but so far so good,” Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said today on a conference call. “Our focus now is to
grow the top line of our wireless products without ST-
Ericsson.”  Demand in the wireless business failed to pick up in the
first quarter, Geneva-based STMicroelectronics said. The company
last month agreed to split up its four-year-old venture with
Ericsson that makes chips used in mobile phones. Bozotti  is
pushing to put more chips into cars and game consoles instead,
as handset customers  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and BlackBerry are trying to
reverse a sales slump.  The first-quarter net loss was $171 million, bringing total
losses over the past six quarters to about $1.3 billion,
STMicroelectronics said yesterday.  ‘Recovering Trends’  STMicroelectronics rose 5.8 percent to 5.94 euros at 11:06
a.m. in Paris. They have gained 11 percent this year, valuing
the company at 5.4 billion euros ($7 billion).  Second-quarter total revenue will grow by 3 percent, plus
or minus 3.5 percentage points, STMicroelectronics said.
Analysts on average had projected a 6 percent increase to $2.13
billion.  “Core STM is progressing well, in line with recovering
trends in the semiconductor industry,”  Janardan Menon , an
analyst at Liberum, wrote in a note.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest maker of analog chips,
yesterday forecast sales and profit that may top some analysts’
estimates, helped by increased orders from makers of automotive
and industrial-machine parts.  Semiconductor makers are trying to cope with sharp price
and demand swings in the industry. Asian and U.S. suppliers have
gained market share by switching to the so-called “fab-less”
models, allowing them to adjust designs and production more
quickly, adding to the challenges for European chipmakers such
STMicroelectronics and  Infineon Technologies AG. (IFX)   Wireless Costs  Impairment, restructuring and related closing costs for the
first quarter were $101 million, of which $87 million were
related to ST-Ericsson, STMicroelectrics said.  “Wireless sales are going to gradually go down as we phase
out ST-Ericsson by more or less the middle of next year,”
Bozotti said. “It will depend on customers.”  Nokia, which uses STMicroelectronics chips in its mobile
phones, last week reported its smallest quarterly revenue in 13
years, while handset sales of 61.9 million units missed
analysts’ estimates by 11 million units.  STMicroelectronics’s first-quarter revenue slipped 0.4
percent at $2.01 billion while the gross margin was 31.3
percent, in line with analyst estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg.  The company forecast gross margin of about 32.7 percent in
the current quarter, plus or minus 2 percentage points, also in
line with estimates.  Under last month’s agreement, STMicroelectronics will take
ST-Ericsson’s existing products and 950 employees, mainly in
France and  Italy . Ericsson plans to assume 1,800 of the
company’s workers to continue developing its modem technology.
About 1,600 jobs will be eliminated.  The chipmaker, which has the French and Italian governments
as its biggest shareholders, separately said yesterday it will
appeal a decision by a Dutch court ordering it to stop supplying
 HTC Corp. (2498)  with microphones used in smartphones after Nokia
complained the chipmaker broke an exclusivity agreement with the
Finnish company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  