-- STMicro Ordered by Dutch Court to Stop Microphone Sales to HTC
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-04-23T08:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/stmicro-ordered-by-dutch-court-to-stop-microphone-sales-to-htc.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  was ordered
by a Dutch court to stop supplying HTC Corp. with microphones
used in smartphones after  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  complained the chipmaker
broke an exclusivity agreement. HTC  shares  fell.  “This product that was made especially for Nokia couldn’t
be supplied to others,” the Amsterdam District Court said
yesterday in a preliminary injunction ruling.  STMicroelectronics has to stick to a year-long exclusivity
deal, the court said. STMicroelectronics will have to pay Nokia
50,000 euros ($63,000) for each microphone it sells to other
parties, with a maximum of 1 million euros. The ban will be
lifted on March 1, 2014 or after arbitration proceedings in
Helsinki are completed.  “Nokia filed this action after it discovered these
components in the  HTC (2498)  One” model, Mark Durrant, a spokesman for
Nokia, said in an e-mail. “In its marketing materials, HTC
claims that its HDR microphone is a key feature for the HTC One,
but it is Nokia technology, developed exclusively for use in
Nokia products.”  In an e-mailed statement, STMicroelectronics said it
intends to appeal the court decision, adding that the company is
ready to “propose alternative solutions.”  HTC shares fell 3.3 percent to close at NT$268 in Taipei,
the biggest drop since March 13, on volume 50 percent higher
than the 90-day moving average. The Taoyuan, Taiwan-based
company said it is disappointed by the decision and doesn’t
expect any immediate impact on handset sales.  “We are consulting with STM and will decide whether it is
necessary to explore alternative solutions in due course,” HTC
said in an e-mailed statement. Unveiled in February, the HTC One
has already been delayed by about one month because of a
shortage of camera components developed specifically for the
handset.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  