-- Suarez Gets F.A. Charge, Club Fine for Biting Chelsea’s Ivanovic
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-22T17:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/suarez-gets-f-a-charge-club-fine-for-biting-chelsea-s-ivanovic.html
Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  faces
a long ban after  England ’s Football Association charged him with
violent conduct for biting Chelsea defender Branislav Ivanovic
during a game yesterday.  The Uruguayan, who once got seven-game ban for biting an
opponent when he played in the Netherlands, bit Ivanovic on the
arm during the second half of Liverpool’s 2-2 Premier League
draw with Chelsea at Anfield.  “It’s alleged that the conduct of Suarez constitutes
violent conduct and it is the F.A.’s contention that the
standard punishment of three matches that would otherwise apply
is clearly insufficient in these circumstances,” the F.A. said
in a statement.  The F.A. said the incident “was not seen by the match
officials and has therefore been retrospectively reviewed.”  The controversy has cast doubt on Suarez’s future in
English soccer. The Uruguayan has been Liverpool’s standout
player since joining from Amsterdam club Ajax in January 2011
but has faced criticism and punishment for his actions on the
field. He served an eight-game ban last season after being found
to have racially abused Manchester United defender  Patrice Evra .  Liverpool today fined the 26-year-old an undisclosed amount
for his actions yesterday, saying his fine would be donated to
the Hillsborough Family Support Group, which represents and
supports families who lost members in a 1989 stadium disaster.  As well as the fine, Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  has
spoken to Suarez, and will be “working with him further on his
discipline,” the team’s managing director  Ian Ayre  said in a
statement.  ‘Not Befitting’  “I think he felt like he let a lot of people down
yesterday,” Ayre said. “We’ll work with Luis -- Brendan
particularly -- on this side of his character in his game.
Hopefully that puts the matter to rest from our point of view
and we’ll wait and see if there’s any further action from the
football authorities.”  The club has also been in touch with its owners, Fenway
Sports Group -- which also controls the  Boston Red Sox  -- about
yesterday’s incident.  “I spoke to them last night, and they were happy with the
way we were handling the matter,” Ayre said.  “His behavior is not befitting of any player wearing a
Liverpool shirt and Luis is aware that he has let himself and
everyone associated with the club down,” Ayre had said in a
statement about Suarez last night. “We will deal with the
matter internally and await any action from the Football
Association.”  Also last night, Suarez said in a statement that he was
“deeply sorry for my inexcusable behavior.” The Uruguayan
striker set up the Reds’ first goal and got a yellow card after
his handball gave Chelsea a penalty kick for its second. He
headed a leveling goal in stoppage time.  Anger Management  Blues defender Ivanovic complained to referee Kevin Friend
that he had been bitten on his right arm by Suarez after they
clashed.  “I’ve just spoken to Ivanovic on the phone and I could
apologize directly to him,” Suarez, who was last week nominated
for the Professional Footballers’ Association player of the year
award,  posted on Twitter . “Thanks for accepting.”  Today,  Gordon Taylor , chief executive officer of the PFA,
told the British Broadcasting Corp. that the incident was
“disappointing and embarrassing,” and offered Suarez help with
“anger management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  