-- U.K. Rules Out Pound for Independent Scotland Amid Euro Woes
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-04-23T13:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/u-k-scorns-pound-for-independent-scotland-citing-euro-lessons.html
The British government closed the
door to a formal agreement with Scotland for its continued use
of the pound if it votes to become independent next year, citing
the tumult in the 17-nation euro region during the debt crisis.  A study prepared by the Treasury in London said an official
currency union between Scotland and the rest of the U.K. is
unlikely to work well without political union.  “Abandoning present arrangements would be a deep, dark
dive into uncharted waters,” U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  told company executives today in Glasgow, where
he and Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander were
making the case for Scotland keeping the status quo.  The governing  Conservative Party , its coalition partner the
Liberal Democrats plus the main opposition  Labour Party  are
united in favor of preserving the U.K., which was formed by the
Act of Union in 1707. The  Scottish National Party , which runs
the semi-autonomous  government  in Edinburgh, is campaigning for
independence and set a referendum for Sept. 18, 2014.  The pound has raised British emotions ever since then Prime
Minister Harold Wilson told voters that its value in their
pocket hadn’t changed following a devaluation in 1967.
Successive governments have taken steps to keep the U.K. out of
the euro since the common currency was formed in 1999.  ‘Fundamental’  “Currency is pretty fundamental,”  Michael Moore , Scottish
secretary in the U.K. Cabinet, said in an interview in his
office in Edinburgh yesterday. “The pound in your pocket is
something people care about and so understanding the issues
about the currency is something there is a real appetite about.
There are a lot of people asking about it.”  Entering into a sterling union would bring a “fundamental
asymmetry in the degree of exposure to fiscal and financial
risk” between both an independent Scotland and the remainder of
the U.K., according to the Treasury’s report. Edinburgh is home
to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which was bailed out by the
U.K. government in 2008 as losses mounted.  Germany and  France  have called for closer political ties in
the euro region after a debt crisis ignited in  Greece  in late
2009 as budget spending was set by governments while official
borrowing costs were set by the  European Central Bank  in
 Frankfurt . That allowed countries to pile on debt at  interest
rates  that reflected more fiscally prudent countries.  “The recent experience of the euro area has shown that it
is extremely challenging to sustain a successful formal currency
union without close fiscal integration and common arrangements
for the resolution of banking sector difficulties,” the
Treasury said today.  SNP Responds  A shared currency union is the best option for Scotland and
the rest of the U.K., the Scottish government said in an e-
mailed statement. It was responding to a report by the Fiscal
Commission it set up which recommended earlier this year that
Scotland should keep the British currency.  “The sharing of the pound between an independent Scotland
and the rest of the U.K. is the common-sense position supported
by the Fiscal Commission,” Scottish Finance Secretary John Swinney said in the statement. “A sterling zone is also in the
overwhelming economic interests of the rest of the U.K. every
bit as much as it is in the interests of Scotland.”  The Bank (RBS)  of England could remain as lender of last resort
and his government could sign a fiscal stability pact to stop a
future Scottish government getting too indebted, Scottish First
Minister  Alex Salmond  said last year.  Scottish Notes  Swinney said that he wants financial regulation in an
independent Scotland to be controlled from London. He said the
Treasury’s report added nothing to the debate on independence
and dismissed the idea that Scottish banks would lose the
ability to issue their own bank notes.  Three commercial banks, RBS, Lloyds Banking Group’s Bank of
Scotland and Clydesdale Bank, print their own Scottish pound
notes under an agreement dating back to 1845. As of Feb. 29,
2012, there were 3.8 billion pounds ($5.8 billion) of the notes
in circulation, the Treasury said.  “This arrangement would need to change in the event of
independence,” the report said.  The Treasury outlines four currency choices for  Scotland 
outside of the current U.K. Having dismissed a currency union,
it said that Scotland could use sterling without any formal
agreement, leaving authorities in Edinburgh without control over
monetary policy.  Euro Membership  An independent Scotland might also find that, as a member
of the European Union, it would have to adopt the euro unless it
is able to negotiate an opt-out, the Treasury said. The final
option would be the creation of a new currency which, according
to the report, may increase transaction costs, increase
volatility of its exchange rate and increase flows out of
Scotland toward bigger and more established currencies.  “Those who argue for change need to answer these basic
questions” about future currency arrangements, Osborne said in
Glasgow. “The SNP does not have straightforward answers to
these basic questions. You cannot ask people to separate without
having basis answers to basic questions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  