-- U.K. Terrorist Lost Thousands on Currency Trades for Foiled Plot
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-04-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/u-k-terrorist-lost-thousands-on-currency-trades-for-foiled-plot.html
From a suburban house in the
central English city of Birmingham, Rahin Ahmed traded dollars
and euros to raise money for what prosecutors said could have
been the biggest terrorist attack on U.K. soil.  Over four weeks in 2011, his group’s plan to use backpacks
to plant bombs around the country fell apart as he lost 62
percent of his 14,550 pounds ($22,000) on small-volume currency
trades.  Ahmed, 26, will be sentenced to as much as life in prison
this week in  London  after pleading guilty to terror-related
offenses in August. Eleven men have either admitted or been
found guilty of a range of terror offenses in connection with
the planned attacks, West Midlands Police said on its website.  Ahmed’s dabbling in complex financial trading, which
included ill-thought-out forays into currency, oil and U.K. and
U.S. stocks, shows the difficulty of monitoring the money raised
through stock trades, bank transfers or fake charities.  “Terrorists are like any other criminals who are trying to
get money as easily as possible while minimizing the risk of
discovery,” Richard Barrett, formerly the coordinator of the
al-Qaeda Taliban monitoring team at the  United Nations  and now
working independently, said in an interview while still at the
UN. “There are no set rules or practice.”  U.K. courts are grappling with terrorist cases as U.S.
authorities deal with the aftermath of the  Boston Marathon
bombings , which left three people dead last week.  The Ahmed incident is the first case of its kind in the
U.K. involving financial markets, West Midlands Police said.  Inflated Income  In a house on a tree-lined road of the Moseley area of
Birmingham, where the average price of a four-bedroom property
is 364,713 pounds, according to the Zoopla property website,
prosecutors say Ahmed plotted how to amass the terror cell’s
fortune.  Ahmed, a law graduate from Coventry University, was able to
make the trades by applying for an account at Forex Capital
Markets Ltd. by over-inflating his experience, annual income and
net worth.  FXCM, the London-based unit of  FXCM Inc. (FXCM) , hasn’t been
accused of any wrongdoing, police said. The company cooperated
with the authorities and provided information as requested,
Brendan Callan, chief executive officer of FXCM  Europe  in
London, said in an e-mailed statement.  After getting the trading account posing as an economics
graduate with earnings of 99,000 pounds a year, he lost most of
his money and the trust of his accomplices and was eventually
cast adrift from the group, prosecutors said in court filings.  Training, Salaries  Keeping a terrorist network running can be a costly
business, while the cost of the terror act itself is relatively
small compared to any damage, according to a 2008 report from
the  Financial Action Task Force , an inter-governmental body that
sets the benchmarks for effective implementation of measures to
combat  money laundering  and terrorist financing.  Al-Qaeda spent as much as $30 million a year up until the
Sept. 11 bombings on training, military equipment, salaries and
operations according to the report from the Paris-based task
force. Terror groups use a variety of ways to raise and
distribute money, including the financial industry.  Ahmed and his cohorts, all from Birmingham, were more
successful raising thousands of pounds posing as fake Muslim Aid
charity workers, shaking buckets on street corners accumulating
money coin-by-coin, prosecutors said at the four-month trial
that ended in February.  Old Fashioned  “The old-fashioned methods are still in use,” Paul
Beattie, detective sergeant in charge of the  West Midlands
Police  counterterrorism financial investigations team, said in a
telephone interview. “Shaking a bucket is a tried and tested
method of getting money. It isn’t sophisticated but it is quite
clever.”  Financial analysts at law enforcement agencies have become
an integral part of terror investigations over the last decade
and each regional force in the U.K. has a team dedicated to the
area.  “Had the U.K. been looking into Muslim charities more
vigilantly they could have had the opportunity of stopping some,
if not all of this,” Rachel Ehrenfeld, director of the American
Center for Democracy and author of “Funding Evil: How Terrorism
is Financed,” said in a telephone interview from  New York . “To
curtail further disasters, this attitude has to be changed. Our
governments should have realized by now that the best defense is
offense.”  Blurred Lines  The lines between organized crime and terrorism have now
become blurred, where before they had remained separate for
idealistic and religious reasons, said Barrett, the former UN
official.  “As terrorists have found it harder to finance their
operations, and criminals have needed protection in some of the
wilder parts of the world where terrorists now operate, the two
groups seem to have found some complementarity,” Barrett said.  The four main groups funding counterterrorism operations
are the UN, the  World Bank , the  International Monetary Fund  and
the FATF, said Elizabeth Joyce, section chief of the UN’s
Counter-Terrorism committee executive directorate in New York.  The UN  task force  has visited 80 of its 193 member states
in the last five years to provide support, technology and
personnel to ensure countries have everything they need to fight
terrorism, she said.  Following the Sept. 11 attacks on New York, the UN Security
Council passed  resolution  1373 which called for international
cooperation in suppressing the financing of terrorism.  One of the biggest changes since the resolution was put in
place is there are now more than 120 financial intelligence
units embedded in governments worldwide which weren’t there a
decade ago, said Rick McDonell, executive secretary at the FATF.  “Counterterrorism funding is becoming more sophisticated
and more challenging to detect, but it is not impossible.”
McDonell said in a phone interview. “We are making progress but
there is a lot to be done”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  