-- Caterpillar Swaps Rise as Mining Slump Weighs on Profit Outlook
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-22T20:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/u-s-company-credit-swaps-drop-before-existing-home-sales-report.html
The cost to protect against a
default on bonds issued by  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ’s finance unit rose
as the equipment maker cut its 2013 profit forecast amid a
weakened outlook for mining demand.  Five-year credit-default swaps linked to Caterpillar
Financial Services Corp. added 1.9 basis points to a mid-price
of 80.8 basis points at 4:01 p.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That means investors are paying
the equivalent of $80,800 annually to protect $10 million of
debt from losses for five years.  Caterpillar’s profit for the year will be about $7 a share,
compared with a January projection of $7 to $9, Peoria,
Illinois-based Caterpillar said today in a statement. Sales will
be $57 billion to $61 billion, compared with an earlier forecast
of $60 billion to $68 billion.  “Mining customers have been lowering their capital
expenditure expectations for 2013, and order levels have been
very weak since the middle of 2012,” Michael DeWalt, a
spokesman for Caterpillar, said in a first-quarter earnings call
with analysts and investors. “Our long-term view of mining
remains, I think, very good.”  Shares of Caterpillar climbed 2.8 percent to $82.71 in  New
York , the biggest jump since Jan. 2, as the company said it will
resume its stock buyback program and sees increased output in
 China  in the second quarter.  Company Earnings  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 1.7 basis points to a
mid-price of 82 basis points at 4:11 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg
prices show.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Eight firms in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index post results
today, part of the 169 earnings releases expected this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 110 that have
reported so far, 72 percent have  exceeded  analysts’ predictions
for earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s kind of a crucial time because we had this fairly
decent rally,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at
New York-based Susquehanna International Group LLP, said in a
telephone interview. “Investors are going to want to see if
earnings can confirm the conviction we had leading up to the
season.”  Home Sales  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index declined 7.6 basis points to 399.5 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Purchases of previously owned homes unexpectedly decreased
to a 4.92 million annualized rate, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington , while the
median forecast of 75 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg projected
an increase to a rate of 5 million. Investors use housing data,
including a report on  new home sales  tomorrow, to help gauge
U.S. economic health and companies’ abilities to repay debt.  “You may not see a lot of action off the number today, but
once you get new home sales numbers, investors will have two
data points, and we may see a more defined direction in the
market,” Pinto said.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt widened 0.1 basis point to 537.4 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  