-- U.S. Swaps ‘Reach,’ Iosco Proposal, SEC Fee: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/u-s-swaps-reach-iosco-proposal-sec-fee-compliance.html
Nine overseas finance officials
urged U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew to limit the cross-
border reach of Dodd-Frank Act swaps rules that they say are
fragmenting the $639 trillion global market.  Seven finance ministers joined  Michel Barnier , the European
Union financial services chief, and  George Osborne , U.K.
chancellor of the exchequer, to tell U.S. officials to allow for
broader recognition of overseas swaps rules. Their letter to Lew
follows complaints by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and overseas officials about the planned reach of U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission rules.  “We are concerned that, without clear direction from
global policy makers and regulators, derivatives markets will
recede into localized and less efficient structures, impairing
the ability of business across the globe to manage risk,” the
nine officials wrote in the letter sent to Lew April 18.  The CFTC, led by Chairman  Gary Gensler , has pushed for
cross-border swaps rules that cover transactions involving
overseas offices of U.S. banks and hedge funds incorporated
offshore. The conflict over the international reach of the
CFTC’s swaps rules has led U.S. lawmakers to introduce
legislation that would restrict the agency.  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, didn’t respond to a request
for comment about the letter.  The overseas officials said U.S. and other regulators need
to allow for greater use of substituted compliance, in which one
jurisdiction allows another’s to satisfy goals to curb risk in
the market. Individual companies shouldn’t need to apply for
substituted compliance, and jurisdictions shouldn’t seek a
precise rule-by-rule test of comparability, they said.  Compliance Policy  Investment Adviser Fees Would Fund SEC Oversight in Waters’ Bill  Representative Maxine Waters, a Democrat from California,
introduced a bill to allow the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to impose and collect user fees on investment
advisers, her office said in e-mailed statement.  The Investment Adviser Examination Improvement Act of 2013
(H.R. 1627) would provide the SEC with a dedicated funding
source for an investment adviser oversight program, the
statement said.  Waters is the ranking member of House Financial Services
Committee.  Iosco Proposes Structured Product Rules Amid Mis-Selling Concern  A global group of regulators is proposing new rules on how
sales of structured products to individual investors should be
governed, amid concern buyers of the securities that combine
debt with derivatives are vulnerable to mis-selling.  The International Organization of Securities Commissions,
which brings together market regulators from more than 100
countries, is seeking feedback on a consultation report
published April 18 on the regulation of retail structured
products.  Iosco’s proposals aim to improve sales practices and
disclosure for the securities, which have been criticized for
being too opaque and complex. National regulators in Asia,
Europe and the U.S. have been seeking to tighten rules governing
structured notes since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., which was a major issuer.  Madrid-based Iosco is asking members to consider
coordinating and aligning their regulations on structured notes,
as well as the amount of information that should be disclosed to
investors.  Compliance Action  China CBRC Says Banks Face Severe Risk, Rising Bad Loans  The China Banking Regulatory Commission will proactively
control the nation’s new amount of bad loans and orderly
reorganize the current debt of China’s banks, according to a
statement posted to the commission’s website.  The CBRC also will strictly implement differentiated
housing credit policies, the statement said. The commission
encourages commercial banks to innovate fundraising channel
tools domestically and overseas, according to the statement.  The CBRC asked banks to improve their accuracy in the way
they classify loans and monitor non-performing loans. The
commission also will regulate wealth management by banks, the
statement said.  Courts  Ex-Siemens Executive Sharef Settles SEC Action for $275,000  A former manager of  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest
engineering company, agreed to pay $275,000 to settle a lawsuit
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over a
bribery scheme in Argentina.  Uriel Sharef and six other defendants allegedly paid bribes
to Argentine government officials in connection with a contract
for identity cards, the SEC said April 18 in a statement.  Sharef consented to the judgment “without admitting or
denying” the allegations and waived the right to appeal,
according to an April 15 filing in federal court in Manhattan.  Siemens, based in Munich, pleaded guilty in 2008 to
violating U.S. anti-corruption laws and agreed to pay $1.6
billion to settle bribery probes in the U.S. and Germany.  Heiko Lesch, Sharef’s German lawyer in Bonn, declined to
comment on the settlement. Sharef’s U.S. lawyer, Richard Grime
in Washington, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail
message seeking comment on it.  Alexander Becker, a Siemens spokesman, declined to comment
on the settlement.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Sharef, 11-cv-09073, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  IIF’s Adams Urges ‘Holistic’ Approach to Bank Oversight  Institute of International Finance  President and Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Adams  talked about financial regulation
and the global banking system.  Adams spoke with Sara Eisen on the sidelines of the IMF and
World Bank meetings in Washington on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Fed’s Stein Says Liquidity Regulation Has Key Role for Stability  Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  said liquidity
regulation is essential to financial stability, while noting a
need for a more moderate approach to such oversight compared
with supervision of capital.  “Liquidity regulation involves more uncertainty about
costs than capital regulation,” Stein said in remarks prepared
for a speech April 19 in Charlotte, North Carolina. “Even a
policy maker with a very strict attitude toward capital might
find it sensible to be somewhat more moderate and flexible with
respect to liquidity.”  The Fed is enacting new powers setting capital, liquidity
and risk management standards under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
overhauling financial regulation.  Central bank  officials aim to
prevent a repeat of the financial crisis in which liquidity
vanished for many firms, contributing to the collapse of Bear
Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Too much demand for liquidity, particularly during a
financial crisis, could lead to a shortage of liquid assets,
Stein said. Though the Fed can act as a lender of last resort,
this may induce financial institutions to be less prudent.  Regulators should aim to “strike a balance” between
reducing reliance on the Fed as a lender and “moderating the
costs created by liquidity shortages on the other hand --
especially those shortages that crop up in times of severe
market strain,” Stein said at the 2013 Credit Markets
Symposium, sponsored by the Richmond Fed.  Before joining the Fed in May, Stein, 52, was an economics
professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Comings and Goings  Volcker Recusal Vowed by OCC’s Top Lawyer Who Left Promontory  The top lawyer at the U.S. regulator of national banks left
a consulting job where she was paid $1.2 million and advised
some of the biggest firms now overseen by her agency, her
financial disclosures show.  Amy Friend was managing director at Promontory Financial
Group LLC before rejoining the Office of Comptroller of the
Currency as chief counsel in February. She will recuse herself
for a year from discussions of the so-called Volcker rule to ban
proprietary trading at banks and from matters affecting
Promontory or six former clients, according to an OCC memo.  Friend arrived at the OCC as Promontory was drawing
attention for its influence as a middleman between banks and
regulators and for its hiring of ex-officials including Julie
Williams, Friend’s predecessor as OCC chief counsel, and  Mary
Schapiro , ex-chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Promontory also was a subject of a Senate hearing earlier this
month into a failed $2 billion review of U.S. foreclosure
missteps.  Promontory clients listed in Friend’s filing include three
of the top six U.S. banks by assets --  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Friend spent a decade as an OCC
lawyer until 2008 and was later the Senate Banking Committee’s
chief counsel under former Senator  Chris Dodd , a Connecticut
Democrat, helping craft the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.  Debra Cope, a spokeswoman for Promontory, declined to
comment on the disclosures.  “We support her commitment to honoring both the letter and
the spirit of the law,” Paul Nash, the OCC’s chief of staff,
said in an interview.  Top Lawyers Leave CFTC as Agency Tries to Finish Dodd-Frank Act  The main U.S. derivatives regulator is losing three of its
top lawyers as it tries to finish Dodd-Frank Act rules designed
to curb risk in the $639 trillion global swaps market.  Terry Arbit, a Commodity Futures Trading Commission lawyer
since 1996 and currently a deputy general counsel, and Harold
Hardman, also a deputy general counsel who spent more than 30
years at the agency, are leaving, according to Steve Adamske,
the commission’s spokesman. Dan Berkovitz stepped down as
general counsel last month.  Obama Said Near Decision on Leader for Fannie Mae Regulator  White House plans to nominate a replacement for Edward J.
DeMarco, the acting director of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, are now accelerating, according to two people familiar
with the discussions who asked to remain anonymous because the
process isn’t public.  The plans to replace DeMarco, who has served since 2009,
had long been stalled.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is vetting a short
list of candidates including Mel Watt, a Democratic congressman
from North Carolina, and  Mark Zandi , chief economist at  Moody’s
Corp. (MCO)  subsidiary Moody’s Analytics, among others, the people
said. Both Zandi and Watt have declined to comment.  Lawmakers created FHFA in 2008, shortly before regulators
seized Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  as they neared bankruptcy.  The position requires Senate confirmation and it’s unclear
whether any candidate named by Obama can win enough Republican
votes to get the job.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  