-- U.S. Hopes UN Group Will Press N. Korea on Human Rights
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-04-22T22:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/u-s-hopes-un-group-will-press-n-korea-on-human-rights.html
The U.S. government hopes that a
new United Nations commission created to investigate reports of
widespread  human rights  abuses in  North Korea  will intensify the
international pressure on the repressive regime.  Calling North Korean violations “egregious and
pervasive,” Robert King, the U.S. special envoy for North Korea
human rights issues, said last month’s creation of the three-
person body by the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva
“ratchets up the legal stature of what’s being done.”  Speaking to reporters today, King said the U.S. government
estimates that between 130,000 and 200,000 North Koreans are
kept in prison camps. The State Department’s annual global human
rights review, released April 19, includes a 24-page summary of
alleged abuses in North Korea, including arbitrary arrest and
torture, public executions and a network of forced labor camps
where accused dissidents and relatives of defectors are tortured
and imprisoned for life. The North Korean government denies that
such camps exist.  While calling U.S. discussions with  China  over North Korea
“very positive,” King said he and other U.S. officials
continue to press Chinese leaders over the forced repatriation
of North Koreans who flee to China. Defectors who are returned
to North Korea are killed or brutally punished, according to
rights groups. King said border controls appear to have
tightened under Kim Jong Un, who ascended to power after the
death of his father in December 2011.  The UN human rights commissioner,  Navi Pillay , has called
North Korea’s human rights conditions “the worst in the whole
world.”  Limited Power  While a UN commission empowered to ask for access to North
Korea to investigate claims of abuse may carry more weight than
any single government or non-governmental group, King
acknowledged that it’s hard to predict what would come from the
commission’s findings, and whether they could be used as the
basis for any UN Security Council action against North Korea.  The purpose of the commission “is to weigh the evidence,
to look at the information and to make a determination as to
what can be done,” King said.  In recent months, North Korea has conducted nuclear and
missile tests in defiance of Security Council members, including
the U.S. and China, North Korea’s closest ally. Last month, the
regime issued threats of nuclear destruction after the UN
imposed new sanctions.  King said those sanctions are aimed at  luxury goods 
consumed by Kim, his family and other regime elites, and aren’t
expected to hurt ordinary North Koreans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  