-- U.S. Midwest Floods Delay Corn Sowing After Drought Curbed Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-04-22T10:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/u-s-midwest-floods-delay-corn-sowing-after-drought-curbed-crop.html
Rain in the northern U.S. Midwest
last week spurred flooding along rivers as far south as
 Tennessee , delaying corn planting a year after drought cut
production of the grain to a six-year low.  Areas of  Iowa  and  Illinois , the largest U.S. corn-growing
states, were under flood warnings today along the Mississippi
and Illinois rivers and tributaries, National Weather Service
 data  show. Flood warnings stretched from  Michigan  to northern
Arkansas and Tennessee. Crests already reached records along
parts of the Des Plaines and Illinois rivers in Illinois, and
the  Mississippi River  is at moderate to major flood stages
across Missouri, AccuWeather Inc. said in an online  statement .  Storms on April 17-18 in the northern Midwest dropped 5.4
inches (14 centimeters) of rain on Chicago and as much as 6
inches on parts of eastern  Iowa , spurring floods along rivers
further south, AccuWeather said. Corn  planting  in the largest
U.S. producing states was 2 percent complete as of April 14,
behind last year’s pace of 16 percent, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show.  “The cold, rainy weather is of course reducing the sum of
corn acreage that shall be planted each day of delay, while
almost certainly increasing the sum of acreage to be planted to
soybeans,” economist  Dennis Gartman  wrote today in his daily
Gartman Letter. Soybeans, also cultivated in the Midwest, can be
sown later than corn.  Corn futures for delivery in July fell 1.2 percent to
$6.255 a bushel at 5:18 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
while soybeans for the same delivery month declined 0.7 percent
to $13.7325 a bushel. Both crops rose to records last year as
the U.S. had its worst drought since the 1930s.  The past U.S. corn  harvest  totaled 10.78 billion bushels,
the least since the 2006-07 season, according to the USDA. The
agency said in February the next season’s crop might rebound to
a record 14.53 billion bushels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 