-- Abu Dhabi Accelerates Crude Exports From Port of Fujairah
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-04-23T16:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/uae-said-to-sell-at-least-11-crude-cargoes-from-fujairah.html
Abu Dhabi  will ship 5 million
barrels of crude next month from the  United Arab Emirates ’ port
of Fujairah, as the state oil company boosts shipments loaded
outside the  Strait of Hormuz  chokepoint, an official said.  The May shipments would equate to about 160,000 barrels a
day, or 11 percent of the capacity of the $4 billion pipeline
that began sending oil to the eastern emirate in July.  “We are increasing exports from Fujairah on a gradual
basis each month,” Sultan Al Mehairi, marketing and refining
director at Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., said today. “We’ll be
exporting about 5 million barrels from Fujairah in May alone.”  Abu Dhabi, capital of the U.A.E. and holder of most of the
Persian Gulf nation’s crude, completed the overland link last
year to bypass Hormuz, a passage for a fifth of the world’s
traded oil at the mouth of the Gulf.  Iran  has threatened to
block the strait because of economic sanctions targeting its
nuclear program. Even with the new pipe, Abu Dhabi ships most of
its crude from a port and offshore fields inside the Gulf.  “When it was opened, it came at a time when there was a
need for more security for Middle Eastern crude exports, so at
the time it had a big significance,” said Abhishek Deshpande, a
London-based oil markets analyst at Natixis SA. “It looks a
great investment, but if the situation with Iran is resolved
then it suddenly wouldn’t carry much significance.”  Prior Shipments  Adnoc, as the state company is known, has already shipped
at least 11 crude cargoes from Fujairah since July, according to
four people with direct knowledge of the sales. Adnoc sold at
least seven of those cargoes, or at least 5 million barrels, to
refiners in  Japan ,  South Korea  and  China , said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the shipments are
confidential. That tally doesn’t include any crude planned for
May shipment.  The other four previous shipments comprise an initial July
cargo and three others loaded after tests on the pipeline.  Adnoc sells crude loaded at Fujairah for the same price it
charges at Jebel Dhanna, its port inside the Gulf, the four
people said. That means Adnoc is covering the cost of the
pipeline without charging a premium for Fujairah deliveries.  Abu Dhabi sets retroactive prices for its Murban crude
blend produced at its onshore fields, announcing the price in
dollars for the previous month’s sales. The emirate sold Murban
for $109.95 a barrel in March, Adnoc said April 2.  The grade
gained  56 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $102.29 a barrel in spot
trading as of 10:47 a.m.  London  time today.  Capacity Underutilized  The pipeline is flowing at less than full capacity because
it’s still being tested, Al Mehairi said today in an interview
at the Middle East Petroleum and Gas Conference in Abu Dhabi. He
didn’t say who would be buying the May cargoes. The pipe is
designed to transport as much as 1.5 million barrels a day from
Abu Dhabi’s main onshore fields to Fujairah.  That capacity is equivalent to roughly 9 percent of the 16
million to 17 million barrels that pass through Hormuz each day,
said Deshpande of Natixis. “It does ease tensions in the case
of the Strait of Hormuz being shut,” he said.  The U.A.E. was the sixth-largest oil producer in the 12-
member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last month,
trailing  Saudi Arabia ,  Iraq ,  Venezuela ,  Kuwait  and Iran,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  are among Abu Dhabi’s
partners in the oilfield concession that produces Murban, the
blend that can be sent through the pipeline to Fujairah for
export. David Nicholas, a BP spokesman, and Jonathan French, a
spokesman for Shell, declined to comment from London yesterday.  Shell was in talks to secure as much as 1 million cubic
meters of crude-oil storage at Fujairah, in what would be the
region’s first such crude-tank deal with foreign companies.
Shell may lease the space from tank operators that are expanding
their storage, Salem Khalil, technical adviser for Fujairah’s
government, said in a Feb. 28 interview, reported by Bloomberg
on March 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  