-- Tucker Says Regulators Need Power to Take Over Clearinghouses
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-04-22T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/tucker-says-regulators-need-power-to-take-over-clearinghouses.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
Paul Tucker said regulators need legal powers to allow them to
commandeer clearinghouses that are close to failure.  Watchdogs responsible for financial stability “need the
power to take control of a central counterparty that is no
longer viable, or doomed to become unviable, and where there is
no reasonable prospect of its recovery,” Tucker said in an
article published as part of a conference in New York today.  The Group of 20 nations has ordered a global overhaul of
rules governing derivatives contracts, mandating the use of CCPs
by traders. Regulators have sought tougher rules for over-the-
counter derivatives since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008 and the rescue of American International
Group Inc., two of the largest traders of credit-default swaps.  “The timetable for strengthening resolution regimes must
keep pace with the timetable for the mandatory central clearing
of standardized derivatives,” Tucker said in his article for
the French central bank’s Financial Stability Review.  Officials should also be able to impose losses on the
surviving members of a clearinghouse when other buffers are
depleted, Tucker said. CCPs should also keep a portfolio of
easy-to-sell assets to withstand liquidity shocks without
resorting to emergency central bank funding, he said.  While he noted that there may be shocks of such a magnitude
that central banks will need to provide liquidity to a “solvent
and viable CCP at short notice,” authorities are “absolutely
not committing to provide such support.”  “Private-sector liquidity absolutely must be the first
port of call, and so CCPs should not rely on central bank funds
in their liquidity planning,” said Tucker.  Clearinghouses such as  London ’s  LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  and Eurex
Clearing operate as central counterparties for every buy and
sell order executed by their members, who post collateral,
reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  “The system will not be resilient unless the CCPs
themselves are safe and sound and capable of orderly
resolution,” said Tucker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  