-- Hungary Set to Cut Rates to Record Low in Push for Growth
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-04-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/hungary-set-to-cut-rates-to-record-low-in-push-for-growth.html
Hungary ’s central bank will
probably lower its benchmark interest rate to a record as new
President Gyorgy Matolcsy seeks to help the economy emerge from
a recession with inflation near a 39-year low.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will cut the  two-week deposit rate 
by a quarter-point to 4.75 percent today, easing policy for a
ninth month, according to all 26 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest and
the Monetary Council will publish a statement at 3 p.m.  Matolcsy, whose appointment as central bank chief last
month sparked a weakening in the forint, is “only at the
beginning of renewing monetary policy,” he said in an April 18
interview with state news service MTI. The MNB has announced a
plan to offer preferential loans to small businesses and use
foreign-currency reserves to lower external debt after the
 economy  contracted 1.7 percent last year.  “Nose-diving inflation could serve as a strong argument to
go for a bolder move, but recent comments from different central
bankers suggested that the Monetary Council would stick to its
cautious approach,” economists including Mariann Trippon at CIB
Bank Zrt., the Budapest-based unit of Intesa SanPaolo SpA, said
in an e-mailed note yesterday. The forint won’t outperform
regional currencies as long as monetary-policy uncertainties
persist and “aggressive rate-cut expectations remain alive.”  The forint has weakened 2.4 percent this year, hitting a
14-month low of 308.65 per euro on April 18 after Matolcsy said
Hungary will limit lenders’ access to the central bank’s two-
week bill. The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond
dropped 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.531
percent yesterday, the lowest since 2005.  Investor Trust  The central bank will pursue a “conservative” policy
stance “to regain the trust of international investors,”
Ferenc Gerhardt, the newly appointed deputy governor, said on
April 15. The bank is targeting an “equilibrium” interest rate
that doesn’t fuel inflation and helps growth, he said in
parliament. Such a rate is between 4.5 percent and 5 percent,
Gerhardt said in a Nov. 5 interview.  Since then, government-mandated household energy-price cuts
helped push the  inflation  rate to 2.2 percent last month, the
lowest in almost 39 years and below policy makers’ 3 percent
target. Price growth will average 2.6 percent this year and 2.8
percent in 2014, the central bank said March 26.  Future monetary easing hinges on “benign” market
conditions as inflation is poised to decelerate further below
target, according to the minutes of the March policy meeting
published on April 10. The council agreed that future rate cuts
will come only if “medium-term inflationary pressures remained
moderate and the uncertainty surrounding financial-market
developments diminished,” according to the minutes.  ‘Anemic’ Growth  Investors expect the benchmark rate to drop to 4 percent or
lower in the next six months, forward-rate agreements show.  “Growth remains anemic at current levels and we have no
doubt that the government and the central bank will gear up for
more measures to boost growth,” economists at Societe Generale
SA in  London  said in an e-mailed note yesterday. More easing is
in the pipeline and the “powers that be in Hungary will want to
avoid a steady strengthening of the currency.”  Central banks around the world are easing monetary policy
in a bid to boost growth. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  is aiming to lift
inflation to 2 percent by 2015, while the European Central Bank
stands ready to purchase bonds of stressed nations. The Federal
Reserve has extended more than $1 trillion worth of
unprecedented credit to a single industry: housing.  Hungary’s central bank plans to convert its two-week bill,
the main instrument in managing liquidity, into a deposit
facility, which tightens the eligibility to lenders that are
active in Hungary, Matolcsy said April 18. The bank wants to cut
the amount of money kept in the facility, which pays the
benchmark interest rate, to 3.6 trillion forint from 4.5
trillion forint, according to Matolcsy.  Funding Growth  The limit is part of Matolcsy’s Funding for Growth plan to
offer preferential loans to small businesses to boost investment
and reduce the short-term external foreign-currency debt. The
bank plans to use 10 percent of its international reserves in
the program.  Since taking up his new post, Matolcsy consolidated his
power as central bank chief, stripping previously appointed vice
presidents of their strategic responsibilities. He also demoted
or fired 12 “mostly” senior-level employees, including
economists who had served at the bank for more than a decade,
Origo news website reported March 21.  The overhaul prompted Deputy Governor Julia Kiraly to
resign, citing concern that the central bank’s credibility was
jeopardized by Matolcsy’s steps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  