-- Hungary Sees EU Budget Process Exit as 2012 Gap Narrows
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-04-22T14:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/hungary-sees-eu-budget-process-exit-as-2012-gap-narrows.html
Hungary ’s government expects to
exit European Union monitoring for budget offenders this year
after the bloc confirmed the 2012 gap was less than projected.  Hungary’s deficit was 1.9 percent of economic output last
year, according to  data  published by Eurostat today, better than
the 2.1 percent calculated by the Hungarian statistics office.
The EU data reinforce claims that the country “must” exit the
excessive-deficit procedure, the  Economy Ministry  said in an e-
mailed statement from Budapest today.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  deployed self-styled unorthodox
measures, sacrificing growth, to keep the budget shortfall below
the EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product and remove
the threat of cuts in the bloc’s funding. The country doesn’t
need further measures to meet its deficit target of 2.7 percent
this year, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said on April 16.  The forint weakened a fourth day against the euro, its
longest slide since January, amid expectations the central bank
will cut record-low  interest rates  further tomorrow. The
currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 299.32 per euro by 2:51 p.m.
in Budapest.  The expected widening of the 2013 deficit can be regarded
as “fiscal loosening” to aid expansion, Gabor Orban, state
secretary at the Economy Ministry, said at a parliamentary
committee hearing today. The government is focusing on budget
discipline and balanced growth rather than on a timetable for
adopting the euro, Orban said.  Sustainable Path  Hungary’s on a sustainable fiscal path and the government
will keep the budget shortfall within the EU’s limit this year
and next, Varga said on April 16. The European Commission sees
Hungary’s deficit widening to 3.4 percent in 2013 and 2014.  Losses in  tax revenue  stemming from weaker growth and lower
 inflation  will be offset by more restrained spending at local
councils and a decline in debt-interest payments, according to
Varga.  The government last week cut its 2013 economic-growth
forecast to 0.7 percent from 0.9 percent and predicts inflation
will average 3.1 percent compared with 5.2 percent earlier.  EU funds finance 95 percent of all development projects in
the country, the highest proportion in the bloc, according to
the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  