-- Venezuela’s Maduro Names Merentes as Finance Head in New Cabinet
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-04-22T04:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/venezuela-s-maduro-names-merentes-as-finance-head-in-new-cabinet.html
Venezuelan President  Nicolas Maduro 
named his cabinet yesterday after this month’s election victory,
appointing Nelson Merentes finance minister of the South
American country.  Previous finance chief  Jorge Giordani , the longest-serving
minister under former President  Hugo Chavez , was named planning
minister, Maduro said in a television address, adding that he
had re-appointed  Rafael Ramirez  as oil minister.  Merentes, who served as finance minister twice under
Chavez, was president of the  Central Bank  before the
announcement. Giordani presided over a 32 percent devaluation of
the bolivar in February, closed a Central Bank-administered
foreign exchange market known as Sitme and saw inflation reach
25.1 percent in March, the second highest rate in 102 economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “It’s a positive sign for the market,” said  Asdrubal
Oliveros , director of Caracas-based research group Ecoanalitica.
“It looks like the government will be more pragmatic in
economic matters, but we’re not talking about changing the
economic model.”  Maduro was sworn in on April 19 after a week of tension
with the opposition over a disputed result that undermined
investor confidence. Venzuela’s national electoral council said
April 20 that an expanded vote audit would not change the result
of the election.  Black Market  Venezuela , which is seeking to arrest the decline of its
currency on the black market after the February devaluation,
plans to hold a second dollar auction on a complementary
currency system created last month, Ramirez said in an April 7
interview. The country sold $200 million to importers in a March
27 dollar auction without revealing the  exchange rate .  The bolivar has declined about 28 percent on the black
market this year, according to Dolar Today, a website that
tracks the exchange rate on the Venezuelan border with  Colombia .
The currency currently trades at about 24 per dollar on the
black market, compared with 6.3 on the Cadivi system reserved
for importers of essential items, such as medicine.  Maduro said on April 15 that the country would “defeat the
black market dollar.”  “I think there will be positive changes in terms of
foreign exchange policy including better coordination in
distributing dollars and more flexible exchange auctions,”
Oliveros said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Merentes and
Ramirez are more open to issuing new dollar debt than Giordani
was. It’s probable that they’ll issue this year.”  Among other appointments yesterday, Maduro re-appointed
Ernesto Villegas as information minister, named Jesse Chacon as
electricity minister, and kept Jorge Arreaza as vice president.  “I don’t think they are breaking any new ground with
Merentes, but Maduro is moving out one of the impediments to a
better economy,” Russ Dallen, head bond trader at Caracas
Capital Markets, said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. “He is a steady hand and does not have the Marxist
orthodox rigidity of Giordani.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  