-- Vettel Wins Bahrain Grand Prix to Extend Formula 1 Series Lead
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-04-22T00:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/vettel-wins-bahrain-grand-prix-to-extend-formula-1-series-lead.html
Red Bull ’s Sebastian Vettel won the
Bahrain Grand Prix to extend his lead atop the Formula One
standings as he seeks a fourth straight world championship.  Vettel finished ahead of Lotus duo  Kimi Raikkonen  and
 Romain Grosjean  in yesterday’s 57-lap race at the Bahrain
International Circuit in Sakhir, a repeat of the 2012 podium.  Vettel, who started from second on the grid, controlled the
race from the third lap. The 9.1-second victory was the 25-year-
old German’s second win from four events this season and the
28th of his career, lifting him into sixth place on the all-time
list of F-1 victories, one ahead of Britain’s Jackie Stewart.  “I love to be in clean air, so I was pushing hard to get
into the lead,” Vettel said in a team statement. “With the
speed we had mid-race, it was quite comfortable. It was good fun
at the beginning with some very tight wheel-to-wheel racing.”  The defending world champion had to battle in the opening
two laps yesterday, seeing off the challenge of Ferrari’s
 Fernando Alonso  before getting past pole-position sitter  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes to take command.  Rosberg dropped back, finally coming ninth. Raikkonen,
using a two-stop strategy in contrast to Vettel’s three, moved
up the field after starting in the No. 8 spot.  “You’re never really happy if you don’t win, but I suppose
second place is as close as you can get,” Raikkonen said. “I
drove to the maximum. We didn’t have the speed to challenge
Sebastian, but we did have the pace to get both cars on the
podium so I’m happy for the team.”  Paul di Resta of Force  India , who finished fourth, had a
spell in the lead early in the race after Vettel made a pit
stop. The Scot then looked poised for the first podium position
of his career, only to be overtaken by Grosjean.  ‘Better and Better’  After regaining the lead following Di Resta’s pit stop,
Vettel dominated the race. Such was his control that he was able
to stay in first place even after making further pit stops.  “It just seemed to get better and better towards the
end,” Vettel said. “It was a beautiful race where you could
push every single lap. We took very good care of the tires.”  Lewis Hamilton  of Mercedes finished fifth, ahead of Sergio
Perez of McLaren, Red Bull’s Mark Webber and Alonso. Rosberg and
McLaren’s  Jenson Button , on 10th place, rounded out the points-
scoring positions.  Vettel, who had led by three points after the first three
rounds, has 77 points atop the drivers’ standings, followed by
Raikkonen (67), Hamilton (50), Alonso (47) and Webber (32). Red
Bull leads the constructors’ championship with 109 points, 13
ahead of Lotus. Ferrari has 77 and Mercedes 64.  Yesterday’s race, the fourth of 19 in the 2013 world
championship, passed off without disruption after clashes
between police and political protesters away from the circuit in
the leadup.  After its early-season swing through  Australia , Asia and
the  Middle East , the series switches to  Europe  for two races,
starting with the May 12 Spanish Grand Prix at the Circuit de
Catalunya near Barcelona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  