-- Vitol’s Taylor Says $100 Oil Price Is Nothing Special
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-04-22T12:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/vitol-s-taylor-says-100-oil-price-is-nothing-special.html
Crude can move either side of $100
a barrel with neither direction currently dominating, aside from
a longer term bias for gradual gains, said the head of Vitol
Group, the world’s largest privately held oil trader.  Brent crude futures sank below $100 on April 16 for the
first time since July and have oscillated either side of that
level in the days since, trading at $100.53 at 12:58 p.m. London
time today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “On oil, I don’t see any great movement in the days to
come,” Vitol Chief Executive Officer Ian Taylor said in Abu
Dhabi. “There’s nothing special about $100. It can go a bit
higher or a bit lower.”  Oil at $100 a barrel is a “reasonable” price that won’t
choke global economic growth, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali Al-
Naimi said in Hong Kong on March 18, a day when Brent crude
futures settled at $108.17. Brent crude is down 10 percent this
year, after gaining 3.5 percent in 2012.  Vitol is one of several privately-held commodity trading
companies that operate from offices in Switzerland, along with
Trafigura Beheer BV and Gunvor Group Ltd. Costs for energy
trading companies are rising, including regulatory expenses,
cutting into profit margins, Taylor said.  Over longer periods of time, the price of oil remains
dependent on supply and demand, Taylor said today at the Middle
East Petroleum and Gas Conference, without specifying any period
for his outlook.  “Exchange-based trading will add to the number of
participants in the market who aren’t taking physical volumes,”
he said. “They tend to go long over the long term and that
tends to raise the price.”  Merchant Refiners  Energy trading companies will continue to diversify, buying
assets such as refineries, Taylor said. Vitol is a joint venture
partner in Switzerland’s Cressier refinery while Gunvor bought
plants in Germany and  Belgium . All three of those refineries
were bought last year from the insolvency administrators of
Petroplus Holdings AG.  Taylor said he expects companies will trade more in refined
products than in crude in the future, without specifying any
further details or timing.  International trading of liquefied natural gas will
probably become “bigger” and “deeper” and Vitol plans to be
involved in the expansion of that market, Taylor said.
Infrastructure costs and the greater expense of LNG ships versus
tankers carrying crude and refined oil products is one of the
reasons why LNG trading isn’t already bigger, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Abu Dhabi at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  