-- Wal-Mart CEO Duke’s Pay Rises to $20.7 Million Last Year
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-04-23T14:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/wal-mart-ceo-compensation-rises-to-20-7-million-in-2013.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Duke  got a 14 percent raise in pay to
$20.7 million as the retailer, trying to recover from a weak
start this year, tied future bonuses to compliance controls.  Duke, 63, was paid a salary of $1.32 million in the fiscal
year ended Jan. 31, up 4 percent from a year earlier,
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said in a  filing  yesterday.
His total compensation included $13.7 million in stock awards
and $4.37 million in bonus payments.  Wal-Mart in February forecast first-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates as an increase in payroll taxes and
delayed refunds curtailed expenditure by its lower-income
customers. Comparable-store sales in the 13 weeks ending April
26 are projected to be little changed because of slower sales in
the first few weeks of the quarter, the company has said.  Starting this fiscal year, the company has added a
“compliance component” to executive bonus evaluations. During
the year, the senior leadership team will evaluate compliance
policies, processes and controls and prepare a timetable for
implementing improvements that will “address key components of
a corporate compliance program,” Wal-Mart said in the filing.  Senior management will provide quarterly reports on
progress in implementing “compliance objectives.” If the audit
committee judges “adequate progress” hasn’t been made, cash
incentive compensation will be reduced or eliminated.  Internal Probes  Duke has also agreed that if sufficient progress on
compliance isn’t made by the end of the year, some of his 2013
cash incentive payment will be returned to the company.  Wal-Mart last year began investigating allegations that
executives in  Mexico  paid more than $24 million in bribes to
speed the retailer’s expansion there and has since said it also
is probing operations in Brazil,  India  and  China . The retailer
said March 26 that it is spending money on its internal probes,
responding to information requests from government investigators
and defending shareholder lawsuits.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  and the Securities and
Exchange Commission as well as federal and local government
agencies in Mexico are investigating the allegations that Wal-
Mart systematically bribed Mexican officials.  Wal-Mart in December named Karen Roberts general counsel as
her predecessor,  Jeff Gearhart , focuses on global compliance
efforts. That followed the company combining its compliance
office with ethics, investigations and legal functions to form
one organization in October.  Shrinking Board  The board may shrink to 14 in June when three independent
directors leave, according to the proxy.  Jim Breyer , the lead director and a board member since
2001, M. Michele Burns, a member since 2003, and Arne Sorenson,
a director since 2008, won’t stand for re-election, according to
the proxy.  In the filing yesterday the company said Chief Financial
Officer  Charles Holley  received $6.64 million in total
compensation in the last fiscal year, a 30 percent increase from
the previous year.  Bill Simon , Wal-Mart’s U.S. chief, was paid
$11.2 million in total, up 33 percent.  Doug McMillon, head of international business, received
$9.56 million in total pay, a decline of 13 percent from a year
earlier. Rosalind Brewer, who was named president and CEO of
Wal-Mart’s Sam’s Club unit in January, received $14.6 million in
total compensation.  Wal-Mart  rose  0.8 percent to $78.62 at 10:42 a.m. in  New
York . The shares had advanced 14 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 9.6 percent gain by the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  