-- Won Drops on Concern Weak Yen to Hurt Korean Exports; Bonds Fall
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-04-22T06:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/won-drops-on-concern-weak-yen-to-hurt-korean-exports-bonds-fall.html
The won declined on speculation
policy makers will favor depreciation to support South Korean
exporters as the yen’s slide to a four-year low makes Japanese
rivals more competitive.  The yen weakened, nearing the 100 per dollar level not seen
since 2009, after  Japan ’s stimulus policies were unopposed at a
Group of 20 meeting. The Japanese currency slid against most
major peers after Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda emerged
from the talks saying he was more confident to press ahead with
the campaign to defeat deflation. South Korean Finance Minister
Hyun Oh Seok said there is a “lot of impact from the falling
yen” and urged advanced nations to prepare for an orderly exit
from monetary easing and low interest-rate programs.  “The G-20 meeting raised concerns that there’s room for
the yen to weaken further, which may hurt South Korea’s export
competitiveness,” said Jeon Seung Ji, an analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc. in  Seoul . “Speculation that authorities may step
in to weaken the won to protect exporters is pushing the
currency lower, while exporters are waiting to sell dollars.”  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,119.05 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency earlier
declined as much as 0.7 percent, biggest intraday drop since
April 8. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the exchange rate used to price options, rose 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 8.47 percent.  Japanese policies that have weakened the yen by 14 percent
against the dollar this year are threatening the competitiveness
of South Korean companies such as Samsung Electronics Co. and
Hyundai Motor Co. The won depreciated 4.9 percent per dollar and
gained 10 percent against the yen in the same period. The Bank
of Korea said in a report today it will impose market-
stabilizing measures if needed.  Hurting Exports  The weakening yen is hurting South Korea’s economy more
than North Korean threats, Finance Minister Hyun said in an
interview in  Washington  last week before the G-20 meeting. The
yen is hurting exports of cars and steel, a trade ministry
official said April 1, after a report showed overseas shipments
rose less than economists forecast in March from a year ago. The
government on April 16 unveiled a 17.3 trillion won ($15.4
billion) extra budget to support exporters and revive an economy
that grew last year at the slowest pace since 2009.  Overseas investors sold $4.2 billion more South Korean
shares than they bought this year through April 19, exchange
data show, amid tensions on the Korean peninsula. North Korea’s
ballistic missile launcher remains stationed on its eastern
coast, South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok told
reporters in Seoul today.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due March 2018 rose one basis point to 2.68 percent, according
to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  