-- My Innocence Gone in Hopkinton Where We Felt the Bombs
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2013-04-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/my-innocence-gone-in-hopkinton-where-we-felt-the-bombs.html
I live at the other end of
unthinkable -- the start, not the finish, of the Boston
Marathon.  My wife and I raised our two sons in Hopkinton,
 Massachusetts , less than a mile (1.6 kilometers) from the
yellow-and-blue starting line Jack LeDuc and his crew paint each
year. There was no loss of life or limb here in Monday’s hideous
blasts. Thank God. Still, there’s a deep hurt and a suspicion
that tradition, in its sunniest, winter-is-over hues of rebirth
and redemption, is gone.  What tens of thousands learn when they arrive each spring
in my small town of 15,000 is that their road to athletic glory,
those 26.2 miles of water stations, orange slices, frost heaves
and gritty sidewalks, is a special connection we share with the
world and each other. If Opening Day at Fenway Park signals the
revival of baseball, the marathon rekindles our sense of
community.  We open our homes to runners, offering bed and breakfast.
We stuff trash bags with the warm-up sweaters and long pants
they take off before heading out. We host the elite Kenyans at
our elementary school, and these skinny soft-spoken wonders
never fail to dazzle our kids with stories of long slogs on dirt
in bare feet and the heat, and how hard they worked to get to
Hopkinton.  Bengay Rub  Down the road at mile three in the town of  Ashland,  Jeff
Stone has watched this swift parade of bobbing heads for all of
his 60 years. When he was a sophomore at  Boston ’s Northeastern
University and studying to be an athletic trainer, a runner
stumbled onto his front yard moaning about a severe leg cramp.  “I need your help,” he told Stone who turned and ran
inside for the nearest tube of Bengay. He rubbed out the cramp,
the runner finished the race and, later, sent a letter of thanks
to Stone’s school. That stumbler was Johnny Kelley, a guy with
two Boston Marathon wins and seven second-place finishes, who
ran a record 61 times. He did his last full marathon when he was
84. Stone’s bold moment secured a place in the late legend’s
book, “Young at Heart.”  The night of the bombings Stone had another moment. He
walked away from the images of tragedy on his television and
went outside to lower the American flag on the white pole in his
yard.  “If you don’t live on the course, you don’t understand,”
he said.  Chicken Wings  Stone, who oversees a water station for the elite runners,
said he was determined to do his part to keep the race going
strong: “It’s who we are, and to let somebody take that away
from us, no way.”  At mile seven in Framingham, the Chicken Bone, a pub with
the tastiest wings this side of Buffalo, hired a band for the
race, as it always does. But when things turned tragic that
afternoon, the music stopped.  Sean Sweeney , 20, the takeout
manager, turned his attention to the customers who were trying
to reach relatives and friends at the finish line.  “We needed to make sure they were all right,” he said.
“For at least the next five years, this day will not be the
same.”  One town and two miles closer to Boston, the Natick Animal
Clinic each year holds a barbecue in its parking lot for more
than 100 people affiliated with  Tufts University  and its
veterinary school, which sponsors runners. Clinic manager Andrea
Harding was driving to work Tuesday morning when she decided the
flag there should go to half-staff, too. Pulling in, she looked
up and saw her team had beat her to the punch.  All Hurt  “It just made sense,” she said. The terror experienced in
other places around the world had come to Boston and sprinted 17
miles down the road to Natick.  “It’s in our own backyard now,” Harding said, warning a
visitor that she breaks out in tears these days without notice.
“You hurt one of us,” she said, “you hurt all of us.”  Travel this suburban swath regularly through the seven
communities along the marathon route as it pushes toward Boston
and you begin to recognize the nooks and crannies where
generations have stood with water, ready to carry and lift the
helpless and summon emergency care if needed.  At  Wellesley College , the students have made a name as a
premier cheering section. They jump and shake signs, and have
been known to kiss and hug a runner or two. They know it helps.  Open Doors  Newton is next, and at the base of Heartbreak Hill, known
to stop many who confidently said they’d run to the finish,
stands Fire Station 2. Lieutenant Tom Lopez, a native, has
watched 16 marathons in uniform. He and the others open their
four large bays to runners and spectators for easy access to the
bathroom. They wheel out the hot dog stand, selling treats for
charity, and keep an eye out for those about to tackle the hill
for signs they might need help.  “This race, this day, it belongs to us,” he said,
describing the happy crowd gathered in the hours before the
unhappiest news. “Our race, it’s the best in the world.”  Back in Hopkinton (town motto: “It All Starts Here”) Jack
LeDuc was on a ladder near the starting line two mornings after
the race. Drill in hand, he was taking down the large and
familiar “Welcome Runners” banner.  LeDuc is a volunteer on the town’s race committee who puts
in many hours and has helped paint the starting line for each of
the last 32 years.  Innocence Gone  “This used to be such a fun thing,” he said, pointing to
a spot where, as a boy, he sat perched in a maple tree awaiting
the starter’s pistol. On the other side of the road, bunches of
cut flowers were fastened to a wrought-iron fence in memory of
the dead.  “There was such an innocence,” he said, “and now it went
away.”  I, too, conjure images of bygone races. There’s my friend
Mike, shooing runners off his front yard. There’s my little boy
asking for a balloon and, daddy, please, another slice of fried
dough almost as big as him. Absent is the evil that visited the
finish line and three days later moved across Cambridge and into
Watertown in a whirl of bombs and gunfire.  I want to believe I’ll go back next year and fences and
sniffing dogs and men in black with long rifles won’t come to
obscure the sights and sounds that have become part of all of
us.  The great four-time winner Bill Rodgers says he’s coming
out of retirement. The tandem of Dick and Rick Hoyt, dad pushing
son in a wheelchair, now say 2013 wasn’t their last.  I want to believe them, and President Obama and all the
others who say this race won’t get smaller but bigger, as big
and wonderful as the place I call home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  