-- Myanmar Accused of Ethnic Cleansing as EU Meets on Sanctions
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-04-22T04:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/myanmar-accused-of-ethnic-cleansing-as-eu-meets-on-sanctions.html
Human Rights Watch accused
Myanmar’s government of ethnic cleansing in displacing more than
125,000 Rohingya Muslims as European Union diplomats meet to
decide whether to lift sanctions on the country.  Authorities destroyed mosques, conducted violent mass
arrests, blocked aid to displaced Muslims and dumped bodies in
mass graves since sectarian violence began last June, the New
York-based group said in a 153-page report released today. Ye
Htut, a spokesman for President Thein Sein, said he hadn’t read
the report and declined to comment.  “The Burmese government engaged in a campaign of ethnic
cleansing against the Rohingya that continues today through the
denial of aid and restrictions on movement,”  Phil Robertson ,
the group’s deputy Asia director, said in a statement. “The
government needs to put an immediate stop to the abuses and hold
the perpetrators accountable or it will be responsible for
further violence against ethnic and religious minorities.”  Thein Sein has struggled to contain violence against
Rohingya and other Muslims in the Buddhist-majority country
after allowing greater political freedom since taking power two
years ago. He has warned the conflict threatens to hinder moves
toward greater democracy as the EU and U.S. consider lifting
most sanctions against the former military regime.  EU foreign ministers will meet today to discuss easing
sanctions further after after most were suspended last year. The
U.S. has also lifted some sanctions in the past year, attracting
companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , General Electric Co. and  Norway ’s
Telenor ASA to Myanmar.  Illegal Migrants  Violence between Rakhine Buddhists and Muslim Rohingya last
year in a western border area killed about 180 people and
displaced more than 100,000. Many of Myanmar’s 64 million people
view the country’s 800,000 Rohingya, who are denied citizenship,
as illegal migrants from what is now  Bangladesh .  On Oct. 23, at least 70 Rohingya were killed in a massacre
in Mrauk-U township, including 28 children who were hacked to
death, Human Rights Watch said. Security forces disarmed the
Rohingya of sticks and other rudimentary weapons and stood by
while they were attacked, the group said.  “Local officials and community leaders engaged in an
organized effort to demonize and isolate the Muslim population
as a prelude to murderous mob attacks,” Robertson said.
“Moreover, since the bloodshed, the central government has
taken no action to punish those responsible or reverse the
ethnic cleansing of the forcibly displaced Muslims.”  Last month, anti-Muslim violence in central Myanmar that
killed more than 40 people, displaced 20,000 others and left
about 1,400 buildings destroyed, including mosques. More than
10,000 Rohingya face exposure to water-borne diseases if they
are not moved to higher ground before the rainy season starts
next month, according to  Human Rights Watch .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  