-- Yen Gains After Failing to Break 100 Per Dollar; Pound Advances
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-22T21:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/yen-weakens-toward-100-per-dollar-as-kuroda-hails-g-20-stance.html
The yen gained for the first time
in five days after traders failed to push the currency through
100 per dollar, a level it last weakened to four years ago.  The euro fluctuated versus the dollar amid signals from
European Central Bank policy makers that  interest-rates  may be
cut to boost economic growth. The yen slid earlier versus the
greenback after the Group of 20 offered no opposition last week
to the Bank of Japan’s monetary-stimulus policies. Sterling rose
amid bets data this week will show the U.K. avoided falling back
into a recession last quarter.  “A lot of the time, people wait to see the move before
they then get involved,” Douglas Borthwick, a managing director
and head of foreign exchange at Chapdelaine FX, a unit of
Tullett Prebon Plc, in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“Certainly 100 would be a level whereby if you see that move
through 100, then you’d see a lot more interest to get involved
in the trade.”  The yen gained 0.3 percent to 99.23 per dollar at 5 p.m. in
New York after depreciating earlier to 99.90, the weakest since
it declined to a four-year low of 99.95 on April 11. Japan’s
currency added 0.2 percent to 129.66 per euro. The euro gained
0.1 percent to $1.3066 after appreciating 0.5 percent earlier to
$1.3117 and falling to $1.3015.  The Japanese currency last weakened to 100 per dollar on
April 14, 2009.  ‘Profit-Taking’  “It’s a bit of profit-taking, not just short-term, but
also some of the structural longer-term names as well,”
 Geoffrey Yu , a senior currency strategist at UBS AG, said of the
yen’s gains in a telephone interview from  London . Asset managers
are “not exactly sold on the story yet that we’re going to get
a lot of flows out of the Japanese investors.”  UBS still forecasts the yen will reach 110 to the dollar by
year-end, Yu said.  Norway’s krone slid versus 15 of its 16 most-traded peers
after central-bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said low inflation
was a concern, adding to bets the bank will lower interest
rates.  The krone lost as much as 0.6 percent to 7.6472 per euro,
the weakest level since June, before trading at 7.6374, down 0.5
percent. It declined 0.4 percent to 5.8450 per dollar.  Mexico ’s peso reached a two-week low against the dollar as
a report showed retail sales in the nation dropped 2.6 percent
in February from a year earlier, the most in more than three
years, damping the outlook for economic expansion.  The peso depreciated as much as 0.7 percent to 12.3524 per
dollar, the weakest since April 5, before trading at 12.2743,
down 0.1 percent.  ECB Rates  The ECB may cut interest rates if data show a need for it,
Executive Board Member Joerg Asmussen said April 20 on a panel
in  Washington . ECB President  Mario Draghi  said April 19 the
economic situation in the 17-nation euro area hasn’t improved
since the bank’s last meeting on April 4. Bank Governing Council
Member Jens Weidmann, who also heads  Germany ’s Bundesbank, said
April 19 the ECB would only lower borrowing costs if economic
data worsen. The benchmark rate is currently 0.75 percent.  Europe ’s shared currency rallied earlier today versus the
dollar after Giorgio Napolitano was sworn in to a second term as
 Italy ’s president. He pledged to break the political gridlock
that’s left the country without a new government eight weeks
after inconclusive elections.  “The euro would have been trading higher the back of this
development in Italy,” Kiran Kowshik, a currency strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in London, said in a telephone interview. “The
only thing holding it back are these numerous comments from ECB
officials that certainly easier policy, lower rates, is a
possibility if the data warrant.”  Nippon Life  Nippon Life Insurance Co.,  Japan ’s largest life insurer,
said it may buy more foreign debt and cut holdings of long-term
domestic securities if yields in Japan stay low. Japanese
investors were net sellers of foreign bonds during the week
ended April 12 according to figures based on reports from
designated major investors released by the Ministry of Finance
last week.  “These Japanese outflows will begin,” Kowshik said.
“Clearly it’s not been seen in the weekly portfolio flow data,
but we think that is something that will come through.”  Futures traders  increased bets  last week the yen will
weaken versus the greenback, according to data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The  difference  in the
number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a
decline compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts --
was 93,411 on April 16, compared with 77,697 a week earlier.  G-20 finance chiefs and central bankers meeting on April 19
praised the measures taken by the BOJ this month aimed at
increasing inflation to 2 percent within two years. They
signaled Japan’s focus on supporting domestic demand was strong
enough to allow them to ignore the side effects of a weaker yen.  BOJ Meeting  The BOJ is scheduled to deliver its next policy statement
in  Tokyo  on April 26.  “We’re not expecting any new measures at this one,” Brian Kim, a foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with
Julie Hyman. “We think at this point the  Bank of Japan (8301)  is
pretty content with what they’ve done, and we are looking for
further weakness.”  Sterling gained versus the dollar and euro before the
 Office for National Statistics  releases a report later this week
that a Bloomberg survey forecast will show Britain’s GDP
expanded 0.1 percent in the first quarter after shrinking 0.3
percent in the previous three months.  The pound gained 0.3 percent to 85.45 cents per euro and
rose 0.4 percent to $1.5290.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  