-- Gold Rises With Oil; Commodity Shares Lead S&P 500 Higher
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-04-22T21:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-22/yen-drops-to-four-year-low-on-g-20-japanese-stocks-gold-climb.html
Gold climbed for a fifth day, the
longest rally of the year, after the metal last week posted 
the biggest price slump in three decades. Oil rose and
energy and raw-material producers led U.S. stocks higher.  Gold for immediate delivery rose 1.6 percent to $1,426.45
an ounce as of 5 p.m. in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index added 0.5 percent after slumping 2.1 percent last week,
its worst drop since November. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields
lost one basis points to 1.69 percent. Italy’s note yields
decreased as the country elected a president and the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index climbed 0.2 percent. The yen gained for the
first time in five days after failing to weaken through 100 per
dollar, a level last reached four years ago.  Gold has rebounded after reaching a more than two-year low
on April 15. The metal entered a  bear market  this month amid
decreased demand for a hedge against inflation and concern
struggling European nations will sell gold to raise cash. Data
from the Shanghai Gold Exchange and the the U.S. Mint showed
demand for gold has surged following the biggest price slump in
three decades.  “Strong demand for physical gold is a major factor working
to lift  gold prices  up from last week’s lows and beginning to
suggest a market bottom is in place,” Jim Wyckoff, a senior
analyst at Kitco Inc., a precious-metal refiner and research
company in  Montreal , said in a report.  Gold futures for June delivery jumped 1.8 percent to close
at $1,421.20, the highest settlement since April 15.  Physical Demand  The volume for the Shanghai Gold Exchange’s benchmark cash
contract today exceeded 43,000 kilograms (43 metric tons) for
the first time, according to data on the bourse’s website. The
 U.S. Mint  has sold 167,500 ounces of gold coins in April,
compared with 62,000 ounces in all of March, data on the Mint’s
website showed.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 0.3 percent
after falling 7.3 percent the past three weeks. Oil rose 0.9
percent to $88.76 a barrel in New York. Copper futures for
delivery in July lost 0.6 percent to $3.144 a pound on the Comex
in New York. Last week, the price slumped 5.6 percent, entering
a bear market.  Thirty-year U.S. bond rates were little changed at 2.88
percent, while two-year Treasury yields fell less than one basis
point to 0.23 percent. The U.S. will sell $35 billion in two-
year debt tomorrow, the first of three auctions this week
totaling $99 billion.  Moving Average  Benchmark yields traded under the 200-day moving average
for a seventh day as sales of previously owned U.S. homes
unexpectedly dropped in March, showing uneven progress in the
industry. Yields climbed earlier after the re-election of
Giorgio Napolitano as  Italy ’s president boosted speculation he
will help resolve the nation’s political gridlock.  Purchases of previously owned houses, tabulated when a
contract closes, fell 0.6 percent to a 4.92 million annual rate
last month, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 75 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected sales would increase to a 5
million rate. Prices climbed, reflecting more demand for higher-
priced houses.  Gauges of energy and raw-material producers climbed at
least 1 percent to lead gains in eight of the 10 main industries
in the  S&P 500 , with Newmont Mining Corp. and Exxon Mobil Corp.
rising at least 0.7 percent to pace the advance.   Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  gained 2.8 percent as the company said it
plans to resume its stock buybacks and that output in  China  will
rise, overshadowing disappointing earnings and a reduced 2013
forecast. Halliburton Co. jumped 5.6 percent after reporting
first-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Power-
One Inc. soared 57 percent after ABB Ltd. agreed to buy the
maker of solar-power inverters for about $1 billion.  Earnings Season   Earnings (SPX)  beat estimates at 72 percent of the 111 companies
in the S&P 500 that posted results so far this season, while
less than 50 percent exceeded revenue projections, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Italian banks helped lead gains in European shares today.
UniCredit SpA and  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  advanced at least 2.7
percent. Italy’s Napolitano, the 87-year-old head of state,
admonished the fractious lawmakers who brought him back for a
second term and pledged to break the country’s political
impasse. Napolitano will be sworn in for a second seven-year
term today and could begin consultations on a new government as
soon as tomorrow  Delhaize Group SA (DELB)  climbed 11 percent after the Brussels-
based retailer reported earnings that beat analyst estimates.  Italy’s two-year note yield slid as much as 13 basis points
to a record low of 1.21 percent, while 10-year  yields  fell 17
basis points to 4.06 percent, the lowest since November 2010.
The yield on benchmark German bunds slipped two basis points to
1.23 percent. The euro strengthened against 12 of 16 major
peers.  Krona Climbs  The Swedish krona rose against 14 of its 16 major peers
after Riksbank Deputy Governor Lars E.O. Svensson said he will
leave the central bank’s board when his term expires after
failing to get support for his calls for deeper interest rate
cuts.  The yen slid earlier against the dollar as  Bank of Japan 
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said he was emboldened to press ahead
with policy that includes buying 7 trillion yen ($70.1 billion)
of bonds each month after the Group of 20 nations backed
stimulus efforts.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.1 percent. The
Philippine Stock Exchange Index surged 2.4 percent, the most in
almost four weeks, on speculation the central bank will cut
rates on deposit accounts this week. Benchmark gauges  South
Korea  and the  Czech Republic  gained more than 1 percent.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa increased 0.7 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.1 percent as Chinese
insurers slumped on concern claims arising from the Sichuan
quake will hurt earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  