-- 
‘Hop’ Debuts as No. 1 Film Movie $37.5 Million in Receipts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-04T21:59:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/-hop-wins-weekend-box-office-with-38-1-million-source-code-is-no-2.html
The comedy “Hop,” about a young
bunny’s mission to save Easter, opened in first place in U.S.
and Canadian theaters this past weekend, taking in $37.5 million
in ticket sales for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  The thriller “Source Code,” from Summit Entertainment
LLC, was second with $14.8 million, researcher  Hollywood.com
Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Hop,” combining animation and live action, is the first
Universal Pictures film to open in first place this year. The
studio ranked third in domestic ticket sales with $289 million
as of April 3, according to Box Office Mojo, another industry
tracker.  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) , owner of  Paramount Pictures , was No. 1
with sales of $417 million.  “Hop” is poised “for a solid run through Easter weekend
as kids and families seek out holiday-themed film,” said Paul Dergarabedian, president of the box-office division of
Hollywood.com.  The movie tells the story of the Easter Bunny’s son, E.B.,
who runs away to Hollywood to become a drummer. He changes his
mind when an ambitious chick plots to take over the family
business.  Russell Brand  supplies the voice of E.B. Co-stars
include James Marsden and David Hasselhoff.  In “Source Code,”  Jake Gyllenhaal  plays a soldier who
enters the body of another man to find the bomber of a Chicago
commuter train. In the process, he searches for clues to a more
sinister plan that may kill millions of people. Michelle Monaghan and Vera Farmiga co-star.  ‘Insidious’  The horror film “Insidious,” distributed in the U.S. by
FilmDistrict, opened in third place with sales of $13.3 million.
In the film, a family battles to free their young son from evil
spirits that torment him. The movie stars Patrick Wilson and
Rose Byrne.  Among returning films, “Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick
Rules” fell to fourth place from first with sales of $10
million for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox. The film, a
sequel to last year’s “Diary of a Wimpy Kid,” has generated
$38.2 million in two weeks of release.  “Limitless,” from Relativity Media LLC, was fifth with
sales of $9.3 million. The film features  Bradley Cooper  as an
aspiring author whose mental capacity is expanded by an
experimental drug. Robert De Niro co-stars as a business mogul
who wants to use the writer’s new intellect to increase his
fortune.  Revenue for the top 12 films this weekend fell 32 percent
to $114 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 20 percent to
$2.34 billion. Attendance is down 21 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 1 through April 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  