-- 
AFG, Novartis, Rieter, Sonova May Move: Swiss Equity Preview

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-04-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/afg-novartis-rieter-sonova-may-move-swiss-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in Zurich. Stock
symbols are in parentheses after company names. Share prices are
from the last close.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the largest and most actively
traded companies increased 1.3 percent to 6,439.91. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also added 1.3 percent to 5865.28.  AFG Arbonia-Forster Holding AG (AFGN SW): Chairman Edgar Oehler said he will step down from the role on April 30 after
shareholders proposed to vote him off the board. He was already
scheduled to leave as chief executive officer. The shares rose
3.1 percent to 36.35 francs.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  : The Swiss drug-maker that is
investing $1 billion to build a research and development center
in  Shanghai  won’t move highly qualified jobs away from
 Switzerland , Chief Executive Officer Joe Jimenez told NZZ am
Sonntag. The shares rose 0.5 percent to 50.05 francs.  Rieter Holding Ltd. (RIEN SW): The world’s largest maker of
staple-fiber spinning machines agreed to sell its 50 percent
stake in the Rieter-LMW Machinery Ltd. joint venture to its
Indian partner in the business, Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd. in
Coimbatore. The stock climbed 1.1 percent to 380 francs.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  : Chairman Robert Spoerry said
he expects the company to be sanctioned by SIX Swiss Exchange
for delaying news about its reduced profit forecast, Finanz und
Wirtschaft reported, citing an interview. Former Chairman Andy Rihs bought back shares at the same price he sold them before
the company’s profit warning, he told SonntagsZeitung in an
interview. The shares added 2.6 percent to 84 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  