-- 
Agility Profit Drops 84%, Misses Estimates Amid U.S. Army Overbilling Case

-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-04-03T07:23:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/agility-profit-drops-84-misses-estimates-amid-u-s-army-overbilling-case.html
Agility (AGLTY)  Public Warehousing Co., the
Kuwaiti storage and transport company accused of overbilling the
U.S. military, reported an 84 percent drop in profit as it had
no revenue from "related parties."  Net income for last year declined to 25.1 million dinars
($91 million) from 156.4 million dinars a year earlier, the
company said in a statement to the Dubai bourse today. The
median estimate of three analysts was for a profit of 70 million
dinars, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Agility, the Middle East’s largest storage and logistics
company, was first indicted in November 2009 for allegedly
overcharging the U.S. government on a multibillion dollar
contract to supply food for troops in  Kuwait  and  Iraq . U.S.
District Judge Thomas W. Thrash Jr. ruled on March 28 that the
company was properly notified by prosecutors of the charges
against it, reversing an earlier ruling.  "An indictment against Agility DGS Holdings Inc., a U.S.
affiliate of Agility, has been dismissed without prejudice by a
U.S. District Court in Atlanta," the company said in the
statement today. "Agility and one of its Kuwait affiliates
remain the subjects of a legal action by the  U.S. Department of
Justice ."  Agility’s board recommended 40 fils a share as cash
dividend for 2010. The company didn’t give further details about
revenue from "related parties."  The shares, which are cross-listed on the Kuwaiti and Dubai
stock exchanges, rose as much as 4 percent to 390 fils and were
trading at 380 fils at 10:22 a.m. in  Kuwait City . The stock has
lost 27 percent this year in Kuwait compared with a 9.9 percent
decline in the benchmark Kuwait Stock Exchange Index. There are
1,000 fils to the dinar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  