-- 
AMD Amends Globalfoundries Supply Accord to Improve Output

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-04-03T20:26:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/amd-amends-chip-production-agreement-with-globalfoundries.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  Intel
Corp .’s largest competitor in computer processors, amended a
supply agreement with Globalfoundries Inc. to pay only for chips
that work.  The companies changed the agreement covering chips made on
the latest technology -- so-called 32 nanometer -- for this
year, Sunnyvale, California-based AMD said in a statement today.
AMD will also record a $492 million, noncash gain in the first
quarter because of dilution of its holding in Globalfoundries.  The revision is intended to give Globalfoundries an
incentive to improve production of 32-nanometer chips this year.
Under their previous deal, AMD paid for all chips produced at
cost of production plus a markup for Globalfoundries.  AMD estimates it will pay Globalfoundries $1.1 billion to
$1.5 billion in 2011 and $1.5 billion to $1.9 billion in 2012
for outsourced manufacturing. That compares with about $1.2
billion in 2010.  The government of  Abu Dhabi  is AMD’s largest shareholder,
with about a 16 percent stake. AMD is also the biggest customer
of Globalfoundries, which Abu Dhabi created out of manufacturing
operations it bought from AMD and  Singapore ’s Chartered
Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd. in 2009. AMD is now primarily a
chip designer.  The amended agreement also increases AMD’s commitment to
having new processors with built-in graphics capabilities
manufactured by Globalfoundries, the statement said. AMD
currently uses Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. to make
some of its graphics products.  AMD, whose shares have risen 2.2 percent this year,
declined 24 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $8.36 in New York Stock
Exchange trading on April 4.  AMD and Globalfoundries will revert to an arrangement
whereby AMD pays for all chips produced on a “cost-plus” basis
in 2012, the statement said.  (AMD interim Chief Executive Officer Thomas Seifert will
hold a conference call to explain the new accord at 8:30 a.m.
New York time on April 4. Got to  http://ir.amd.com  to listen.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  