-- 
Manchester City Beats Sunderland 5-0 to Rise to Third in Premier League

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-04-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/manchester-city-beats-sunderland-5-0-to-go-third-fulham-defeats-blackpool.html
Manchester City yesterday recorded
its biggest Premier League win of the season to climb above
defending champion Chelsea into third spot.  Adam Johnson ,  Carlos Tevez , with a penalty kick, David Silva, Patrick Vieira and  Yaya Toure  scored in a 5-0 victory
against Sunderland at the City of Manchester stadium.  “I think we played very well, we started well and pressed
from the first minute,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  told Sky
Sports. “We hope we continue to play very well, but sometimes
it depends on the opponents.”  City has 56 points from 31 matches, while Chelsea has 55
from 30 games. Manchester United tops the league with 66 points
from 31 matches and second-place Arsenal has 59 from 30.  In yesterday’s other game, Fulham eased its relegation
worries in English soccer’s top league with a 3-0 win against
Blackpool.  City took only nine minutes to move into the lead against
Sunderland, Johnson firing a low shot past goalkeeper Simon
Mignolet after receiving the ball from Toure.  Tevez got his 19th league goal of the season after 15
minutes, squeezing a penalty past the outstretched hand of
Mignolet. The Argentine forward had been brought down by Phil Bardsley.  Three goals in 11 second-half minutes then completed the
victory.  Silva finished from close range in the 63rd minute after a
 Mario Balotelli  shot deflected into his path off Sunderland
defender  Michael Turner , before substitute Vieira scored with
his first touch.  Wayward Pass  A wayward pass by Sunderland’s Lee Cattermole presented the
ball to Toure after 73 minutes and he lifted the ball over
Mignolet for the fifth goal.  The goalkeeper made several other saves, including tipping
the ball over from a Balotelli free kick in injury time.  Sunderland has now lost six of its last seven games,
failing to score in four straight matches.  “The performance disappointed me more than surprised me,
but I don’t want to make excuses -- we were simply second best
in every department,” Sunderland manager Steve Bruce told  Sky
Sports . “We got our backsides well and truly kicked.”  At Craven Cottage,  Bobby Zamora  scored twice as Fulham
moved six points clear of the relegation positions. The
Cottagers are now 10th, ahead of Stoke and Sunderland on goal
difference.  Seventh Home Win  The 30-year-old, making his first start since breaking a
leg in September, netted after 23 and 28 minutes at Craven
Cottage to secure Fulham’s seventh home league win of the
season. Dickson Etuhu also scored.  Blackpool has lost eight of its last 11 matches and stands
one point above the three-team relegation positions. West Ham,
Wolverhampton Wanderers and Wigan are in the bottom three.  Zamora, after three substitute appearances, came into the
starting lineup alongside Moussa Dembele in attack.  Both were involved in a move after 16 minutes that almost
led to an opening goal for Fulham, Ghana goalkeeper Richard
Kingson forced to tip a Damien Duff shot onto a post.  Kingson then denied Chris Baird, but Zamora put Fulham
ahead after 23 minutes. The striker intercepted a back-pass from
James Beattie and ran toward goal before firing into the net.  Five minutes later, he headed past Kingson from a Danny Murphy free kick. Etuhu got a close-range goal in the 72nd
minute.  Jackson Statue  Before the game, Fulham owner Mohamed Al Fayed unveiled a
statue of singer  Michael Jackson  at the stadium. It was
originally due to be placed at Harrods before Al Fayed sold the
 London  store.  He said that Fulham fans who don’t appreciate the statue
can “go to hell,” the British Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Two days ago,  Manchester United  rallied to defeat West Ham
4-2, Newcastle beat Wolves 4-1, Chelsea tied 1-1 at Stoke, and
Arsenal was held to a scoreless draw by Blackburn.  There were also no goals in the match between Wigan and
Tottenham, Birmingham beat Bolton 2-1, Everton tied 2-2 against
Aston Villa, and West Bromwich Albion won 2-1 against Liverpool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 