-- 
Hard-hit Sake Brewers Plead For Help, Extra Sipping: Elin McCoy

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-04-03T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/hard-hit-sake-brewers-plead-for-help-extra-sipping-elin-mccoy.html
On the morning of March 11, Henry
Sidel watched  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami devastation via
computer in a Chicago hotel room. He pulled out his phone and
started frantically calling his sake producers.  The founder of New York-based  Joto Sake LLC , Sidel was on a
sales trip to promote the jizake, or artisanal sakes, he imports
from eight top small breweries (kura), in different parts of
Japan. It took him two days to track them all down.  No one was hurt, though brewers told of falling tiles,
massive power outages, destroyed roads, no fuel. Shipments would
be delayed. Sidel was juggling orders when I reached him.  Some of the country’s 1,600 small sake producers were not
so lucky. Hardest hit were those in the northern Tohoku area,
Shunsuke Kohiyama of the  Japan Sake Brewers Association  said in
an email, especially in prefectures Iwate, Miyagi, and
Fukushima, where bad news from the damaged nuclear plant just
keeps getting worse.  Japanese TV watchers saw Suisen brewery in Iwate reduced to
rubble; its owner Yasuhiko Konno escaped the tsunami with
minutes to spare, and is still trying to account for 11 missing
employees.  Tales of entire breweries washing away, toppled sake-filled
tanks, collapsed roofs and thousands of broken bottles are
compiled and translated in a preliminary report on sake expert
John Gauntner’s  www.sake-world.com  website. The Tokyo-based
American warned in an email that he hasn’t been able to confirm
them all.  Trouble Brewing  There are a few miracles -- employees at the Suminoe
brewery survived the tsunami by climbing on top of a
refrigerated container.  The vast majority of the country’s sake producers are
small, local and family owned. Some kura go back generations.
Typically they make a range of sake styles, from freshly pressed
to aged, with added alcohol (honjozo) and without (junmai).  Japan’s historic beverage resembles wine more than beer in
taste and character, even though it’s brewed from rice, pure
water, yeast, and koji (a mold that converts rice starch into
fermentable sugar). Subtle differences depend on variations in
these ingredients, production methods (traditional versus
modern), and the personality of the master brewer.  “Together with the downward trend of sake consumption in
Japan, this disaster may be the last punch for the small
brewers,” Kohiyama wrote. Many left the business after the Kobe
earthquake 15 years ago.  Safe Sake  Because imports to the U.S. have been rising for the past 5
years -- even the  French Laundry  has sakes on its list -- many
believe that the U.S. offers hope for the sake industry.  Which is why Kohiyama concluded, “The thing in the world
that I worry about most is the rumor that Japanese food,
including sake, is nuke-polluted. Most are definitely NOT.”  So should we be concerned about radiation contamination?  Sidel hastens to reassure. The bottles now in the U.S. were
shipped well before the earthquake, so are fine. Since March is
the end of the brewing season, most breweries had already stored
finished sake in tanks.  The majority, including those Sidel represents, are very
far from the nuclear plant. All future shipments will be
inspected by the Japanese as well as the U.S., which has had
radiation detection equipment in American ports for some time.  Still, what about the rice and water for next year’s sake?  “Water comes from deep wells, so it is not affected,”
said Gauntner, who has written  five books on sake . “And the
best rice is grown in the western half of Japan, not near the
nuclear power plant.”  At a “drink sake night” recently, I opened a dozen
bottles with friends to toast Japan’s recovery. Premium-grade
ginjo and daiginjo bottlings, they had the sophisticated
elegance of wine and are best served slightly chilled.  Kampai  Here are my favorites:  Yuki No Bosha  “Cabin in the Snow” Junmai Ginjo ($36),
from a brewery in Akita, is fruity-spicy and light, yet intense,
excellent with salty appetizers.  Just-launched Chikurin “Karoyaka” Junmai Ginjo ($50), the
first certified organic sake, is made from rice grown on the
Marumoto brewery estate. It’s subtle and fruity with tart,
complex flavors, perfect with sashimi.  Watari Bune Junmai Daiginjo ($110), from Ibaraki, is
powerful, multilayered and deep. It uses an heirloom strain of
rice that the brewery revived from near extinction.  Kosuke Kuji, co-owner of  Nanbu Bijin  kura in Iwate, whose
employees include a former sumo wrestler, posted a plaintive
plea on the brewery blog which Gauntner loosely translated on
his website.  It ends with this: “We want to earnestly ask everyone
around the country and in other countries to eat and drink
products from the Tohoku region. We will rise again like a
phoenix, so please support us.” I recommend his rich, suave
“Ancient Pillars” junmai daiginjo ($73).  Many events are planned to raise money for Japan in the
weeks ahead. On April 27,  NYLovesJapan  will feature the best
sakes of several U.S. importers.  If you can’t attend, buy a few bottles and host your own
“drink sake night.”  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 