-- 
Australian Dollar's Rise Spurs Internet Shopping, JB Hi-Fi’s Elliott Says

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-04-03T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/australian-dollar-s-rise-spurs-internet-shopping-jb-hi-fi-s-elliott-says.html
Australia’s retailers may have to
cut prices in an effort to lure online shoppers using the local
currency’s strength to purchase cheaper overseas goods,
electronics retailer  JB Hi-Fi Ltd. (JBH)  said.  Cameras and software are likely among goods that consumers
prefer to buy over the Internet after the Australian dollar’s 49
percent advance over the past two years, said Patrick Elliott,
chairman of JB Hi-Fi, during an interview yesterday with the
Australian Broadcasting Corp’s “Inside Business” program.  Australia’s government last year announced an inquiry into
the impact of globalization on the retailers, including the
growth in online purchases from abroad. It estimates that online
purchases account for about 3 percent of the more than A$240
billion ($249 billion) industry.  Consumer prices advanced last quarter at the slowest pace
in almost two years, allowing Australia’s central bank to pause
interest-rate increases. Spending is “quite subdued” and
households are finding inflation harder to gauge as a stronger
currency lowers some costs and a mining boom raises others,
Philip Lowe, Reserve assistant governor of the Bank of  Australia ,
said March 9.  “The suppliers recognize what’s happening with
international pricing, and will ultimately adjust domestic
pricing to be able to cut off, if you like, that parallel
import,” Elliott told the ABC. “That leads to another issue
for all retailers here and that has been price deflation. We saw
it very quickly in a couple of our categories, but I expect it’s
likely to remain an issue to be managed by the industry for a
few years to come.”  Policy Unchanged  RBA policy makers next meet on April 5 and are forecast by
all 25 economists in a Bloomberg News poll to keep the benchmark
rate unchanged at 4.75 percent for a fourth meeting.  Companies including Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. and Premier
Investments Ltd. have said the government’s probe into changes
in the retail industry would be too slow to tackle the danger
from the growth in online purchases from abroad.  “The opportunity to see direct imports into Australia into
the categories in which we retail is more significant than it
has ever been,” Elliott said. Competition from overseas is
likely to drive suppliers in Australia to introduce lower prices,
although this will take time, Elliot told the ABC.  “We’ve seen a very strong rise and a quick rise in the
Australian dollar,” Elliot said. “Eventually you’ll see those
local suppliers catch up on local pricing.”  The Australian dollar reached as high as $1.0397 on April 1,
the most since it was freely floated in 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  