-- 
Australia Flood, Cyclone Disasters to Cost Economy $9.4 Billion, Swan Says

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-04-03T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/australian-flood-cyclone-disasters-to-cost-economy-a-9-billion-swan-says.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
recent natural disasters will likely cost the economy around A$9
billion ($9.4 billion) after the government raised estimates on
losses to the coal industry by 20 percent.  “The cost is likely to be even larger than we initially
thought,” Swan said in a weekly economic note yesterday. “No
one was ever under any doubt that the financial toll of the
devastation we’ve seen in Queensland and elsewhere in  Australia 
this summer was going to be substantial.”  Lost coal production may cost A$6 billion instead of the
A$5 billion previously forecast, the Treasurer said, warning
that the numbers are “conservative” compared with estimates
from some businesses. Damage to crops would add A$2 billion to
the bill and lost tourism amounts to A$400 million, he said.  Tropical Cyclone Yasi in February tore through sugar- and
banana-producing areas, following two months of flooding in
Queensland that killed 36 people, shut mines and wiped out crops.
The state produces 80 percent of the coking coal exports from
Australia, the world’s biggest supplier, and grows more than 30
percent of the nation’s fruit and vegetables.  The weather disruptions are expected to have hit resources
and agriculture hardest, Swan said.  Some mining companies expect coal output may drop from
previous forecasts by between 20 million tons and 30 million
tons this year, according to a Treasury report released April 2.  “The top end of this range is much higher than Treasury’s
estimate of 22 million tons, and would amount to a hit of about
A$8 billion,” Swan said.  Cut to GDP  The disasters will cut Australia’s gross domestic product
by half a percentage point in the year through June 30, he said.  In addition,  Japan ’s strongest earthquake in history on
March 11 is estimated to have dented demand for Australia’s bulk
commodities by almost A$2 billion in this fiscal year, shaving
less than one-fourth of a percentage point from GDP, according
to the Treasury.  “Weaker growth will clearly mean that revenues take a
substantial hit in the near term,” Swan said. “There’ll need
to be some tough decisions in the budget as we stick to our
strict fiscal rules.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has pledged to return the
budget to surplus by the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013. The
next budget is due on May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  