-- 
Birthers Hijacking Debate May Be Boon for Obama: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-04-03T15:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/birthers-hijacking-debate-may-be-boon-for-obama-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
American presidents routinely have
been savaged:  Abraham Lincoln  was called a “hideous baboon,”
Dwight Eisenhower a communist and  Franklin D. Roosevelt  was
described with epithets unprintable in this space. Few if any,
however, have had the very circumstances of their birth or
childhood questioned, until  Barack Obama .  Claims by the so-called birther movement that the 44th
president wasn’t born in America and that his worldview was
shaped by a Kenyan heritage are no longer the province of the
nutty fringe and are being cited by some leading conservatives.  It appears more than coincidence that Obama also is the
first African-American president. These charges and issues are
centered on the notion of his otherness, that he’s not a “real
American.”  “This appears to be a surrogate for the racial fringe,”
says Fred Greenstein, a prominent presidential historian and
emeritus professor of politics at  Princeton University . Birther
or Kenyan influence may sound more palatable than “racial
epithets,” he notes.  “To many of these people it’s a question of legitimacy,”
says  Richard Norton Smith , a George Mason University
presidential scholar and author who has headed six presidential
libraries. “There are a surprisingly large number of
Republicans who simply don’t accept Obama as president.”  Republican Minefield  Politically, this is a minefield for Republicans, not Obama.
Leading Republican and conservative strategists feel that unless
the party demonstrably strikes its distance from these attacks,
it’s likely to pay the price next year.  Examples of these asides abound:  Michele Bachmann , a Republican congresswoman from  Minnesota 
who is a prospective presidential candidate, says her first act
if she decides to run would be to present her birth certificate.
Make-believe White House hopeful  Donald Trump , the wealthy
developer and showman, suggests Obama really wasn’t born in
 Hawaii  and as a result doesn’t have a  birth certificate . To
demonstrate that he was able to prove his own U.S. citizenship,
Trump presented a document that turned out not to be an official
birth certificate.  In what is intended as a slap at Obama, Republican
legislators in a dozen states are offering “birther”
amendments requiring political candidates to present bona fide
birth certificates.  Two other Republican presidential aspirants, former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee,
have said Obama’s foreign policy derives from the Marxist views
of his Kenyan father; Huckabee initially charged that the
president’s “fundamental anti-Americanism” resulted from “his
having grown up in  Kenya .”  Koch Brothers  And in a recent interview with the Weekly Standard, the
multibillionaire Koch brothers, Charles and David, who are major
conservative moneymen, strike the same theme. Obama has
“internalized some Marxist models,” Charles Koch asserted,
while his brother explained that the influence of Obama’s father
created “the most radical president we’ve ever had.”  There are legitimate debates and divides in American
politics; these aren’t among them. All of these assertions are
demonstrably false.  Obama’s father  left when he was two years old and only saw
his son once briefly after that. The president never lived in
Kenya and didn’t even visit that country until he was 26. He was
 born in Hawaii , as the state has certified, and two Honolulu
newspapers published announcements after his birth in August
1961.  1961 Plot  For this to amount to a conspiracy, as the birthers charge,
would entail a diabolical plot hatched in 1961 that includes
faux  baby announcements .  The Koch brothers may be on shaky ground in stressing the
influence of Obama’s absentee father. Their father, Fred Koch,
was a prominent member of the John Birch Society, whose leader
accused Eisenhower, a Republican president and the Supreme
Allied Commander in World War II, of being a “tool of the
Communists.”  David Sears , a psychology professor at University of
 California ,  Los Angeles , who has written several books on the
psychology of race in politics in America and studied attitudes
during the last presidential elections, talks about critics
stressing the “otherization” of Obama. This, he says, involves
not-so-veiled innuendo about his background, insinuating that he
is a Muslim.  ‘Ethnocentric Suspicion’  “The driving force behind the dogged unwillingness of so
many to acknowledge that Obama was born in the  United States  is
not just simple partisan opposition to a Democratic president
but a general ethnocentric suspicion of an African-American
president who is also perceived as distinctly ‘other,’” Sears
writes.  “The birther and Kenya stuff are code words,” Sears says
in an interview, “for race and for something else they consider
alien: Muslims.”  The problem for the opposition party is that while most
Americans, including a decisive majority of independent voters,
reject these extreme views, a sizable chunk of core Republican
voters don’t. A survey this year by  Public Policy Polling  of
Raleigh,  North Carolina , found that a majority of Republicans
who say they intend to vote in the presidential primaries don’t
think Obama was U.S.-born. A Pew Research Center poll last year
showed that nearly one-third of Republicans believe the
president, a churchgoing Christian, is a Muslim.  Politically Lethal  This is politically lethal. First, most American voters
recoil at racial and cultural slights directed at the president.
Mainstream Republican politicians say these attacks distract
from the economic and national-security issues they believe
could redound to the party’s advantage next year.  Representative  Peter King , a Republican from  New York ,
identified this danger in 2009. “The public can turn against
Obama because they think he’s too liberal,” he said, “they’ll
turn against us if they think we’re nuts.”  The political operative  Karl Rove  even suggests the White
House is masterminding these attacks. “This is the White House
strategy. They love this,” Rove said on Fox television.  “Every moment the conservatives talk about this, they
marginalize themselves and diminish themselves in the minds of
independent voters,” he added, “and neglect the larger issues
that Americans care about.”  If Bachmann and  David Koch  dominate their party’s debate,
the Republicans maybe should forfeit next year’s elections. All
Obama has to do is stand back and watch.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 