-- 
Canada Liberals Propose $8.5 Billion in Spending Programs Over Two Years

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-03T19:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/canada-liberal-platform-has-c-8-2-billion-of-new-programs-over-two-years.html
Canada ’s opposition Liberal Party
leader  Michael Ignatieff  proposed C$8.23 billion ($8.54 billion)
of programs over two years while cutting the deficit to 1
percent of the country’s economy in releasing his campaign
platform for the May 2 election.  The programs would be mostly paid for by reversing
Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s reductions to the
corporate income tax rate, generating C$8.32 billion over two
years, the party said in a plan released in Ottawa. The Liberals
reiterated social spending pledges made last week, and said they
double Canada’s  deficit reduction  fund to C$3 billion a year.  “We are bringing a new level of economic stability to
Canadian families by helping them with cost of post-secondary
education, child care, family care, saving for retirement and
energy-efficient home improvements,” Ignatieff, 63, said today
in Ottawa.  Ignatieff contrasted  his plans  for new social spending with
Harper’s business tax reductions and narrowly based personal tax
cuts. Harper, who today pledged to double a fitness tax credit
for children and extend it to adults, warned that even if
Ignatieff wins fewer seats next month he will undermine a
fragile economic recovery by seeking to form a “reckless”
coalition government with the socialist New Democratic party and
with  Quebec ’s separatist Bloc Quebecois.  Repeated Commitments  The Liberals’ 94-page document repeated commitments for
three programs each costing about C$1 billion -- to create early
child education spaces, boost benefits for people caring for
sick or elderly relatives and grants for postsecondary
education. Another C$700 million a year would go to seniors
living in poverty.  The Liberals would also raise C$615 million over two years
by setting a C$50,000 annual cap on deductions that employees
take against income from  stock options . Three-quarters of the
deductions are claimed by about 8,000 “high earners,” the
report said.  The plan also repeats the Liberals’ intention to reverse
the government’s plans to acquire 65 of Bethesda, Maryland-based
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F- 35 Joint Strike Fighter jets.  Conservative Lead  Harper called the election after his government’s March 22
budget was rejected by all opposition parties, who then ousted
the Conservatives in a non-confidence vote. Polls suggest the
Conservatives would win the most seats in the election, although
it isn’t clear if they would win a majority of seats in the
House of Commons. The Conservatives were supported by 40.7
percent of decided voters, followed by 29.4 percent who
supported the Liberals, according to a CTV/Globe/Nanos election
survey published today and taken over the three previous days.
The telephone survey of 1,200 people has a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.8 percent.  The Liberals’ platform also said the party would find new
money by immediately canceling a tax break for companies
developing oil sands deposits concentrated in the province of
 Alberta , and by ending funding for private-public construction
partnerships.  The Liberals would also develop a national cap-and-trade
system for greenhouse gas emissions, covering all industries,
which will be “equitable” to all regions of the country. They
affirmed a target of cutting  greenhouse gases  such as carbon
dioxide by 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050, and pledged
C$400 million a year in tax credits for home renovations that
benefit the environment.  Deficit Elimination  The Conservative budget reiterated a plan to eliminate a
C$40.5 billion deficit by 2015, faster than other Group of Seven
nations. It also included C$7.7 billion of new measures
including enhanced seniors’ benefits that were requested by the
opposition and a C$2,000 tax credit for people taking care of
sick relatives. It also introduced a tax credit for families
with children in arts classes and C$400 million for homeowners
who carry out energy-saving renovations. Earlier today, Harper
pledged to double a tax credit for children’s fitness, and said
he would extend it to adults.  The Liberal platform didn’t say when the deficit would be
eliminated.  The Canadian dollar has appreciated 1.2 percent against its
U.S. counterpart since the election was called, and the
country’s 30-year government bond yield has increased to 3.77
percent from 3.70 percent. The election probably won’t shake
“market confidence,” Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
economists  Avery Shenfeld  and Warren Lovely wrote in a March 31
report. The election likely won’t do much to change the
commitment to deficit reduction, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 