-- 
Cee Lo Green's Deviant World Tour Boosted by Sexy Band, Sweet Soul: Review

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-04-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/cee-lo-green-s-deviant-world-tour-boosted-by-sexy-band-sweet-soul-review.html
Cee Lo Green boasts a luxurious
voice, a selection of superlative songs and an incredibly sexy
backing band.  His other group, Gnarls Barkley, shot to global stardom
with the hit “Crazy.” Green repeated the trick with the solo
single “Forget You.” Put this together for a tour -- swinging
through Europe this month and the U.S. in June -- and Green
should have a winning combination.  Sadly, at U.K. dates, his live show underwhelms.  His voice should be the star of the show. Inexplicably, it
comes doused in reverb, depleting both its subtlety and power.  The man known for his pink zoot suits this time chooses to
dress casually. His curves are covered with a plain black T-
shirt, and his main concession to bling is an exceptionally
sparkly jeweled cross hanging from his neck.  Green veers close to pastiche as he plays with some
peerless influences. The tune of “Bright Lights Bigger City”
recalls  Michael Jackson ’s “Billie Jean.” “Satisfied” might work
for Diana Ross.  Scarlet Fever, Cee Lo’s female backing band, plays with
gusto. Its four members are famed for their stiletto boots and
catsuits. They now favor simple black. Regina Zernay Roberts
plucks tendon-tight bass lines from beneath a dark sunhat.
Sharon Aguilar entices with funky guitar caresses.  Gusto isn’t enough. The strings and horns of the album are
replaced with keyboards, robbing songs of their magic sheen.  The show is based around “The Lady Killer,” Green’s recent
solo album, an unabashed recreation of classic soul sounds.  Deviant Pop  A few Gnarls Barkley songs are played. Their starker,
spidery textures fare better. “Crazy” is taken at a faster,
breathless pace and turns into a tour-de-force of deviant pop.  Then “Forget You” arrives in its uncensored version, with
its sweet hook and perfectly deployed profanity. A jolly romp
through the Grammy-winning song gave the enthusiastic crowds
what they came for at the U.K. shows. If only the whole evening
had been so good.  Rating: **.  Green plays dates across  Europe  including Paris, Amsterdam,
Berlin and Zurich this month before the Coachella Festival on
April 15 and then across the U.S., joining with  Rihanna’s  tour
from June 4.  His CD is on Elektra/ Roadrunner Records, priced from
$12.98 in the U.S. and 8.99 pounds in the U.K. Download fees
vary across services.  Information:  http://www.ceelogreen.com   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 