-- 
China Buries Obama’s ‘Sputnik’ Goal for Clean-Energy Use

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-04-04T17:32:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/china-buries-obama-sputnik-aim-for-clean-power-as-kissinger-advises-bank.html
China  is beating the U.S. in the
race to supply clean-energy technologies to the world, helped by
a government bank whose advisers include  Henry Kissinger .  China Development Bank Corp., which listed the former U.S.
secretary of state as an advisory board member in a 2010  bond
prospectus , agreed last year to lend 232 billion yuan ($35.4
billion) to Chinese wind and solar power companies. The U.S.
gave about $4 billion to their American competitors in grants
and offered about $16 billion of loan guarantees. Adding in
private investment, China also led.  CDB, which has almost twice the assets of the  World Bank ,
is matching U.S. expertise with Chinese financing and
manufacturing prowess to dominate a market both nations say is
critical to their future. Chinese solar-panel makers such as LDK
Solar Co. Ltd. were the biggest loan recipients and for the
first time last year supplied more than half the global market,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, which begins its
annual conference today in  New York .  “What China’s doing is really smart,” said Jon Anda, vice
chairman of UBS AG’s securities unit in Stamford, Connecticut,
who runs the Swiss bank’s environmental markets business.
“Without a clear policy path, we’ll get crushed.”  President  Barack Obama  said in January his country needs
another “Sputnik moment” to wean itself of foreign oil. The
U.S. had just slipped to third place behind China and Germany in
a ranking of nations funding renewable power in 2010 as
Republicans in Congress blocked the White House’s energy
spending plans, according to a ranking by New Energy Finance.  U.S. Versus China  In addition to the $35.4 billion CDB pledged in corporate
loans, state and private interests sank $54.4 billion into
Chinese equity and project debt for clean-energy companies last
year, up from $39.1 billion in 2009, according to the research
company. In the U.S., which led the ranking in 2008, $34 billion
was invested, trailing  Germany ’s $41.2 billion.  “The danger for the U.S. is that by the time it wakes up,
in place of the levy it currently pays to oil despots, it will
pay a levy to overseas clean-energy companies,” New Energy
Finance Chief Executive Officer Michael Liebreich said.  CDB sold 673 billion yuan of debt to investors in 2009,
according to the bank’s  annual report . The bank that year loaned
635 billion yuan. Clean-energy loans constituted about 28
percent of all lending, according to Vandana Gombar, a New
Energy Finance analyst.  Kissinger, Keating  CDB cited Kissinger as part of its 15-member advisory board
alongside former Australian Prime Minister Paul Keating and ex-
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Chairman Maurice “Hank” Greenberg in its October prospectus to sell yuan-denominated
bonds in  Hong Kong .  Jessica Leporin, Kissinger’s New York-based spokeswoman,
didn’t respond to voice and e-mail messages seeking comment. A
person in Greenberg’s office who said she was his assistant and
wouldn’t give her name declined to comment. CDB officials didn’t
respond to messages left by telephone and fax.  The bank’s chairman is Chen Yuan, a former vice-chairman of
the central bank whose father was a politburo member under  Deng Xiaoping , the Chinese leader who died in 1997. The son “has
always been very interested in bringing in ideas from outside,”
said Erica Downs, a China specialist at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington . “It has to do with this desire to be
a world-class institution.”  China’s state-driven investment hasn’t always paid off.
Chairman Chen faced criticism from the Chinese media and the
public when London-based lender Barclays Plc fell as much as 93
percent following his 2.2 billion-euro investment in July 2007.  Still, CDB’s 35.3 billion-yuan profit in 2010 exceeded
Morgan Stanley’s and its own 30.2 billion-yuan net in 2009.  Republican-Controlled House  “They intend to leapfrog the U.S. in these technologies,”
Will Coleman, a partner at Menlo Park, California-based Mohr
Davidow Ventures, told the Senate Energy Committee on March 17.
“If we don’t move forward urgently, I’m concerned that we will
not only cede the current opportunity, but we’ll lose the
knowledge and the experience necessary to compete.”  Obama is struggling to win support for his  energy policy .
The Republican-controlled House passed a budget proposal in
February that will cut 2012 funds for the Department of Energy’s
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy programs by 35 percent to
$1.5 billion, according to the  Natural Resources Defense
Council . The president proposed almost twice that amount.  “We’ve run into the same political gridlock, the same
inertia that has held us back for decades,” Obama said during a
speech at  Georgetown University  in Washington last week when he
set a goal to cut U.S. oil imports by a third.  Space Race  The president plans to discuss his plans for U.S. energy
supply with factory workers at Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica
SA’s wind turbine plant in Fairless Hills near Philadelphia on
April 6 in a town hall meeting.  In his Jan. 25 State of the Union address, Obama said the
U.S. must “reach a level of research and development we haven’t
seen since the height of the space race.”  After the Soviet Union in 1957 launched the beach ball-
sized  Sputnik , the first man-made satellite, President Dwight Eisenhower set up the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration to energize the space program and take the lead
from the Soviets. President  John F. Kennedy  set the goal of
landing a man on the moon, and by 1965 NASA’s annual budget
reached the equivalent of $37 billion in 2011 dollars.  China will invest about twice that in clean-energy projects
each year for a decade in a 5 trillion-yuan program aimed at
steering the economy away from fossil fuels, under a five-year
plan announced last month. CDB loans are expanding the
manufacturing base, driving down the cost of the renewable-
energy equipment it exports.  LDK, Suntech, Yingli  CDB’s lending to the clean-energy industry rose 32 percent
last year as it granted a five-year  credit line  to LDK Solar,
the world’s largest maker of solar wafers, for the equivalent of
$9.1 billion. The bank also loaned $7.6 billion to Suntech Power
Holdings Co. and $5.5. billion to Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co., according to New Energy Finance data.  Baoding-based Yingli, which this year began building new
plants in Tianjin and Hengshui,  Hebei province , will supplement
its CDB credit with syndicated loans as it expands, Investor
Relations Director Miao Qing said in a telephone interview.  The loans will allow China’s solar companies to sell more
cheaply than global competitors by developing less-expensive
panels and will protect them from  hedge funds  that are shorting
their shares, said Antony Froggatt, a senior research fellow on
the energy and environment at  Chatham House , a London-based
policy adviser.  “It gives them a competitive edge which we don’t have,”
Andreas Wiltsdorf, head of sales for the German solar-panel
maker  Conergy AG (CGY) , said in an interview in  London . “Speak to the
Chinese guys here, and they say, ‘We have such cheap loans from
the state -- Easy!’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  