-- 
Brunswick's China Yacht Sales May Increase 25% as Boating Gains Popularity

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-04-04T04:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/china-yacht-market-is-unique-sales-to-rise-25-brunswick-says.html
Brunswick Corp., owner of the
Boston Whaler and Sea Ray brands, forecasts sales growth of 25
percent in  China  this year as boating gains popularity, Chief
Executive Officer Dustan McCoy said.  “We believe the long-term potential in the marine
business is larger than anywhere else in the world,” McCoy
said in an interview April 2. “There is so much wealth here
it is unique. Boating culture will take hold very strongly.”  Government attempts to clean up the country’s lakes, a
growing appreciation of family-oriented leisure pastimes and
rapidly increasing prosperity are driving demand for vessels
from dinghies to yachts, McCoy said in  Hainan , southern China,
where he attended a luxury fair.  Lake Forest , Illinois-based Brunswick sold about 55
boats in China last year, accounting for 35 percent of the 180
boats shorter than 40 feet long (12 meters) imported into the
world’s second-biggest economy. McCoy said that makes Brunswick
the Chinese market leader in that class.  Brunswick, whose share price has surged 37 percent this
year, expects sales growth in China this year to match the 25
percent posted in 2010, he said. The stock rose 0.6 percent to
$25.59 on April 1 in New York trading.  Princess Yachts  Demand for larger boats is growing in China, and the
company plans to introduce its Meridian and  Hatteras  yachts
that are as long as 100 feet, McCoy said.  Princess Yachts, owned by French  luxury goods  maker LVMH
Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessey SA, started selling in China in
2009. It’s already sold five luxury boats in China, including a
95-foot yacht bought by a Dalian property developer last year.  “China is really coming online,” said Nigel Robert How,
general manager for Princess Yachts Asia ( Singapore ) Pte. Ltd.
said in an interview on board an 85-foot boat on display worth
about $6.2 million. “There is a lot of interest for bigger
boats.”  China had 447,000 millionaires in 2009, a 31 percent
increase from the year before, according to a  report  by
Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch & Co., ranking it behind the
U.S.,  Japan  and  Germany .  “The level of wealth creation taking place in China is
reaching an inflection point, resulting in exponential growth
for high-end luxury goods,” said Aaron Fischer, a consumer
analyst at CLSA  Asia  Pacific Markets.  In addition to more than 15 yacht-makers at the Hainan
fair, other exhibitors included Boeing Business Jets, Ferrari
and Porsche.  Brunswick vessels on display included a 47-foot-cruiser,
the Meridian 441, which sells in China for 7.8 million yuan
($1.2 million) inclusive of taxes. China imposes a 43 percent
levy on imports of boats, according to data from China Customs.  The nation accounts for 1 percent to 2 percent of global
yacht sales of $3.4 billion in 2010, the executive said.  Brunswick entered the Chinese market in 1998 and has
sold over 600 private luxury yachts to Chinese customers, it
said in a press release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 