-- 
Chinese Buying Spree, Record Painting Boost $54.9 Million Hong Kong Sale

-- B y   M a r y   L i n n a n e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-04-03T18:37:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/chinese-buying-spree-record-painting-boost-54-9-million-hong-kong-sale.html
A painting by Zhang Xiaogang set an
auction record for a work by a contemporary Chinese artist last
night as Asian buyers competed at a HK$427.2 million ($54.9
million) sale by  Sotheby’s (BID)  in Hong Kong.  Zhang’s triptych “Forever Lasting Love” fetched HK$79
million with fees, more than double a hammer-price estimate of
as much as HK$30 million, with the anonymous winning bid taken
by telephone from Miety Heiden of Sotheby’s,  New York . It was
the top lot of 105 offered by Guy Ullens, founder of Beijing’s
largest private art museum, with a $16.7 million total estimate.  “Prices of Chinese artists will continue to rise,” Gu
Zhenqing, 47, who has been buying contemporary works for 10
years, said in an interview at the sale. “I’m confident that
the price of a work by a Chinese artist will exceed the 100
million yuan ($15.3 million) mark this year. That could be Zhang
Xiaogang, Zeng Fanzhi or someone else.”  The sale is part of a 3,600-lot series,  Hong Kong ’s first
major auction of the year, with a presale estimate of HK$2.4
billion, said New York-based Sotheby’s, the world’s biggest
publicly traded auction company. The event, starting with a
weekend wine sale that raised HK$136.5 million over three days,
will show whether rising wealth in  China  will continue to drive
an increase in demand and prices.  Three more artist records were set in the first hour of the
Ullens event: for  Zhang Peili ,  Wang Guangyi  and  Geng Jianyi ,
with prices of as much as $3 million.  Record Outlook  “It’s difficult to get quality art in the market and the
Ullens collection comprises important pieces,” said Dong Keming,
44, a Beijing-based  art dealer . “Whenever there’s a good work,
there is likely to be record.”  Ullens sold 18 works from his collection through Chinese
auction house Poly International Auction Co. in 2009 for $22.2
million, including a classical 12th-century ink scroll painted
by the Northern Song Dynasty’s Huizong Emperor, “Rare Birds
Painted From Life,” which fetched 55.1 million yuan.  The Belgian collector opened his Ullens Center for
Contemporary Art in 2007 in the Dashanzi art district of
Beijing, known as “798” after a former electronics factory on
the site.  “This is a very special collection,” said Bruce Merivale- Austin, who kept bidding for works and losing to phone buyers.
“Prices are way above estimates. It has a provenance about it
you can’t get from a normal auction.” He finally managed to win
a gunpowder-on-paper work by  Cai Guo Qiang  for HK$1.2 million.  Once in Lifetime  The quality of the Ullens works meant there are few
comparable pieces and it was “a once in a lifetime chance,”
Karen Smith, an art historian, said before the sale.  “Art prices are still within a rational range,” said Ge
Yaping, 42, a Chinese bidder from Nanjing, who bought a piece by
 Zhang Xiaogang . “Prices will continue to trend upward because
of  China’s economy .”  China overtook the U.S. as the world’s biggest auction
market for fine art in 2010, according to research company
 Artprice , benefiting from the support of its government.  Sotheby’s Chinese contemporary art sales are followed by
Modern and Contemporary Asian Art, traditional Chinese
paintings, antiques, jewelry, watches and ceramics through April
8. The highlights are two private European collections: the
Ullens sale, and one of ceramics, including an 18th-century Qing
vase estimated at more than $23 million, on April 7.  To contact the writers on this story:
Mary Linnane in Hong Kong at 
 mlinnane2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 