-- 
Connecticut Seeks Third Title, Butler First in NCAA Basketball Tournament

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-03T04:24:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/connecticut-and-butler-win-semifinals-advance-to-ncaa-championship-game.html
The  University of Connecticut  will
be seeking its third national title. Butler University will be
back in the men’s basketball final, looking for its first
championship.  Connecticut  advanced to tomorrow’s championship game with a
56-55 victory against the  University of Kentucky  last night, and
Butler beat Virginia Commonwealth University 70-62.  Butler, which upset top-seeded Pittsburgh 71-70 on its way
to the final, is making its second straight appearance in the
National Collegiate Athletic Association title game after losing
last year to Duke. Connecticut claimed the championship in 1999
and 2004.  “I saw (Butler) today and I saw what they did to Pitt,”
Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said in a televised interview.
“We’ve got a heck of a challenge on Monday night, but the fact
that we’re playing Monday night, that’s beautiful.”  Shabazz Napier, who had a total of four points, hit two
free throws in the final seconds to put the Huskies ahead 56-52
and out of reach by the Wildcats even with Brandon Knight’s 3-
pointer at the buzzer.  “The kids decided they didn’t want to go home,” Calhoun
said. “This was too much fun, so we’re sticking around until
Monday.”  After trailing 31-21 at halftime,  Kentucky  (29-9) opened
the second half with a 14-2 run that included four 3-pointers --
the last two by Doron Lamb -- to take the lead. Connecticut (31-
9) rallied in the final four minutes of the second half.  ‘Little Surreal’  Kemba Walker had 18 points and Jeremy Lamb added 12 for
Connecticut.  “Amazing, things are a little surreal,” Walker said.
“We’ll see if we can bring it back to Storrs.”  Knight scored 17 for the Wildcats and Doron Lamb had 13.  Butler’s Shelvin Mack scored 24 points to lead the Bulldogs,
who lost to Duke 61-59 in last year’s championship game.  “Last year, we didn’t get it done, so that’s in the back
of our minds,” Mack said in a courtside interview.  Matt Howard had 17 points and Zach Hahn came off the bench
to score his eight points in a two-minute span midway through
the second half to give Butler control of the game yesterday at
Reliant Stadium in Houston.  “Everybody guarded, everybody stayed together, and that’s
what this is all about,” Butler coach Brad Stevens said in a
televised interview.  Butler (28-9), an Indianapolis-based university that had a
34-28 lead at halftime, had a 44-30 rebounding advantage against
VCU (28-12).  VCU’s Jamie Skeen was high scorer for the game with 27
points and Bradford Burgess added 15 for the Rams, of Richmond,
who were making their first appearance in the Final Four.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  