-- 
Oil Drops First Day in Four on Signs U.S. Demand Easing as Supplies Gain

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-04-04T07:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/crude-oil-rises-22-cents-or-0-2-to-108-16-a-barrel-in-new-york-trading.html
Oil climbed for a third day in  New
York  as signs of a strengthening U.S. economy stoked bets fuel
demand will rise in the world’s largest crude user.  Futures advanced as much as 0.7 percent to a 30-month high
after an April 1 report showed the U.S. added more jobs than
economists forecast last month. Prices advanced 2.4 percent last
week as fighting in Libya between rebels and forces loyal to
Muammar Qaddafi threatened to prolong supply cuts from Africa’s
third-largest producer.  “The U.S. data paints a positive picture,”  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in
Sydney, said by telephone today. “People are still concerned
about Libya, but not overly. If Qaddafi decides to call it a
day, then there will be a short, sharp sell-off.”  Crude for May delivery gained as much as 80 cents to
$108.74 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest since Sept. 24, 2008, and was
at $108.52 at 3:13 p.m. Singapore time. Prices are up 25 percent
from a year ago.  Payrolls advanced by 216,000 workers in March compared with
a 190,000 gain projected by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The jobless rate dropped to 8.8 percent from 8.9
percent, the fourth straight decrease, the Labor Department
said. The  unemployment rate  was projected to hold at 8.9
percent, according to the median forecast in the survey.  Brent Premium  Brent oil for May settlement rose 59 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to $119.29 a barrel, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract climbed $3.11, or 2.7 percent last week.  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $10.73 a
barrel over U.S.-traded West Texas Intermediate futures. The
difference between front-month contracts in  London  and New York
surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the
Middle East and North Africa and stockpiles climbed at Cushing,
 Oklahoma , the delivery point for WTI. The gap averaged 76 cents
last year.  Oil in New York has climbed 28 percent since anti-
government protests began Feb. 15 in Libya, cutting the nation's
output by two-thirds. The conflict is the bloodiest in uprisings 
that have toppled the presidents of Tunisia and Egypt and spread
to Bahrain, Iran, Yemen and Oman.  Nigeria Elections  An emissary ofQaddafi met with  Greece 's prime minister
yesterday and may be seeking a political or diplomatic solution
to hostilities, according to Greek Foreign Minister Dimitris
Droutsas.  “Upcoming elections in Nigeria amid the intensified
unrest” in the Middle East and North  Africa  region may add to
concern over oil supplies,  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne, said in an e-mailed note.  Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer, will hold general
elections a week later than planned, the electoral commission
said, after a vote to elect lawmakers ended in chaos on April 2.  Parliamentary elections, which had been rescheduled to
start today, will take place on April 9, while the presidential
vote is set for April 16, Attahiru Jega, head of the Independent
National Electoral Commission, said yesterday.  Nigeria pumped 1.92 million barrels a day in March,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  Saudi Arabia ,
the largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, pumped 9 million barrels a day.  Net-long positions in oil, or bets that prices will rise,
increased by 5,254 futures and options combined, or 1.8 percent,
to 292,066  in the seven days ended March 29, the Commodity
Futures Trading  Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders 
report released at the end of last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  