-- 
Daimler, Intesa, Novartis, Shell, Suez: European Equity Preview

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K l e e g e
-- 
2011-04-03T23:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/daimler-intesa-novartis-shell-suez-european-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ shares may
be active in European trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses
and prices are from the last close.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 1.5 percent to 280.02. The
Stoxx 50 Index gained 1.6 percent to 2,623.84. The Euro Stoxx 50
Index, a benchmark for nations using the euro, advanced 1.8
percent to 2,962.92.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Sinea SpA (BMPS IM): The Italian
lender is considering raising 2 billion euros ($2.85 billion) in
new capital, La Stampa said, without saying where it got the
information. The bank’s board may approve the recapitalization
by mid-May, the newspaper said. The shares added 1.3 percent to
89 euro cents.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  :  Spain ’s largest bank may have
made an offer for Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo, El
Economista said, without saying where it got the information. A
spokesman for Santander declined to comment. The shares climbed
2.7 percent to 8.41 euros.  Daimler AG (DAI)  : The world’s second largest maker of
 luxury vehicles  said March sales at its Mercedes-Benz USA unit
rose 13 percent to 22,546 units. The shares rose 3.5 percent to
51.59 euros.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  (DB1 GY): The exchange operator remains
committed to plans to merge with NYSE Euronext, even after a
rival bid by Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., Chief Executive Officer  Reto
Francioni  told Berliner Zeitung.  Deutsche Boerse  doesn’t plan to
raise its bid for NYSE, Die Welt reported, citing an
unidentified person close to the situation. The shares fell 1.4
percent to 52.81 euros.  Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA (MAU FP): Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Francois Henin, the largest shareholder of the
French oil explorer, said he’s failed to attract a reasonable
offer for the company, which has also tried to list in  London .
The stock climbed 0.8 percent to 13.71 euros.  Eurazeo (RF)  SA:  France ’s largest publicly traded
private equity firm may resume an occasional share buyback
program halted in 2009, Investir-Le Journal des Finances said,
citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer Patrick Sayer.
The shares added 1.3 percent to 55.89 euros.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA: France’s energy regulator suggested
changing how it calculates natural gas prices supplied by GDF
Suez, the country’s former gas monopoly. The stock fell 1.4
percent to 28.35 euros.  Henkel AG (HEN3 GY): The German maker of Persil detergent
wants to see an upgrade of its  credit rating  to A from the
current A- before it considers big acquisitions again, Chief
Financial Officer Lothar Steinebach told Finanz und Wirtschaft
in an interview. The shares rose 1.6 percent to 44.41 euros.  Intesa SanPaolo SpA (ISP)  : Intesa unit Banca IMI will
lead the underwriting group for the bank’s proposed capital
increase of about 5 billion euros,  Il Sole 24 Ore  said, without
saying where it got the information. The shares gained 1.1
percent to 2.11 euros.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  : The Swiss drug-maker, which is
investing $1 billion to build a research and development center
in  Shanghai , won’t move highly qualified jobs away from
Switzerland, NZZ am Sontag said, citing an interview with Chief
Executive Officer Joe Jimenez. The shares rose 0.5 percent to
50.05 francs.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  : Europe’s largest oil
producer was forced to stop production on a coker and gasoil
hydrotreater at its refinery in Deer Park,  Texas , after a vapor
leak caused the shutdown of a crude unit, two people familiar
with refinery operations said. Company spokesman Ted
Rolfvondenbaumen declined to comment. The shares advanced 1
percent to 25.91 euros.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  : The company expects to be
sanctioned by SIX Swiss Exchange for delaying news about its
reduced profit forecast, Finanz und Wirtschaft said, citing an
interview with Chairman Robert Spoerry. The shares added 2.6
percent to 84 francs.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  : The U.K.’s largest supermarket chain
said it will start selling cars on the Internet. TescoCars.com
will supply direct to customers and offer after-sales support
from over 1,000 independent garages. The stock rose 2.1 percent
to 388.95 pence.  Warner Estate Holdings Plc (WNER)  : The U.K. company that
invests in shopping malls and offices is in talks with Barclays
Bank Plc to review loan agreements, the Sunday Telegraph
reported, without citing where it got the information. The
shares were unchanged at 18 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kleege in New York at 
 skleege@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  