-- 
DAX Index Fluctuates; Fresenius Medical Rises, Pfleiderer Drops

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-04T07:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/daimler-deutsche-boerse-rwe-tognum-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks swung between gains
and losses after the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rallied to a four-week
high.  Fresenius Medical Care AG led rising shares as the company
won’t face a Medicare payment this year, the U.S. government
announced.  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  rose as BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research recommended buying the shares.  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1)  slipped after  UniCredit Spa (UCG)  downgraded the stock. Pfleiderer
AG sank to the lowest since at least 1998.  The DAX Index gained 0.1 percent to 7,184.96 as of 9:34
a.m. in Frankfurt. The gauge has climbed 10 percent from this
year’s low on March 16 amid speculation the global economic
recovery will withstand  Japan ’s worst earthquake on record and
popular revolts in the Middle East and North Africa.  German production of plant and machinery will increase 14
percent this year, the VDMA machine makers’ association said,
raising its forecast from 10 percent. The industry had a “good
start” into the year, the association said. In January,
production rose 23.6 percent from a year earlier.  Fresenius Medical, the world’s biggest provider of  kidney
dialysis , climbed 2.2 percent to 49.27 euros, the highest level
since March 9. Medicare will reverse a previously announced 3.1
percent cut for dialysis services this year, according to a
filing by the agency that runs the U.S. government health
program for the elderly and disabled. The proposed reduction was
part of a change in the way dialysis companies can be paid by
the program.  Fresenius Medical, Stada  Separately, Fresenius Medical has signed an agreement with
Abu Dhabi Health Services Co., also known as SEHA, to manage its
dialysis facilities. The company will manage six dialysis
clinics under the 10-year contract, Fresenius said in a
statement today.  Stada surged 2.9 percent to 28.17 euros as BofA Merrill
Lynch upgraded the company to “buy” from “neutral,” saying
“full year results have given us more confidence that margin
expansion can be achieved despite a decline in German generic
sales and that Serbian sales have begun to recover.”  Deutsche Boerse  slipped 0.9 percent to 52.34 euros,
extending a 1.4 percent decline on April 1. The operator of the
Frankfurt exchange was downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at
UniCredit, which said “the risk/return profile for Deutsche
Boerse shareholders has deteriorated” following  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s bid for NYSE
Euronext.’’  Nasdaq, ICE  Nasdaq and ICE bid $42.50 in cash and stock for each NYSE
Euronext share, or about $11.3 billion, according to a statement
released on April 1. That is more than the $9.53 billion value
of Deutsche Boerse’s all-stock offer on Feb. 15.  Pfleiderer sank 22 percent to 1.25 euros, as the maker of
laminate flooring said its creditors agreed to extend a
standstill agreement until May 9. The agreement provides for
interest payments and capital repayments to be suspended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  