-- 
Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Deal Turns Table on Shareholders: Real M&A

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-04T20:52:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/deutsche-boerse-nyse-takeover-turning-table-on-shareholder-value-real-m-a.html
Duncan Niederauer ’s wish for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) ’s takeover by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  to be a merger of
equals may be coming true -- at the expense of shareholders in
the Frankfurt-based exchange.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ’s
unsolicited bid last week for NYSE Euronext valued the operator
of the New York Stock Exchange at $42.50 a share, topping a
February offer from Deutsche Boerse by almost 20 percent.
Without committing any cash, the German exchange could be forced
to surrender as much as 45 percent, up from about 40 percent, of
the combined entity to NYSE Euronext’s owners to trump the
Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Capstone Global Markets LLC.  While a bidding contest would help Niederauer, NYSE
Euronext’s chief executive officer, recoup money for investors
that lost more than 40 percent since the exchange went public in
2006,  Deutsche Boerse ’s all-stock offer has already cost the
German exchange’s owners $1.4 billion since it was announced.
Now, they face giving up even more equity if their managers
counter Nasdaq OMX and ICE, which may push Deutsche Boerse to
bid as much as $46 a share, the data show.  “If Deutsche Boerse were to engage in a bidding war, their
shareholders will likely come out with the short end of the
stick,” said Michael Wong, a Chicago-based analyst at
Morningstar Inc. “NYSE shareholders would be the ultimate
beneficiaries of the bidding war, with the acquirers being
saddled with the winner’s curse.”  ‘The Right Thing’  NYSE Euronext is studying the Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid, according
to a letter from Niederauer, 51, to employees contained in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission last week.  “NYSE Euronext has always been committed to our
shareholders, and our board will consider the new proposal and
do the right thing for our shareholders,” he wrote. “In the
meantime, we remain fully committed to our previously announced
deal with Deutsche Boerse.”  Deutsche Boerse’s board isn’t currently considering raising
its bid, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are private.  Frank Herkenhoff, a spokesman for Deutsche Boerse, didn’t
didn’t respond to two telephone messages. The company’s offer
for NYSE Euronext is “the best possible combination for both
shareholder groups and the stakeholders of the companies,”
Deutsche Boerse said in a statement last week.  Nasdaq OMX Shares  Last week’s offer from Nasdaq OMX’s Robert Greifeld, 53,
and ICE CEO Jeff Sprecher, 56, lifted New York-based NYSE
Euronext 13 percent to $39.60 on April 1. Nasdaq OMX rose 9.3
percent to $28.23 for the biggest gain since March 2009, while
Deutsche Boerse fell 1.4 percent to 52.81 euros ($75.19).  The German exchange, led by 55-year-old Reto Francioni,
declined 14 percent from Feb. 14, the day before it and NYSE
Euronext announced their deal, through last week. The slump
lowered the value of its all-stock offer to $35.44, or 11
percent less than NYSE Euronext’s closing price last week.  Shares of Deutsche Boerse slipped 1.4 percent to 52.05
euros today. NYSE Euronext fell 1.6 percent to $38.98 in  New
York , while Nasdaq OMX retreated 2.8 percent to $27.44. ICE
slipped 0.7 percent to $118.90.  Deutsche Boerse offered 0.47 of its own stock for each NYSE
Euronext share in a deal currently valued at $9.3 billion to
create the world’s largest exchange operator with venues in the
U.S. and  Europe .  ‘How Many More’  At the time the deal was announced, Niederauer said on a
conference call it was a “merger” with Deutsche Boerse, rather
than an acquisition by the German exchange.  “I don’t know how many more times we can say that,”
Niederauer said.  Last week, New York-based Nasdaq OMX and ICE of Atlanta
made a cash-and-stock offer that valued the 219-year-old
exchange operator at about $11.3 billion, Bloomberg data show.  NYSE Euronext owners will get 0.4069 Nasdaq OMX share,
0.1436 ICE share and $14.24 a share in cash, valuing the
transaction at $42.50 on March 31. The offer is now worth about
$42.92 a share, the data show.  ICE would purchase NYSE Euronext’s Liffe futures markets,
while Nasdaq OMX would keep its U.S. options markets. The deal
would give Nasdaq OMX a monopoly on listing companies in the
U.S., the world’s largest capital market.  Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. bourse operator, and
ICE said they will eliminate about $740 million in expenses in
three years. That’s 74 percent more than Deutsche Boerse
predicted in its agreement.  ‘One and Only’  “Deutsche Boerse has been very clear about this being the
one and only deal for them,” said Ian McDonald, a Baltimore-
based exchange analyst at T. Rowe Price Group Inc., which
oversees $482 billion and is NYSE Euronext’s biggest
shareholder. “To get it done, they have to raise their
synergies and their price.”  Deutsche Boerse’s current offer gives its owners about 60
percent of the combined company, the data show.  While Deutsche Boerse could raise its bid to $54.13 and
still retain a 51 percent stake, data compiled by Bloomberg
show, issuing the additional shares would devalue its own stock
as currency, according to Capstone Global’s Sachin Shah.  Without offering cash, retaining at least a 55 percent
stake would keep Deutsche Boerse from increasing its bid above
$45.86, based on last week’s closing price, the data show.  ‘Significant Control’  “The higher the stake they give up, the more control
they’re giving up,” said Shah, a special situations and merger
arbitrage strategist at  Capstone Global  in New York. “It
becomes a little problematic not only in the context of
 shareholder value  for their shareholders, but also the Germans
are probably kind of wanting them to have significant control.”  “At the end of the day they don’t want a U.S.-based
company to be running a German exchange,” Shah said. Still,
“the only game they can play is upping the offer,” he said.  Speculation of a bidding war for NYSE Euronext made it one
of the stock market’s biggest winners in 2011. The shares posted
the 13th-biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, rising
32 percent through last week. The exchange was up 155 percent
since the market bottomed on March 9, 2009, compared with a 97
percent rise in the  S&P 500 , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  NYSE Euronext shares have still trailed the S&P 500 by more
than 45 percentage points since its first trading session as a
public company in March 2006. The company has fallen 64 percent
from a record peak of $108.96 in November 2006. Losses in market
share and pricing spurred by competition in equities trading
weighed on the price, according to Morningstar’s Wong.  Copper Mines  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Minmetals Resources
Ltd. (1208) , the Hong Kong unit of  China ’s biggest metals trader, made
an unsolicited offer of about C$6.3 billion ($6.5 billion) in
cash for Perth-based  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  to gain control of
 Africa ’s largest copper mine.  Vivendi SA (VIV)  of Paris agreed to buy Newbury, England-based
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 44 percent stake in French mobile-phone
operator SFR for 7.95 billion euros yesterday to win full
control of its largest unit and secure more stable earnings.  There have been 6,173 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $631.1 billion, a 25 percent increase from the $506.5
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 Ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 