-- 
Novak Djokovic Beats Nadal in Miami Final, Lifts 2011 Season Start to 24-0

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-04-04T04:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/djokovic-extends-win-streak-to-26-by-beating-nadal-in-sony-ericsson-final.html
Novak Djokovic extended his unbeaten
start to the tennis season with a three-set win over top-seeded
 Rafael Nadal  in the Sony Ericsson Open final.  Djokovic, the world No. 2, fought back for a 4-6, 6-3, 7-6
(7-4) victory in Miami yesterday to secure his seventh Masters
Series title and lift his record in 2011 to 24-0, the best start
to a year since  Ivan Lendl  went 25-0 in 1986.  “It’s the best four months in my life, but it’s only the
start of the season,” Djokovic, 23, told reporters. “If I want
to have that shot at the No. 1 ranking I need to play
consistently well throughout the whole year.”  Djokovic has won all four of the events he’s entered this
year. He began by winning the Australian Open, the season-
opening Grand Slam, before victories in Dubai and at the Indian
Wells Masters two weeks ago, when he beat Nadal in the final.  Spain ’s Nadal has won  16 of 25  meetings between the two,
although Djokovic has prevailed in five of their past eight
matches. They’ll now head to  Europe  for the start of the clay-
court season.  “I was there fighting until the last point,” Nadal said.
“He will be No. 1 in the next month, month and a half, two
months. I don’t know. It depends on my results on clay.”  Nadal last year won the French Open, the only Grand Slam
that’s played on clay, for a fifth time. He holds the record for
the most successive wins on the surface, with 81 victories from
April 2005 until he lost to  Roger Federer  in the final of the
Hamburg Masters in May 2007.  Yesterday’s victory increased Djokovic’s overall winning
streak to 26 stretching back to December’s Davis Cup final,
where he helped Serbia seal its first title in the elite men’s
team competition. His last defeat came against Federer at the
ATP World Tour Finals in November.  “This is going to give a lot of confidence for the
upcoming clay court season, the wins that I had on the starting
tournaments of the year,” Djokovic added. “This streak is
incredible. I want to keep on working hard and try to get more
success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 