-- 
Don’t Wait for Your Paycheck to Signal Inflation: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-04-03T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/don-t-wait-for-a-paycheck-to-signal-inflation-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Long and variable lags.  I doubt that inviolable tenet of how monetary policy works
is etched into the cornerstone of the Federal Reserve Board in
Washington. It is, however, an article of faith for anyone who
has ever worked there.  And yet, Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and his core group of
doves at the Fed seem comfortable with the overnight rate at an
emergency-like 0 percent to 0.25 percent when the economy is
growing at a modest pace, private-sector job growth has topped
200,000 in the last two months and sensitive raw materials
prices are skyrocketing.  Where’s the justification?  At 8.8 percent in March, the  unemployment rate  is still
unacceptably high for the dual-mandated Fed, charged with
monitoring both unemployment and inflation.  And with no acceleration in wages -- average hourly
earnings are stuck at a 1.7 percent annual increase -- Bernanke
is comfortable he can minister to the unemployed without any
adverse effects on intermediate-term inflation and inflation
expectations.  That would be a mistake. Empirically,  prices lead wages . If
it were the other way around, wages would be in some kind of
leading inflation indicator, such as the one created by the
Economic Cycle Research Institute.  While the ECRI refused to discuss the composition of its
Future Inflation Gauge when I called Friday, wages aren’t in the
index because “they aren’t a good leading indicator of
inflation,” a then-less-secretive research director told me in
2000.  Your Father’s Economy  Causation can run in both directions, with prices and wages
feeding off one other, according to Gad Levanon, associate
director of macroeconomic research at the Conference Board in
New York. “Overall inflation leads both  core inflation  and
average hourly earnings based on a cross correlation test.”  The Fed operates on the premise that core inflation, which
excludes food and energy, leads overall.  The focus on wages is a residual from the wage-price
spirals of the 1970s: no wage increase, no inflation.  Before deregulation -- when companies were shielded from
outside competition -- labor unions could negotiate a contract
for their workers, and the employer would pass the higher costs
along to consumers in the form of higher prices.  Union membership  declined to a 70-year low of 11.9 percent
last year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. For the
first time in history, more union workers were employed by the
government than by the private sector. Only 7.2 percent of the
private-sector workforce was unionized.  Symptom, Not Cause  In today’s world, any union demand for a wage increase is
likely to be met with a shift in production: from Michigan to
 South Carolina  for the  auto industry ; from  North Carolina  to
 China  for textiles.  To the extent that labor has any negotiating power in a de-
unionized, globally competitive world, wages are set “based on
last year’s inflation,” said  Joe Carson , director of global
economic research at AllianceBernstein in New York.  Think of wages as a price: the price of labor. They happen
to be the biggest share of compensation costs in services
industries. That still doesn’t mean they cause inflation.
Rather, they are a symptom of it.  Some Fed bank presidents understand the central bank can’t
wait to see higher wages before starting to withdraw the
stimulus. The Minneapolis Fed’s  Narayana Kocherlakota  and
Richmond’s Jeffrey Lacker are  making noises  about raising
 interest rates  by year-end. The Philadelphia Fed’s  Charles Plosser  has talked about calling a halt to the central bank’s
second round of quantitative easing, in this case the planned
purchase of $600 billion of  Treasury securities  set to conclude
in June.  Dudley Do-Right  For Bill Dudley, that talk is premature. Speaking in Puerto
Rico Friday, the  New York  Fed president said unemployment is
much too high (agreed); the “coast is not completely clear”
for the  U.S. economy  (it never is); and commodity prices are
experiencing “a little bit of a bubble” (this from the ex-
post-only bubble-identification gang) and have “virtually
nothing to do with U.S. monetary policy.”  Reporters let him get away with that? Last month, Dudley
had his head handed to him by an audience in Queens, New York.
When he tried to tell a group of  ordinary folks  inflation was
under control because technology prices continue to fall,
members of the crowd asked him when he last went grocery
shopping.  What’s more, Dudley’s view that commodity price increases
aren’t the Fed’s doing runs counter to the Fed’s stated
intentions for QE2. In a Nov. 4  op-ed  in the  Washington  Post,
Bernanke outlined the channels through which the Fed’s bond
purchases would operate. One was through higher stock prices,
which would increase consumer wealth and trigger spending.  Measure of Success  Success! The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  is nearing a
three-year high, up almost 25 percent since Bernanke first
hinted at QE2 in late August.  Surely Dudley understands that commodity speculators aren’t
immune to the same incentives -- zero-percent interest rates --
that encourage investors to move out the risk curve.  The Fed should be careful what it wishes for.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a Bloomberg
News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  