-- 
Durbin Says He Won’t Vote for Budget With EPA, Other Riders

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-04-03T13:41:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/durbin-says-he-won-t-vote-for-budget-with-epa-other-riders.html
Senate Majority Whip  Dick Durbin 
said he won’t vote for a budget proposal that includes
“irresponsible” Republican spending cuts for the Environmental
Protection Agency and Planned Parenthood.  “Some of the spending cuts they’re suggesting go way, way
too far,” Durbin, the Illinois Democrat, said today on the NBC
program “Meet the Press.”  House Republicans  “lose all
credibility” by focusing on political issues instead of the
deficit, Durbin said.  Democrats and Republicans are working on a 2011 budget to
avoid a government shutdown when current spending authority ends
April 8. President  Barack Obama  increased the pressure on
lawmakers yesterday, telephoning Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid and Republican House Speaker John Boehner, urging them to
get the budget impasse resolved.  Lawmakers have passed $10 billion in cuts thus far for the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30. House and Senate negotiators,
joined by the White House, are considering plans to raise that
total to about $33 billion.  Democratic Virginia Senator  Mark Warner , a member of the
Budget Committee, said $33 billion in cuts is “playing at the
margins” of U.S. deficits. Congress, he said, shouldn’t let
“extraneous factors,” such as policy-making additions to the
budget bill, force a government shutdown, Warner said on CNN’s
“State of the Union.”  Texas Republican Senator John Cornyn, also a budget
committee member, said current talks are “playing small ball,”
and said on CNN that he won’t support an increase in the U.S.
debt ceiling without progress on “systemic reforms” of U.S.
government spending.  “We can’t continue business as usual in Washington,”
Cornyn said. “What we’re lacking is presidential leadership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  