-- 
ECB Rate Increase Will Jeopardize Recovery, Ernst & Young Says

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-04-03T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/ecb-rate-increase-will-jeopardize-recovery-ernst-young-says.html
The  European Central Bank  will make
a mistake and jeopardize the economic recovery if it raises
interest rates this week to fight inflation, Ernst & Young said.  “An interest rate rise later this week, with subsequent
rate rises later this year to try and dampen down the level of
inflation, could potentially endanger the fragile economic
recovery in the  euro zone ,” Ernst & Young’s Marie Diron and
Mark Otty wrote in the company’s spring forecast for the region.  European inflation unexpectedly accelerated to the fastest
in more than two years in March. ECB policy makers prepare to
raise the main interest rate from 1 percent to fight increasing
price pressures when they meet at the Frankfurt-based central
bank on April 7.  “Raising rates as a response to commodity-driven headline
inflation is a policy mistake,” Diron said. “Our forecast
assumes that in 2012, as  oil prices  start to fall back, food
prices return closer to fundamental levels and the effect of VAT
increases from the beginning of 2011 disappear, inflation will
again fall below 2 percent.”  The accountancy firm forecast the euro-region economy to
grow 1.5 percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012, driven by
exports as the U.S. and emerging economies fuel global growth.
Oil prices are forecast to drop to $95 by the end of the year.  A possible deepening of the Middle East crisis may raise
oil prices, inflation and bond risk premiums, which could lead
to renewed escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis, the
economists said. An increase in oil prices to $150 per barrel
would limit economic growth to 1.2 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2012, according to the forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 