-- 
Medvedev Bid to Oust Officials From Boards Is ‘Small Revolution’

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-03T15:04:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/medvedev-bid-to-oust-officials-from-boards-is-small-revolution-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s
order to remove eight deputy prime ministers and ministers from
the boards of major state-owned companies is a “small
revolution,” activist minority shareholder Alexey Navalny said.  Medvedev yesterday told the government to replace eight
officials on company boards they also regulate as cabinet
members, including Deputy Prime Ministers  Igor Sechin  and Alexei Kudrin and First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov, by July 1.
By Oct. 1, steps must be taken to remove all top state employees
from the boards of public companies as part of a drive to
improve Russia’s investment climate, Medvedev said.  “It’s very significant, it’s a small revolution,”
Navalny, a corporate lawyer who has waged a campaign to improve
corporate governance at Russian state-owned companies, said in a
phone interview today. “His idea is really supported by
business, by civil society.”  Medvedev, 45, a former lawyer from Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s hometown of  St. Petersburg , replaced Putin as president
in 2008 because of a constitutional limit on more than two
consecutive presidential terms. Putin, 58, a former Soviet
intelligence officer, has kept the most power and Medvedev’s
move risks creating a conflict as it targets close allies of the
premier, analysts say. Russia holds presidential elections next
March and it still isn’t clear yet who will run.  Medvedev has tried to widen Russia’s investment appeal
beyond energy to help accelerate economic growth to 10 percent
from last year’s 4 percent, and to match the pace in  Brazil ,
 China  and  India . The president said on March 30 that independent
directors may replace ministers and other officials by mid-year.  Significant Resistance  The order, posted on the Kremlin website yesterday,
requires Sechin to step down from three company positions
including chairman of OAO Rosneft, the largest Russian  oil
company . Kudrin is to relinquish two posts including chairman of
ZAO Alrosa, the world’s second-biggest diamond company, while
Zubkov must resign from three jobs that include his position at
Russian Agricultural Bank, known as Rosselkhozbank.  “I’m still skeptical if Medvedev can do it, because the
resistance from the companies and these specific individuals is
significant,” said Navalny, who pointed out that shareholder
meetings must be held to carry out the management changes.  The presidential instruction also lists Defense Minister
Anatoly Serdyukov, Transport Minister  Igor Levitin , Agricultural
Minister Elena Skrynnik, Communications Minister Igor Shchegolev, and Russian Energy Minister Sergei Schmatko who must
leave the boards of nine companies, including OAO Gazprom.  “A lot of officials push their own interests in these
companies,” Navalny said. “For them this is real money and
real influence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 