-- 
Edwards Heart Valve That’s as Effective as Surgery Spurs Strokes in Study

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-04-03T13:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/edwards-heart-valve-that-s-as-effective-as-surgery-spurs-strokes-in-study.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) ’s
replacement heart valve, designed to be threaded into place,
yields similar survival rates and less bleeding than rib-
cracking surgery while triggering more strokes, a study found.  The research shows the device, called Sapien, is a viable
alternative to open-heart operations for elderly, high-risk
patients with a clogged aortic valve, the gateway between the
heart’s main pumping chamber and the aorta that carries blood to
the body, said Craig Smith, a lead researcher. The Sapien
procedure is less painful and patient recovery time is shorter.  The results may lead to Sapien’s approval for high-risk
patients in the U.S. by 2012, said  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells
Fargo Securities analyst in  New York . Sapien and a rival made by
Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  are already sold in Europe,
with about $600 million in annual sales, said Larry Wood,
Edwards’ vice president of transcatheter valve replacement.  “Recommendations to individual patients will need to weigh
the appeal of avoiding open-heart surgery, with its known risks,
against less invasive transcatheter aortic valve replacement
with different and less well understood risks, as well as the
absence of long-term follow up,” said Smith, who is chief of
cardiothoracic surgery at  New York-Presbyterian Hospital
Columbia University Medical Center , in a statement.  In the company-funded study, 19.5 percent of those who
underwent open-heart surgery developed major bleeding, compared
with 9.3 percent in Sapien patients, and they were almost twice
as likely to develop irregular heart rates. The device was shown
to increase stroke risk to 5.1 percent after a year, compared
with 2.4 percent with the surgery.  72% Share Rise  Edwards, based in  Irvine , California-based, fell 1 percent,
or 93 cents, to $86.07 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading on April 1. The shares have risen 72 percent in the 12
months before today.  About 200,000 Americans suffer from  aortic stenosis , or
narrowing of the heart’s aortic valve, including 9 percent of
those over age 65. The study, called Partner, was reported at
the  American College of Cardiology’s  annual meeting in  New
Orleans . It included 699 patients in the top 5 percent of risk
from the disease, Edwards’ Wood said in a telephone interview.  The study also found that 3.4 percent of patients given the
less-invasive valve died after 30 days, compared with 6.5
percent of those getting standard surgery. The difference,
though, disappeared by the end of a year, with 24.2 percent of
Sapien patients and 26.8 percent of surgery patients dying.  Vascular Complications  Vascular complications developed in 11 percent of Sapien
patients and 3.2 percent of surgery patients while leaks near
the Sapien valve were more common than in surgery patients. The
average age of patients in the study was 84.  “The goal was to show our first generation transcatheter
valve is comparable to traditional open-heart surgery in a high-
risk population,” Wood said. “If we can get comparable
results, a less invasive procedure is always more desirable. The
Holy Grail would be to prove this is as good or better than open
surgery in lower risk patients.”  The initial cost of treatment with Sapien is about $78,000,
a second report found, based on earlier work that showed people
too sick for open-heart surgery were 45 percent more likely to
live if they got the valve rather than supportive medical care.  Added research is needed to see whether the new approach is
beneficial in lower-risk patients, Smith said. Edwards already
is studying a next-generation transcatheter valve that’s smaller
and may be more durable, Wood said.  Expanding the Definition  The company is also in discussions with the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  to expand the definition of high-risk
patients, which could broaden the market, he said.  Edwards has filed for FDA marketing clearance for Sapien in
patients who can’t withstand surgery, and approval is expected
in October, Wood said. The company will submit the additional
results compared with open-heart surgery in the next couple of
months to try to expand use of the device, he said.  The company estimates that 60,000 to 70,000 people in the
U.S. undergo aortic valve surgery each year.  The figures miss another large pool of patients who forgo
the invasive surgery, and remain undertreated, which accounts
for up to half of people with the condition, said Chet Rihal, a
cardiologist at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,  Minnesota , when
the initial results were released.  “We believe transcatheter aortic valve implantation is the
most compelling opportunity in the cardio device space,” Wells
Fargo’s Biegelsen wrote in a March 1 note to investors. Positive
results from the study, the first scientifically rigorous
comparison against standard surgery, “will help drive market
acceptance and reimbursement in our view.”  50% Death Rate  The initial Partner study found 50 percent of those who
can’t withstand surgery die within a year.  Different methods used to insert the transcatheter valves
yielded small differences in success rates.  After one year, 29 percent of patients who had Sapien
inserted straight into the heart through their ribs had died,
compared with 27.9 percent of surgery patients. In a less sick
group treated through the femoral artery, 22.2 percent died,
compared with 26.4 percent of surgery patients. The differences
weren’t statistically significant.  Medtronic has started the pivotal trials needed for U.S.
approval of its device, known as CoreValve, it is proceeding
quickly, said Kathleen Janasz, a Medtronic spokeswoman.  There is evidence the new valves are expanding the market in
 Europe , rather than replacing surgery, Woods said.  “This has gone very quickly in Europe, but many are
patients who weren’t being treated previously,” he said. “It’s
more market expanding rather than cannibalizing surgery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  