-- 
Merck, J&J’s New Hepatitis C Treatment Fetches $31,000 in France

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   C a r o l   M a t l a c k
-- 
2011-04-04T20:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/merck-j-j-s-new-hepatitis-c-treatments-fetch-31-000-in-france.html
New hepatitis C drugs from Merck &
Co. and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  are being sold in France for 22,000
euros ($31,271) and more, a precedent some doctors say may limit
access after the medicines are approved throughout Europe.  J&J and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s telaprevir costs
22,000 euros under a French program for seriously ill patients
for whom there is no other effective treatment on the market,
according to patient association  SOS Hepatites . Merck & Co. said
its boceprevir costs 30,000 euros under the same program.  The price may drop once the drugs are approved for the
broader market, Merck and J&J executives said. Still, the French
model shows the new drugs may triple the cost of hepatitis C
treatment, leaving  England ,  Russia  and eastern Europe likely to
delay use or restrict which patients are allowed access, said
Antonio Craxi, director of gastroenterology and internal
medicine at the  University of Palermo .  “It may be that we can’t use it at all until the price
comes down,” Mark Thursz, professor of hepatology at  Imperial
College London , said in an interview at a conference in Berlin
over the weekend. “It’s not the best economic environment to
launch an expensive new drug.”  The U.K.’s National Institute for Health and Clinical
Excellence may restrict the new drugs to patients who have tried
existing treatments without success, Thursz said. The agency may
also require genetic tests to determine whether patients are
likely to respond to the medicines, he said at the meeting of
the  European Association for the Study of the Liver .  ‘Triple the Cost’  Italy and  Spain  also may delay or restrict use, Craxi said.
Italy spends about 350 million euros a year on existing
hepatitis C treatments, he said. “If you triple the cost, that
would be more than 1 billion euros,” he said.  Vertex fell 10 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $47.49 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.
Merck rose 20 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $33.27 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. J&J increased 66 cents,
or 1.1 percent, to $60.15.  The new drugs are being reviewed by regulators at the
 European Medicines Agency . Both are scheduled for U.S. Food and
Drug Administration  hearings  at the end of  this month .  In  France , telaprevir and boceprevir received special
temporary authorization in December, under a program designed
for seriously ill patients for whom there is no other effective
treatment on the market, according to French pharmaceutical
regulator  AFSSAPS . This allowed the drugs to bypass the usual
approval procedures, the regulator said.  500 Patients  About 500 patients are being treated in France now, said
Michel Bonjour, spokesman for SOS Hepatites. The new drugs are
prescribed together with the current standard therapy of
interferon and generic ribavirin, and the total cost of a
yearlong cycle of treatment may reach 45,000 euros to 70,000
euros per patient, Bonjour said in an interview. The cost is
covered in full by France’s national health insurance program.  “It’s not a good indication of price elsewhere,” Patrick Bergstedt, senior vice president for vaccines and infectious
diseases at  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck, said in
an interview.  The very sick patients in the French program get 44 weeks
of treatment with boceprevir, while a more typical course of
therapy is 24 weeks to 32 weeks, he said. There’s a “high
likelihood” the eventual commercial price for a course of
treatment will be less than the 30,000 euros Merck charges under
the French program, he said.  ‘Cost Effective’  “It’s black and white that these drugs are cost-
effective,” Bergstedt said. “The challenge will be how do you
stratify treatment, and how do you use these drugs responsibly
to ensure the patients with the greatest need are treated
first.”  Vertex, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , referred
questions to partner J&J, which will market telaprevir in
 Europe . J&J hasn’t decided on a final price, said Isabelle
Lonjon-Domanec, global medical affairs leader for telaprevir at
the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company’s Tibotec
Therapeutics unit.  Patients take telaprevir for 12 weeks together with
standard treatment, then continue on the older standard drugs
for a total of six months to a year of therapy.  Both new hepatitis C drugs are protease inhibitors crafted
from the same technologies that led to discoveries in HIV
research. Used in addition to existing therapies, they boost the
chance of a cure from half of patients to between two-thirds and
three-quarters of those treated, studies have shown.  U.S. Pricing  In the U.S., the new drugs may be priced at $35,000 to
$40,000, estimates Howard Liang, a Boston-based analyst at
Leerink Swann & Co.  “A cure saves a lot of money down the road,” Liang said
in an interview. “It’s a shock to physicians, but I think it
can be justified because it’s a cure.”  Hepatitis C, spread through contact with infected blood, is
a virus that often lingers as a chronic condition, causing
nausea and exhaustion as it destroys the liver over the course
of years or decades. About 170 million people are infected,
according to the  World Health Organization .  Meanwhile, the next generation of drugs with even higher
cure rates and fewer side effects is likely to reach the market
within three years, Liang said.  Swedish drugmaker  Medivir AB (MVIRB)  has said it expects to begin
selling a competitor pill to be used with interferon by 2013.
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. are among a dozen companies aiming for drug
cocktails to replace the existing interferon combination.  Looming competition leaves Merck, Vertex and J&J without
much time to recoup their investment, said Charles Gore,
president of the Geneva-based patient advocacy group  World
Hepatitis Alliance .  “There is no easy answer to this,” Gore said in an
interview. “We’ve got to have a way to give people access but
incentivize the drug companies to research in this area.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Matlack in Paris at 
 cmatlack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ; 