-- 
Merkel’s Coalition in Turmoil as Deputy Gives Up FDP Post

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-04-04T11:52:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/merkel-s-deputy-westerwelle-gives-up-fdp-post-after-setbacks.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
suffered more turmoil within her coalition as her deputy,  Guido Westerwelle , stepped down as head of his party after regional
election defeats spurred by voter opposition to nuclear power.  Westerwelle, who serves as vice chancellor and foreign
minister, announced yesterday that he won’t stand for re-
election as Free Democratic Party chairman after 10 years in the
post, becoming the highest-profile casualty of the March 27
defeats inflicted on the coalition parties. Stefan Mappus quit
as regional leader of Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  in Baden-
Wuerttemberg after his party lost its 58-year hold on power.  “As if Merkel hasn’t had enough bad news lately, now her
coalition partner is tearing itself apart,” Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, head of the Psephos polling company, said by phone in
Berlin. “She can’t just look away: her governing coalition is
unraveling.”  Merkel, who last year pushed through an extension of
nuclear-plant lifespans by an average of 12 years, has been
thrust onto the back foot by mounting voter concern at reactor
safety following the crisis in  Japan .  She ordered the closure of the seven oldest plants for 90
days pending industry safety checks then, after the state
elections, backed off the nuclear extension, the centerpiece of
her second term. That step overturned a phase-out by about 2022
set by a government of Social Democrats and Greens led by her
SPD predecessor, Gerhard Schroeder.  Power Outages  “We have to expect more frequent power outages, say two,
three days a year,”  RWE AG (RWE)  Chief Executive Officer Juergen Grossmann said in a Deutschlandfunk radio interview aired
yesterday. “I fear that some of the industrial foundation of
our country will be lost” as speeding up the closure of German
nuclear plants leads to higher power prices.  Westerwelle, 49, who led the pro-business FDP into
government as junior coalition partner to Merkel’s Christian
Democrats in 2009, came under pressure from within his party to
quit after the disaster in Japan made the FDP’s support for
extending Germany’s use of nuclear power a liability.  As voter support for the anti-nuclear Greens surged in both
state elections on March 27, the FDP lost its place in the
coalition government in Baden-Wuerttemberg, while in neighboring
Rhineland-Palatinate it lost all its seats in parliament. Two
days later, the party reversed its stance and called for eight
of  Germany ’s 17 nuclear reactors to be shut as quickly as
possible.  ‘Change in Generation’  “It’s time to allow a change in generation of the FDP and
let them work on a new beginning,” Westerwelle told reporters
in Berlin yesterday, announcing his intention not to stand as
chairman at an FDP convention in May. “I’m certain this is the
right decision.”  Merkel’s majority in the national parliament, which is
elected for four years ending in 2013, isn’t affected by the FDP
leader’s retreat.  Possible successors as FDP leader include Health Minister
Philipp Roesler, Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser- Schnarrenberger and Christian Lindner, the party’s general
secretary, Der Spiegel magazine reported April 1.  The party will discuss candidates for the post tomorrow,
Lindner told reporters in Berlin today after a meeting of the
party’s executive board, dismissing reports naming possible
candidates as “speculation.”  Vice Chancellor Post  The board backed Westerwelle to remain foreign minister,
Lindner said. Westerwelle will stay vice chancellor unless a
fellow Cabinet minister is appointed FDP leader, in which case
that person would assume the role of deputy to Merkel, he said.  Westerwelle steered his party to its best-ever election
result in 2009, winning almost 15 percent of the vote. Support
collapsed last year as the FDP’s core election pledge to cut
taxes was thwarted by Merkel and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , and has held at about 5 percent since June.  “This palace coup -- Westerwelle was ousted by his own
lieutenants -- is an act of desperation by a party that has
clearly lost its way,” said Hoffmann.  Merkel was already on the defensive after her party lost
Feb. 20 state elections in Hamburg, and Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, the country’s most popular politician, quit as
defense minister on March 1 amid allegations he copied part of
his doctoral thesis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  