-- 
Fed QE2 Answers Brazil-China-Germany Axis With U.S. Growth

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-04T11:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/fed-answering-brazil-china-germany-axis-over-qe2-with-u-s-growth-restored.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is proving critics wrong as his stimulus program’s
weight on the dollar boosts U.S. growth without slowing a global
expansion or diminishing demand for America’s financial assets.  The Fed’s $600 billion injection into the U.S. financial
system has helped weaken the dollar 8.5 percent against a basket
of six developed-nation currencies since Aug. 27, when Bernanke
suggested more stimulus may be needed. U.S. exports have risen
each month since to a record $167.7 billion in January, Commerce
Department data show.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  boosted foreign sales by
about a third last year, and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) 
increased exports.  While the policy sparked complaints from officials in
Germany, China and Brazil that the U.S. was starting a
competitive devaluation of the dollar, hurting their economies,
Bernanke responded by saying the Fed must focus on domestic
growth.  Barclays Capital  estimates the pace of global expansion
will stay above 4 percent for a second year in 2011. Concerns
that U.S. inflation would surge and foreign investors would shun
dollar-denominated assets haven’t materialized.  “One of the things the critics of the Fed don’t seem to
recognize is having a weak currency is absolutely normal when
you’re coming out of a banking and a credit crisis,”  Ethan Harris , head of developed-markets economic research at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, said in an interview from his New York
office. “It’s the way countries heal their wounds.”  U.S. Rebound  The U.S. economy expanded at a 3.1 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter, Commerce Department figures showed March 25,
and it may grow 3 percent this year, the most since 2005,
according to the median estimate of 65 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey. The economy shrank for 18 months through June 2009
in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression,
according to data from the National Bureau of Economic Research.  The economies of Brazil, Russia, India and  China , known as
the BRICs, may expand 7.7 percent this year on average, compared
with 8.8 percent in 2010, strategists at London-based Barclays
said in an April 1 report. Germany’s will expand 2.65 percent
this year, according to the median estimate of 16 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  At $14.1 trillion, the U.S. economy is about 13 percent
larger than that of Brazil, Russia, India, China and Germany
combined, World Bank data show. That means a stronger U.S.
economy may buoy those of its trade partners. America purchases
20 percent of China’s exports, the U.S. government says, and is
the second biggest buyer of German and Brazilian goods.  Dollar Stumbles  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, used to track
the currency against six major U.S. trading partners, rose 0.1
percent today to 75.89. The move followed a 0.5 percent drop
last week and pared its decline since the end of August to 8.8
percent. The greenback gained 0.2 percent today versus the euro
to $1.4217 and was little changed against the yen at 84.  America’s currency may be poised to rebound, appreciating
to $1.35 per euro by the end of the year, according to the
median estimate of 47 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. It
will gain to 88 per yen, a separate poll shows.  Even though the Fed has flooded the financial system with
cash, the dollar still made up 61.4 percent of global foreign
exchange reserves as of the fourth quarter of 2010, little
changed from the start of last year, the International Monetary
Fund said March 31.  Foreign holdings of U.S. Treasuries have risen every month
since April 2009, reaching a record $4.45 trillion in January,
or 49 percent of the $9.05 trillion of the total marketable
Treasury debt outstanding, according to data compiled by the
Treasury Department.  ‘Currency War’  The Fed’s so-called quantitative easing program, dubbed QE2
by analysts and investors because it followed an earlier round
of $1.7 trillion in bond purchases in 2009 and the first quarter
of 2010, was criticized by officials around the world.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said that the policy would
foster financial instability and asset bubbles. Six days after
the Fed suggested at its Sept. 21 meeting that it was ready to
start buying bonds, Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said governments were engaging in a “currency war.” German
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble called the asset-purchase
program “clueless” on Nov. 5 and suggested it was designed to
erode the value of the U.S. dollar.  Brazil  has tried and so far failed to keep its currency
from appreciating. Mantega has tripled a tax on foreign
investors’ fixed-income purchases to 6 percent and bought
dollars in the  spot market  as part of an effort to stem a 44
percent increase in the real since the end of 2008.  Currency Controls  Colombia’s Banco de la Republica said Feb. 25 it will
extend daily dollar purchases in the local market for at least
three more months to limit the peso’s gains.  South Korea 
restored taxes on foreigners’ bond holdings and tightened limits
on currency derivatives, seeking to damp capital flows after the
central bank raised borrowing costs twice last year.  “You’re not going to be able to fight it if the terms of
trade are moving so much in your direction,” said Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc. in  New York , referring to currency appreciation. “If you
try and oppose it, you end up with a situation like China, where
you have a lot of reserves and you end up with asset market
inflation.”  Some domestic investors are also predicting dollar
weakness. Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said March 25 that
investors should avoid long-term fixed-income bets in U.S.
dollars because the currency’s purchasing power will decline.
 Bill Gross , who runs the $237 billion Total Return Fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach , California,
said he has eliminated U.S. government-related debt from the
fund. Pimco is the world’s biggest manager of bond funds.  End in Sight  The dollar has also weakened on speculation the Fed will
lag behind other developed-nation central banks in tightening
monetary policy. The  European Central Bank  signaled it will
raise its benchmark rate this week for the first time since the
financial crisis, following those of Canada, Australia and
Sweden. The Fed won’t raise its lending rate until 2012,
according to the median estimate of 59 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The Fed is likely to halt its record monetary stimulus when
it completes the $600 billion of bond purchases, which may cause
 interest rates  and Treasury yields to rise and the dollar to
strengthen, according to  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s
Capital Markets Group in New York.  ‘Good Spot’  “If the Fed ends its program in June, then some investors
might feel more comfortable with the idea that the Fed’s zero
interest rate policy will not be with us indefinitely,” Lonski
said. “Higher short-term rates could provide a bid to the
dollar exchange rate.” The Fed has kept its benchmark interest
rate near zero since December 2008.  In the meantime, America’s exports have jumped from $153.6
billion in August, and President Barack Obama said in January
that the U.S. was on course to meet his goal of doubling annual
foreign sales to more than $3 trillion by 2015.  “A weaker dollar usually helps American companies” and
“we’re kind of at a good spot right now,”  David Cote , chief
executive officer of Morris Township, New Jersey-based
Honeywell, said last week in an interview for Bloomberg
Television’s “Conversations with Judy Woodruff.”  Sales from exports at Honeywell, which makes car and
aircraft parts, totaled $3.66 billion last year, up from $3.59
billion in 2009, according to the company’s annual report. Cote
said he “would prefer” the dollar not weaken further as it
can’t be “steadily weakening” and still maintain its status as
the world’s reserve currency. About 11 percent of Honeywell’s
revenue comes from exports.  Stock Gains  Caterpillar, based in Peoria, Illinois, the world’s largest
maker of construction equipment, posted exports of $13.4 billion
last year, compared with a “little over” $10 billion in 2009,
Jim Dugan, a company spokesman, said in an interview.  Rising earnings have propelled the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to a gain of 13.1 percent over the past 12 months, better
than the 10.7 percent jump for the MSCI World Index of stocks.  Neither a rising equity market nor the extra dollars
sloshing around the financial system has sparked inflation. The
core personal consumption expenditure index, the Fed’s preferred
inflation gauge, rose 0.9 percent in February from a year
earlier, below the average gain of 1.9 percent over the past
decade, the government said March 28.  “There was a need to provide stimulus to the  U.S. economy 
to avoid a negative downward spiral,” said  Jens Nordvig , a
managing director of currency research in New York at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “The Fed achieved that and that’s in everybody’s
interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  