-- 
Fulham Defeats Blackpool 3-0 in Premier League; Bobby Zamora Scores Twice

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-04-03T15:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/fulham-defeats-blackpool-3-0-in-premier-league-bobby-zamora-scores-twice.html
Bobby Zamora  scored twice as Fulham
beat Blackpool 3-0 today to move six points clear of the
relegation positions in English soccer’s Premier League.  The 30-year-old, making his first start since breaking a
leg in September, netted after 23 and 28 minutes at Craven
Cottage to secure Fulham’s seventh home league win of the
season. Dickson Etuhu also scored.  Blackpool has now lost eight of its last 11 matches and
stands one point above the three-team relegation positions. West
Ham, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Wigan are in the bottom three.  Manchester City hosts Sunderland in today’s other game,
targeting a win to climb one spot into third.  Fulham climbs three positions to 10th after its victory,
ahead of Stoke and Sunderland because of a superior goal
difference.  Zamora, after three substitute appearances, came into the
starting lineup today alongside Moussa Dembele in attack.  Both were involved in a move after 16 minutes that almost
led to an opening goal for Fulham, Ghana goalkeeper Richard
Kingson forced to tip a Damien Duff shot onto a post.  Kingson denied Chris Baird soon after, but Zamora put the
Cottagers ahead after 23 minutes. The England striker
intercepted a back-pass from James Beattie and ran toward goal
before firing into the net.  Five minutes later, he headed past Kingson from a Danny Murphy free kick.  Etuhu scored from close range in the 72nd minute.  United Comeback  Yesterday, first-place  Manchester United  rallied to defeat
West Ham 4-2, Newcastle beat Wolves 4-1, Chelsea tied 1-1 at
Stoke, and Arsenal was held to a scoreless draw by Blackburn.  There were also no goals in the match between Wigan and
Tottenham, Birmingham beat Bolton 2-1, Everton tied 2-2 against
 Aston Villa , and West Bromwich Albion won 2-1 against Liverpool.  United leads the standings by seven points from Arsenal,
which has played one game fewer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 