-- 
Glaxo Facing `War for Talent’ Against Pfizer, Sanofi in Emerging Markets

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-04-04T15:57:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/glaxo-faces-war-for-talent-in-emerging-market-race-with-pfizer.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is grappling
with a “war for talent” in China and  India  as the U.K.
drugmaker struggles to retain sales representatives needed to
expand in the world’s fastest-growing markets.  About 20 percent of Glaxo’s sales force in both countries
quits each year in favor of better offers from rivals, said
Abbas Hussain, 46, the London-based company’s president of
emerging markets. That rate is about the same as the industry
average in China and India, Hussain said in a March 28 interview
at his office in Singapore.  “There’s a huge war for talent,” Hussain said. “It’s
hard to do anything about. If you have a good person, they could
find someone else willing to pay twice as much.”  Emerging markets and Asia Pacific accounted for about 17
percent of Glaxo’s sales last year, compared with 18 percent for
rivals New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and 30 percent for Paris-based
 Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sanofi’s figure includes sales from its consumer-products
division, which Glaxo’s doesn’t.  Glaxo is trying delayed incentive plans to retain staff and
catch its competitors. The company aims to outpace growth in
emerging markets, which will expand between 14 percent and 17
percent a year until 2014, according to  IMS Health Inc. , a
Norwalk, Connecticut-based market researcher.  ‘Safety Valve’  “All the other markets are slowing, and these regions are
becoming the safety valve to stabilize revenue growth,” said
Navid Malik, a drug-industry analyst at Matrix Corporate Capital
in London, in a telephone interview.  Glaxo’s drug sales from emerging markets and Asia Pacific
jumped 18 percent to 4.7 billion pounds ($7.5 billion) last year
from 2009, outstripping market growth of 15 percent and helping
to offset declining revenue in the U.S. and  Europe , according to
a company  presentation .  Glaxo’s definition of emerging markets includes China,
India,  Mexico , Latin America,  Africa , the Middle East and the
 Commonwealth of Independent States , and excludes Asia Pacific
and central and eastern Europe. It plans to include Asia Pacific
in its reported sales figures this year. Sanofi and Pfizer
include Asia Pacific and central and eastern Europe in their
definitions.  Sales Drop  Glaxo’s revenue in the U.S. declined 11 percent last year
and in Europe it fell 6 percent, after the company stopped
promoting its Avandia drug worldwide because of studies linking
it to increased risk of heart attacks, and generic competition
eroded sales of the Valtrex antiviral. Hussain said Glaxo
expects to return to sales growth of “3 to 4 percent” by 2012.  Glaxo rose 17 pence, or 1.4 percent, to 1,217.5 pence at
the close of  London  trading.  Drug companies have been turning to emerging markets as a
way to increase sales of drugs after patents expire and generic
competition cuts into revenue. While health-care reform in the
U.S. and government austerity measures in Europe also have led
to slowing sales in those markets,  population growth  and a
burgeoning middle class in countries such as India are boosting
demand for medicines.  Sales in emerging markets will reach about $400 billion by
2020, equivalent to current sales in the U.S. and the five
biggest European markets combined, according to IMS.  Emerging markets are “not necessarily going to save the
industry,” Hussain said. “It’s one leg of a three-legged
stool” including the U.S. and Europe, he said.  Hussain’s Sales Force  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  hired Hussain, a 20-
year veteran of Eli Lilly & Co., in 2008. He’s boosted the sales
force in emerging markets and Asia Pacific to 17,000 since 2007,
representing more than half of Glaxo’s global force of 30,000,
Glaxo said. Sanofi has about 18,600 sales representatives in
emerging markets, the company  said  in February.  The larger staff helped sales expand 21 percent to 572
million pounds in  China  last year, and almost doubled to 543
million pounds in  Brazil , according to a  presentation  on the
company’s website. Still, Glaxo is ranked 11th in sales in China
and 14th in Brazil, according to the presentation.  “We were fairly late in our investments in China,”
Hussain said. “We’re playing a little bit of catch-up.”  Price Cuts  Glaxo has cut prices to boost volumes in emerging markets,
where it sells more doses than any other drugmaker and has the
lowest price per dose of any of the top 10 pharmaceutical
companies, Hussain said. Its 2010 operating profit margin was
about 36 percent in emerging markets, compared with 66 percent
in the U.S., the presentation shows.  The company has made 17 acquisitions in the past two and a
half years, including paying about $253 million for  Argentina ’s
Laboratorios Phoenix S.A.C.yF in June. Hussain said he expects
to make fewer purchases in the near future.  “We’ve got plenty on our plate to just consolidate all the
investments we’ve made so far,” he said. “We’re going to see
far fewer acquisitions from GSK going forward.”  The prices companies are willing to pay to acquire
drugmakers in emerging markets such as India are “unrealistic”
and create equally unrealistic expectations for sellers, Hussain
said.  “I don’t feel desperately that we need to do something in
India,” he said. “There’s a huge opportunity to still grow
that business organically.”  Hussain is the elder brother of former England cricket
captain Nasser Hussain, and Benazir Hussain, a former dancer
with the Royal Ballet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in  Singapore  at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  