-- 
IBM's Tiny Technology Rips Up Drug-Resistant Germ Cells in Early Research

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-04-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/ibm-s-tiny-technology-rips-up-drug-resistant-germ-cells-in-early-research.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider, is
developing a technology that searches out drug-resistant germs
in the body and destroys them, addressing a  $34 billion -a-year
public health problem.  Engineers based in IBM’s  San Jose ,  California , facility
have created  nanoparticles  50,000 times smaller than the
thickness of a human hair that can obliterate the cell walls of
drug-resistant bacteria. The structures then harmlessly degrade,
leaving no residue, according to a study describing the work in
the journal  Nature Chemistry .  When antibiotic drugs are used to attack a colony of
bacteria, they sometimes leave behind survivors that become
resistant to the medicine’s future use. These germs kill 100,000
U.S. hospital patients a year, according to the  Infectious
Disease Society of America .  IBM’s technology “goes outside the scheme of current
antibiotics to something that physically destroys bacteria,”
said Mario Raviglione, chief of the  World Health Organization ’s
 Stop TB department , in a telephone interview. “If this is
proven to work in humans, it will simply revolutionize the way
we deal with antimicrobial treatment.”  Traditional antibiotics interfere with bacterial DNA to
neutralize or prevent them from replicating.  The nanoparticles, made of biodegradable plastic, were
engineered to have a specific electrical charge that draws them
to the oppositely charged bacteria. Tests in laboratory dishes
confirmed that they have the ability to destroy the cells. They
also caused no harm in separate tests in mice, the research
found.  U.S., Singapore Collaboration  The technology was designed by an IBM team led by James
Hedrick that collaborated with scientists at the  Institute for
Bioengineering and Nanotechnology  in  Singapore . The scientists
specifically aimed the nanoparticles at methicillin-resistant
staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, a widely circulating strain of
drug-resistant bacteria.  IBM, based in Armonk,  New York , is now talking to
pharmaceutical companies to prepare the particles for human
testing, Hedrick said. He declined to name the companies.  The nanoparticles “rip holes in the membrane walls and the
contents basically spill out,” said Hedrick, a researcher at
IBM’s  Almaden Research Center . “They’re very selective and once
they do their job, they go away. They degrade into an innocuous
by-product.”  Blood Cells Safe  The particles are so focused on their bacterial target that
they completely avoid damaging the red blood cells where the
microbes lodge, Hedrick said in a telephone interview. “  Hedrick’s team designed a batch of the nanoparticles to
attack  MRSA , or methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus, a
widely circulating strain of drug-resistant bacteria. Scientists
at the nanotechnology institute in Singapore will now test the
miniature polymers in larger animals.  Some 9 million children globally die of respiratory
infections and diarrhea, many from pathogens impervious to
drugs, the WHO’s Raviglione said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 