-- 
Mickelson Prepares for Masters Defense With Three-Shot Win at Houston Open

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-04-03T23:49:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/mickelson-prepares-for-masters-defense-with-three-shot-win-at-houston-open.html
Phil Mickelson  prepared for the
defense of his Masters Tournament title with victory at golf’s
Houston Open.  Mickelson also won the week before his 2006 Masters win, at
the BellSouth Classic. That year, he carried two drivers at
Augusta National Golf Club -- one weighted to move the ball with
a left-to-right flight, and the other designed for a right-to-
left flight. He said he may do the same this year.  “With the way the weather is turning out at Augusta I
probably will” carry two drivers, Mickelson told reporters.  Three-time Masters champion Mickelson, 40, shot a final
round 7-under-par 65 at Redstone Golf Club in Humble,  Texas , to
finish with a tournament-record score of 20-under-par 268. Scott Verplank and Chris Kirk tied for second place, three shots
further back.  Mickelson’s 39th win on the U.S.  PGA Tour  is his first
since last year’s Masters, his only title in 2010. Today’s win,
which ties him for the 10th most all-time on the tour, is worth
$1.04 million and will lift him ahead of  Tiger Woods  in the
world rankings for the first time since 1997. Mickelson will
climb three places to No. 3 tomorrow, with Woods dropping two
spots to seventh, the PGA Tour said on its website.  Mickelson goes into the Masters, the first of four annual
major championships, as the favorite at the  Las Vegas Hilton’s
Race and Sports Book  and  William Hill Plc (WMH) , the biggest U.K.
bookmaker with about 2,350 shops.  Masters Odds  He’s 15-2 with both bookmakers, while four-time Masters
champion Woods is 9-1 at William Hill and 8-1 at the Hilton.
It’s the first time Woods hasn’t been the favorite to win at
Augusta since 1999.  Mickelson had two birdies and as many bogeys in the first
four holes today before picking up a shot at the seventh to move
1-under par on the day.  He then birdied five straight holes from the ninth to get
to 19-under par and tie Verplank for the lead. The 46-year-old
Verplank began the day in the lead with Mickelson at 13-under
and had six birdies through 13 holes.  Mickelson took a one-shot lead when Verplank made his first
bogey in 23 holes, at No. 14.  Mickelson missed a chance to extend the lead at No. 15 -- a
par 5 that he reached in two -- after taking three putts for par.
He made amends at the par-3 16th hole with a birdie from about
four feet, while Verplank had a bogey from a greenside bunker to
drop to 17-under alongside Kirk.  After a par at No. 17, Mickelson finished with a par from
behind the 18th green to seal the win.  Mickelson yesterday tied the course record with a 9-under-
par 63, his lowest score in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in New York at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  