-- 
Reliance Communications, Unitech Tumble After Charges Filed Over 2G Sale

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 
2011-04-04T12:02:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/india-charges-reliance-telecom-unitech-swan-on-spectrum-sale.html
Reliance Communications Ltd. and
 Unitech Ltd. (UT)  dropped in Mumbai trading after officials at their
groups were charged by federal investigators in a probe into the
sale of mobile-phone licenses.  Unitech fell the most in a week, while billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance Communications had its steepest decline in
three weeks. The next hearing in the case is scheduled April 13.  Executives at three Indian companies, Anil Ambani’s
Reliance group and a former telecommunications minister were
charged by the  Central Bureau of Investigation  April 2 as trials
are to begin. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  agreed in February
to a parliamentary probe of the license sales, after opposition
protests paralyzed legislation.  “The confidence level of companies in the government will
be dented,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the Centre for
Media Studies in  New Delhi . “Companies will have to think twice
about deals they enter into with the government. Companies will
be also be more cautious dealing with ministers in the future.”  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , his
personal secretary R.K. Chandolia, former telecommunications
department secretary Siddhartha Behura, former DB Realty Ltd.
Managing Director Shahid Balwa, DB Realty Managing Director
Vinod Goenka and Unitech Ltd. Managing Director Sanjay Chandra,
were among those charged by the CBI April 2, as well as Reliance
ADA Group Managing Director Gautam Doshi and Senior Vice
Presidents Hari Nair and Surendra Pipara.  Denying Charges  The companies charged were Reliance Telecom Ltd., Unitech
Wireless and Swan Telecom Pvt., A.K. Singh, a government lawyer,
said outside a court in New Delhi.  Unitech fell 1.7 percent to 41.25 rupees at the close of
trading in Mumbai, after earlier falling as much as 16 percent.
Reliance Communications dropped 2.4 percent to 109 rupees.  DB
Realty Ltd. (DBRL) , India’s worst-performing developer this year,
tumbled 2.7 percent to 113.65 rupees.  A Reliance ADA Group e-mailed statement said its three
employees deny the charges and have a legal presumption of
innocence pending the completion of a trial. A call made to the
mobile phone of Raja’s lawyer, Ramesh Gupta, was not answered.  Unitech said in an e-mailed statement that it complied with
applicable rules in obtaining its licenses and that none of its
employees have done anything “inappropriate or illegal”. DB
Realty’s Goenka said he couldn’t immediately comment.  Minister’s Resignation  Balwa hasn’t done anything “inappropriate or illegal,” DB
Realty said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange on March
29. Raja has previously denied any wrongdoing.  Raja resigned in November, two days before the nation’s
chief auditor said in a report that the second-generation
airwaves were sold in 2008 for an “unbelievably low” $2.7
billion, causing a loss of as much as 1.4 trillion rupees ($31
billion) to the nation. Raja, his personal secretary and an ex-
bureaucrat were arrested in February.  Raja and the other former government officials were charged
under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The company officials
and companies were charged with “lesser offenses” under
statutes relating to conspiracy, cheating and forgery.  The CBI has argued in court that Raja conspired to benefit
companies including the then-Swan Telecom, now known as Etisalat
DB Telecom  India  Pvt., and Unitech by violating guidelines in
the license sale.  Auditor’s Report  The Comptroller and Auditor General of India said in a
report submitted to parliament on Nov. 16 that applications from
companies including Swan Telecom and Unitech should have been
rejected because they were ineligible.  Swan Telecom suppressed information and submitted false
documents in its license application, the auditor said, while
six companies belonging to the Unitech Group also fraudulently
suppressed facts in their license applications, “misleading”
the  Department of Telecommunications  in order to win licenses in
20 service areas, the report said.  Department of Telecommunications rules stipulate that an
operator can’t own 10 percent or more in another operator that
provides services in the same telecom zone.  Reliance Telecom “held only 9.9 percent of the equity
share capital of Swan Telecom at the time of filing the relevant
license application in March 2007,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement Feb. 13.  The company said “as per the provisions of the Companies
Act 1956, the preference share capital held by Reliance Telecom
in Swan Telecom is not to be included for purposes of
determining shareholding levels.”  Reliance Telecom is a wholly owned unit of  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , the main company in Anil Ambani’s  Reliance
ADA Group .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
PS Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  