-- 
India Charges Reliance Telecom, Unitech, Swan Executives on Spectrum Sale

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 
2011-04-03T04:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/india-charges-reliance-telecom-unitech-swan-executives-on-spectrum-sale.html
Executives of three Indian companies,
including billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance business group, and
a former telecommunications minister face charges over a sale of
second-generation mobile phone spectrum.  Investigators filed charges yesterday, setting the stage
for trials in what may be  India ’s biggest case of political
corruption. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  agreed in February to
a parliamentary probe of the license sales, after opposition
protests paralyzed legislation.  “If licenses are canceled, then spectrum could suddenly
become available again, and that would definitely help the
sector,” said Kunal Bajaj, head of Analysys Mason India Pvt., a
telecommunications strategy consultancy in  New Delhi .
“Everybody agrees and recognizes that there’s just way too many
companies out there, and some amount of M&A needs to take place.
To trigger that, you need this regulatory debacle to be sorted
out.”  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , his
personal secretary R.K. Chandolia, former telecommunications
department secretary Siddhartha Behura, former DB Realty Ltd.
Managing Director Shahid Balwa, DB Realty Managing Director
Vinod Goenka and  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  Managing Director Sanjay Chandra,
were among those charged by the Central Bureau of Investigation
yesterday, as well as Reliance ADA Group Managing Director
Gautam Doshi and Senior Vice Presidents Hari Nair and Surendra
Pipara.  The companies charged were Reliance Telecom Ltd., Unitech
Wireless and Swan Telecom Pvt., A.K. Singh, a government lawyer,
said outside a court in New Delhi.  A Reliance ADA Group e-mailed statement said its three
employees deny the charges and have a legal presumption of
innocence pending the completion of a trial.  Resignation  Unitech spokeswoman Tanuja Kehar and DB Realty’s Goenka said
they couldn’t immediately comment on the charges.  Balwa hasn’t done anything “inappropriate or illegal,” DB
Realty said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange on March
29. Raja has previously denied any wrongdoing.  Raja resigned in November, two days before the nation’s
chief auditor said in a report that the second-generation
airwaves were sold in 2008 for an “unbelievably low” $2.7
billion, causing a loss of as much as 1.4 trillion rupees ($31.4
billion) to the nation. Raja, his personal secretary and an ex-
bureaucrat were arrested in February.  Raja and the other former government officials were charged
under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The company officials
and companies were charged with “lesser offenses” under
statutes relating to conspiracy, cheating and forgery.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  has argued in court
that Raja conspired to benefit companies including the then-Swan
Telecom, now known as Etisalat DB Telecom India Pvt., and
Unitech by violating guidelines in the license sale.  License Applications  The Comptroller and Auditor General of India said in a
report submitted to parliament on Nov. 16 that applications from
companies including Swan and Unitech should have been rejected
because they were ineligible.  Swan Telecom suppressed information and submitted false
documents in its license application, the auditor said, while
six companies belonging to the Unitech Group also fraudulently
suppressed facts in their license applications, “misleading”
the  Department of Telecommunications  in order to win licenses in
20 service areas, the report said.  Department of Telecommunications rules stipulate that an
operator can’t own 10 percent or more in another operator that
provides services in the same telecom zone.  Reliance Telecom “held only 9.9 percent of the equity
share capital of Swan Telecom at the time of filing the relevant
license application in March 2007,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement Feb. 13.  The company said “as per the provisions of the Companies
Act 1956, the preference share capital held by Reliance Telecom
in Swan Telecom is not to be included for purposes of
determining shareholding levels.”  The next hearing in the case will occur April 13.  Reliance Telecom is a wholly owned unit of  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , the main company in Anil Ambani’s  Reliance
ADA Group .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
P.S. Patnaik in Delhi at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  