-- 
IPad-Eating Central Bankers Face Inflation Surge: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-04-03T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/ipad-eating-central-bankers-face-inflation-surge-william-pesek-commentary.html
The economics of production is
unpredictable. Just ask  Steve Jobs .  Stock analysts are buzzing about how Japan’s unfolding
crisis will affect production of iPhones and iPads. The country
is a vital hub for everything from flash memory chips to
batteries to the touch-screen overlay glass used in the  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  chief executive officer’s products.  A month ago, the worry was that companies were putting too
many production eggs in a single basket -- China. Here comes
highly developed Japan to remind us that the age of
globalization can surprise in tantalizing ways. Which Silicon
Valley or Detroit executive thought a magnitude 9.0 earthquake,
a 23-meter (75-foot) tsunami and crippled nuclear reactors might
knock a Group of Seven economy offline indefinitely?  Supply-chain disruptions are part of a bigger and
underappreciated phenomenon: the extent to which  Japan ’s plight
may worsen global inflation.  Along with forcing executives to scramble for production
options outside Japan -- an effort that puts the pricing power
in the hands of factory operators -- this crisis places
additional pressure on raw material and food prices. That’s
horrible news for Asia, where central bankers have been
scrambling to head off consumer-price gains.  Inflation Pressures  South Korean inflation climbed to the highest level in 29
months in March, adding pressure for another interest-rate
increase. Korea is one of eight Asian economies that tightened
monetary conditions last month.  India , the Philippines, Taiwan,
 Thailand  and Vietnam raised rates, while China and Malaysia told
lenders to set aside more cash as reserves.  Even with  China  now No. 1 in Asia, the region’s developing
economies are highly vulnerable to trade links with Japan. A
strong yen also gives Japan considerable purchasing power over
everything from food to oil to commodities needed to rebuild the
devastated northeastern Tohoku region.  Without talking hyperinflation here, Japan’s experience is
another force boosting costs. A look at disruptions to Asia’s
supply chain during the past dozen years -- the SARS epidemic in
2003 or the so-called Y2K computer scare at the turn of the
millennium -- buttresses the point. Both boosted prices for
consumers and producers.  Radiation Crisis  Price trends in microchips, lumber, liquefied natural gas
and other items show that investors sense a similar dynamic is
afoot. Also, Japan’s ongoing radiation crisis is causing
something approaching panic in overseas markets. Cargo ships and
airplanes are being turned away for the faintest hint of
radiation, no matter how minuscule. That too could boost global
prices.  Asia  was experiencing a food crisis long before Japan’s
March 11 quake. In February, the  World Bank  said global food
prices had surged to dangerous levels, pushing 44 million more
people into extreme poverty since June. Now, the region must
contend with a wealthy population of 127 million outbidding
everyone else for food.  Rising global prices aren’t just about too much demand
meeting too little supply. They’re also about too much liquidity
meeting too few investment opportunities. The  Bank of Japan ,
which has held rates near zero for a decade, pumped hundreds of
billions of dollars into the financial system since the quake.  Pedal to Metal  The  Federal Reserve  also is keeping its foot on the
monetary accelerator. Its own Japan-style quantitative-easing
campaign is flooding the world with liquidity at a time when
central bankers from  Brazil  to  Singapore  are struggling to keep
a lid on asset prices. A quirk of globalization is that BOJ and
Fed liquidity is doing more to pump up real estate and stock
values a world away than in their own domestic economies.  I wonder if that’s partly the point William Dudley,
president of the Fed Bank of  New York , was making in Queens last
month. Asked by a group of average Americans about surging food
and gas prices, Dudley pointed to Apple’s tablet as evidence
inflation isn’t a problem. Today, he reasoned, you can get the
newly improved iPad 2 for the same price as the original.  “I can’t eat an iPad!” quipped one member of the
guffawing crowd, according to Reuters. Another reportedly asked:
“When was the last time, sir, that you went grocery shopping?”  iPad Dining  Dudley was pointing out the Fed’s view that “core”
inflation is what matters. Yet he may have been referring,
indirectly, to the monetary leakage the central bank is
experiencing. The internationalization of the dollar and the  U.S.
economy  means the Fed’s largess is often felt more in Bangkok
and  Hong Kong  than  Cleveland  and  Albany .  That goes for the BOJ, too. A malfunctioning credit system
continues to hamper its decade-long battle to boost prices. As
the BOJ pumps more yen into the financial system, speculators
overseas will have more money with which to place bets. Put that
together with supply-chain snafus and a surge in demand for
commodities and you have a recipe for higher global costs.  Japan’s top exports in any given year include cars,
electronics, steel, video games, heavy machinery, comic books
and Hello Kitty. This year the nation has a new offering, one
the world may not like.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  