-- 
Japan Bond Yields Touch Three-Week High on Concern Auction Demand to Drop

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-04-04T06:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/japanese-bonds-may-decline-for-a-fourth-day-before-auction-of-10-year-debt.html
Japan ’s government bonds fell,
sending yields on 10-year debt to a three-week high, on
prospects demand will weaken tomorrow at the first auction of
the securities this fiscal year.  Bond futures held onto three days of losses on speculation
the government will have to issue more debt to finance
reconstruction after last month’s earthquake, the nation’s
biggest on record. Demand for the safety of debt declined after
a report last week showed U.S. unemployment dropped to a two-
year low, adding to evidence the world’s largest economy is
gaining momentum.  “Debt issuance will increase, weighing on the  bond
market ,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee about $17
billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co. in
 Tokyo . “Money managers are indecisive about their investment
stance around the beginning of a fiscal year, so we can hardly
expect a good result at tomorrow’s auction.”  The 10-year yield climbed 1.5 basis points to 1.295 percent
as of 3:32 p.m. at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent security due March 2021
fell 0.132 yen to 100.044 yen. The yield reached the highest
since March 10, the day before the magnitude-9 earthquake and
tsunami struck northeast Japan.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery were little changed
at 139.23 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Manufacturer Confidence  A central bank report today showed Japan’s large
manufacturers expect business confidence to decline in coming
months. The quarterly outlook index of sentiment is seen falling
to minus 2 in June from 6 in March, according to a breakdown of
the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey released today. The number of
responses to the poll after the earthquake was less than half
those made before the temblor.  The BOJ said the figures weren’t robust because only 2,618
responded after the disaster compared with 7,998 before.
Previously released numbers showed the figure was 6 through
March 31, from 5 in December.  There are “questions about the sample size,” said
Christian Carrillo, head of Asia-Pacific interest-rate strategy
in Tokyo at  Societe Generale .  The Ministry of Finance will sell 2.2 trillion yen ($26.1
billion) of 10-year bonds tomorrow. Primary dealers, which are
required to bid at government debt sales, often reduce holdings
before an auction in case prices decline before they can pass on
the new securities to investors.  The U.S. unemployment rate dropped to 8.8 percent in March,
the Labor Department said on April 1, compared with the 8.9
percent estimated by economists. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
increased 0.4 percent today after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.5 percent in  New York .  “Overseas economies are improving, which is a negative for
Japanese bonds,” Toyota Asset’s Hamasaki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 