-- 
New Zealand Budget Gap Narrower Than Forecast, Excluding Quake

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-04-03T23:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/new-zealand-budget-gap-narrower-than-forecast-excluding-quake.html
New Zealand ’s budget deficit was
narrower than forecast in the eight months through February, the
Treasury Department said in a review that didn’t include costs
of an earthquake that month.  The cash shortfall was NZ$10.83 billion ($8.3 billion) in
the eight months ended Feb. 28, or NZ$122 million narrower than
forecast in December’s fiscal update, the  Treasury  said in a
statement released in Wellington today.  Finance Minister Bill English last month forecast a record
deficit in the year ending June 30 because of costs and
declining revenue after the Feb. 22 earthquake that killed at
least 169 people and devastated buildings and infrastructure in
Christchurch, the nation’s second-biggest city. The estimates
will be updated in the budget on May 19.  “The earthquake will have a significant impact on the
government’s finances and the wider New Zealand economy for
years to come,” English said in an e-mailed statement today.
The government must “carefully consider its spending priorities
and set a credible path back to  budget surplus .”  Earthquake expenses will be included in financial
statements over coming months when they can be reliably
quantified and as policy decisions regarding earthquake recovery
are made, the Treasury said.  The deficit through February also includes a NZ$331 million
increase in the loss the government expects from a retail
deposit guarantee plan, which compensated depositors in failed
non-bank lenders. Much of the increase is due to lower
recoveries expected from loans by South Canterbury Finance,
English said. The full-year loss from the plan will be about
NZ$1.2 billion, he said.  The nation’s operating deficit excluding gains or losses on
investments was NZ$1.69 billion wider than forecast after
including the cost of NZ$1.5 billion, which will be incurred by
the state-owned Earthquake Commission, the department said. The
operating deficit was NZ$9.19 billion in the eight months
through February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  