-- 
Nigeria Delays Elections by a Week After Parliamentary Vote Ends in Chaos

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/nigeria-extends-voting-delay-one-week-to-april-9-election-commission-says.html
Nigeria , Africa’s top oil producer,
will hold general elections a week later than planned, the
electoral commission said, after a vote to elect lawmakers ended
in chaos on April 2.  Parliamentary elections, which had been rescheduled to
start today, will now take place on April 9, while the
presidential vote is set for April 16, Attahiru Jega, head of
the  Independent National Electoral Commission , said yesterday in
Abuja, the capital. The following week, voters will choose the
governors and legislatures of Nigeria’s 36 states, he said.  “This postponement gives INEC the opportunity to address
the logistical problems,” Clement Nwankwo, executive director
of the  Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre , which is monitoring the
electoral process, said by phone yesterday. “People’s
confidence to come out and vote may have been shaken by these
two postponements,” he said.  Some polling stations had opened on April 2 before they
were ordered to close because of the late arrival of voting
materials. Governor Tunde Fashola of Lagos state, which includes
the West African nation’s commercial capital, said on Lagos TV
that he was among those who voted. He challenged the electoral
commission to preserve the “integrity of the ballot.”  Elections in 2003 and 2007 were marred by violence, voter
intimidation and the stuffing of ballot boxes.  After meeting with political parties and civil-society
organizations, Jega said, “the commission has found that the
overwhelming sentiment is to further reschedule the elections.”  Opposition Parties  The parliamentary vote is for 109 Senate seats and 360
seats in the  House of Representatives . The main opposition
parties, Action Congress of Nigeria and the Congress for
Progressive Change, aim to cut the majority the People’s
 Democratic Party  won in both houses four years ago by saying it
failed to reduce poverty, corruption and violence.  The vote is a prelude to the presidential contest that pits
the incumbent,  Goodluck Jonathan , against 18 rivals, including
former military ruler Muhammadu Buhari and the ex-head of the
anti-graft agency,  Nuhu Ribadu , who is the candidate of the
Action Congress of Nigeria.  Nigeria is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports.
Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon, California,  Total SA (FP)  of
France and Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90
percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Election Violence  More than 50 people have died in election-related violence
since July, according to  Amnesty International , while sectarian
clashes in the north have claimed the lives of at least 200
since Dec. 24. In a March 3 attack, at least 10 people died when
explosives were hurled at a rally of the PDP in the town of
Suleja.  The concern about sectarian and election-related violence
has sparked domestic demand for foreign currency, central bank
Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a March 15 interview in Abuja.
That has weakened the naira, which reached an 18-month low
against the dollar on March 17.  “People want to see a smooth transition, a free and fair
election before they bring back the money,” he said.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 