-- 
Nuclear Crisis Puts 50 U.S. Aides in Japan to Help, Test Readiness at Home

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-04-03T22:21:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/nuclear-crisis-puts-50-u-s-aides-in-japan-testing-own-readiness.html
More than 50 U.S. nuclear
scientists, engineers and aides are in  Japan  helping its
government struggling to control a crippled power plant. In the
process, they are training for any future crisis at home.  A U.S. cargo plane or a UH-1 helicopter flies over Japan
every day that weather permits to collect air samples, while
equipment on the ground tracks radiation and Navy barges deliver
fresh water in the effort to cool fuel rods at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant.  Japan’s crisis is giving the U.S. government a chance to
test its readiness for a nuclear-plant accident under procedures
revamped after the  partial meltdown  at the Three Mile Island
plant in Pennsylvania 32 years ago showed weaknesses in
coordination among state and federal responders.  “Every time we deploy or exercise our teams, we gain
insights that help improve the U.S. emergency-response
capabilities,” said Damien LaVera, director of public affairs
at the National Nuclear Security Administration, the Energy
Department unit that prepares emergency plans.  There are 104 nuclear-power reactors in the U.S. Chicago-
based  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  owns the most U.S. nuclear plants, with 17
reactors at 10 sites.  The Energy Department and  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  are
providing technical expertise and monitoring equipment after the
magnitude-9 earthquake and subsequent tsunami on March 11 cut
off power at the Tokyo Electric Power Co. plant, leading to the
release of dangerous levels of radiation. Tokyo Electric used a
mix of polymer, sawdust and newsprint yesterday in an
unsuccessful effort to stop radioactive water from the stricken
plant seeping into the sea.  ‘All Over Japan’  While U.S. workers take measurements “all over Japan,”
they aren’t getting close enough to the plant site to require
protective suits, LaVera said.  The NRC, which oversees U.S. nuclear-plant safety, sent 11
people three days after the tsunami. Additional employees have
been dispatched “to continue our on-the-ground activities,”
Bill Borchardt, executive director of operations, told a Senate
energy panel March 29. The commission isn’t discussing specifics
of its role in Japan.  Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko was in Japan last week.  About 40 U.S. Energy Department personnel, accompanied by
17,200 pounds of equipment, were sent to Japan, according to the
department. The group includes about 26 employees from the
nuclear-security unit’s Consequence Management Response Teams
and arrived within four days.  The unit was created in 1999 as part of an effort to
improve emergency response after failures at the Pennsylvania
plant, about 10 miles south of Harrisburg, triggered a four-day
public-health crisis starting on March 28, 1979.  Three Mile Island  “After Three Mile Island, there was a big push to do a
better job of coordinating the federal government’s response,”
David Bowman, deputy director of emergency response for the
National Nuclear Security Administration, said in an interview.  The consequence-management teams deployed once, in 2000, to
the Los Alamos National Laboratory in  New Mexico , a nuclear
research facility where the U.S. built the atomic bomb, when
that site was threatened by the Cerro Grande fire, Bowman said.
The blaze had been set by U.S. officials to destroy fire
hazards, and burned out of control, an investigation found.  “There are many, many people who are assisting the
Japanese government,” U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, winner
of the 1997  Nobel Prize  in Physics, said April 1 at a breakfast
with reporters in Washington.  U.S. energy officials in Japan include a nuclear engineer
who speaks Japanese and specialists who track levels of
radiation based on 200 data points gathered every hour.  Robotic Device  An aerial monitoring system from the U.S. logged more than
130 flight hours near the stricken Japanese plant as of March
29. The system detected the highest radiation levels 13 miles
(21 kilometers) northwest of the plant last month, according to
data posted on the Energy Department website.  The U.S. is prepared to send Japan a robotic device with a
camera to reach sections of the plant where radiation makes it
dangerous for humans, Peter Lyons, acting assistant secretary
for nuclear energy, told the Senate Energy Committee on March
29.  U.S. operators may be sent to train Japanese officials in
using the robots, which are controlled on site, he said.  All data collected is shared with Japanese officials and
Americans in Japan and in the U.S., Bowman said in an interview.  The response teams, stationed at U.S. consulates and
military installations, have gone out each day to monitor
radiation and help analyze and organize data, LaVera said.  Fighting Fatigue  Team members are returning to the U.S. and are being
replaced by colleagues to avoid fatigue, and not because of
exposure to radiation, LaVera said.  The U.S. Defense Department has said it expects to send as
much as $80 million in humanitarian assistance for Japan.  The Navy used barges to deliver fresh water to cool the
damaged reactors. Chu called that effort a “very big deal,”
given the setbacks suffered by plant officials in maintaining a
steady stream to cool fuel rods in water pools. The tsunami
knocked out primary and backup power, and water in the cooling
pools evaporated.  Loss of water may have led to partial meltdowns at three of
six reactors, resulting in radiation leaks, Chu said.  U.S. scientists and engineers are helping Japanese
officials think through “a way in order to get a secondary
cooling route, so you can actually inject cooling water, take
heat out but without releasing steam,” Chu said at the
breakfast sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  