-- 
Obama Said to Start Preparing Documents for His 2012 Re-Election Campaign

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-04-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/obama-said-to-start-preparing-documents-for-his-2012-re-election-campaign.html
President  Barack Obama  will file
Federal Election Commission paperwork for his re-election bid as
early as today, according to a person familiar with the planning
who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  The filing would allow Obama, 49, to begin fundraising and
other organizational efforts for his goal of winning a second
White House term. The campaign will have its headquarters in
Chicago, his adopted hometown and base for his 2008 victory.  “I can’t get reelected and make sure that we’re carrying
on the mandate that you gave us two and a half years ago unless
I’ve got everybody here all in,” Obama said at a Democratic
fundraising event in Miami on March 4. “We don’t just want your
money. We want your time and we want your energy. We want your
ideas. We want you passionate about this being important.”  The president is getting his campaign underway as he is
confronting his biggest foreign policy challenge with the
turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa and continued
economic stress at home.  The national  unemployment rate  is projected to be 8.3
percent in 2012, according to a median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News in March. While that would be down
from 8.8 percent now, no president since World War II has been
re-elected with the jobless rate higher than 7.5 percent.  Chicago, California  Obama likely will formally announce his candidacy at a
later date. He is scheduled to make an April 14 fundraising stop
in Chicago, where donors four years ago provided him some of his
earliest seed money. Additional April fundraising events are
being planned in California, the person familiar with Obama’s
campaign planning said.  Analysts who track fundraising say they expect the 2012
presidential election to cost $3 billion, about 50 percent more
than the $2 billion the  Federal Election Commission  said was
spent in 2008 by candidates, the political parties and outside
groups. Obama raised a record $745 million in 2007 and 2008 for
his presidential campaign and was the first major-party nominee
to reject public financing for the general election.  Jim Messina , a former White House deputy chief of staff,
has moved to Chicago to run the campaign. Also back in Chicago
to handle the campaign’s messaging is  David Axelrod , a former
senior Obama adviser.  Job Approval  The president’s job approval was at 42 percent in a
 Quinnipiac University poll  taken March 22-28 with an error
margin of plus-or-minus 2.2 percentage points. That was down
from 46 percent in a March 3 Quinnipiac survey and at its lowest
level in the university’s surveys on Obama.  Also, 50 percent of the registered voters surveyed by the
Hamden, Connecticut-based polling institute said Obama didn’t
deserve re-election in 2012, compared with 41 percent who said
he should receive a second four-year term.  In a hypothetical race with an unidentified Republican
opponent, voter sentiment was statistically tied: 36 percent for
Obama, 37 percent for a Republican.  The Republican nomination contest remains wide open, with
potential candidates ranging from real estate developer  Donald Trump  to former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty .  Some of the other prospective Republican candidates include
former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who won the Iowa
caucuses in 2008, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney,
former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, Governor Mitch Daniels of
Indiana, and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who is stepping
down as ambassador to China in April.  Republican Race  Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour has expressed interest
in the Republican race, as has former Senator Rick Santorum of
Pennsylvania. The lack of a clear frontrunner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota,
a Tea Party favorite, to position themselves for potential runs.  The Republicans have already been traveling to Iowa and
other early voting states such as  New Hampshire ,  South Carolina 
and Nevada. The  Iowa  caucuses, the first electoral test in the
nomination process, are tentatively scheduled for Feb. 6, 2012.  Pawlenty announced March 21 that he is forming a committee
to explore a bid, becoming the first major prospective candidate
to do so. Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  said March 3 he was
creating a  website  to explore a run.  Four years ago, when no incumbent was in the presidential
contest, a total of 17 Republicans and Democrats had signaled
their candidacies or set up exploratory committees by the end of
January 2007, including Obama and then-Senator  Hillary Clinton 
of  New York , who now serves as secretary of state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  