-- 
Obama Calls for Tolerance in Afghanistan After UN Mission Attack, Protests

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 
2011-04-03T01:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/obama-calls-for-tolerance-in-afghanistan-after-un-mission-attack-protests.html
President  Barack Obama  called for
tolerance in Afghanistan after the burning of a Koran in the U.S.
prompted an attack that killed seven United Nations workers and
sparked violent anti-U.S. protests in the country.  “Now is a time to draw upon the common humanity we that
share,” Obama said in a statement yesterday issued by the White
House in  Washington . “The desecration of any holy text,
including the Koran, is an act of extreme intolerance and
bigotry. However, to attack and kill innocent people in response
is outrageous.”  The seven UN workers were killed in the city of Mazar-e-
Sharif, in northern Afghanistan on April 1. Florida pastor  Terry
Jones  last month oversaw the burning of a Koran, carrying out
the act after last year backing away from a threat to torch the
Muslim holy book amid U.S. government warnings such an act would
hurt Middle Eastern relations.  At least nine people were killed in two days of protests,
including a demonstration in the center of the southern city of
Kandahar yesterday, the provincial authority said.  Demonstrators stormed a UN compound in Mazar-e-Sharif,
killing four Nepalese security guards and three workers from
Norway, Romania and  Sweden , the UN said.  “No religion tolerates the slaughter and beheading of
innocent people, and there is no justification for such a
dishonorable and deplorable act,” Obama said about the deaths
of the UN workers. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called the
attacks “cowardly,” adding such acts “cannot be justified
under any circumstances.”  Kandahar Protest  Protesters shouted “Death to America” as they spread from
the center of Kandahar, Zalmai Ayoubi, a spokesman for the
Kandahar province, said by phone yesterday.  “Police had to open fire, aiming their shots in the air,
to stop them marching on the United Nations office,” he said.
“The police were trying to stop them but they attacked the
police.”  Ghulam Yahya Toryalai, a 27-year-old shopkeeper, said he
joined the protests to show his anger over the burning.  “A bloody person by the name of Jones insulted our most
holy book,” Toryalai said. “He should have been hanged by
someone.”  The casualties were all Afghan civilians caught in the
protests, Ayoubi said.  Jones oversaw the burning of a Koran at his church in
Gainesville,  Florida , on March 20,  USA Today  reported. The
burning was done by Wayne Sapp, a colleague of Jones, the
newspaper said. Jones threatened last year to burn a copy of the
sacred book of Islam on the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks on the U.S.  Karzai’s Call  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  called Ban Ki-moon to express
his “grief over the attack” and convey “the sadness of the
people and the government of Afghanistan to the mourning
families of the victims,” according to a statement from
Karzai’s office yesterday.  Munir Ahmad Farhad, a spokesman representing the Balkh
province in Mazar-e-Sharif, said the attack was conducted by the
Taliban. The group rejects the allegation, its spokesman
Zabihullah Mujahed said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul,  Afghanistan  at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  