-- 
Tokyo Electric Uses Sawdust in Attempt to Stop Radiation Leaking Into Sea

-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-04-03T12:31:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/tokyo-electric-uses-sawdust-in-attempt-to-stop-radiation-leaking-into-sea.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. used a mix
of polymer, sawdust and newsprint in an attempt to stop
radioactive water from the stricken Fukushima nuclear plant
seeping into the sea.  The absorbent material was injected into a power-cable
storage pit from where polluted water is escaping through a
crack, the power utility said today at a briefing in Tokyo. It
will introduce a tracer to the pit to check whether the
operation has been successful.  Tokyo Electric, which has been working to stop radiation
leaks since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out the
plant’s cooling systems, also plans to start infusing nitrogen
gas into the reactors today to reduce the threat of hydrogen
explosions, and is connecting power cables to pumps.  “The water-absorbent polymer has never been used before in
these cases so I’m not sure whether this works well or not,”
said Suh Kune Yull, a professor of  Nuclear Energy System
Engineering at Seoul National University . “It may not be easy
as the leaking pit is very wide.”  Radiation in contaminated seawater near the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant was measured at more than 1,000 millisieverts an
hour,  Tokyo Electric  said yesterday in a statement. Exposure to
that level for an hour would trigger nausea, and four hours
might lead to death within two months, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  “The level of radiation may not affect the seawater and
fish, which are moving, but it’s enough to contaminate sea algae
and clams near the plant if Japan fails to block the leak
soon,” Suh said by phone from Seoul.  Bodies Found  The bodies of two workers missing since the March 11
earthquake were found today, Tokyo Electric said. They had been
performing maintenance in the basement of the No. 4 reactor at
the plant, the company said today on a news conference streamed
over the Internet. The latest deaths bring to seven the number
of workers killed at Tokyo Electric’s two nuclear power
complexes in Fukushima, including five employees of sub-
contractors whose deaths were confirmed on March 12 and 14.  The total number of dead and missing from the disaster in
 Japan  was 27,481 as of 10 a.m. Tokyo time today.  It may take several months to stop the emission of
radioactive material, Goshi Hosono, a lawmaker in the  Democratic
Party  of Japan in the ruling coalition, told reporters. Hosono
is an envoy between the government and Tokyo Electric.  Radiation Levels  A company executive said earlier today he isn’t optimistic
about the prospect of containing damage at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear power plant’s No. 3 reactor.  “I don’t know if we can ever enter the No. 3 reactor
building again,” Hikaru Kuroda, the company’s chief of nuclear
facility management, said at a press conference.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency yesterday
ordered Tokyo Electric to increase monitoring of seawater near
the No. 2 reactor after the leaks led to a rise in radiation,
agency Deputy Director Hidehiko Nishiyama said. Above-normal
levels of radioactive iodine were detected in seawater 40
kilometers (25 miles) south of the plant, broadcaster NHK
reported.  About 10 centimeters (4 inches) to 20 centimeters of
radioactive water was found in the leaking pit, which is 1.2
meters by 1.9 meters across and 2 meters deep, and had a crack
about 20 centimeters wide, Takashi Kurita, a company spokesman,
told reporters at a briefing at Tokyo Electric’s Tokyo
headquarters.  Tokyo Electric tried to plug the crack by filling the pit
near reactor No. 2 with concrete yesterday, Junichi Matsumoto,
another company official, said at a later press conference.
Water in the pit was found to have 10,000 times the normal level
of toxic iodine 131, he said.  Kyodo News  first reported the leak
yesterday.  Offering Help  The pit is separate from the trenches where the company
found contaminated water earlier, Susumu Tsuzuki, a Tokyo
Electric nuclear facility maintenance official, told reporters.  General Electric Co. (GE)  Chief Executive Officer Jeff Immelt
will meet officials from Tokyo Electric as the utility struggles
to stabilize its damaged reactors, designed by the U.S. company.  Immelt is traveling to Japan “to meet with employees,
partners and customers including Tokyo Electric,” Deirdre
Latour, a GE spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Reactors at the
crippled plant are based on a four-decade-old design from
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE.  Nitrogen Infusion  Tokyo Electric plans to begin infusing nitrogen into the
plant today, Tsunoda said, without specifying where. Several
hydrogen explosions happened when the gas was released from
overheating reactors after the March 11 tsunami knocked out
their cooling systems.  A 9-magnitude earthquake and subsequent tsunami severed
power and damaged reactors at the Fukushima complex about 220
kilometers (136 miles) north of Tokyo. Workers have been
spraying water on the reactors to cool radioactive fuel rods in
the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl in 1986.  Tokyo Electric said it is connecting power cables to
cooling systems on three of four damaged reactors. Connecting
power may not work because of potential damage caused by blasts
that ripped through the plant in the days after the quake.  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan yesterday made his second
visit to the areas hit by the quake and tsunami, according to
the prime ministers website. Kan flew on a helicopter to Iwate
prefecture in the northeast to meet with evacuees and then went
to neighboring Fukushima prefecture to talk with Self-Defense
Forces members and other workers at the Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shinhye Kang in  Seoul  at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  