-- 
Tepco Dumps Radioactive Water Into Sea on Safety Concerns

-- B y   I c h i r o   S u z u k i   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-04-04T18:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/tokyo-electric-s-plan-to-plug-leaking-radioactive-water-with-sawdust-fails.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. began
dumping radioactive water from its crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station into the sea so that it would have a place to
store more highly contaminated water.  The government approved the discharge so that Tepco, as the
utility is known, can drain turbine buildings for the Nos. 2 and
3 reactors of water so radioactive it burned workers, the chief
cabinet secretary said.  “We didn’t have any other alternatives,”  Yukio Edano  told
reporters in Tokyo. “This is a measure we had to take to secure
safety.”  Tepco has been battling to restart cooling pumps that were
knocked out by a March 11 quake and tsunami, resulting in a
partial meltdown of some of the plant’s six reactors. Tokyo
Electric plans to release 11,500 tons of water containing
radioactive iodine levels about 100 times the regulatory limit.  “Until they get rid of that water they can’t get in there
to sort out the pumps,” Robin Grimes, a professor of materials
physics at Imperial College in  London , said by telephone. “If
they’re going against regulatory guidelines, that’s definitely
not something you’d want to do unless you had very little choice.
It’s the least worst option.”  Deliberate Release  Tepco will discharge 10,000 tons (2.6 million gallons) of
water from its waste treatment facility and another 1,500 tons
accumulated in pits outside reactor Nos. 5 and 6, said Masateru
Araki, a company spokesman.  Filtering radiation from the water would take too long and
its release will help protect equipment in the buildings housing
the reactors, Junichi Matsumoto, a Tepco spokesman, said at a
news conference streamed over the Internet.  The potential additional radiation dose to a person eating
seaweed or seafood caught near the plant every day for a year
would be 0.6 millisievert, the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  said in a  statement . That compares to 0.85 millsievert
from a year of exposure to granite that comprises the U.S.
Capitol, according to the  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers .  Radioactive iodine in seawater near the plant was 630 times
the regulatory limit, Tepco said in a statement. The sample was
taken 330 meters south of a water discharge.  The company released the information after being ordered
by Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency to reevaluate
radiation data after publishing errors.  Specialists from sensor manufacturers will follow
procedures used by other utilities to determine the
radioactivity of air in the plant, the spilled water, and the
ocean nearby, the company said today in a statement on its
website.  Plugging a Crack  Tepco had been struggling to stop contaminated water from
reactor No. 2 from leaking into the ocean through a conduit used
to take in seawater.  The company first tried to plug a crack in a power-cable
storage pit near the reactor by filling it with concrete on
April 2, and yesterday attempted to clog it with a mix of
sawdust, newspaper and absorbent polymer used in baby diapers.  The utility plans to build an undersea silt barrier to stop
the leak of radioactive fluids and help contain toxic water
within the conduit, Hidehiko Nishiyama,  Japan ’s spokesman on
nuclear safety, said in Tokyo yesterday.  “A silt fence ensures that mud down deep doesn’t seep
through,” Nishiyama said. The barrier may take “several days”
to install.  Threat Not Severe  A silt fence is usually used to filter dirt and solid
impurities in rivers and seas during construction, said
Yoshinori Hashimoto, a spokesman at Maeda Kosen Co., which makes
industrial materials made from fiber, including the barriers.
They are also used at the seawater intake gate of nuclear  power
plants , he said, adding that neither Tepco nor the government
has approached the company to place an order.  The leak itself may not pose a severe threat, said Kathryn
Higley, professor of nuclear engineering and radiation health
physics at  Oregon State University .  “You’re likely to have a footprint in the soil and the
sands and sediments as that material leaks out, but the impact
is likely to be pretty minimal,” Higley said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Even if it does get out into that marine
environment, that area around there has been pretty badly torn
up, so there’s not a lot of life to be impacting.”  Tepco and government officials met  Jeffrey Immelt , chief
executive officer of  General Electric Co. (GE) , to discuss technical
support to contain the crisis at the Fukushima reactors that are
based on the U.S. company’s design.  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE has offered technical
assistance and help through its venture with  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  Immelt
met with Tepco officials including Chairman Tsunehisa Katsumata
yesterday and Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  yesterday.  GE will offer gas turbines to ease energy shortages in the
Tokyo region, Immelt told reporters after meeting Kaieda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  