-- 
Fight for Ivory Coast's Abidjan Enters Fifth Day, Food Supplies Run Short

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r ,   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-04-04T13:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/ouattara-urges-probe-into-ivory-coast-massacre-as-abidjan-clashes-continue.html
The fight for Abidjan, the
commercial capital of Ivory Coast, continued for a fifth day
with few residents daring to go outdoors and food supplies in
the city of four million beginning to run short.  Heavy gunfire and loud explosions were heard from the
direction of the Plateau neighborhood near the presidential
palace about 6 a.m. this morning. Gunfire was also heard in
Cocody, where Gbagbo has a house,  Agence France-Presse  said,
citing people it didn’t identify.  Forces loyal to President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  have
captured much of the city since the start of their attack on
March 31, while fighting continues around the presidential
palace and at some army bases, residents said. The whereabouts
of incumbent leader  Laurent Gbagbo  are unknown.  “I haven’t been able to go out of my flat since
Thursday,” Laurent Kone, a resident of the Blockhaus area, said
by phone late yesterday. “I have almost nothing to eat at home
anymore. I’m hungry. All the shops on my street are closed.”  A month ago, Ouattara’s militia, known as the Republican
Forces, started to move south from their bases in the north of
the country, the world’s biggest cocoa producer. They swept
through much of the country in the past 10 days as Gbagbo’s
troops offered little resistance.  Final Assault  Guillaume Soro, prime minister in Ouattara’s
administration, said the Republican Forces were planning a rapid
offensive to take the rest of Abidjan.  After surrounding the city, “the situation is now mature
enough” to launch the final offensive, he said on Ouattara’s
television station.  Cocoa prices in rose for a second day, gaining 1.2 percent
to $3,048 a metric ton at 12:07 p.m. in Abidjan as the crisis
held up exports from the world’s largest producer of the
chocolate ingredient.  Ivory Coast ’s defaulted 2032 Eurobonds fell for the first
day in a week, declining 1.2 percent to 48.300 cents on the
dollar as of 12:13 p.m. local time, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Militias  Troops from  France , the former colonial power, have taken
control of the international airport, while  United Nations 
peacekeepers are trying to keep some order in the city, where
many shops were looted in recent days and militias from both
sides are on the streets.  “I’ve seen small groups of young guys wearing jeans and T-
shirts carrying Kalashnikovs,” said Didier Amani, who lives
near the airport. “They drive around in cars without license
plates or in taxis. I can’t tell if they are pro-Gbagbo or pro-
Ouattara. It’s unsettling.”  Three people have been killed by stray bullets at the PISAM
hospital in Cocody since the fighting started, said Gilles
Tiesso, who has been stuck at the hospital since April 1 when
his wife gave birth.  Some supermarkets reopened today, with people stocking up
on everything they could find.  Prices have soared for the few food items still available,
with bread rising to 250  CFA francs  (54 cents) from 150, said
Marie-Laure Djiboly, another resident of the city.  “I saw a group of people arguing over bread in front of a
bakery,” she said by phone late yesterday.  International Pressure  The  United Nations , the U.S., the  African Union  and the
U.K. are calling on Gbagbo, 65, to hand power over to Ouattara,
69, whom they recognize as the winner of the nation’s first
election in a decade on Nov. 28. Gbagbo says there was
widespread voter fraud and he won.  Phillippe Mangou, the head of Gbagbo’s army who last week
took refuge in the residence of the South African ambassador,
has left the envoy’s house, Clayson Monyela, a spokesman for
 South Africa ’s foreign ministry, said in an interview.  As the situation deteriorated,  Singapore ’s GMG Global Ltd.
suspended operations at its rubber facilities, which account for
12 percent of exports from  Africa ’s largest producer of the
commodity, the company said in a statement on its  website .  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest container
shipping line, would be able to send ships to Ivory Coast
“immediately” if the European Union were to lift sanctions
against the country, Sonny Dahl, director of West Africa
services at the company said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Massacre  The  International Committee of the Red Cross  said on April
2 that at least 800 people were killed in “inter-communal
violence” in the western town of Duekoue after it was captured
by the Republican Forces. Aid groups didn’t say who was
responsible for the deaths.  Ouattara’s Justice Ministry denied the involvement of their
forces in the massacre and called for an international
investigation.  “The government reiterates its appeal to human-rights
organizations to come and investigate in Ivory Coast, so that we
may know the truth about the perpetrators of massive violations
of human rights,” the ministry said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. is
“deeply concerned by the dangerous and deteriorating situation
in Cote d’Ivoire, including recent reports of gross human rights
abuses and potential massacres in the west,” according to an e-
mailed statement dated April 1. “Gbagbo is pushing Cote
d’Ivoire into lawlessness,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Abidjan at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 