-- 
Parmalat, Intesa, Paschi, STM, Eni, Enel: Italy Equity Preview

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-04-04T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/parmalat-intesa-paschi-stm-eni-enel-italy-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ shares may
have unusual price changes in Italian trading. Stock symbols are
in parentheses and share prices are from the previous close.  Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  gained 240.33, or 1.1
percent, to 21,967.77 in Milan.  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  : Groupe Lactalis said in an e-mailed
statement that the Parmalat board’s decision to delay its
shareholders meeting to June 25-28 is “illegitimate.”
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  signed a letter with Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and
 Mediobanca SpA (MB)  outlining their support for an eventual Italian
investment group for the diary maker, Unicredit Chief Executive
Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  said. Food company Barilla denied
press reports that’s interested in Parmalat. Italian Finance
Minister Giulio Tremonti reiterated that the government’s decree
authorizing state purchases of stakes in companies deemed
strategic, such as Parmalat, is modeled on a French measure. The
shares advanced 1.2 percent to 2.39 euros.  Intesa SanPaolo SpA (ISP)  : Intesa unit Banca IMI will
lead the underwriting group for the bank’s proposed capital
increase of about 5 billion euros ($7.1 billion), daily  Il Sole
24 Ore  reported, without saying where it got the information.
The shares gained 1.1 percent to 2.11 euros.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Sinea SpA (BMPS IM): The Siena,
Tuscany-based lender is considering raising 2 billion euros in
new capital, La Stampa reported, without saying where it got the
information. The bank’s board may approve the recapitalization
by mid-May, Stampa added. The shares added 1.3 percent to 89
euro cents.  STMicroelectronics N.V. (STM IM): Last month’s earthquake
in Japan is having little impact on Europe’s largest chipmaker,
 Corriere della Sera  reported, citing an interview with Chief
Executive Officer Carlo Bozotti. The shares climbed 0.2 percent
to 8.81 euros.  Eni SpA (ENI)  ,  Enel SpA (ENEL)   and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) 
: The Italian government will present lists for the
boards of three companies it controls and indicate their chief
executive officers after the close of trading today, Corriere
della Sera reported, without saying where it got the
information. Separately, Eni won a U.S. permit to drill in the
deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. Interior Department
said. Eni gained 1.9 percent to 17.65 euros, Enel rose 1.1
percent to 4.50 euros, Finmeccanica increased 0.7 percent to
8.94 euros.  -- Editors: Ana Monteiro, Linda Shen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  