-- 
Air France 2009 Crash Wreckage Found in Atlantic, Boosting Investigation

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-04-04T14:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/parts-of-crashed-air-france-jet-found-in-ocean-by-investigators.html
Wreckage and bodies from the 2009
Air  France  crash were located at the bottom of the Atlantic
Ocean, stoking optimism that investigators may be able to
determine the cause of the disaster that killed 228 people.  Debris from  Flight 447  was located about 3,900 meters (12,800
feet) below the surface by the Alucia search vessel, said Jean- Paul Troadec, the director of France’s BEA air-crash
investigation agency. The discovery follows three failed
attempts to locate the aircraft, which went down on June 1,
2009, traveling to Paris Charles De Gaulle airport from  Brazil .  The discovery of the Airbus jet fragments “gives hope that
information on the causes of the accident, so far unresolved,
will be found,”  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group Chief Executive Officer
Pierre-Henri Gourgeon said in an  statement  yesterday.  Locating the wreck, which includes an engine, the fuselage
and a piece of the wing, is the most significant breakthrough
yet in a 22-month search for the Airbus SAS A330 aircraft and
its data recorders that may help explain the crash. Air France
and Airbus have both been charged with manslaughter over the
accident, the worst in the Paris-based airline’s history.  Many Bodies  Salvage teams may start hauling up the first pieces of
debris in the next three weeks, French Transport Minister
Thierry Mariani said at a press conference in Paris today. The
pieces found so far point to the wreckage being spread over a
“relatively limited” flat and sandy zone just north of the
aircraft’s last known position, Troadec said at the event.  So far, the flight recorders have not been discovered, and
recovering the boxes takes “first priority,” said Alain Bouillard, the BEA chief investigator. The submarines that
located the debris also found “many” bodies, he said. Some
13,000 photos have been taken, and not all have been analyzed.  None of the images sighted so far give a clearer
explanation of why the aircraft fell from the sky in mid flight,
said Bouillard, who will lead the recovery effort. Parts of the
landing gear were also discovered, the investigators said.  “This is really good news,” said  Paul Hayes , director of
air safety at Ascend, a London-based aviation consulting firm .
“Without those recorders, the action report on the crash would
have to look at a number of scenarios, but you couldn’t say
which one was most likely.”  Engine Software  Even if one or both flight recorders aren’t retrieved,
Hayes said investigators may still be able to pull information
from software in the engine that stores data about the
aircraft’s behavior.  The flight recorders store detailed records of the pilots’
conversations as well as technical information. The boxes are
designed to withstand heavy impact and emit a signal for several
weeks to help recovery.  Troadec said recorders of the type used on the Airbus jet
have never spent so long at this depth, raising uncertainty that
they will still be in a readable state. A decision on whether to
bring up all the debris or just some chunks will depend on how
much information can be gleaned from the boxes, he said.  Other black boxes found more than a year after an accident
have yielded information. In the case of a South African Airways
 Boeing Co. (BA)  747 that crashed in the  Indian Ocean  in 1987, a deep-
water recovery team found the voice recorder in 16,000 feet of
water more than a year later. Both Airbus and Air France have
helped fund the cost of the search for the Air France jet.  No Certainty  The BEA has said there can be no certainty about the cause
of the accident unless the black boxes are found.  “Airbus welcomes the news of the discovery of the AF447
wreckage,” said  Stefan Schaffrath , a spokesman for the
Toulouse-based planemaker. “We do hope that this discovery will
lead to the retrieval and the reading of the two recorders
because these data are essential for the understanding of this
accident.”  Air France and Airbus have both said they disagree with the
preliminary manslaughter charges that were laid against them
last month by a French investigating judge. France is one of the
few countries in the world where fatal accidents automatically
prompt criminal probes that run alongside investigations by
aviation authorities.  The BEA has said a contributing factor to the crash may
have been speed sensors, or Pitot tubes, icing up and causing
unreliable readings. The agency made the suggestion after
reviewing data transmitted in the last minutes before the crash.  Gourgeon said last month there’s no evidence that the crash
was caused by the Pitot tubes, which were made by  Thales SA. (HO) 
Alain Bouillard, BEA chief investigator, also said last year
that speed-sensor failure couldn’t alone explain the crash, and
that aviation records in  Europe  and the U.S. document dozens of
incidents where the probes failed and pilots retained control.  Still, within three months of the accident, authorities in
Europe and the U.S. ordered carriers to replace Thales Pitot
tubes fitted on Airbus A330s with ones made by  Goodrich Corp. (GR)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  