-- 
Poland May Raise Benchmark Rate to Contain Rising Inflation Expectations

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-04-03T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/poland-may-raise-rates-to-contain-rising-inflation-expectations.html
Poland’s central bank will probably
raise  interest rates  at a meeting that starts today to damp
inflationary expectations as consumer prices already grow faster
than targeted by policy makers.  The Monetary Policy Council will lift the benchmark seven-
day rate by a quarter-point to 4 percent, according to 21 of 30
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Nine expect borrowing costs to
remain unchanged. The Warsaw-based central bank will announce
its decision tomorrow.  Policy makers across the globe are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, driven by surging food and fuel prices.
The Narodowy Bank Polski, which last month refrained from
raising interest rates a second time this year, will have to
react to consumers’ increasing price expectations, said
economists including Adam Antoniak at Bank BPH in Warsaw.  "A sharp growth of inflationary expectations is likely to
tip the scale and prompt the Monetary Policy Council to raise
rates," he said. "It boosts concerns that price growth will
spark wage demands, even though the data from labor market that
we have seen so far are still mixed."  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs
through December indicate Polish rates will rise by 96 basis
points, based on the difference between the nine-month contract
and the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate to which it
settles. The yield on  Poland ’s two-year bonds increased 29 basis
points this year, the most in three quarters.  ‘No Choice’  While policy makers "will have no choice" but to raise
rates, markets are overestimating the scale of tightening,
central bank Governor Marek Belka said on March 22.  The increased rate bets disregard wage growth slowing  and
unemployment rising to a year-high in February, which ease
concern over demand growth.  That may provide an argument for holding off on another
rate increase until next month, when policy makers may have more
evidence of mounting inflation pressure, according to Arkadiusz Krzesniak, an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Warsaw who
predicted borrowing costs would remain unchanged.  "The data on economic activity are not strong enough," he
said by phone. "Policy makers are likely to put a hike on hold
until the inflation report shows that inflationary pressure
strengthens in the economy. I believe rates will rise in May."  ‘Inflationary Tensions’  Inflation was 3.6 percent if February, exceeding the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target for a fifth month. Consumers
expect the rate to rise to 4.6 percent within the next 12
months, according to a central bank survey released on March 31.  "Inflation is on an upward track and it most likely neared
4 percent in March, which sustains inflationary tensions and
threatens to destabilize inflation expectations," said Marcin Mazurek, an economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw.  Poland followed  Hungary ’s policy makers and lifted its
borrowing costs in January, first time since June 2008, to cool
inflation expectations and tame wage demands.  The  European Central Bank  has signaled it may raise its
main lending rate from a record low of 1 percent next week to
fight increasing price pressures even after  Japan ’s March 21
earthquake and the ensuing nuclear disaster.  Crude  oil prices  have surged 15 percent this year, pushing
euro-region inflation to 2.6 percent last month. ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  and his Governing Council meet April 7, a
month after signaling a plan to increase the refinancing rate by
a quarter point from a record 1 percent.  ‘Right Moment’  Polish borrowing costs should rise in the second quarter to
tame inflation expectations, Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, a member
of the Monetary Policy Council, said on March 18. Her colleague
 Andrzej Bratkowski  said on March 10 that the main rate needs to
reach 4.25 percent by June to keep price growth in check.  "There are few arguments for raising rates generally and
these include inflation hovering above the target," said  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist at Citibank Handlowy in Warsaw. "April
is the right moment due to the ECB’s restrictive rhetoric, so if
the  National Bank of Poland  mulls a rate hike in the second
quarter, it’s better to do it earlier."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  