-- 
Qaddafi Emissary Meets Greece's Papandreou as U.S. Extends Air Assistance

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-04-03T21:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/qaddafi-emissary-meets-greece-s-papandreou-as-u-s-extends-air-assistance.html
An emissary of  Muammar Qaddafi  met
with  Greece ’s prime minister in  Athens  today and may be
seeking a political or diplomatic solution for hostilities in
the north African country, according to Greek Foreign Minister
Dimitris Droutsas.  Greek officials have had “a series of diplomatic contacts
over recent days,” including a discussion with Libya’s prime
minister, leading to today’s talks, Droutsas said in a statement
on the foreign ministry website. “From what was said” by
Libyan representative Abdul Ati al-Obeidi during a meeting with
Greek leader  George Papandreou , “it appears that the regime is
also seeking a solution,” Droutsas said.  Al-Obeidi said he will continue diplomatic contacts
tomorrow in  Turkey  and Malta, Droutsas said.  “It is necessary for there to be a serious attempt for
peace, for stability in the region,” the Greek foreign minister
said.  NATO today said the U.S. would extend through the weekend
its combat role in air strikes against forces loyal to the
Libyan leader.  In Brussels, NATO spokeswoman Oana Lungescu said that
because of poor weather over the last few days, NATO had asked
that U.S. strike aircraft continue to fly and support the allied
planes attacking Qaddafi’s ground forces.  U.S. Strike Aircraft  The Pentagon, in a release via Twitter, said the U.S.
agreed to extend the use of U.S. strike aircraft through
tomorrow.  Al-Obeidi, whose name has also been transliterated from
Arabic as Abdelaati Obeidi and Abdelaati Laabidi in news
stories, was reported by the Tunisian  news agency  to have
crossed into Tunisia from Libya earlier today.  NATO and allied officials are increasing efforts to find a
diplomatic solution in Libya to avoid being drawn further into
fighting there. Greece’s Papandreou has spoken with the prime
ministers of the U.K., Turkey, Qatar and Libya regarding the
situation in Libya since April 1, the prime minister’s office
said in a statement today.  The Libyan government is open to talks to find an end to
the conflict, al-Obeidi, a former prime minister, told British
television on April 1. British officials also met with Mohammed
Ismail, a senior aide to one of Qaddafi’s sons, the New York
Times reported.  Proposed Resolution  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, is also proposing a
resolution, one that would entail his father relinquishing power
to his son, the  New York  Times reported today, citing an
unidentified diplomat with close ties to the government. Neither
Qaddafi nor the rebels appear ready to accept the proposal, the
newspaper cited the diplomat as saying.  Libyan rebels faced setbacks on the ground, including the
deaths of at least 13 fighters when their convoy was mistakenly
hit by an allied air strike.  NATO said it was “looking into” the reports of the strike
near Brega yesterday while the leaders of the rebellion, who are
based in the eastern city of Benghazi, said their own fighters
were at fault.  “Unfortunately, the rebels were not organized, and there
were some individuals from Qaddafi’s troops among them,” said
Abdel Fatah Younis, head of the rebellion’s military efforts and
former Libyan interior minister, according to  Al Jazeera . “One
of them opened fire at one of the coalition’s jets and escaped.
The coalition thought that was from an enemy.”  Rebel forces have struggled for more than a month to take
and hold strategic cities in central Libya including Brega,
Ajdabiya and the oil port of Ras Lanuf.  Protecting Civilians  Following the rebel deaths, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization said in an e-mail that it was taking “every care”
to protect civilians. “Clearly, if someone fires at one of our
aircraft, they have the right to defend themselves,” it said.  The strike has highlighted the issue of ground troops, who
have been used by allied forces in countries such as  Afghanistan 
and  Iraq  to guide bombing from the air.  U.S. and U.K. officials have pledged they won’t send ground
forces into  Libya  to help the rebels.  Ground Troops  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said a report in the
London-based  Times newspaper  that Britain was to send 600
marines to Libya wasn’t true. “They’re preparing for an
exercise elsewhere,” he said on the British Broadcasting
Corp.’s “Andrew Marr Show” today. “There is going to be no
large scale ground force put in place by the U.K. in Libya.”  A survey found that the military action is supported by 38
percent of Britons. Another 35 percent oppose it, according to
an ICM poll for  BBC  Radio 4’s Broadcasting House.  The survey found that 65 percent of respondents said the
U.K.’s involvement “will last for some time,” the BBC reported
on its website today. The poll questioned 2,011 Britons online
on March 30 and March 31. The website didn’t provide a margin of
error.  Fighting continued today for control of Brega, where rebels
occupied a university campus, while loyalist forces resumed
their shelling of Misrata, the main rebel-held town in the west
of Libya,  Agence France-Presse  reported.  Allied Sorties  NATO said it conducted 70 strike missions over Libya on
April 2 and 184 sorties. Since the beginning of the operation,
the alliance has flown a total of 547 sorties and 218 strike
sorties, NATO said in an e-mailed update on its Libya mission.  Strike missions are intended to identify and engage
targets, but don’t necessarily deploy munitions each time, NATO
said.  A total of 21 ships under NATO command are actively
patrolling the central Mediterranean, the alliance said in the
update. Four vessels were hailed yesterday to determine
destination and cargo, and one boarding was required. A total of
34 vessels have been hailed since the beginning of arms embargo
operations, NATO said.  The conflict in Libya is the bloodiest of uprisings in the
Middle East that have ousted longtime rulers in Egypt and
 Tunisia  and inspired protests in Bahrain, Yemen and  Syria .  Crude oil fluctuated after climbing to a 30-month high in
New York on April 1 as the fighting intensified in Libya. Crude
for May delivery rose $1.22 cents to $107.94 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  on April 1, the highest settlement
since September 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  