-- 
Qaddafi Cease-Fire Proposal Rejected by Italy as Fighting Rages Near Brega

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-04T19:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/qaddafi-emissary-meets-greek-leader-u-s-extends-attack-flights.html
Italy rejected diplomatic overtures
by  Muammar Qaddafi  and became the latest country to recognize
the Libyan opposition, as rebels fought regime loyalists at the
oil port of Brega.  Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini today dismissed a
reported cease-fire proposal by the Libyan leader, who sent an
envoy to  Greece  for talks. Greek Foreign Minister Dimitris Droutsas said Qaddafi appeared to be seeking a political
solution to the fighting between his regime’s forces and rebels.  “These proposals are not credible,” Frattini said at a
news conference today in  Rome  with Ali al-Isawi, foreign affairs
coordinator of  Libya ’s Interim Transitional National Council.
Frattini said a cease-fire must be imposed on Qaddafi after past
truces were “systematically violated,” adding that arming the
Libyan rebels could be considered as a “last resort.” In
London, U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said Qaddafi has
“three times announced a cease-fire and yet continued its
attacks.”  Oil fluctuated near the highest level in 30 months in New
York. Crude for May delivery rose 53 cents to settle at $108.47
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement level since Sept. 22, 2008. Prices are up 28 percent
from a year ago.  Regional Turmoil  Elsewhere in the region, Yemeni police clashed with anti-
government protesters in the southwestern city of Taiz, leaving
at least 15 demonstrators dead and hundreds injured, Sadek al-
Shujaa, chief of a local clinic, said in a telephone interview.
The U.S. wants President Ali Abdullah Saleh to end the
“appalling violence” and to reach a deal “as soon as
possible” with the opposition, which demands Saleh step down,
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said in  Washington .
Separately, Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  called on
 Saudi Arabia  to pull its security forces out of Bahrain,
according to the  Associated Press .  Italy, Libya’s former colonial ruler, has been the largest
buyer of oil and natural gas from the North African nation,
according to the  International Energy Agency . Libya provided 22
percent of Italy’s crude oil imports and the Greenstream
underwater gas pipeline provided 13 percent of Italian gas
imports this year before the conflict, the IEA said.  Diplomatic Ties  Italy’s formal recognition of the rebels today follows that
of  France . The U.S. and the U.K., while holding talks with the
group, have yet to establish diplomatic ties. Italy’s move comes
as rebels have struggled for more than a month to take and hold
strategic cities in the center of the country.  The allies have stepped up diplomacy as well as airstrikes
to avert a stalemate that might draw NATO members further into
the conflict in Libya, the holder of Africa’s largest oil
reserves. The U.K. is deploying four additional Panavia Tornado
GR4 ground-attack aircraft, bringing its total to 12 in the NATO
operation, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said today.  “At some stage there will have to be a genuine cease-fire,
then the political process can start,” Cameron told U.K.
Typhoon pilots flying Libya missions from the Gioia del Colle
air base in southern  Italy . “Until then we’ve got to keep the
pressure up.”  Brega Clashes  Fighting in Libya between rebels and Qaddafi loyalists was
centered around Brega, the  BBC  and Sky News said, citing
reporters with rebel troops. More soldiers that have defected
from Qaddafi units and better-organized rebel units were being
deployed in battle, the BBC said. Rebels arrived in  pickup
trucks  equipped with multiple-rocket launchers, according to al-
Jazeera television  Intensive fighting continued in the rebel-held western city
of Misrata, with water and power cut off and food in short
supply. Tanks began shelling an area of the city’s port about 15
kilometers (9 miles) from the city center at about 9 a.m. local
time, said a Misrata resident, who identified himself as Touka,
by telephone.  “There is shelling and use of rocket propelled grenade
launchers and fighting taking place in the eastern part,” Reda
Almountasser, another Misrata resident, said in a phone
interview from the city.  The aid group Doctors Without Borders said it evacuated 71
people injured in the fighting from Misrata yesterday.  Medical Crisis  “The hospital in Misrata reportedly came under bombardment
early Sunday,” Doctors Without Borders said today in a
statement. “Remaining functional health clinics in the city are
overflowing with severely injured patients and are running
desperately short of medical supplies.”  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization continued its air
campaign over Libya. The alliance’s jets flew 154 missions over
the country yesterday, including 58 “strike sorties,” it said
today in a statement.  The Greek government said that a visit by Qaddafi’s acting
foreign minister, Abdul Ati al-Obeidi, with Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  was the latest attempt by the Libyan leader to
resolve the crisis through a settlement. Late today, Al-Obeidi
met with Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu.  At least two sons of Qaddafi are proposing a plan to move
the Libyan leader out of power and oversee a democratic
transition under his son, Saif al-Islam, the  New York  Times
reported, citing an unidentified diplomat and Libyan official.
It wasn’t clear whether Qaddafi would support such a plan.  Qaddafi’s Sons  The Libyan opposition’s al-Isawi rejected any resolution
that would leave Qaddafi’s family in power.  “Replacing Qaddafi with one of his sons is not
acceptable,” al-Isawi said at the news briefing with Frattini.  Malta’s Prime Minister Lawrence Gonzi said he would receive
Qaddafi’s envoy to discuss a possible mediation role to end the
conflict. Gonzi said his government insists that as a pre-
condition, Qaddafi must pull back his forces from all Libyan
cities.  The U.S. began to carry out a pledge by President Barack Obama to hand over the military intervention to NATO and its
allies, pulling out fighter aircraft after today’s missions.
American jets, including  A-10 Thunderbolts  and  AC-130 gunships 
are in the final day of operations over Libya, ABC television
reported. NATO spokeswoman Oana Lungescu said that, because of
poor weather over the last few days, the alliance asked the U.S.
to delay its transition to a supporting role.  U.S. Role  The U.S. plans to have its attack aircraft on standby,
ready to resume flights if necessary, while U.S. command and
control aircraft and navy ships remain in action around Libya,
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said in March 31 testimony to the
Senate Armed Services Committee.  The U.K. sent a second team of diplomats to the rebel
stronghold of Benghazi, in eastern Libya, to meet with
opposition leaders, according to an e-mailed statement from the
British Foreign Office.  African Union Commission Chairman Jean Ping will meet with
European and NATO officials in  London  and Brussels through April
5 “to further explore ways and means of resolving the crisis in
Libya,” the AU said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  