-- 
Trichet Seen Burying Ailing Nations With Interest-Rate Rise

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-04-04T09:40:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/trichet-seen-burying-peripheral-economies-with-rate-rise-to-stem-inflation.html
Jean-Claude Trichet’s shot against
inflation may end up inflicting collateral damage on Europe’s
most cash-strapped economies.  Primed to raise its benchmark interest rate this week for
the first time in almost three years, President Trichet’s
 European Central Bank  again faces the conundrum that its
monetary policy rarely suits all 17 members of the euro area,
where the kaleidoscope of growth ranges from record expansion to
recession paired with a sovereign-debt crisis.  The upshot may be that the normalization of rates from a
record low of 1 percent will disproportionately hurt Spain,
 Greece , Portugal and Ireland, while failing to nip inflation
threats in  Germany . Such uneven fallout risks exacerbating the
two-speed European recovery and dealing further damage to the
bonds of so-called peripheral nations. Credit Suisse Group AG is
warning investors away from the region’s stocks and banks partly
because of concern the ECB is making a policy mistake.  “As the ECB continues to tighten, it increases the risk
that the sovereign-debt crisis comes back,” said Gavyn Davies,
chairman of London-based hedge fund Fulcrum Asset Management
LLP, which oversees about $1.5 billion in assets. “It will
manifest itself with the troubled economies moving into slower
growth rates, and the fiscal arithmetic will worsen again.”  Trichet and his 22 fellow policy makers convene in
 Frankfurt  April 7, a month since he surprised investors by
signaling an increase in the ECB’s key rate by a quarter of a
percentage point as inflation accelerated to 2.6 percent in
March, the fastest in more than two years. The yield on German
10-year  government bonds , the European benchmark, rose for an
eighth day, approaching the highest level in almost 15 months.  Primary Goal  In enacting the first rise since July 2008, policy makers
would be focusing on their primary goal of price stability
rather than secondary mandates to support growth. They’d also be
taking the lead over the  Federal Reserve  in starting to withdraw
emergency lending rates.  Belgian  Guy Quaden , who retired March 31 as one of the
longest-serving ECB council members, said “a cautious
increase” won’t hurt the region’s economic recovery because
“both growth and inflation have become again significantly
positive.”  Even so, the weakness of the periphery and its banks mean
“the ECB simply cannot raise rates too aggressively without
breaking up the euro zone,” said  Simon Maughan , co-head of
European equities at MF Global Ltd. in  London . A Bloomberg News
survey predicts the central bank will lift its main rate to 1.75
percent by year-end, based on the median estimate of 31
economists.  Record Debt Burdens  Economies from Ireland to  Spain  are buckling under record
debt burdens and the bursting of property bubbles, even as
Germany expanded 3.6 percent last year, the strongest pace in
two decades. In forecasting euro-zone growth of 1.6 percent this
year, the European Commission predicts expansion of 2.4 percent
in Germany, three times the anticipated rate for Spain, where
unemployment is above 20 percent, the highest in the region.  The situation is a “precise reverse” of the period before
December 2005, when the ECB last began raising rates, said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
Then Germany was weak, with growth of 0.8 percent that year,
while the Irish and Spanish economies expanded 6 percent and 3.6
percent.  “We were in a world where rates were much too
accommodative for the periphery and much too tight for the
core,” Kounis said. “Now, the situation is the same, only the
countries are different. It’s a problem with their one-size-
fits-all policy.”  ECB Benchmark  The ECB has set its benchmark at 1 percent since May 2009.
Spain,  Portugal , Ireland and Greece, which are responsible for
about 17 percent of euro-area gross domestic product, would need
an average rate of minus 4.6 percent under the Taylor Rule,
according to estimates by Credit Suisse equity strategists
including London-based Luca Paolini. Germany, which accounts for
almost a third of GDP, requires a rate of 4.5 percent, they say.  The Taylor Rule, devised by Stanford University economist
John B. Taylor, is a measure of where rates should be set given
inflation and growth projections.  Paolini and his colleagues recommend investors in
continental European stocks stay 5 percent “underweight” the
level suggested by benchmark indexes, in part because the ECB
could be making a “policy mistake” if an April increase marks
the start of a series of moves. In a March 9 report, they also
cut their view of European banks to “benchmark” from “small
overweight” and said low leverage and loan-to-deposit rates at
Italian banks such as  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  should help them
outperform Spanish rivals.  Rising Rates  “For the Irish, Greek, Spanish and Portuguese banks,
rising  interest rates  are negative,” said Carlos Egea, a
strategist on Morgan Stanley’s peripheral sovereign and bank
trading desk in London. “They’re positive for the Italians.”  Greece, where government debt is set to rise to 156 percent
of GDP by 2014, will face an additional debt-service charge of
1.6 percent of GDP if market borrowing costs gain 1 percent on
the back of the ECB raising rates, Paolini estimates.  Davies at Fulcrum says there is also the risk that
investors again push up what they charge troubled economies to
borrow relative to what they demand from Germany. With investors
speculating Portugal soon will follow Greece and Ireland in
seeking a bailout, its bonds sank last week, with the two-year
yield topping the rate of the nation’s 10-year debt for the
first time since 2006. Irish 10-year yields traded at the
highest since the birth of the euro.  Indebted Nations  A jump in government bond sales while rates are rising also
may make it harder for  Europe ’s most indebted nations to fund
themselves. Euro-region nations will sell 147 billion euros
($209 billion) of bonds this quarter, net of redemptions, up 24
percent from the third quarter, analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc
estimate.  While  Andrew Bosomworth , Munich-based head of portfolio
management at Pacific Investment Management Co., said too much
tightening “could derail what is so far a very fragile
recovery,” he told Bloomberg Television March 29 that failure
by the ECB to raise rates would leave a “considerable risk that
inflation expectations will get out of control.”  Import prices in Germany are rising at the fastest pace in
29 years, and inflation expectations, as measured by the
difference in yields between five-year German nominal bonds and
similar-maturity index-linked debt, have tripled to 2.25 percent
since August, breaching the ECB’s limit on March 23.  The central bank last month revised its 2011 euro-area
inflation forecast to about 2.3 percent from 1.8 percent. It
also boosted its forecast for expansion to about 1.7 percent
from 1.4 percent.  ‘Clear Signal’  Trichet may be sending a “clear signal” to European
governments that the ECB is unwilling to keep easing debt-market
tensions for them, putting pressure on them to solve the crisis
and restore fiscal order, said  Thomas Mayer , chief economist in
Frankfurt at Deutsche Bank AG. Countries have “had enough time
to realize that a common monetary policy cannot be tailor made
for everybody,” he said.  The ECB has committed to providing banks with unlimited
liquidity for maturities as long as three months through the
second quarter. That will restrain the euro overnight index
average, or Eonia, which serves as a benchmark for many private
borrowing costs, said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in London. Eonia was 0.588 percent April 1.  Households in the weaker countries nevertheless may suffer
from tighter borrowing costs at the same time economic output
could be restrained by budget cuts the  International Monetary
Fund  calculates will help the euro area’s fiscal deficit shrink
to 4.6 percent of GDP this year from 6.4 percent last year.
Private-sector leverage levels in Spain, Portugal and Ireland
now run more than 210 percent of GDP, about 100 percentage
points more than in Germany, Credit Suisse calculates.  Variable-Rate Mortgages  More than 83 percent of homes in Spain are owned, twice the
share in Germany, and two out of five are burdened with an
outstanding mortgage or housing loan, Eurostat data show. How
the debts are financed also poses a hurdle. Variable-rate
mortgages account for almost 100 percent of new lending in
Portugal and about 85 percent in Spain, compared with 15 percent
in Germany, according to the Brussels-based  European Mortgage
Federation . In Ireland, 85 percent of outstanding loans have
flexible rates.  As the ECB raised its key rate by 150 basis points starting
in December 2005, borrowing costs for households rose by more
than 100 basis points in Spain, Ireland and Portugal and only
about 50 basis points in Germany, an ING Groep NV gauge shows.  Boost Foreclosures  With real disposable income declining in peripheral
countries as a result of tax increases and spending cuts, even a
small increase in market rates may be enough to boost
foreclosures and sap credit availability. Irish and Greek banks
last year had nonperforming loans equivalent to more than 10
percent of their totals, with Spain’s rate about 6 percent, said
 Giada Giani , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in London.  Banks in those countries will be hit most by higher
interest rates as long as the ECB provides unlimited liquidity,
keeping market rates below its benchmark. Financial institutions
lent money to each other for 0.781 percent interest for a week
today, less than the 1 percent charged by the ECB in its main
refinancing operation.  While a couple of rate increases this year “are unlikely
to have catastrophic effects on peripheral euro-area banks, they
would definitely add more pressure to their already fragile
situation” and risk “exacerbating economic divergence among
euro member states,” Giani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  