-- 
Stephen Ross’s SJB, Capital One Said to Weigh Bids for ING Direct

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-04-04T00:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/ross-s-sjb-capital-one-are-said-to-weigh-bids-for-ing-direct.html
SJB National Bank, formed by Related
Cos. executives, and  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  are among firms
that have expressed interest in  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s U.S. online bank,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  ING is in talks with several potential bidders, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private. The Amsterdam-based bank is seeking to
sell or merge ING Direct with a lending operation and has also
talked with  General Electric Co. (GE) , based in Fairfield,
 Connecticut , and New York-based  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , people with
knowledge of the matter said in March.  The European Union has ordered ING to divest its U.S.
online lender as a condition of a 10 billion-euro ($14 billion)
government bailout. At the same time, ING has been seeking the
higher-yielding assets it could get by combining with a lending
operation.  ING had been discussing combining ING Direct with  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s private-label credit-card business, and those talks have
ended, one person said. ING was outbid last year by Toronto-
Dominion Bank for Cerberus Capital Management LP’s Chrysler
Financial auto lender, said people with knowledge of those
talks.  ING’s U.S. bank may fetch at least $10 billion in a sale,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts said last month. That price would
“free up” about 3.4 billion euros for aid repayment. A sale
for $12.5 billion would be a “fairer price,” they said.  Time Warner Center  SJB, formed in 2009 by Related executives Stephen Ross,
Jeff Blau and Bruce Beal Jr., raised about $1.1 billion last
year, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.
Related, the developer of projects such as the Time Warner
Center in  New York , also owns businesses including the Equinox
fitness chain.  Spokesmen for McLean, Virginia-based Capital One, SJB, New
York-based Citigroup and ING Direct declined to comment.  ING Direct had $77.7 billion in deposits at the end of
2010, of which $69.9 billion was held in money market deposit
accounts, according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. data.
Those accounts tend to be sensitive to  interest rates .  The bank’s $40 billion in net loans and leases gave it a
Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of 26.8
percent at the end of 2010, compared with an average of 12.7
percent for all banks, according to FDIC figures. The return on
assets was 0.3 percent in 2010, less than half the industry
average of almost 0.7 percent, according to the FDIC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  