-- 
Ryan Budget Seeks to Cut More Than $4 Trillion, Paring Medicare

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K o w a l s k i   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-04-03T15:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/ryan-budget-seeks-to-cut-more-than-4-trillion-paring-medicare.html
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said he will release a fiscal 2012 budget plan Tuesday that
cuts more than $4 trillion from the federal budget over the next
decade, in part by paring politically sensitive programs such as
Medicare.  “We’re going to go after the source of the problem and
that is spending,” the Wisconsin Republican said on “Fox News
Sunday.”  Ryan said his plan will slow the growth of Medicare, the
“biggest driver of our debt.” The plan resembles his proposal
last year with Democrat  Alice Rivlin , who was former President
 Bill Clinton ’s budget director, Ryan said.  “Medicare crowds out all government spending at the end of
the day,” Ryan said. “We can’t sustain that.”  Ryan also called for what he called a pro-growth tax
overhaul, which involves lower tax rates and a broader tax base,
as a “key ingredient to getting this economy working again.”  Ryan said he wants to scale  government spending  “back
toward the historic levels.” His proposal for a government
budget involves “cutting a lot more than” $4 trillion in
spending, he said.  That means Ryan’s cuts would surpass last year’s budget
proposal from the President’s deficit commission, which reduced
the annual deficit to about $400 billion in 2015, increased
taxes by $1 trillion by 2020, and trimmed individual and
corporate income tax rates.  Cutting Spending  “We will be exceeding the goals that were put out in the
president’s debt commission by cutting spending, reforming
entitlements and growing our economy,” Ryan said.  The House budget chairman said his plan will seek to reduce
government to less than one-quarter of gross domestic product.  Government expenditures currently make up about 25 percent
of the nation’s GDP, and President Barack Obama’s budget will
keep the share to about 23 to 24 percent, Ryan said.  Under Obama’s plan, public debt will double during the
president’s first term and triple by the end of his budget,
adding $13 trillion more to national debt, according to Ryan.  Obama “never gets even close to balancing the budget,”
Ryan said. “He does nothing to address the drivers of our debt.
He is punting on the budget and not doing a thing to prevent a
debt crisis, which every single economist tells us is coming
sooner rather than later in this country.”  Going After Spending  Democrats and Republicans are working on a 2011 budget to
avoid a government shutdown when current spending authority ends
April 8. Obama increased the pressure on lawmakers yesterday,
telephoning Senate Democratic Leader  Harry Reid  and Republican
House Speaker  John Boehner , urging them to get the budget
impasse resolved.  Lawmakers have passed $10 billion in cuts thus far for the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30. House and Senate negotiators,
joined by the White House, are considering plans to raise that
total to about $33 billion.  Democratic Virginia Senator  Mark Warner , a member of the
Budget Committee, said $33 billion in cuts is “playing at the
margins” of U.S. deficits. Congress, he said, shouldn’t let
“extraneous factors,” such as policy-making additions to the
budget bill, force a government shutdown, Warner said on CNN’s
“State of the Union.”  Texas Republican Senator  John Cornyn , also a budget
committee member, said current talks are “playing small ball,”
and said on CNN that he won’t support an increase in the U.S.
debt ceiling without progress on “systemic reforms” of U.S.
government spending.  Presidential Leadership  “We can’t continue business as usual in  Washington ,”
Cornyn said. “What we’re lacking is presidential leadership.”  Senate Majority Whip  Dick Durbin  said he won’t vote for a
budget proposal that includes “irresponsible” Republican
spending cuts for the Environmental Protection Agency and
Planned Parenthood.  “Some of the spending cuts they’re suggesting go way, way
too far,” Durbin, the Illinois Democrat, said today on the NBC
program “Meet the Press.”  House Republicans  “lose all
credibility” by focusing on political issues instead of the
deficit, Durbin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  