-- 
Scandal Probe at Salzburg Festival Drags On, Director Says

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-04-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/scandal-probe-at-salzburg-festival-drags-on-director-says.html
There’s nothing the opera world
likes better than hubristic downfalls.  They don’t come much bigger than the $5 million fraud and
embezzlement scandal that rocked the  Salzburg Easter Festival 
last year. As the new season prepares to open, the breezy new
managing director Peter Alward reflects on his year in charge.  Alward, the former head of EMI Group Ltd.’s classical-music
division, took over the festival in February 2010.  His predecessor, Michael Dewitte, had been fired in
December 2009. Two months later, Dewitte’s colleague Klaus
Kretschmer reportedly attempted suicide by throwing himself off
a bridge. The Salzburger Nachrichten reported in May 2010 that
Kretschmer could walk again and was expected to almost fully
recover.  Since then little has been in the news. I ask Alward,
speaking by phone from Salzburg, about the latest developments.  “The two men have since been charged with misappropriation
of public funds, in the case of Dewitte for 2.1 million euros
($2.9 million), and in the case of Kretschmer for 1.5 million
euros,” he says. “It’s all in the hands of the justice
department now.”  The figure is higher than the initial $4 million suggested
last year, before formal investigations began. Full details of
the amount alleged to have been fraudulently taken will be
revealed in court, said Simon Millward, a spokesman for the
festival.  Both Dewitte and Kretschmer denied wrongdoing in newspaper
interviews last year.  “Austrian law is very thorough,” says the 60-year-old
Alward, with a sigh. “It’s also not the fastest. We’re still
waiting for the date of the trial.”  Head on Plate  He’d like to see this chapter in the festival’s history
closed. I wonder if he’d also like to take a tip from Strauss’s
“Salome,” this year’s opera, and see the head of his
predecessor served up on a plate -- metaphorically, of course --
for all the trouble he left behind him.  “There’s no point in dwelling on the past,” Alward, a
Briton, says. “It’s important to look to the future.”  He has reason to sound cheerful. The main sponsors, Swiss
bank  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN)  and German carmaker Audi AG, have
proved loyal. Vienna Insurance Group AG and its Wiener
Staedtische Versicherung unit also are continuing their
sponsorship of the chamber-music strand this year.  Herbert von Karajan  That’s good news for a festival that receives only 8
percent of its 6 million euro budget from the public purse. The
rest of its income comes from ticket sales and sponsorship. (The
Easter Festival was founded by conductor Herbert von Karajan in
1967 and is separate from the larger summer festival.)  What did Alward say to keep the sponsors on board? “Our
clients are their sort of clients,” he replies. “Here in a
city where people spend a lot of money on their tickets, there
are lots of potential customers for a bank, an insurance
company, and a carmaker. We’ve seen that the unfortunate events
of last year haven’t affected their loyalty or the loyalty of
our audiences. It’s gratifying.”  Why is that? “We have the  Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra 
and Simon Rattle in residence to an extent that doesn’t happen
anywhere else. They go into the theater pit every year, and play
for a new production of an opera. To use ghastly marketing
jargon, that’s our USP.”  Top-price subscription tickets for a package of four
concerts, including the opera, cost 1,230 euros, plus a 300 euro
membership fee. It’s not unknown for flocks of private jets to
bring audience members to the city.  Exclusive Quality  Is it too exclusive? “We’re exclusive, yes,” Alward says.
“I want to stress the positive meaning of the word, however, to
stress its links with quality. I really don’t want it to mean
that we’re excluding people.”  After the subscription packages have been offered, single
tickets become more generally available at prices comparable to
other European opera houses. The top price for a chamber-music
concert is a manageable 30 euros.  What have been the most surprising things about taking over
the festival? “It has been one huge learning curve,” says
Alward. “I’d never run an opera house or festival. I spent 35
years in the recording industry, which is a completely different
animal. I had no idea about the costs of an opera set, or
costumes.”  Having discovered the cost, one of Alward’s innovations has
been to introduce the concept of co-production with major houses
to spread the burden. “Always on the understanding that the
production opens in Salzburg,” he says.  He also has had to learn to deal with politicians to defend
public spending on the festival.  Stress Level  The stress level sounds high. Why did he agree to helm the
event? “I go back with the Berlin Philharmonic and Simon Rattle
a long way, from my days at EMI,” Alward says. “And I worked
closely with Herbert von Karajan, who founded the festival, for
the last 12 years of his life. I felt I owed these people a
great deal because they’d helped me in my career. What else are
friends for? Besides, they twisted my arm!”  Another self-discovery made during the year is that a
career on the boards won’t be beckoning any time soon.  “Dealing with the curtain going up is a novel experience
for me because coming from a recording company everything is for
the can,” he says. “Last year, we had a singer cancellation,
and it was my job to go on stage and announce it. I can tell
you, my knees were knocking.”  The Salzburg Easter Festival runs from April 16 to April
25. Information:  http://www.osterfestspiele-salzburg.at .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 