-- 
Saudi Arabia Looks to Solar, Nuclear Power to Reduce Its Oil Use by Half

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-04-03T12:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/solar-nuclear-energy-to-reduce-saudi-oil-demand-official-says.html
Saudi Arabia , which holds one-fifth
of global oil reserves, aims to pursue  renewable energy  and
nuclear power to help reduce by half the crude and natural gas
it burns now to generate electricity.  The country expects domestic power demand to triple over
the next two decades and wants to develop a more sustainable
mixture of energy sources, Khalid Al Sulaiman, vice president
for renewable energy at King Abdullah City for Atomic and
Renewable Energy, said at a conference in Riyadh today. King
Abdullah City is the agency in charge of developing green
energy.  “Saudi Arabia’s demand for petroleum products -- demand
for energy -- is rising at a high and very alarming rate,” Al
Sulaiman said in a speech at the Saudi Solar Forum. “ Population
growth  and robust economic development and many reasons drive
that demand.” The country currently gets almost all of its
energy from fossil fuels, he said.  Persian Gulf oil producers are seeking new ways to generate
power because they prefer exporting valuable crude to maximize
income and allocating natural gas to make petrochemicals. Energy
other than oil, gas and other fossil fuels may account for more
than half of the kingdom’s supply by 2030, Al Sulaiman said.  Future sources will include solar and wind power as well as
nuclear plants, according to the plan, which needs government
approval to become policy. The expansion into renewables and
nuclear power will be part of a $100 billion spending drive
aimed at meeting the expected jump in demand and curbing
dependence on crude, government officials said last week at a
conference in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the neighboring  United
Arab Emirates .  Insufficient Gas  Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in OPEC, uses crude and
refined products as fuel for power stations because the country
doesn’t have enough gas to generate all the power it needs and
also supply industry. Liquid fuels generate about half of its
power now, with the rest coming from gas, according to the
state-run utility  Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO)   Saudi Arabia has about 45,000 megawatts of generating
capacity, with power demand also reaching that level during
times of peak consumption, according to Saudi Electricity. Al
Sulaiman’s forecasts suggest that demand will triple by 2030.
Saudi Arabia already burns some 800,000 barrels a day of oil
equivalent to satisfy domestic demand, Khalid Al Senani, the gas
supply director at the Ministry of Petroleum and  Mineral
Resources , said in Doha, Qatar, on Nov. 30.  Crude Price Gains  Crude oil rose 17 percent last quarter to $106.72 a barrel
in New York trading in the three months through March 31, as
armed conflict in  Libya  cut off exports from the North African
country and a March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked nuclear
 power plants  offline and released radiation into the atmosphere.  Saudi Arabia’s break-even oil price, the level at which it
must sell crude to finance  government spending , may be as high
as $85 a barrel since ruler  King Abdullah  ordered $103 billion
in additional benefits for its citizens, economists including
John Sfakianakis of Banque Saudi Fransi said last week. The
government hopes the increased spending will help prevent unrest
sweeping the Middle East from spreading to the kingdom.  “Moving into renewables for Saudi Arabia is a necessity
not a luxury,” Sfakianakis said in Riyadh today. “Saudi Arabia
has oil and the more it uses domestically going forward the less
it will have to export for a growing population.”  Role for Renewables  The nation sees solar power and other non-hydrocarbon
sources as vital for boosting generating capacity by 50 percent
in this decade, Abdullah al-Shehri, governor of the Electricity
and Co-Generation Regulatory Authority, said in  Abu Dhabi  on
March 28.  Given consumption forecasts, Saudi Aramco Chief Executive
Officer Khalid Al-Falih warned last April that national daily
energy demand would more than double to 8.3 million barrels of
oil equivalent in 2028 from 3.4 million barrels in 2009.  To expand generating capacity and the transmission grid,
the country will need to invest more than $100 billion over the
next ten years, al-Shehri of the electricity authority said on
March 28. A third of that amount will go to building power
plants, including those using sources of renewable energy, he
said in Abu Dhabi.  Current capacity is likely to increase to 75,000 megawatts
by 2018 and to more than 120,000 megawatts by 2030, al-Shehri
said. Saudi Arabia agreed with  France  in February to cooperate
in developing nuclear energy and announced on Feb. 22 that it
would also make use of geothermal, wind and solar power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Mourad Haroutunian in  Riyadh  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 