-- 
Solvay Agrees to Buy Rhodia for $4.8 Billion to Expand in Emerging Markets

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-04T07:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/solvay-plans-to-buy-rhodia-in-all-cash-transaction-de-tijd-says.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , the Belgian soda ash
maker which sold a drugs unit a year ago, agreed to buy  Rhodia
SA (RHA)  of  France  for 3.4 billion-euro ($4.8 billion) in cash to add
specialty chemicals spanning ingredients for moisturizers and
car-part polymers.  Shareholders of the Paris-based company will receive 31.6
euros a share, 50 percent more than Rhodia’s closing price on
April 1, Solvay said in a statement today. Including debt, the
deal has an enterprise value of 6.6 billion euros.  Solvay, which exited pharmaceuticals in a 5.2 billion-euro
deal, moved on Rhodia after being outbid by DuPont Co. for food-
ingredient maker Danisco A/S this year. Chief Executive Officer
Christian Jourquin, 62, seeks to diversify Solvay away from the
commoditized markets of caustic soda, soda ash and PVC. The
addition of Rhodia will create a company with 12 billion euros
in revenue, 40 percent generated in emerging markets.  “This is probably the only correct thing they could have
done as in the European space this is one of the few targets
that is worthwhile at a nice multiple,” said Jan Hein de Vroe,
an analyst at ING Group NV in Amsterdam, with a “hold” rating
on Solvay. “Together they have nice emerging markets exposure
and a more balanced portfolio.”  Solvay is paying 7.3 times recurring earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That’s in line
with the average multiple for specialty chemical acquisitions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company sees the
possibility of doubling its earnings to almost 2 billion euros.  Rhodia climbed 50 percent to 31.49 euros as of 9:29 a.m. in
Paris trading. Solvay added 3.5 percent to 86.79 euros.  Diversification  The family-owned Belgian company, based in Brussels,
expects to close the Rhodia purchase by late August and brings
Rhodia’s leadership positions in rare earths used in auto
catalysts and high-performance silica for car tires, as well as
the French company’s products for consumer markets such as
surfactants, and engineering plastics based on polyamide.  Industry leaders such as BASF SE, which paid $3.8 billion
for cosmetics ingredient-maker Cognis in December, are
diversifying into specialty chemicals that are more resilient to
economic swings than plastics such as styrene, used in
television sets.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Corp. is
buying additive maker Lubrizol Corp. for about $9 billion in
another sign that mergers are gathering pace in the chemicals
industry.  Cultural Fit  Rhodia CEO Jean-Pierre Clamadieu, who became Rhodia’s CEO
in 2003, cut jobs, closed plants and sold businesses to reduce
costs to avoid bankruptcy following years of losses in the first
part of the last decade.  Jourquin said in an interview with Bloomberg’s  Mark Barton 
that he made a thorough search for targets before opting to buy
Rhodia as both companies have a similar culture, making the job
of integrating businesses easier.  Jourquin outlined cost savings of 250 million euros, mostly
“external synergies,” such as the reduction of purchases
costs, within three years. He also sees reduction in internal
costs over time, though jobcuts are a small part of the total.  The company will almost double its workforce to about
30,800. Solvay said Rhodia’s board supports the transaction, and
the company needs backing from shareholders representing at
least 50 percent plus one share. Jourquin, 62, will hand the
reins to Clamadieu, 52, when he retires, the companies said.  “We have a conservative financial policy,” Jourquin said
on a conference call. “There is no need to consider other
acquisitions in the short term. This for me is a first step in a
growth policy.”  BNP Paribas and Credit Suisse advised Rhodia on the deal.
Morgan Stanley advised Solvay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 