-- 
Spain's Deficit Fight Risks Setback as Zapatero Bows Out of 2012 Election

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-04-04T12:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/spain-s-deficit-fight-risks-setback-as-zapatero-quits-election.html
Spain ’s efforts to reduce its budget
deficit and rebuild investor confidence may suffer a setback as
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero bows out of next
year’s election.  Zapatero, 50, said on April 2 he won’t seek a third four-
year term, forcing his party to select a new candidate a year
before March 2012 elections. The Socialists, which are trailing
the opposition in opinion polls, will hold primaries after
regional and local elections on May 22, Zapatero told party
members in the capital Madrid.  “It means he’s no longer a relevant figure, so I think
this may be really problematic from a policy-making perspective
over the coming year,” said Ken Dubin, a political science
professor at Carlos III University in  Madrid .  Investors had rewarded Zapatero’s austerity package,
Spain’s toughest in three decades, sending the country’s
borrowing costs lower even as bond yields in neighboring
 Portugal  soared to euro-era records. The currency bloc’s fourth-
largest economy now faces a period of political uncertainty that
may disrupt measures crucial to Spain’s fiscal survival.  “The politics are turning more difficult,” said  Stuart Thomson , a Glasgow-based  fund manager  at Ignis Asset Management,
which oversees about $120 billion. “There has been a lot of
money coming into Spain; it started to underperform on Thursday
and Friday and I suspect that underperformance will continue as
a result of this.”  Santander Plea  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year bonds narrowed
to 191 basis points today from 194.1 basis points on April 1,
compared with a euro-era record of 298 basis points on Nov. 30.
The extra yield on Spanish bonds over Italian debt widened to
51.6 basis points, compared with 51 basis points on April 1 and
40 basis points at the start of last week.  Banco Santander SA  Chairman  Emilio Botin  had asked Zapatero
to wait until 2012 to announce his plans to avoid damaging
 market sentiment , according to an El Pais March 26 report.  Spain is the latest in a list of euro-area countries facing
political upheaval after voters in Ireland ejected the Fianna
Fail government from office in the wake of a bank crisis that
left it in need of an 85 billion-euro ($121 billion) bailout. In
 Germany , Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats have
been punished in local elections as voters balk at the prospect
of funding bailouts elsewhere in  Europe .  Bank Overhaul  Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned on March
23 after failing to win support for austerity measures. Fitch
Ratings Ltd. last week cut Portugal’s credit grade to BBB-, one
level above junk. The company, which warned more downgrades may
follow, said Portugal needs “external support.” Fitch rates
Spain AA+, its second-highest grade.  Spain is trying to restructure its savings banks after a
property-market slump left many with surging bad loans. Twelve
lenders need to raise as much as 15.2 billion euros to meet new
minimum capital standards set by the government.  The planned bank overhaul suffered a blow on March 30 when
a merger with  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM)  fell apart,
pushing the lender to seek a 2.8 billion-euro state bailout.  Zapatero, a Socialist who in 2005 said he slept with his
union card by his bed, made a policy U-turn in May amid  Greece ’s
fiscal crisis. He cut public wages 5 percent, reduced pensions
and benefits and pushed labor-market reforms that made it
cheaper for companies to fire workers.  Highest Unemployment  Those measures, while popular among investors, prompted the
first general strike in eight years and undermined the ruling
party’s popularity. The highest  unemployment rate  in Europe, at
more than 20 percent, has also eroded support for the
Socialists.  The number of people registering for jobless benefits rose
for a third month in March, the Labor Ministry said today.
 Consumer confidence  in March declined to the lowest level this
year, according to a separate report from Instituto de Credito
Oficial.  The opposition  People’s Party  led by Mariano Rajoy enjoys
44.1 percent voter support, compared with 28.3 percent for the
Socialists, according to an April 3 El Pais poll.  The favorites to succeed Zapatero are Deputy Prime Minister
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba followed by Defense Minister Carme Chacon, the El Pais poll showed.  ‘Safe Option’  Chacon, a 40-year-old Catalan who became Spain’s first
female defense minister in 2008 while pregnant, would be the
best option in terms of “regenerating the party and presenting
a fresh face,” even though her candidacy could be “divisive,”
said Alejandro Quiroga, a Spanish politics professor at
Newcastle University in the U.K. Rubalcaba, a 59-year-old
veteran of former Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez’s
administration who is also interior minister and government
spokesman, would be the “safe option,” he said.  Rubalcaba will ask Chacon not to run in the primaries and
in exchange will cede the party leadership to her after the 2012
election if the Socialists lose,  El Confidencial  reported today,
citing people close to Rubalcaba it didn’t name. The primary
elections will be held in the summer, Marcelino Iglesias, the
party’s third-most senior official, told reporters today.  Zapatero pledged to fulfill his “responsibility as prime
minister until the end of the term, until the last day.” He has
already approached opposition parties to ensure the 2012 budget
is passed. Most of the spending cuts are under way, he said.  Some argue his planned exit could give him greater freedom
to pass tough measures without worrying about voter support.  ‘More Difficult’  His decision not to run will put him “in a stronger
position to take unpopular decisions and press ahead with the
reforms,” said  Gilles Moec , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
 London .  As it tries to steer the economy back to growth after an
almost two-year recession, the government may need to make even
deeper cuts amid signs its forecasts are too optimistic. The
Bank of Spain says this year’s  budget deficit  will reach 6.2
percent of gross domestic product, compared with the
government’s 6 percent forecast. The bank sees a 5.2 percent
shortfall in 2012, versus the finance ministry’s 4.4 percent
estimate.  “More measures will be needed for next year and beyond,”
Ignis’s Thomson said. Zapatero’s exit ultimately means it
“becomes more difficult to pass unpopular measures,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  