-- 
RBA Chief Stevens Set for Longest Rate Pause Since 2006: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-04-03T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/stevens-set-for-longest-rate-pause-since-2006-australia-credit.html
Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens will hold  interest rates  unchanged for the longest
period of his tenure as a weaker Japanese economy slows exports
and eases inflation expectations, money markets show.  Stevens will keep the overnight cash rate target at 4.75
percent tomorrow, the highest benchmark in the developed world,
according to all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Borrowing costs, which haven’t risen since November, won’t
increase until at least September, and traders see a 34 percent
chance of an increase in December, bank bill contracts on the
Sydney Futures Exchange show.  Speculation Stevens will hold off boosting rates to assess
the economy’s reaction to Japan’s March 11 earthquake and
nuclear crisis contrasts with central bankers from  Frankfurt  to
Beijing who are combating inflation with higher rates or by
signaling tighter monetary policy. His inaction narrowed the
spread between two-year  Australia  and U.S. Treasury note yields
to a six-month low of 4.09 percentage points March 29. The gap
ended last week at 4.15 percentage points.  “The uncertainty from the impact on exports stemming from
the Japanese earthquake suggests little urgency for the RBA to
exercise its tightening bias,” said Su-Lin Ong, a fixed-income
strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney. “The long-run
fundamentals suggest the case will become more compelling in the
second half of this year.”  Futures markets show investors are less confident that
Stevens will lift rates this year than they were in early March
before the quake, when the odds of an increase by December were
100 percent. Ong forecasts one increase this year, in the fourth
quarter.  Widening Threat  Signs are emerging that the temblor in  Japan , Australia’s
second-biggest export market, poses a widening threat to the
region’s economy. A government report last week showed that
Japanese manufacturing deteriorated at the fastest pace in at
least nine years in March. Honda Motor Co. and Sony Corp. are
among companies that halted production after the disaster.  European confidence in the economic outlook worsened in
March, after Japan’s earthquake and surging energy costs clouded
global growth prospects. Japan’s crisis is likely to cut global
expansion this year by 0.5 percentage point
to 3.8 percent, according to Morgan Stanley.  Stevens held the policy rate for the past three meetings
after boosting borrowing costs seven times, from 3 percent in
September 2009 to 4.75 percent in November 2010. Economic growth
accelerated in the final three months of last year, the eighth
straight quarterly expansion, before the worst floods in 37
years hit Australia’s northeast in January.  In minutes of its March 1 meeting, the  Reserve Bank  said it
left rates unchanged as slower borrowing by households and
businesses offset a mining investment boom.  Savings, Spending  Australia’s household savings approached 10 percent of
incomes last year, up from 1.5 percent in 2007, and retail sales
declined 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter, the first drop in
more than a year. Australian  consumer confidence  fell to a nine-
month low in March.  The nation is undergoing a surge in resource investment as
mining and energy firms boost output to meet demand from China
and  India . Australia’s dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, climbed 13 percent over the past year and touched a
record $1.0397 on April 1.  The currency’s strength has helped slow the economy and
reduce the need for the central bank to raise rates quickly. A
report last week showed Australian manufacturing contracted in
March for the sixth time in seven months as the stronger dollar
made exports more expensive.  ‘Downward Pressure’  “If the  exchange rate  persists at a high level or
appreciates further, it puts downward pressure on inflation,”
said Paul Bloxham, the chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Sydney and a former Reserve Bank official. “In this way the
exchange rate will do some of the RBA’s work for it.”  Increased demand for skilled workers at projects such as
Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion ($44.4 billion) Gorgon liquefied
natural-gas project, under construction in  Western Australia ,
threatens to stoke wage growth and inflation. BG Group Plc,
Chevron, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are among
companies planning to invest about A$200 billion in proposed
liquefied natural gas projects in Australia.  Australian consumer prices may rise an annual 2.95 percent
in the next five years, according to the gap between yields on
 government bonds  and inflation-indexed notes. The RBA aims to
hold inflation between 2 and 3 percent on average.  Labor Market  Mining companies have helped tighten Australia’s labor
market, which posted record job creation last year. As natural
disasters disrupted commerce at the end of last year, the
economy lost a net 2,300 jobs from December through February
after gaining 362,800 during the first 11 months of 2010,
according to the statistics bureau.  The boom has sent wages soaring for mining company workers,
prompting National Australia Bank Ltd. to say markets are
underestimating the likelihood of higher rates to contain
inflation.  Wages grew 3.9 percent in the three months through December
from a year earlier, the fastest pace since the first quarter of
2009, according to government figures.  Government bonds returned 1.8 percent in Australia this
year, the third-best performance among 19 developed markets,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Gains have been spurred by Stevens holding rates, new
banking rules that mean banks need to buy more of the safest
debt and Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s pledge to reduce the
 budget deficit  in the developed world’s second-smallest
government bond market.  Spending Cuts  Gillard announced spending cuts and a one-time tax to fund
at least A$5.6 billion in federal  government spending  on flood
reconstruction without jeopardizing her goal of returning the
budget to surplus by 2013.  Rains in Queensland during December and January have
compounded concerns about labor shortages. The storms flooded
about 30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut rail lines and
damaged crops. An area the size of  Egypt  was declared a disaster
zone, including parts of the state capital, Brisbane.  The Reserve Bank raised its forecast for 2011 growth to
4.25 percent in February, from a November prediction of 3.75
percent, saying flood rebuilding will accelerate in the second
half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  