-- 
Syria Invites Companies to Bid for Offshore Rights by Oct. 5

-- B y   L i n a   I b r a h i m   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-03T09:08:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/syria-invites-companies-to-bid-for-offshore-rights-by-oct-5.html
Syria , struggling to halt a decline
in crude oil output, called on companies to submit bids for
production-sharing rights to explore offshore blocks by Oct. 5.  Companies can bid for one or more of three auctioned
blocks, which are located about 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) from
the Syrian coast, according to the  tender documents  published on
the website of the state-owned General Petroleum Corporation.  The three offshore blocks cover a total area of 9,038
square kilometres, it said. Block I, off the city of Tartous,
extends over 3,176 square kilometers while Block II, off the oil
terminal of  Banias , covers 2,977 square kilometers. Block III
stretches 2,885 square kilometres off Latakia.  Syria is seeking foreign investment in energy development
to help stabilize oil output this year at a rate of 386,000
barrels a day, Oil Minister Sufian Alao said March 13. Crude
production peaked at 583,000 barrels a day in 1996, and the
country will deplete existing reserves within 18 years,
according to its reserves-to-production ratio calculated by BP
Plc.  Syria is currently witnessing unrest in several cities, in
the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit by a wave of
uprisings that ousted longtime rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia  and
sparked an armed conflict in  Libya .  The Oil Ministry has also announced a bidding round to
explore, develop and produce crude in eight onshore blocks
covering about 40 percent of the country’s territory.  Total SA (FP) ,
 Eni SpA (ENI) , China National Petroleum Corp. and 10 other foreign
companies have submitted bids to explore the blocks, Deputy Oil
Minister Hassan Zainab said on Dec. 15.  The offers to the eight onshore blocks were similar and
companies were asked to improve bidding conditions, Alao said.
Should offers be “unsatisfactory and insufficient,” blocks
would not be awarded and will be offered in a new bidding round,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lina Ibrahim in Dubai at 
 librahim4@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  