-- 
Syria to Award Third Mobile License to Saudi or Qatari Companies

-- B y   L i n a   I b r a h i m   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-03T15:12:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/syria-to-award-third-mobile-license-to-saudi-or-qatari-companies.html
Saudi Telecom Co. (STC)  and Qatar Telecom
QSC reached the final phase of  Syria ’s auction for a third
mobile license, Deputy Telecommunications Minister Mohammad Al-
Jalali said today.  Emirates Telecommunications Corp., the bigger of two phone
companies in the  United Arab Emirates , Turkcell Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile-phone operator, and
 France Telecom SA (FTE) , the country’s largest phone company, have
pulled out of the race, he said in a interview from Damascus.  The three companies withdrew because they did not agree
with some contractual issues, including the 25 percent share in
revenue of the Syrian state and its monopoly over infrastructure
for seven years, according to a telecommunications ministry
statement today. They also objected to their requirements for
certain frequencies not being available, it said.  “We are heading on with our plans and schedule without any
changes for the time being,” Jalali said. “We started today
the evaluation of the two offers and might complete the process
before the end of this week.”  Bidders will be notified about the evaluation results on
April 14 and the auction will be held on April 27, he said. The
auction will open with 90 million euros ($128 million), he said.  Qatar Telecom QSC Chairman Sheikh Abdullah Bin Mohammed Al Thani said March 27 that unrest in Syria hasn’t changed the
company’s interest in the country’s third mobile license. Syria
is the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit by uprisings that
ousted longtime rulers in Egypt and Tunisia, and sparked armed
conflict in  Libya .  Syria is encouraging private and foreign investment in its
state-dominated economy to provide long-term financing for
development and economic reforms. To help expand the mobile
market, the government last year approved an auction for a third
license and decided to change the contracts of the two current
operators, Syriatel and  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ’s MTN Syria SA unit, to
build-operate-transfer license protocols. MTN is Africa’s
biggest mobile-network operator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lina Ibrahim in Dubai at 
 librahim4@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in London at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  