-- 
Congress Had Power to Enact Obama Health-Care Law, U.S. Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-04-04T21:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/u-s-defends-obama-health-care-law-as-constitutional-in-appellate-brief.html
A federal judge’s ruling that struck
down legislation requiring almost every American to obtain
health insurance should be reversed, the Obama administration
said in a court filing.  The administration asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Atlanta to reverse a Jan. 31 ruling by U.S. District Judge C. Roger Vinson in  Pensacola , Florida, that the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act’s insurance mandate, set to take effect
in 2014, exceeded Congress’s power to regulate interstate
commerce. Concluding that the legislation couldn’t function
without that provision, Vinson declared the entire law invalid.  The U.S. said in its appellate brief, filed April 1, that
“the minimum coverage provision is a valid exercise of
Congress’s commerce power.”  The U.S. has said that the mandatory-coverage provision is
the linchpin of the law because it will add many younger and
healthier people to the pool of the insured population.  Vinson’s ruling came in a case filed March 23, 2010, by
then- Florida  Attorney General  Bill McCollum . It was later joined
by 25 other states.  “Nothing in the federal government’s brief changes our
view that the health-care insurance mandate exceeds Congress’s
power,” Florida’s current Attorney General Pam Bondi said in an
e-mailed statement today. “The federal government spends a lot
of time touting the supposed benefits of the health-care act,
but those are not enough to justify an unconstitutional law.”  No Lifetime Caps  The legislation, signed by President  Barack Obama  on the
same day McCollum filed suit, was intended to provide the first-
ever almost universal U.S. health insurance plan. It included
provisions preventing carriers from rejecting applicants who are
already ill and from imposing lifetime caps on benefits.  The U.S. has won rulings upholding the law in cases filed
in federal courts in Detroit and Lynchburg, Virginia.  Legal challenges to the measure were also filed in separate
suits by Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli and
 Oklahoma ’s Scott Pruitt.  Cuccinelli in December won a federal judge’s ruling that
the individual mandate was unconstitutional, while leaving the
rest of the legislation intact.  The Obama administration is appealing that decision too.  Vinson’s decision prompted some plaintiff states to declare
that the health-care reform act was no longer in force.  Alaska  Won’t Implement  Alaska Governor Sean Parnell, citing Vinson’s ruling, said
Feb. 17 that his state wouldn’t seek federal grant money to
implement the legislation.  “The Florida court’s declaratory judgment that the federal
health-care law is unconstitutional is the law of the land as it
applies to Alaska,” Parnell said in a statement.  Wisconsin Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  said Feb. 1 that
the ruling in the Florida case relieved his state of any
obligation or duty under the federal health-care law. He said
that the act was “dead.”  Bill Cosh, a spokesman for Van Hollen, said today he had
“no new comment” on the Obama administration’s appellate
briefing.  Vinson, on March 3, issued an order staying enforcement of
his ruling pending its resolution on appeal.  “Almost everyone agrees that the constitutionality of the
act is an issue that will ultimately have to be decided by the
 Supreme Court  of the  United States ,” Vinson wrote.  Oral arguments in the appeal of Vinson’s ruling are
scheduled for June 8. The appeals court denied the states’
request for a full-panel review of Vinson’s decision. A randomly
selected three-judge panel will hear the arguments.  The case is State of Florida v.  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, 11-11021, U.S. 11th Circuit Court of Appeals
(Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  