-- 
Mummy Royalty Show Signs of Clogged Arteries 3,600 Years Ago, Scans Show

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-04-03T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/mummy-royalty-show-signs-of-clogged-arteries-3-600-years-ago-scans-show.html
Clogged arteries seemed to run in
the family of Ahmose-Henutempet, a queen during  Egypt ’s 17th
dynasty almost 3,600 years ago, according to research based on
body scans of mummies.  Both the queen, who died in her 40s, and her sister, the
princess Ahmose-Meyret-Anon, showed signs of atherosclerosis, a
buildup of fatty substances in heart vessels that lead to heart
attacks and stroke, according to a report today at the  American
College of Cardiology  meeting in  New Orleans .  The study scanned 44 mummies from the royal family, their
ministers and staff that still had remnants of arteries. It
found 20 with a disease that doctors now mostly tie to the
stresses and bad habits of modern life, said  Randall Thompson , a
cardiologist and study author.  “The fact that they lived a very different lifestyle and
still developed the disease raises questions about what we think
we know about coronary disease,” said Thompson, who works at
the  Mid America Heart Institute of Saint Luke’s Hospital  in
 Kansas City ,  Missouri . “Should we be focusing more on the
genetics? Are we missing something?”  The specimens had all been members of the upper class when
alive, so they may have suffered from the same higher standard
of living that affects humans today. They ate more meat than
most of the population and were likely less active than the
common laborer of the period, Thompson said.  Cairo Museum  The researchers conducted the body scans at the Egyptian
National Museum of Antiquities in Cairo after receiving
permission from the Supreme Council of Antiquities of Egypt, the
study said. Seventeen were women and 32 men. Eleven of those
found to exhibit atherosclerosis were men.  Some of the mummies analyzed still had remnants of hearts,
such as Djeher, dubbed the Golden Mummy by the researchers
because of the golden mask he wore within his sarcophagus. He
lived sometime around 330 and 304 B.C. until the age of 50 or
60, old for the period. His scan, which showed signs of
atherosclerosis, also displayed calcification of the heart
vessels, the study said.  “Some people may take from this study that no matter what
we do we are going to develop atherosclerosis if we live long
enough,” said  Michael Miyamoto , a study author who teaches at
the  University of California ,  San Diego . “I think it tells us
that as humans we have a predisposition to develop the disease
so we must do everything in our power -- exercise and watch our
diets -- to avoid what we can.”  Plaque and Parasites  Atherosclerosis leads to  heart disease  when it builds up to
the point that it chokes off blood flow to the cardiac muscle.
Cardiovascular disease is the world’s leading cause of death,
killing more than 17 million people in 2010, the study said.  The prevalence of inflammatory conditions from parasites
and infectious disease may also have contributed to the
development of coronary disease, said Miyamoto, who works as a
cardiologist with the Mission Internal Medical Group in Mission
Viejo,  California . The inflammation can cause injury to the
arteries and lead to plaque build-up, he said.  “This also should make us look more closely at possible
links with periodontal disease,” Miyamoto said in a telephone
interview. “That may be our next study to look at the mummies’
teeth.”  Studies have shown a possible link between periodontal and
heart disease, he said.  The research was also published today online in the journal
of the  American College of Cardiology : Cardiovascular Imaging.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 