-- 
Vivendi to Buy SFR Stake From Vodafone for 7.95 Billion Euros

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-03T22:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/vivendi-to-purchase-vodafone-stake-in-sfr-for-eu7-95-billion.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  agreed to buy  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) ’s 44 percent stake in mobile-phone operator SFR for
7.95 billion euros ($11.3 billion), giving the French company
full control of its largest unit.  The price includes 200 million euros in SFR dividends to be
paid to Vodafone, Paris-based Vivendi said in a statement.
In addition, SFR and Vodafone will continue their commercial
cooperation for the next three years, Vivendi said. Vodafone
plans to use 4 billion pounds ($6.4 billion) of the net proceeds
to repurchase its shares, it said in a separate statement.  The deal comes two weeks after AT&T Corp. agreed to buy
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA unit for $39 billion, which
was the biggest deal in the wireless industry since 2004 and
boosted the share price of European wireless companies. Vivendi
said its purchase price represents 6.2 times SFR’s 2010 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  The price for Vodafone is “much better than most people
expected,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  London . Typical valuations for mature
telecommunications markets are about 5.1 times to 5.3 times 2010
Ebitda, according to Bernstein estimates. “Great for Vodafone
and I think the shareholder buyback will surprise in size too.”  Vodafone shares have risen about 18 percent over the past
12 months, boosting the Newbury, England-based company’s market
value to 92.4 billion pounds. Vivendi stock has advanced 1.7
percent in the same period, giving it a market value of 25.4
billion euros.  Dividend Plans  The agreement is subject to antitrust approval and the
companies expect the deal to be completed by the end of June.  The transaction “will create a significant increase in
Vivendi’s adjusted net income, enabling us to raise the dividend
to our shareholders,” Vivendi Chief Executive Officer Jean- Bernard Levy said in the statement.  Vivendi hasn’t made a major external acquisition since late
2009, when it took control of Brazilian phone operator GVT --
now the company’s fastest-growing unit -- for $4.2 billion. Levy
has said Vivendi’s priority is taking full control of existing
assets, including SFR and  Canal Plus , a pay-TV operator, along
with “organic growth,” especially in emerging markets, where
acquisition targets are increasingly rare.  Vivendi gained cash for an SFR deal in January after
receiving a $3.8 billion payment from  General Electric Co. (GE)  for
its former 20 percent stake in NBC Universal entertainment
group. The company received a $2 billion transfer in September.  China Mobile, Softbank  SFR,  France ’s second-largest mobile-phone operator after
 France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange, accounted for about 43 percent of
Vivendi’s total sales last year. SFR had 21.3 million 
subscribers at the end of 2010.  For Vodafone, the SFR sale is the third major disposal of a
minority asset by CEO Vittorio Colao, after the company sold its
3.2 percent stake in  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  last September for $6.5
billion, and a 3.1 billion-pound interest in  Japan ’s  Softbank
Corp. (9984)  in November.  The SFR deal is at a multiple of 6.7 times the French 
company's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortization, and taking into account subscriber acquisition 
costs, Vodafone said in its statement.  The sale of the SFR stake brings the total value of
Vodafone’s disposals to about $22.8 billion since September. The
company said March 31 it will acquire an additional stake in its
Indian venture for $5 billion after partner Essar Group exercised
an option to sell down its holding.  In the last three years, the average multiple paid for
western European telecommunications assets was 6.4 times Ebitda,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fourth Operator  Selling the SFR stake now also gives Vodafone a chance to
complete a deal before the entry of a fourth operator 
complicates the French mobile-phone market.    Iliad SA (ILD) , a discount broadband provider, is planning to
start a mobile-phone service called Free Mobile in 2012 and has
pledged to bring down prices in a country where charges for
phone services are higher than in other European countries,
according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  