-- 
Vivus’s Diet Pill Has Heart Benefits That May Support Approval, Study Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-04-04T20:09:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/vivus-s-diet-pill-has-heart-benefits-that-may-support-approval-study-says.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  gained the most in two
months in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading after research
showed its experimental diet pill Qnexa also helped lower  blood
pressure  and cholesterol.  Vivus rose 42 cents, or 6.7 percent, to $6.73 at 4 p.m. New
York time, for the biggest percentage increase since Jan. 31.
Shares of the  Mountain View , California-based company have
fallen 24 percent in the past 12 months.  Once-daily Qnexa helped reduce dependence on blood-pressure
pills by as much as 19 percent on average and decrease
triglycerides by 26 percent, according to research presented
yesterday at the  American College of Cardiology  meeting in  New
Orleans . No new safety risks were found among 675 overweight and
obese patients in the study, called Sequel. The results may
prompt U.S. regulators to approve the medicine.  The  Food and Drug Administration  declined to approve Qnexa
in October partly because of concern that the medicine may cause
heart risks and  birth defects . Regulators have said they want to
see additional benefits of diet pills outside of weight loss to
support approval in a subgroup of patients, rather than all two-
thirds of Americans who are overweight.  “Weight loss is important but it’s got to be associated
with markers that mean that we’re really making a difference to
the patient,” said  Michael Davidson , the director of preventive
cardiology at the  University of Chicago , in a telephone
interview. Davidson, a researcher on the Vivus-funded study,
presented the data at the medical meeting.  ‘Missing Piece’  The drugmaker is competing with San Diego-area companies
 Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)  and  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  to
introduce the first prescription diet pill in the U.S. in more
than a decade. All three products have been delayed by FDA
requests for more data.  The FDA asked for a new study on the heart risks of
Orexigen’s Contrave in February, which analysts said may delay
its approval by years. Vivus shares dropped 15 percent on the
news as investors feared the company would need a similar study.  The new data on blood pressure and cholesterol provide
“one of the missing pieces of information” that may help the
FDA decide whether Qnexa should be approved, Davidson said.  Vivus said in January that it may need to review existing
databases to determine the risk of oral cleft in children whose
mothers took topiramate, one of two ingredients in Qnexa.
Analysts said at the time the analysis may take as long as six
months. Arena must provide the FDA more data on potential cancer
risks and effectiveness questions with its medicine, lorcaserin,
and plans to reply by the end of the year.  Future of Diet Pills  Patient-advocacy groups led by the  Obesity Action Coalition 
met with the FDA last month to discuss the future of diet pills
and what data will be necessary to support their approval. Top
agency officials want to see drugs that reduce complications
experienced by some people because they’re overweight, such as
sleep apnea, said Joseph Nadglowski, president of the Tampa,
Florida-based coalition, in a telephone interview.  Qnexa helped patients lose about 10 percent of their body
weight on average in the two-year Sequel study, according to
initial findings released in September. Doctors say the drug is
the most effective of the three new diet pills.  About 68 percent of American adults are overweight, raising
their risk of diabetes,  heart disease , high blood pressure and
cancer, according to a 2008 National Health and Nutrition
Examination  Survey . Almost 34 percent are obese, measured as a
ratio between height and weight.  Xenical, from Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,
was approved in 1999 and is the only long-term prescription
medicine for weight loss available in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  