-- 
Citigroup, Walgreen, New York & Co. Warn of E-Mail Breaches

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-04-05T16:14:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/walgreen-new-york-co-latest-to-warn-of-e-mail-breaches.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  US Bancorp (USB)  are
among the companies warning tens of thousands of customers to
beware of cyber thieves who stole names and e-mail addresses
from a company that markets their products.  The breach occurred at Alliance Data System Corp.’s  Epsilon
Data Management LLC , a Dallas-based provider of e-mail marketing
services that says it sends out more than 40 billion e-mails a
year on behalf of more than 600 companies. Epsilon said the
breach occurred March 30.  JP Morgan Chase & Co., Best Buy Co.,  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , New York
& Co. and at least 14 others have reported their customers’ data
was stolen, according to statements by those companies and by
the  Connecticut  Attorney General’s office.  The theft comes after similar attacks on marketing
companies’ e-mail databanks, some of which were followed by
attempts to coax more valuable information from customers or
target their computers with data scanning software, cyber
security experts said.  “Even if the only data taken in this breach are e-mail
addresses, it still poses a significant risk to consumers in
terms of phishing scams and other types of Internet fraud,”
William Rubenstein, Connecticut’s consumer protection
commissioner, said in a statement yesterday.  Epsilon Letter  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest discount retailer in the
U.S., today was the latest company to disclose that e-mail
addresses used for promotions and marketing were exposed by
unauthorized entry into Epsilon. Epsilon assured the retailer
that “no personally identifiable information, such as names and
credit card information was compromised,” Target spokeswoman
Amy Reilly said in an e-mailed statement.  Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen sent a letter to
Epsilon yesterday seeking more information about how the breach
occurred. He said he expected the company to help consumers who
may be harmed by phishing scams.  At least 18 other companies have reported incidents.
Walgreen, the largest U.S. drugstore chain, and New York & Co.,
a specialty apparel retailer, disclosed the accessing of the
data over the weekend. The information was gained by a person
outside Epsilon, according to separate statements.  Investigating Incidents  The latest disclosures said no personal identification
information or credit card details were compromised. JPMorgan
Chase and  Kroger Co. (KR)  began issuing warnings April 1, while
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  issued statements
April 3. All said they are investigating the incidents.  E-mail addresses aren’t considered sensitive information by
state laws that require automatic notification of data breaches,
according to Marc Zwillinger, a  Washington  attorney who
specializes in cyber-related law.  Anup Ghosh, founder of the Fairfax, Virginia cyber security
firm Invincea Inc., said the e-mails could be used as building
blocks for more sophisticated attacks. By posing as a trusted
institution, the thieves could trick users into downloading
software that can copy bank account numbers and passwords
directly from the memory of personal computers, he said.  Zwillinger said that even if that happens, it is unlikely
that customers could hold Epsilon liable for the loss of the
data.  “Many people make their e-mail addresses fairly well known
and give them to a lot of marketers,” said Zwillinger, a
partner at Zwillinger Genetski LLP. “It is hard to see direct
liability for Epsilon in this case.”  Potential Liability  Epsilon bills itself as the largest “permission-based” e-
mail marketer in the world, with more than $613 million in
revenue in 2010. Twenty-five percent of the company’s revenue
comes from the company’s 10 largest clients, according to
company filings.  Epsilon’s biggest potential liability may come from those
or other clients, Zwillinger said. Companies who share their
information often have contracts that require the data be kept
safe, and Epsilon could be sued if the marketer had weak
security or was careless, he said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s U.S. payments business, Barclaycard US, said
it began notifying customers on April 3 and is “reminding
customers about how to manage their e-mail address securely,”
said  Kevin Sullivan , a Barclays spokesman.  Marriott International Inc., the largest U.S. hotel chain,
and Hilton Worldwide, which is owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
were also affected by the data breach.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  