-- 
Wall Street Trading Revenue Seen Falling 4th Straight Quarter

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-04-03T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/wall-street-revenue-from-trading-seen-declining-fourth-consecutive-quarter.html
A surge in market volatility
following  Japan ’s worst earthquake on record and a jump in oil
prices may not be enough to keep investment-banking and trading
revenue from falling for a fourth consecutive quarter.  Analysts have lowered first-quarter earnings estimates at
the biggest U.S. banks, saying trading revenue won’t rebound as
much as they had expected from a weak fourth quarter. The
outlook for the period fuels speculation that Wall Street is
facing a prolonged decline in investment-banking and trading
revenue after record figures in 2009.  While firms often benefit from higher volatility and
volume, an 18 percent drop in the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Index in the three
trading days beginning with Japan’s March 11 magnitude-9
earthquake may mean the events were a negative for  Wall Street 
as banks faced principal losses and nervous investors scaled
back trading after an initial swell, analysts said.  “In the very short term, that volatility can have a
beneficial effect, but when this comes after what’s been a
volatile few years, it ultimately leads to more investors
sitting on the sidelines again,” said Richard Staite, an
analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP in  London . “The benefit in
this quarter from more volatility has been relatively modest and
generally unhelpful over the medium term.”  23% Decline  First-quarter earnings per share at the five largest U.S.
firms by investment-banking and trading revenue --  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Morgan Stanley -- may fall 23 percent from
the same period a year earlier, with only JPMorgan likely to
post higher profit, according to the average of 104 estimates by
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Total investment-banking and trading revenue at the five
banks may drop 25 percent from the first quarter of 2010,
according to estimates by Chris Kotowski, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.  The banks are likely to bounce back from the fourth
quarter, when they posted combined revenue of $21.1 billion from
investment banking and trading. That was the lowest since they
reported losses in the fourth quarter of 2008, driven by weak
fixed-income trading. Spokesmen for the five banks declined to
comment on first-quarter results.  While increased trading as a result of global events likely
boosted commissions, most large banks probably suffered
principal losses of a “few hundred million dollars” in the
first days after the earthquake, said  David Trone , an analyst at
JMP Securities LLC in New York.  ‘Inescapable’ Losses  “Sometimes those general rules have exceptions, and the
acute velocity of the decline in Japan over the first few days
was something where losses were inescapable,” Trone said. “If
you have a big Japanese equities business, those five days were
difficult, because you have inventory and your clients ask you
to fall on the sword, and that’s a cost of doing business.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s profit may be hurt by a trading loss at a
Japanese partnership with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.
The venture may post a loss of 80 billion yen ($951 million)
from bond trading, the Wall Street Journal reported last week.
Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, which owns 40 percent
of the venture, declined to comment.  After reporting record investment-banking and trading
revenue in 2009, banks had declines in those businesses for
three straight quarters compared with year-earlier periods, with
the quarter just ended likely to be the fourth. A fall in fixed-
income trading revenue, the biggest capital-markets business for
the banks, largely spurred the decreases.  ‘Tepid Pace’  Aggregate fixed-income revenue for the five U.S. banks and
four international rivals -- UBS AG, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Barclays Plc, and Deutsche Bank AG -- dropped to $101 billion
last year, from a record $146 billion in 2009, according to
 Glenn Schorr , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York .  David Viniar, chief financial officer of Goldman Sachs,
told investors in February that last year’s fixed-income decline
will likely end. Revenue from fixed-income, currencies and
commodities, known as FICC, fell 37 percent at his firm last
year, the biggest drop of any big  U.S. bank .  The first-quarter results “could fuel concerns that the
tepid pace of the capital-markets recovery coupled with new
regulation will impair earnings growth for the capital-market
banks in 2011,” said Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York. “Risk aversion still pervades the
market, as clients remain liquid and defensively postured.”  Hintz cut his first-quarter earnings estimates for Goldman
Sachs and Morgan Stanley in a March 29 note. He doesn’t cover
the other three banks.  Lower Ratings  Atlantic Equity’s Staite said the revenue decline could be
more enduring.  “In the aftermath of the financial crisis, you’re going to
have a sustained period of uncertainty in the market,” Staite
said. “So you could argue that it’s at least a semi-permanent
decline in revenue. It could take a few years before we start to
rebuild toward the high levels we saw previously.”  Analysts, including  Guy Moszkowski  at Bank of America, had
expected a pickup in the first quarter, similar to last year
when Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan reported record fixed-income
trading results. Moszkowski cut his earnings estimates last
month for Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup and JPMorgan,
all of which are based in New York. He also lowered his ratings
of Goldman Sachs and Citigroup to “neutral” from “buy,” as
he said the first-quarter increase in trading was
“uninspiring” compared with previous years.  Keith Horowitz, a Citigroup analyst, also cut estimates for
trading revenue by an average of 5 percent and investment-
banking revenue by an average of 15 percent.  Volatility Index  The earthquake and tsunami in Japan, which caused radiation
leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear-power plant, also
triggered a rise in volatility and trading volume. The VIX, as
the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is known,
jumped to 29.40 on March 16. It has averaged 20.38 over its two-
decade history.  Equity-trading volume on the largest U.S. exchanges jumped
on March 16 to the highest since July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. Treasury dollar volume that same day
was the most since September 2008, according to data from ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker. Volume for the
Nikkei index on March 15 was the highest since Bloomberg began
keeping records in 1996.  Oil, Protest  The surge failed to lift volumes for the whole quarter.
Average daily equity-trading volume on the largest U.S.
exchanges fell 8.2 percent from the first quarter of 2010.
Dollar volume of high-yield corporate bonds declined 13 percent
from a year earlier, while volume of investment-grade bonds rose
8.8 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Trading volume, an indicator of performance, may not
correlate directly with firms’ revenue because banks make money
on changes in the value of the securities they hold and
transaction fees that may not be related to volume.  Commodities trading may be a bright spot, driven by
uncertainty surrounding political events in North Africa and the
Middle East. Crude oil rose $15.34, or 17 percent, to $106.72,
in the first three months of this year, the largest quarterly
gain since the second quarter of 2009, as anti-government
protests swept through at least nine countries, including Libya
and Bahrain, and led to the ousters of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  M&A Drop  Trading in commodities is near 2007 highs, and the
industry’s fee pool this year could be $3 billion to $4 billion
higher than in 2010, Nomura’s Schorr said in a March 23 note to
investors, citing a meeting with Robert Rooney and Colin Bryce,
trading executives at Morgan Stanley.  “The backdrop for this business is pretty healthy right
now, given increased volatility and rising  oil prices , which
generally leads to increased hedging activity,” Schorr wrote.  Trading and investment banking accounted for 30 percent of
the five firms’ total revenue last year, ranging from 68 percent
at Goldman Sachs to 21 percent at  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, according to company filings.  Companies worldwide completed $386 billion of mergers and
acquisitions in the first quarter, Bloomberg data show. That
compares with $495 billion of deals completed in the fourth
quarter and $436 billion in the first quarter of 2010.  Global equity offerings also fell from the fourth quarter,
when total underwritings topped those of any quarter since 1999,
the year Bloomberg records begin. Companies raised $150.5
billion through share sales in the first quarter, compared with
$249.8 billion in the fourth quarter, Bloomberg data show. U.S.
bond issuance jumped to $564.4 billion, up from $393.2 billion
in the fourth quarter.  JPMorgan shares climbed 9.3 percent this year, and Bank of
America’s and Morgan Stanley’s are each up 0.2 percent. Shares
of Citigroup fell 5.9 percent, and Goldman Sachs dropped 4.7
percent.  After all the political and tectonic turmoil in the
quarter, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 5.4 percent in
the period, rising for the seventh quarter in the last eight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  