-- 
Yemen Opposition Calls on Saleh to Transfer Power to Deputy

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-04-03T14:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/yemen-opposition-asks-saleh-to-transfer-power-to-vice-president.html
Yemen ’s opposition coalition called
on President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step down and transfer power
to Vice President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi.  The Joint Meeting Parties, a coalition of six groups, also
called for a transitional unity government. It said Hadi should
restructure the central security forces, the elite republican
guard, which is led by Saleh’s son, Ahmed, and the national
intelligence agency, according to an e-mailed statement late
yesterday.  Saleh, who has repeatedly rejected calls to step down, told
youth organizations in the capital, Sana’a, that the opposition
was acting in “a chaotic and mob-like manner.” A transcript of
his speech was published by the state-run Saba news agency.  Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in cities across
Yemen today to demand that Saleh end his 32-year rule.  In Sana’a, the protests were peaceful, while in the Taiz
governorate police used live bullets and tear gas to disperse
crowds gathered at Freedom Square, the main gathering point,
Bushra al-Maktari, a protest organizer in the city of Taiz, said
in a telephone interview. One person was killed in the clashes
and as many as 400 people suffered tear gas inhalation, Mohammed
Makharish, a doctor at the field clinic in Taiz, said in a
telephone interview.  Dozens of lawmakers, senior military officers, Cabinet
ministers and tribal leaders have abandoned Saleh’s ruling
General People’s Congress since March 18, when police and
snipers killed 46 protesters in Sana’a in the worst violence
since the unrest began two months ago.  At a meeting with local clerics and government officials
today, Saleh said that results with not be achieved by the
opposition’s “arm-twisting policy,” Saba reported. He called
on the JMP to stop its “protests, blocking roads,
assassinations and insurgency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  