-- 
Yen Falls as Signs of Quicker Global Growth Reduce Demand for Safer Assets

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-04-04T05:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/yen-extends-last-week-s-drop-versus-dollar-euro-on-global-recovery-signs.html
The yen fell against most of its
major counterparts before reports this week that economists said
will show European producer-price inflation accelerated and U.S.
services industries grew, reducing demand for safer assets.  Japan’s currency touched a 10-month low versus the euro as
gains in stocks around the world spurred demand for higher-
yielding currencies. The euro reached a five-month high versus
the dollar on speculation the  European Central Bank  will raise
interest rates as soon as its April 7 meeting.  South Korea ’s won
strengthened for a fifth day as overseas investors boosted their
holdings of the nation’s stocks.  “We’re back to risk on for markets globally,” said Khoon Goh, head of market economics and strategy in Wellington at ANZ
National Bank Ltd., the New Zealand unit of Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “We’ve seen strong data and
investors put money back on the table for risk assets. In that
kind of environment, the yen typically doesn’t perform very
well.”  The yen dropped 0.4 percent to 64.78 per  New Zealand dollar 
as of 6:37 a.m. in  London  from last week in  New York . Japan’s
currency dropped to 119.77 per euro from 119.66, after slipping
to 120.06, the weakest since May 10. The yen declined 0.1
percent to 84.18 per dollar.  The euro was at $1.4227 from $1.4237 after rising to
$1.4269, the strongest since Nov. 4.  Canada ’s dollar rose to
96.19 cents per  U.S. dollar , the highest since November 2007,
before trading at 96.23 cents from 96.32 cents.  Stocks Gain  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 0.4 percent
after the MSCI World Index advanced 0.5 percent on April 1. The
VIX Index, a measure of market volatility known as Wall Street’s
“fear gauge,” dropped 2.9 percent last week, indicating
traders are becoming more confident about stock market gains.  “We’re in this environment where there’s this huge risk
appetite out there right now,” Stuart Oakley, Singapore-based
head of emerging markets foreign exchange for  Asia  at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“That supports the bid tone to risky assets.”  Producer prices in the euro area jumped 6.7 percent in
February from a year earlier, the most since September 2008,
according to a Bloomberg survey before today’s report. The U.S.
Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-manufacturing
businesses was 59.5 in March from 59.7 the previous month, which
was the highest since August 2005, a separate survey showed
before tomorrow’s data.  ECB Rates  The euro gained 1.1 percent last week amid speculation
European policy makers will increase borrowing costs as early as
this week to contain inflation.  “There’s a possibility for a 50 basis-point rate hike from
the ECB,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director in  Tokyo 
at FX Prime Corp., a foreign-exchange margin company. “The euro
is likely to strengthen.”  The ECB will boost its benchmark rate of 1 percent by 132
basis points over the next 12 months, compared with a prediction
for 44 basis points of increases at the end of last year, a
Credit Suisse Group AG index showed.  The euro, seen as a potential failure 10 months ago, had
its strongest start to a year on record as German growth
accelerates and policy makers prepare to boost  interest rates .  The currency appreciated 3.5 percent through March, the
most since the final three months of 2008 and the best first-
quarter performance since the region’s single currency began
trading in 1999, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Index data. It rose from its lowest level since 2002 in January
as German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy said they would do whatever is needed to support the 17-
nation monetary union.  ‘Extraordinarily Strong’  “The euro is extraordinarily strong under the
circumstances,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10
foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.
“Does it look more capable of stumbling along than it did a
year ago? Yes, to the extent that the core does seem to have
made a commitment to fund bailouts.”  The won climbed to a 30-month high versus the dollar on
optimism an improving U.S. economy will spur demand for the
Asian nation’s shares.  Overseas investors increased holdings of Korean shares for
a 13th day after U.S. reports last week showed employers added
216,000 workers in March and the  unemployment rate  declined to
8.8 percent.  “The U.S. jobs report is prompting investors to buy more
stocks around the world and also spurring foreign investors to
buy Korean stocks, supporting the won,” said Ko Yun Jin,
currency dealer at Kookmin Bank in  Seoul .  The won rose 0.4 percent to 1,087.20 per dollar after
climbing to 1,083.85, the strongest since September 2008.  The dollar may strengthen beyond 90 yen in coming months,
according to Eisuke Sakakibara, a former top Japanese finance
ministry official.  The nuclear crisis from the nation’s March 11 earthquake
will likely hurt the yen, Sakakibara, who was in charge of
 Japan ’s currency policy as vice finance minister for
international affairs in the late-1990’s, said in Tokyo.
Sakakibara is now a professor at  Aoyama Gakuin University .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 