-- 
Zuma’s Quest for India Ties Threatens S. Africa Power Supply

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-04-04T14:51:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-03/zuma-s-quest-for-closer-indian-ties-threatens-south-african-power-supply.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
has forecast a “great future” for relations with  India  as he
pushes for a partnership with one of the world’s fastest-growing
economies.  Side effects for his country may include higher inflation
and a power crisis.  Indian purchases of South African coal are beginning to
suck up the low-quality fossil fuel used by national utility
Eskom Holdings Ltd., which is spending $56 billion on a five-
year expansion. As miners like  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  benefit from a 44 percent jump in prices over the last year,
the government and Eskom say exports may need to be controlled.  “The price of coal is much more important than just for
Eskom,” Cornelis van der Waal, an energy analyst at  Frost &
Sullivan , said from Cape Town on March 18. “It’s the
government’s duty to intervene to ensure that the bigger
interest of the country, and not just the coal-mining groups,
derive the benefit of the minerals of the country.”  Nations including  Indonesia , the world’s largest exporter
of power-plant coal, are considering restrictions on mineral
exports to safeguard their economies. South Africa relies on
coal for 93 percent of its 40,870-megawatt power-generation
capacity. That’s the most of 12 countries heavily dependent on
the fuel, according to  London ’s World Coal Association.  Outstripping Europe  While  South Africa  has traditionally been the biggest
source of high-quality coal needed by western European power
plants, India became the largest market for its exports last
year, buying more than a third of the 63 million metric tons
shipped through Richards Bay Coal Terminal, or a 10th of South
Africa’s total production.  That’s 11 times the volumes shipped five years ago, Geneva-
based coal trader  Comptoir Balland-Brugneaux SARL  said in a
February presentation in Cape Town. Indian buyers are willing to
purchase coal that generates less heat per ton than European
buyers.  South Africa’s biggest coal miners say it’s a “fallacy”
that demand from India will compromise Eskom’s ability to supply
power.  “Heavy-handed mechanisms” may have unintended
consequences that “may well prejudice security of primary
 energy supply ,” Johannesburg’s Chamber of Mines, which
represents the largest producers including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
Exxaro Resources Ltd., said in a February  statement . Anglo and
Xstrata declined to make additional comment.  India’s coal imports may rise to 600 million tons in 2030
from 2010’s 85 million tons, Kolkata-based mjunction services
Ltd., a web-based commodity trader, said in a February
presentation. The government is increasing power capacity by 18
percent to 200,000 megawatts by 2012.  ‘No Option’  “India is probably left with no option but to import lower
grades of coal because of growing demand and insufficient
domestic production,” said K. Sriram, general manager of
 Singapore ’s Trust Energy Resources Ltd., a unit of Tata Power
Co., which is building a 4,000-megawatt power plant in India to
use imported coal.  For Eskom, competition is not welcome. It struggled to
finance expansion after a January 2008 power shortage, in part
caused by inadequate coal stocks, closed most of the country’s
mines and metal smelters for five days. Further power-price
increases will meet opposition after Eskom won regulatory
approval to raise prices by about 25 percent annually last year,
this year and in 2012. South Africa’s annual inflation is 3.7
percent.  Restrictions, Intervention  “Eskom faces a substantial challenge in securing the long-
term coal supplies it requires,” Dan Marokane, Eskom’s chief
commercial officer, said in an interview in  Cape Town . Eskom,
which burns about 120 million tons of coal annually, may lose
525 million tons to competition over the next 20 years and South
Africa can’t afford power generated with coal purchased at
“global” prices, he said.  Export restrictions and increased powers for ministerial
intervention could curb prices, he said in a separate
presentation.  While Eskom doesn’t disclose the price it pays for coal, it
probably pays less than 200 rand ($29) a ton, Anton Eberhard, a
member of Zuma’s National Planning Commission, wrote in a
January  report . That’s a quarter of the average price of exports
from Richards Bay.  Eskom buys most of its coal through contracts, which will
need to be renegotiated when they expire, and the rest on the
 spot market . Eskom is currently in talks with Anglo over
supplies for a new plant, Kusile, that will use 17 million tons
of coal annually.  Balance Needed  “A balance has to be found between pursuing the principles
of a free market while taking into account the needs of the
country,” Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu said at a
Cape Town conference. “The lack of regulation of the coal
mining industry resulted in a shift in the power balance away
from the national interest to that of the shareholders of the
mining companies.” This is affecting the quality and cost of
supply to Eskom, she said.  While Eskom is lobbying for a curb on coal exports, South
Africa’s trade ministry and president are pushing ties with
India.  South Africa in December gained admission to the so-called
BRIC group of the world’s biggest emerging market economies --
India,  China ,  Russia  and  Brazil .  MMTC Ltd. (MMTC) , India’s biggest
state-run trading company, opened an office in Johannesburg in
January and said it planned to boost imports of coal into India.
South African Trade Minister Rob Davies spoke at that opening.  “Everybody’s talking about the Asian markets,” Mike Teke,
chief executive officer of  Optimum Coal Holdings (OPT)  Ltd., South
Africa’s fourth-largest coal exporter, told investors in
February. “We’re seeing huge demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 