-- 
`Double Dip' Arbitrage Emerges as ASX's Takeover Premium Widens: Real M&A

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-02-28T12:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/-double-dip-arbitrage-emerges-as-asx-s-takeover-premium-widens-real-m-a.html
  Singapore Exchange Ltd .’s offer to
pay the biggest premium ever for a securities exchange to buy  ASX Ltd . is now giving traders a chance to double their money.    Australia ’s national bourse jumped 19 percent on Oct. 25,
when the Singapore Exchange offered A$8.3 billion ($8.3 billion)
in cash and stock. Shares of Sydney-based ASX have since lost
most of the A$6.79 rise on concern regulators and politicians
will block the cross-border takeover. With the bid currently
valued at A$43.26 a share, traders who profit from mergers and
acquisitions stand to gain another 19 percent from betting the
deal will be completed, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore Exchange’s Chief Executive Officer Magnus Bocker
wants to create the world’s fifth-largest bourse as he tries to
attract business away from Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
the world’s most profitable exchange. While the bid for ASX,
struck at five times the premium of  Deutsche Boerse AG ’s deal
for NYSE Euronext, has drawn criticism from owners who say
Singapore Exchange is paying too much, it’s also giving
arbitragers an opportunity to reap some of the biggest profits.  “There’s a chance for investors to double-dip here,” said
Andrew Ross, partner and global equity trader at First  New York 
Securities LLC, a New York-based proprietary trading firm that
bets on stocks, commodities, currencies and derivatives. “The
super-wide arbitrage spread is obviously the result of cross-
border regulatory concerns. The risk is it never gets
consummated.”  ‘Business Logic’  Magdalyn Liew, a spokeswoman at Singapore Exchange,
declined to comment.  “ASX makes no comment on its share price,” Matthew Gibbs,
a spokesman for ASX, said in an e-mail. “But at our recent
half-year result announcement the CEO restated the board’s
commitment to the business logic of a combination with SGX and
the benefits of the proposal for ASX stakeholders.”    Singapore Exchange  agreed to pay 3.473 shares of its own
stock and A$22 for each ASX share, valuing the acquisition at
A$48 apiece, the bourse said on Oct. 25. The deal would be the
first exchange takeover in the Asia-Pacific region and help
narrow the gap to Hong Kong Exchanges, home to companies valued
at $3.3 trillion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A combination of Singapore Exchange and ASX would oversee
$2.2 trillion of shares. ASX earned 74 cents before interest and
taxes per dollar of revenue in its latest fiscal year, the
third-highest among global bourses. That’s more than the 57
percent operating margin for Singapore Exchange, the data show.  More Competition  Both Singapore Exchange and ASX face increasing competition
in their home markets. The Singapore Mercantile Exchange started
in August to compete with a unit of the Singapore bourse, while
Chi-X Global Inc., the electronic trading platform, plans to
open in Australia.  “Capital will gravitate over time to exchanges with the
most liquidity and the most efficient operations,” Singapore
Exchange’s Bocker, 49, said in an e-mailed statement on Feb. 10.
It helps to “underscore the rationale for exchange
consolidation and the merits of an enlarged group,” he said.  The 42 percent premium to ASX’s 20-day average before the
announcement was the highest price offered for a securities
exchange, exceeding the 37 percent premium that Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bourse agreed to pay International Securities Exchange
Holdings Inc. in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Singapore Exchange’s offer for ASX was the first of three
cross-border exchange acquisitions announced since October.  National Identity    Deutsche Boerse  offered $9.5 billion for  NYSE Euronext  this
month, while  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  agreed to pay $3.1
billion for  TMX Group Inc . in Toronto. Both struck deals at
premiums of 8.1 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.    Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . of New York also discussed a joint
bid with Atlanta-based  IntercontinentalExchange Inc . to counter
Deutsche Boerse’s offer for NYSE Euronext, a person with
knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified because
the talks were private said last week.  “Most Asian markets are very tied to their national
identities,” Larry Tabb, founder and chief executive officer of
Westborough, Massachusetts-based research firm  Tabb Group LLC ,
said in an e-mail. “Unless there was a significant premium, the
deal wouldn’t have a chance of going through.”  ASX’s shares jumped the most since 1998 on the day of the
announcement. The stock then fell by the most in 20 months the
next day after Australian lawmakers said they wouldn’t support
the acquisition, which requires parliamentary approval.  ‘Lunacy’  The Australian Greens party, whose votes Prime Minister
Julia Gillard needs to pass legislation, “will not be
facilitating or supporting this takeover,” leader Bob Brown
said Oct. 26. Lawmaker  Bob Katter  called the bid “lunacy.”  The proposed purchase, which won approval from Australia’s
watchdog on Dec. 15, requires the support from each exchange’s
shareholders, a majority of the Australian parliament and
government investment regulators.  To overcome opposition from lawmakers in Canberra who
raised concerns on national interest grounds, Singapore Exchange
on Feb. 15 offered to give more board seats to Australians.  It also pledged to keep key staff in Australia and to
invest in services -- including an Australian dollar interest-
rate swaps clearing facility -- in the country.  Concern the acquisition will be blocked has left shares of
ASX so far below the offer price that speculators now have more
to gain from betting on the takeover’s success, said  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG Markets in Melbourne.  ‘Risk Worth Taking’  The current bid, which is expected to close at the end of
June, is A$6.84 higher than ASX’s closing price of A$36.42
today. On an annualized basis, the deal would yield a profit of
56 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I’m sitting in the favoring it to get done camp,” said
Weston. “If you are prepared to take on a little bit of risk
there is more upside than downside to the situation. It is a
risk worth taking.”  While the record premium for ASX may help to enrich
arbitragers a second time, Singapore Exchange’s shares have
slumped on concern the offer price is too expensive.  After reaching a 2 1/2 year-high in the days leading up the
takeover announcement, Singapore Exchange has since declined
about 22 percent.  Morgan Stanley  of New York is advising
Singapore Exchange on the transaction, while ASX has hired
Zurich-based  UBS AG  for advice, the bourses said.  “SGX is paying what they think is needed to get the
approval from relevant parties,” said Sam Hilton, Hong Kong-
based analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Asia Ltd. “There is a
PR element to the terms of the deal.”  Relative Value  Singapore Exchange’s offer as of the end of last week
valued ASX’s equity and net debt at about A$7.1 billion, or 14.5
times its estimated earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of A$486 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s 61 percent more than the estimated 2011 Ebitda
multiple of about 9 times that Deutsche Boerse’s takeover of New
York-based NYSE Euronext will cost, the data show. The LSE’s
acquisition of the Toronto exchange was valued at 8.9 times.  The proposed takeover price is “unusually high,”  Atsushi Saito , president of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Singapore
bourse’s largest outside shareholder with a 4.99 percent stake,
told reporters at a briefing in Tokyo on Feb. 22.  “These situations of cross-border consolidation of
exchanges in what used to be a fragmented market are very
tricky,” said Andrew Whittaker, a merger-arbitrage analyst at
Timber Hill LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. “There’s a payoff if
you get it right, but it can be painful if you don’t.”  Equinox Minerals  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Equinox Minerals
Ltd ., owner of Africa’s biggest copper mine, offered C$4.8
billion ($4.9 billion) in cash and shares for  Lundin Mining
Corp ., challenging a planned takeover by  Inmet Mining Corp .  Equinox will pay C$8.10 a share for Toronto-based Lundin,
the Perth-based company said today in a statement. That’s 26
percent more than Lundin’s Feb. 25 close of C$6.45 a share.
Inmet of Toronto agreed to buy Lundin in January for an
announced value of C$4.1 billion, giving it about 53 percent of
a new company to be called Symterra Corp.  There have been 3,657 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $355.3 billion, a 25 percent increase from the $283.7
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 