-- 
Accor, ADP, Carrefour, GDF Suez, L’Oreal: French Equity Preview

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-28T04:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/accor-adp-carrefour-gdf-suez-l-oreal-french-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in Paris. Stock
symbols are in parentheses after company names. Share prices are
from the last close.  France’s  CAC 40 Index  gained 1.5 percent to 4,070.38 in
Paris. The  SBF 120 Index  also rose 1.6 percent.    Accor SA  (AC FP): Denis Hennequin, chief executive officer
of Europe’s largest hotelier, will go to India to review the
company’s business there and assess how to allocate assets, Le
Journal du Dimanche said. The shares rose 3 percent to 33.68
euros.    Aeroports de Paris  (ADP FP): The operator of the French
capital’s Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports, would be
interested in buying Lyon’s regional airport should the
government sell its stake, Chief Executive Officer Pierre Graff
said in an interview on LCI television. The shares gained 0.3
percent to 63 euros.  Areva SA (CEI FP): Yazid Sabeg, cited in press reports as a
possible successor to  Areva SA  Chief Executive Officer Anne
Lauvergeon, has “no particular intention” of taking the post,
he said in an interview with French television channel iTele.
The company’s investment certificates fell 2.3 percent to 34.60
euros.    Carrefour SA  (CA FP): The board of the world’s second-
largest retailer will meet March 1 to review the valuation of
its Dia discount supermarket chain and its Carrefour Property
real-estate unit for a possible public listing, the Journal du
Dimanche said today. The shares climbed 2.6 percent to 35.54
euros.  Electricite de France SA (EDF FP): The biggest operator of
nuclear reactors may agree with A2A SpA to take full control of
Edison SpA in exchange for power assets, Corriere della Sera
reported, without saying where it got the information. The
shares rose 0.7 percent to 31.83 euros.    GDF Suez  SA (GSZ FP): The operator of Europe’s largest
natural-gas network’s takeover of heating supply company NE
Varietur was approved by France’s competition authority. The
shares gained 0.9 percent to 29.07 euros.    L’Oreal SA  (OR FP): The world’s largest cosmetics maker’s
Galderma Pharma SA, co-owned with Nestle SA, made an
unconditional offer to acquire all Restylane wrinkle-smoother
maker Q-Med AB’s shares. The stock rose 1.6 percent to 84.40
euros.  Safran SA (SAF FP): Europe’s second-largest maker of
aircraft engines is willing to adapt to avoid overlaps with
rival Thales SA in defense activities, Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Paul Herteman said in an interview with weekly newspaper
Investir. The shares closed unchanged at 25.11 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  