-- 
Alibaba's Fraud Scandal May Become Opportunity for Google, Global Sources

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-02-28T08:32:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/alibaba-s-2-300-thieves-may-prove-opportunity-for-global-sources.html
  Alibaba.com Ltd ., owner of China’s
largest online-commerce site, has been the go-to marketplace for
Western companies seeking gaskets, garden gnomes and gelatin.
Disclosures that its salespeople helped defraud buyers may send
business to rivals Google Inc. and  Global Sources Ltd .  Since Alibaba announced the scam Feb. 21, its chief
executive officer and chief operating officer resigned, and the
Hangzhou, China-based company has lost about $1 billion in
market value. The flagship of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which
counts Yahoo! Inc. as its biggest shareholder, also may struggle
to sign up new clients, analysts said.  “This will hurt the company’s reputation and its ability
to attract global buyers,” said Paul Wuh, head of Internet
research at Samsung Securities Co. Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “This
could be positive for its competitors.”  Alibaba.com shares have fallen 13 percent in Hong Kong
trading since the announcement, and three analysts downgraded
their recommendations from buy to hold. Wuh, the top Alibaba
analyst over the past year according to Bloomberg Absolute
Return Rank, maintained his sell recommendation.  There were no upgrades. Seven of 27 analysts, or 26
percent, tracked by Bloomberg recommend buying Alibaba shares.  Alibaba declined 4 percent to HK$14.52 today, the lowest
close this year.  ‘Same Company’  The scandal hasn’t changed Alibaba’s prospects, said John Spelich, the company’s Hong Kong-based spokesman.  “We are the same company today that our customers have
known for the last 11 years, and the whole point of the
announcement earlier this week was to demonstrate our sacrosanct
commitment to integrity,” he said last week. “We believe, over
time, our customers will understand that.”  Alibaba.com, founded in 1999 by Jack Ma, is a business-to-
business, or B2B, website. Its target audience is companies in
the U.S. and  Europe  buying from low-cost manufacturers in China,  Vietnam  and  Pakistan , among others. The buyers typically are too
small to travel thousands of miles to meet suppliers and inspect
factories.  The company operates marketplaces in Chinese, English and
Japanese. Buyers use the services for free while suppliers pay
an annual fee of 29,800 yuan ($4,500) to appear on the English-
language website as a “Gold Supplier” for a year, Spelich
said.  ‘Some Bad Eggs’  The site offers  tips  for avoiding fraud and hosts a forum
where users can notify each other of potential scammers. Alibaba
also posts the names of suppliers who have been banned.  Alibaba.com may have been victimized by its own success,
Wuh said. Sales more than tripled to $567.2 million in 2009 from
$171.1 million in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That growth was fueled by company claims a third party
 verifies  the credibility of all suppliers with paid memberships.
Its database of registered suppliers almost tripled to 108,000
last year from about 30,000 in 2008, Wuh said.  The frauds recently disclosed involved vendors offering
small quantities of electronics at attractive prices, with
payments settled using “less reliable” methods, Spelich has
said. Alibaba employees either intentionally or negligently
allowed the vendors to evade authentication and verification
measures, the company said.  “During that period, it was more difficult to manage and
harder to check the quality of all the people on your network,”
Wuh said. “There has to be some bad eggs in there.”  Google Benefits    Google Inc ., the  Mountain View , California-based operator
of the Internet’s most-used search engine, may benefit from
sellers setting up their own websites and paying to show up on
Internet queries, said Muzhi Li, an analyst at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong.  Caroline Hsu, a spokeswoman for Google in Hong Kong and  Taiwan , declined to comment on how the company’s business might
benefit from the Alibaba fraud.  “A big direction for us is our display and export business
and helping small- and medium-sized Chinese companies who want
to go global and leverage the Google platform,” she said.  Another beneficiary may be Global Sources, a Shenzhen,
China-based organizer of  trade shows  where buyers meet sellers
of electronics, toys and lingerie, among other products,
analysts said. It organizes 56 shows a year in locations
including  India ,  China ,  South Africa , Dubai and Miami.  “You can actually go to a trade show and see the
products,” Wuh said. “I see them benefiting directly.”  Third-Party Checks  The company also operates a B2B site the competes against
Alibaba. Online and other media services accounted for about 66
percent of Global Source’s $174.5 million in revenue in 2009,
the last full year reported. Its stock is up 19 percent this
year in New York trading.  Like Alibaba, Global Sources uses contractors to vet
suppliers through factory visits and checks of business
registrations and credit, Chief Executive Officer Merle Hinrichs
said. The company has about 260,000 sellers, primarily in Asia,
and about 970,000 buyers worldwide.  “Customers may want to consider the portals they use in
light of this development,” Hinrichs said. “We do far more on
the front end to avoid these problems.”  The strength of Alibaba’s model has been called into doubt,
said Dane Chamorro, managing director for North  Asia  at  Control
Risks Group  in  Shanghai . His firm does background checks for
companies.  ‘Lost Their Way’  “They didn’t do their homework and weren’t monitoring
their own platform,” he said. “You have to devote internal
resources to verify that third parties using your platform are
viable and legitimate.”  Although Alibaba tries to minimize the risks to buyers by
vetting sellers, the system broke down because staff colluded
with fraudulent sellers to bypass that verification process,
said Elinor Leung, head of Internet research at CLSA Ltd. in
Hong Kong. More than 2,300 vendors were involved, Alibaba said.  Alibaba CEO David Wei and COO Elvis Lee, who weren’t
accused of wrongdoing, resigned to take responsibility for the
“systemic breakdown” of integrity, the company said in a
statement. About 100 salespeople were involved, the company
said.  Jonathan Lu, 41, who heads the  Taobao.com  online retailing
affiliate, China’s Ebay, replaced Wei.  “We had a small number of colleagues that may have lost
their way and chose another path,” Lu said in an e-mail to
employees on Feb. 23, two days after the scandal broke. “We
must immediately fix these mistakes to prevent future detours.”  That’s no small task, Li said. As many as 35 percent of
Alibaba’s registered sellers don’t renew their one-year
contracts, meaning the company needs to add about 35,000 new
suppliers a year to maintain current sales.  The turnover rate at Global Sources is about the same,
Hinrichs said.  The entire B2B industry will suffer from the Alibaba scam,
he said.  “This kind of situation is unfortunate for the industry
but more unfortunate for Chinese manufacturers, most of whom
have struggled to present their products, companies and brands
and to do a good job for their international buyers,” Hinrichs
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 