-- 
Marchionne's Rebadged Chrysler Models May Fail to Stem Fiat's Sales Slump

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-02-28T08:21:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/marchionne-s-rebadged-chrysler-models-may-fail-to-stem-fiat-s-sales-slump.html
  Fiat SpA ’s integration with Chrysler
Group LLC faces its first test with European buyers this week,
when Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  introduces
Chrysler models with Fiat nameplates at the Geneva auto show.  Marchionne is counting on the rebadged models to keep
customers walking into the showrooms as he holds off on new Fiat
models until the second half. Marchionne, who boosted Fiat’s
stake in Chrysler to 25 percent last month, is withdrawing the
Chrysler brand from continental Europe.  “Marchionne is trying to make a virtue out of necessity,”
said Marco Santino, an analyst at  A.T. Kearney  in  Rome . “While
pure rebadging strategies have never worked well, Lancia and
Fiat dealers will at least have some new products to show this
year.”  Marchionne said Feb. 15 that Fiat had “repositioned”
model launches until the second half because he doesn’t expect  Europe ’s car market to start recovering before then. Fiat
forecasts a 3 percent decline for the European market this year.
The company’s European share shrank to 7.6 percent in 2010 from
8.7 percent in 2009, according to industry group statistics.  “Fiat is playing defense in Europe, it has no major
product push throughout the year,” said Jochen Gehrke of
Deutsche Bank AG, who’s ranked No. 1 among Fiat analysts tracked
by Bloomberg. The rebadged Chryslers may only provide “niche”
sales, he said. Gehrke expects Turin, Italy-based Fiat to lose
market share in Europe this year.  Rebadged Models  Three of the five cars Fiat will introduce this year are
derived from Chrysler models, including the Lancia Thema, which
is a European version of the Chrysler 300, and the Fiat
Freemont, which is based on the Dodge Journey. Fiat will unveil
the cars at the Geneva Motor Show tomorrow. The five-door Lancia
Ypsilon is the only all-new car the company will show.  Sales of the Thema and other rebadged Chrysler models in
Europe may give the carmaker an “incremental” sales bump
without a lot of extra cost, said  Jim Hall , an industry analyst
with Birmingham, Michigan-based 2953 Analytics.  “It does allow them to firm up Lancia, and Lancia has had a
tough time,” Hall said. The strategy is “a ‘win’ in that
there’s not a lot of investment.”  Excluding the Ferrari and Maserati luxury brands, the
Italian carmaker lost about 380 million euros in Europe last
year, Gehrke said. The company had 2010 operating profit of 1
billion euros in Latin America, he estimates.  Stock Performance  “Fiat needs to sell at least 10 percent more cars in
Europe this year in order just to break even,” said Gehrke, who
last month cut his rating to “hold” from “buy.”  The Italian company’s shares have more than doubled over
the past 12 months, making them the best performers on the
eight-member Bloomberg Europe 500 Autos Index in the period.
Fiat spun off its industrial business on Jan. 1. Fiat slumped as
much as 0.6 percent to 6.74 euros and was down 0.3 percent as of
9:10 a.m. today in Milan trading.  Fiat doesn’t give specific forecasts for Europe, where it
gets 60 percent of its revenue. Marchionne has said he expects
the carmaker to break even in Europe by 2013. A company
spokesman declined to comment on European targets for this year.  Marchionne on Feb. 15 said Fiat’s product plan for 2011
may “even be too aggressive,” as European demand will remain
“structurally weak.” Fiat will offer a total of five new cars
this year, compared with nine in 2012 and 11 in 2013, according
to a Dec. 17 presentation posted on its  website . Those figures
exclude light commercial vehicles.  Fiat’s investments will peak this year as the company
sustains new product development, the CEO said Feb. 15. The
company “will have a much fresher product line in 2012,”
Gehrke said.  The revamped Lancia Thema features European touches like
Italian leather made by Poltrona Frau SpA. Elisabetta Canalis,
the Italian girlfriend of  George Clooney , is also appearing in a
series of Lancia ads, with the tagline, “Italian character
meets American glamour.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 