-- 
Australia TD Inflation Gauge Accelerates to Annual Pace of 3.6%

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-02-27T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/australia-td-inflation-gauge-accelerates-to-annual-pace-of-3-6-.html
A gauge of  Australia ’s annual
inflation remained above the top of the central bank’s target
range in February as food prices advanced.  Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent in the 12 months to
February after a 3.4 percent gain over the period to January,
according to an index compiled by TD Securities Ltd. and the
Melbourne Institute released in Sydney today. They increased 0.2
percent from a month earlier after a 0.4 percent gain in
January.    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens will keep
the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4.75 percent for a
third meeting tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg News survey, as
consumer restraint slows inflation and offsets an expansion of
the  mining industry . Today’s report showed the price of fruit
and vegetables rose by 5.1 percent in February.  “It is the outlook for inflation that remains key for
monetary policy deliberations, and we remain of the view that
inflation pressures are set to accelerate into 2012, as a lagged
response to above trend growth, and no spare capacity in the
labor market,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities in  Singapore .  A government report this month showed Australian employment
climbed by 24,000 in January, surpassing the median forecast for
a 17,500 gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists. The
jobless rate of 5 percent matched the lowest level in two years.  Australian wages grew 3.9 percent in the three months
through December from a year earlier, the fastest pace since the
first quarter of 2009.  The destruction of crops in northeastern Australia by the
floods in January and a cyclone earlier this month will see a
surge in fruit and vegetable prices that would push inflation to
about 3 percent in the year through June and cut gross domestic
product by about 1 percentage point in the first quarter, RBA
Assistant Governor Philip Lowe said Feb. 17.  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, one of  Canada ’s largest lenders. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  