-- 
Bahrain Unions Calls for Dissolving Government, Political Change

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-02-27T11:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/bahrain-unions-calls-for-dissolving-government-political-change.html
Bahrain’s General Federation for
Trade Unions has called for the government to be dissolved a day
after Bahrain’s king swore in five new Cabinet ministers,
according to an e-mailed statement.  The new appointments don’t reflect “the ambitions and
popular voices” of Bahrainis, the federation said today. A
transitional government must be formed that will meet the
“demands of the people” and bring about “real political
change.”  Bahrain King Hamad Bin Isa al Khalifa, whose nation has
been shaken by 14 days of anti-government protests, named the
five new cabinet ministers, according to a government e-mailed
statement released yesterday by Bell Pottinger. The ministers
include housing, labor, health, cabinet affairs and electricity
and water.  Seven people have been killed in mainly Shiite
demonstrations, which began on Feb. 14, and calmed down almost
week later after the government pulled back tanks and armored
vehicles. Thousands of demonstrators are camped in the central
Pearl Roundabout, a traffic junction in Manama, pressing demands
for democracy, free elections and more job opportunities.  Shiites make up between 60 and 70 percent of the Bahraini
population. The ruling elite is largely Sunni.  The federation, which has unions representing workers in
the aluminum, oil and transport industries, called a nationwide
strike on Feb. 20 to object to the government’s violent response
to protests. The strike was called off the next day because the
government pledged to respect the right to peaceful protests,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Sayed Salman, the general secretary of the federation, said
on Feb. 24 that unions may call another general strike unless
the government and opposition parties open an appropriate
dialogue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Manama, Bahrain, at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  