-- 
Bahrain Hasn’t Started National Dialogue With Opposition Groups

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-02-27T17:56:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/bahrain-hasn-t-started-national-dialogue-with-opposition-groups.html
Bahrain’s government hasn’t started
a national dialogue with opposition groups as it seeks to cope
with political unrest roiling the Persian Gulf island nation.  “Positive progress continues to be made towards the
commencement of the national dialogue,” Maysoon Sabkar, a
spokeswoman for the Bahrain Information Affairs Authority, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa called for
national dialogue on Feb. 18 to help end political turmoil and
mainly Shiite protests. Seven people have been killed in the
demonstrations, which began on Feb. 14, and calmed down almost
week later after the government removed tanks and armored
personal carriers from the streets.  Bahrain’s al-Wefaq group, the kingdom’s largest Shiite
Muslim opposition bloc, wants “significant steps” from the
government to heed its call for national dialogue, Abduljalil
Khalil, head of al-Wefaq’s bloc in parliament, said in an
interview on Feb. 22.  There have been three large demonstrations since Feb. 24,
“which have all passed off without incident,” Sabkar said in
the statement. Thousands of demonstrators are camped in the
central Pearl Roundabout, a traffic junction in Manama, pressing
their demands for democracy, free elections, more housing and
job opportunities.  To address these demands, King Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa
named five new cabinet ministers yesterday, including housing,
labor, health, cabinet affairs and electricity and water. “The
reshuffle has focused on critical delivery of key government
services,” Sabkar said in the statement.  More Houses  The new housing minister, Majeed al-Alawi, will be tasked
with increasing the rate of construction to between 8,000 and
10,000 homes a year from the present 2,000, according to the
government statement.  The country’s General Federation for Trade Unions said that
the new appointments don’t reflect “the ambitions and popular
voices” of Bahrainis. A transitional government must be formed
that will meet the “demands of the people” and bring about
“real political change,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  Shiites make up between 60 and 70 percent of the Bahrain’s
population. The ruling elite is largely Sunni.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Manama, Bahrain, at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  