-- 
German Stocks Advance in Frankfurt; Siemens Shares Lead Gain

-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-02-28T17:04:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/bayer-deutsche-bank-volkswagen-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks rose after falling the
most since July last week, led by  Siemens AG  as Europe’s largest
engineering company is considering an initial public offering of
its Osram lighting business within the next two months.  Siemens climbed 3.6 percent, the biggest gain since Dec. 1.  MAN SE  advanced as Equinet AG suggested buying the shares.  Bayer
AG  snapped a five-day drop even after posting quarterly loss.
Preference shares of  Fuchs Petrolub AG  advanced as HSBC Holdings
Plc lifted its recommendation.  The benchmark DAX Index added 1.2 percent to 7,272.32 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, bringing this month’s increase
to 2.8 percent. The measure is up 5.2 percent this year amid
optimism that the global economic recovery is gathering
strength. The broader HDAX Index rose 1.2 percent today.  “We are still experiencing the effects of the financial
crisis even if at the moment we are firmly in the upswing of the
economic cycle,”  Jim Reid , a strategist at  Deutsche Bank AG  in  London , wrote in a report.  Siemens advanced 3.6 percent to 97.59 euros. The company is
weighing an initial public offering of its Osram lighting
business within the next two months, according to two people
familiar with the discussion.  Siemens has retained Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Commerzbank AG to help prepare the IPO, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the information is
private. Munich-based Siemens has yet to make a final decision
on the stock sale, one of the people said. Siemens spokesman
Alexander Becker declined to comment.  ‘Structural Changes’  “We support the group’s efforts to sell this business
given the structural changes in the industry and continue to
believe that the group has scope to strengthen its core
operations and return cash to shareholders over the medium
term,” UniCredit Research wrote in a note.  MAN gained 2.8 percent to 92.01 euros as Europe’s third-
largest truckmaker was upgraded to “buy” from “accumulate”
at Equinet.  Linde AG  added 1.9 percent to 110.6 euros as the
same brokerage initiated coverage of the world’s second-biggest
maker of industrial gases with a “buy” rating.  Bayer AG rose 2.5 percent to 56.18 euros. Germany’s largest
drugmaker posted a fourth-quarter loss on a writedown of the
Schering pharmaceutical brand and costs of a reorganization that
will shift resources to product development and emerging
markets.  “The conference call provided more details on the Xarelto
clinical trial program and the short term sales and profit
expectations,” DZ Bank said in a note. The brokerage reiterated
a “buy” rating.  Allianz, QSC    Allianz SE  added 1.9 percent to 104.4 euros. Europe’s
biggest insurer had its price estimates raised at brokerages ING
Groep NV and Exane BNP Paribas.    QSC AG  jumped 8.5 percent to 3.2 euros. The broadband
company said it plans to pay a dividend for the first time after
2010 profit climbed to 24.2 million euros from 5.5 million
euros.  Preference shares of Fuchs Petrolub, the maker of
lubricants, rose 2.3 percent to 101 euros. HSBC upgraded the
shares to “neutral” from “underweight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 