-- 
Arsenal's Trophy Drought Continues as Birmingham Secures League Cup Upset

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-02-28T00:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/birmingham-beats-arsenal-2-1-to-win-english-soccer-s-league-cup-final.html
Arsenal failed to snap its six-year
trophy drought after a defensive mixup gave Birmingham a 2-1 win
in the League Cup final and its first major title since 1963.  Obafemi Martins secured the victory in the 89th minute at
Wembley Stadium in  London  yesterday, knocking the ball in from
close range after Wojciech Szczesny and Laurent Koscielny failed
to clear. He celebrated with a trademark somersault.  “We made a mistake that left us no time at all to
respond,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said in comments on his
club’s website. “The team is very disappointed and we will face
a lot of questions after that mistake but we have to be strong
enough to stand up.”  Birmingham will now play in European soccer’s Europa League
next season after winning its second League Cup title following
a victory against  Aston Villa  over two matches 48 years ago.  “We weren’t given a prayer by the pundits and the bookies
but we believed,” Birmingham manager Alex McLeish said. “It
was a titanic performance by the players.”  Nikola Zigic put the Blues ahead after 28 minutes, with  Robin van Persie  replying for the Gunners on 39 minutes. As the
match appeared set for extra time, Martins got what he called
“the easiest goal I scored in my career” to settle it.  Birmingham could have been ahead as early as the second
minute. Lee Bowyer went clear on goal and was brought down by
goalkeeper Szczesny, though the assistant referee signaled for
offside. Television replays suggested Bowyer was onside.  Stubborn Defense  Arsenal struggled to break down Birmingham’s defense and
fell behind as Zigic headed into the net.  Van Persie  headed over
the bar at the other end shortly after.  The Gunners were level 11 minutes later.  Jack Wilshere 
fired a 20-yard shot against the bar and Andrey Arshavin
collected the rebound before finding Van Persie, who volleyed
past goalkeeper  Ben Foster .  Tomas Rosicky volleyed just wide at the start of the second
half as Arsenal began to control possession, although Birmingham
almost took the lead again when Keith Fahey hit the inside of a
post from long range.  Foster, who was named man of the match, made several stops
to keep Arsenal out, including two efforts from Samir Nasri.  With time running out, Martins, on loan from Russian club  Rubin Kazan  until the end of the season, scored from close range
when Szczesny spilled the ball after a mixup with Koscielny.  “He doesn’t miss from there,” Foster, who played in
Manchester United’s 2009 League Cup final win, told the British
Broadcasting Corp. “I could have scored that.”  Birmingham, which is 16th in the Premier League, remains on
course for a trophy double this season, with an F.A. Cup
quarterfinal against Bolton next month.  Arsenal trails first-place  Manchester United  by four points
in the league, leads Barcelona 2-1 after the opening match in
the Champions League round of 16, and will play United in the
F.A. Cup quarterfinals.  “It is a massive disappointment for the team, but we have
massive challenges in front of us,” Wenger said. “I am
confident we have the character and this is a good opportunity
to show it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  