-- 
Bloomberg Journalist Assaulted as China Heightens Security

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-27T16:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/bloomberg-journalist-assaulted-as-china-heightens-security.html
A Bloomberg News journalist was
assaulted yesterday in Beijing while covering the deployment of
police in response to online calls for protests in the Chinese
capital.  At least five men in plain clothes, who appeared to be
security personnel, punched and kicked the reporter at Beijing’s
Wangfujing shopping street at 2:45 p.m. local time yesterday.
They also took the video camera he was carrying and detained him
in a roadside store.  Uniformed police arrived after the attack and escorted the
journalist to a nearby station where he filed a report of the
attack before seeking treatment for his injuries at a local
hospital.  Police returned the video camera while the reporter
was at the station, saying a passerby had found it.  Hundreds of police deployed in Beijing and Shanghai
yesterday at the site of planned demonstrations called to
protest corruption and misrule. In Beijing, few protesters were
apparent amid the police presence. In Shanghai, at least seven
people were bundled into police vans near Shanghai’s People’s
Square  An open letter on the U.S.-based website  Boxun.com  called
for people to gather in at least 27 sites around the country
from  Tibet  to Manchuria for “jasmine” rallies, named after the
uprising last month in  Tunisia . “Come out and take a stroll at
two o’clock on Sundays to look around,” the letter said.  In Beijing, on the corner of Jinyu Hutong and Wangfujing
Street, police officers asked for passports of people who
appeared foreign. Journalists were asked to show their press
cards and their information was taken down in a notebook and
they were reminded about the rules on interviews.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:  Bruce Grant  in Hong Kong at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant in  Hong Kong  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  