-- 
BlueScope CEO Says Carbon Tax Adds to Pressure on Business

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-02-27T01:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/bluescope-ceo-says-carbon-tax-vandalism-adds-to-pressure-on-business.html
  BlueScope Steel Ltd .,  Australia ’s
biggest steelmaker, said a carbon tax would add extra pressure
to its business that’s already battling high raw-material costs
and the stronger Australian dollar.  “More costs being thrown at us by the government just
really do put a bit more pressure on the business than we’d like
to have,” Chief Executive Officer Paul O’Malley said on
Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business program today.  Australia will set a price on  carbon emissions  next year in
preparation for a trading program that could begin as early as
2015 aimed at curbing  greenhouse gases , Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard  said last week. Revenue from the pricing plan will be
used to assist households, help companies adjust to the changes
and for future climate change programs.  “We will get to the end goal -- the most efficient
mechanism I’ve always wanted and Labor has always advocated for,
which is a full emissions trading scheme, a cap on carbon
pollution and the market sets the price,” Gillard said today on
Channel 9’s Today program. “We have to cut carbon pollution.
The best way to do that is price carbon.”  The Australian currency gained 13 percent in the past year,
the second-best performer after the Swiss franc among the Group
of 10 nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Important Step’  Santos Ltd., Australia’s third-largest oil and gas
producer, said last week’s announcement was an “important
step” to a well-designed price.  Alcoa Inc ., the biggest U.S.
aluminum producer, said it supported a “carefully designed”
carbon price that doesn’t damage the industry.  “Regardless of the approach taken, it is critical that the
government’s climate change response ensures the sustainability
and growth of what are world-class alumina and aluminum assets
in Australia,” Alcoa Australia Managing Director Alan Cransberg
said in an e-mailed statement.  The levy would need to be at least A$25 ($25.20) a ton to
be effective,  Origin Energy Ltd . Managing Director Grant King
said last week.  Countries are already spending billions of dollars to
reduce emissions and promote renewable energy. Low-carbon energy
investment surged to a record $243 billion last year, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said on Jan. 11.  Gillard established a Multiparty Climate Change Committee,
a measure proposed by the Australian Greens party, to consider
how to reduce emissions. That committee still needs to discuss
incentives to industries and households as well as setting the
level of the tax.  Voter Backlash  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said his Liberal-National
coalition wouldn’t support the laws. He said it would add A$300
per year to household electricity bills and that a voter
backlash would prevent it getting parliamentary approval.  The policy would cost BlueScope A$300 million a year if
there was no assistance provided, O’Malley said today.
BlueScope’s first-half loss widened because of higher costs and
lower domestic demand, it said last week.  “That is clearly economic vandalism, it clearly says we
don’t want manufacturing in Australia,” he said. Imports must
also be taxed if the carbon tax is introduced to maintain
Australia’s competitiveness, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  