-- 
Bond Market Collides With Stevens as Inflation Bets Rise: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-02-27T23:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/bond-market-collides-with-stevens-as-inflation-bets-rise-australia-credit.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia is
showing no signs of raising  interest rates  at a time when fixed-
income markets are signaling the biggest increase in inflation
expectations in more than a year.  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens will leave the overnight cash
rate target at 4.75 percent tomorrow, with a 52 percent chance
he won’t increase borrowing costs until the end of the third
quarter, bank bill futures indicate. One-year inflation swaps
have risen 57 basis points since December, the most since
September 2009.  Stevens’s willingness to pause contrasts with central
bankers from Beijing to  Frankfurt  who are trying to stamp out
inflation with higher rates or by signaling monetary policy
needs to be tightened. The RBA, which raised rates seven times
from October 2009 to November last year, is favoring growth over
price restraint as the country recovers from flooding and
cyclones.  “The risks to inflation are almost all to the upside,”
said Paul Bloxham, the chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Sydney and a former RBA official. Factors restraining consumer
prices including an appreciating currency and weak household
spending are unlikely to persist, while pressures from areas
such as power prices and higher wages will intensify, he said.  Stronger GDP    Australia ’s economy likely accelerated 0.6 percent last
quarter, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 25 economists before a March 2 government report.
Reports in recent days have shown wages grew at the fastest
annualized pace in almost two years and business investment
reached a record as Chinese and Indian demand for resources
capped a year of unprecedented job growth.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  tempered the optimism when he said
Feb. 8 that damage from floods and cyclones may cause first-
quarter gross domestic product to contract.  Stevens is relying on lower household spending and higher
savings to slow price gains and give him scope to delay rate
increases. Investors are betting the central bank will add 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to the cash rate in the
next 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index
based on trading in swaps.  Australian consumer prices may rise an annual 2.88 percent
the next five years, according to the gap between yields on  government bonds  and inflation-indexed notes. The so-called
breakeven rate jumped from 2.74 percent at the start of the year
and is the highest among eight developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  Inflation Outlook  Inflation swaps allow investors to exchange fixed interest
rates for returns equivalent to Australia’s consumer price
index. The contracts show that investors expect prices to rise
at an average annual rate of 3.5 percent over the next year.  “The inflation risk is that as wages rise and unemployment
declines, discretionary expenditure growth could increase
strongly and domestic demand accelerate at the same time as the
mining boom intensifies,” said  Joshua Williamson , a senior
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.  Gains in the one-year inflation swap this quarter have
outpaced the U.K.,  Sweden  and Japan. Inflation bets since
December rose more rapidly in the U.S.,  Italy  and  Spain ,
Bloomberg data show.  Falling Yields  The difference between three- and 10-year bond yields
shrank 2.8 basis points from the beginning of last week to 37
basis points. The nation’s 10-year government bond yield fell 4
basis points today to 5.49 percent, or 208 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, touched a record $1.0256 on Dec. 31, before trading at
$1.0146 as of 10:39 a.m. in Sydney.  The currency’s surge has been propelled by demand for  iron
ore  and coal from Australia’s biggest trading partner, China,
which has raised rates three times since mid-October. A Feb. 15
report showed  China ’s inflation exceeded the government’s 2011
target for a fourth month.  European Central Bank council member  Yves Mersch  said last
week that officials may toughen their language on inflation,
indicating a readiness to boost borrowing costs in coming
months.  Stevens has kept Australia’s benchmark rate unchanged at
the last two meetings after a quarter percentage-point increase
in November. In testimony to a parliamentary panel this month,
he signaled little urgency about raising rates.  ‘Lengthy Periods’  “We’re ahead of the game, which is where you want to be,
and that’s the thing that affords you periods of sitting,
waiting and watching,” the governor told lawmakers in Canberra
on Feb. 11. “Sometimes, they can be reasonably lengthy
periods.”  Driven up by mining jobs, wages grew 3.9 percent in the
three months through December from a year earlier, the fastest
pace since the first quarter of 2009, a Feb. 23 government
report showed. The gap between the RBA’s weighted median measure
of inflation and the annual wage price index is the widest in
six years.  Australia is getting caught up in a bubble in international
commodity prices and property markets in  Asia  that could hit
much harder than the global financial crisis, Warwick McKibbin,
a member of the RBA’s board, told the Australian newspaper in an
article published today.  “This is shaping to be much bigger than 2004 to 2007,”
the newspaper cited McKibbin, a professor at  Australian National
University , as saying. He warned the bursting of the bubble
would reverse the surge in Australia’s terms of trade, push down
the currency and leave the RBA struggling to fight off rising
global inflation pressures.  Stevens, whose most recent speech was on Australia’s
resource investment boom, has indicated the prosperity from
trade is likely to be longer-lasting than in past expansions. He
has changed rates against market expectations in the past, most
recently in November when he boosted borrowing costs when a
majority of economists surveyed predicted no move.  “To trigger a rate hike, the RBA does not need to see a
particular inflation rate, just confirmation that inflation
momentum is accelerating,” said Roland Randall, senior
strategist for FX and rates at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore .  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  