-- 
BlueScope Calls Australia Carbon Tax Plan ‘Economic Vandalism’

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-02-27T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/carbon-tax-economic-vandalism-for-australia-bluescope-steel-chief-says.html
  BlueScope Steel Ltd .,  Australia ’s
biggest steelmaker, said the government’s planned carbon tax
will reduce its competiveness as it battles high raw-material
costs and the stronger Australian dollar.  “That is clearly economic vandalism,” Chief Executive
Officer Paul O’Malley said on Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s
Inside Business program yesterday. “It clearly says we don’t
want manufacturing in Australia.” Imports must also be taxed if
the carbon tax is introduced to ensure Australian steel
producers can compete, he said.  Australia will set a price on  carbon emissions  next year in
preparation for a trading program that could begin as early as
2015 and is aimed at curbing  greenhouse gases , Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said last week. Revenue from the pricing plan will
be used to assist households, help companies adjust to the
changes and for future climate change programs.  “We will get to the end goal -- the most efficient
mechanism I’ve always wanted and Labor has always advocated for,
which is a full emissions trading scheme, a cap on carbon
pollution and the market sets the price,” Gillard said on
Channel 9’s Today program. “We have to cut carbon pollution.
The best way to do that is price carbon.”  The Australian currency gained 13 percent in the past year,
the best performer after the Swiss franc and Mongolian Tugrik
among 172 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Bit More Pressure’  “More costs being thrown at us by the government just
really do put a bit more pressure on the business than we’d like
to have,” O’Malley said. The policy would cost BlueScope A$300
million ($304 million) a year if there was no assistance
provided, he said. The Melbourne-based steelmaker last week
reported a widening of its first-half loss because of higher
costs and lower domestic demand.  “Anything that is going to be hard on BlueScope is going
to be seen as an extra negative when there are so many other
headwinds they are facing,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional
dealer at IG Markets in Melbourne. While they have a
fundamentally strong business in the long run, “the near-term
warrants people staying away from the company.”  BlueScope’s shares have dropped 12 percent in the past year,
compared with a 19 percent gain in the S&P/ASX 200 Materials
Index. The stock closed unchanged at A$2.13 on the Australian
Stock Exchange on Feb. 25.  ‘Important Step’  Adelaide-based Santos Ltd., Australia’s third-largest oil
and gas producer, said last week’s announcement was an
“important step” to a well-designed price. New York-based  Alcoa Inc ., the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, said it
supported a “carefully designed” carbon price that doesn’t
damage the industry.  “Regardless of the approach taken, it is critical that the
government’s climate change response ensures the sustainability
and growth of what are world-class alumina and aluminum assets
in Australia,” Alcoa Australia Managing Director Alan Cransberg
said in an e-mailed statement.  The levy would need to be at least A$25 ($25.20) a ton to
be effective,  Origin Energy Ltd . Managing Director Grant King
said last week.  Countries are already spending billions of dollars to
reduce emissions and promote renewable energy. Low-carbon energy
investment surged to a record $243 billion last year, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said on Jan. 11.  Gillard established a Multiparty Climate Change Committee,
a measure proposed by the Australian Greens party, to consider
how to reduce emissions. That committee still needs to discuss
incentives to industries and households as well as setting the
level of the tax.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said his Liberal-National
coalition wouldn’t support the laws. He said it would add A$300
per year to household electricity bills and that a voter
backlash would prevent it getting parliamentary approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in  Melbourne  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  