-- 
McCain, Lieberman Support Creating a No-Fly Zone Over Libya

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-02-27T15:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/mccain-lieberman-support-creating-a-no-fly-zone-over-libya-1-.html
U.S. Senators  John McCain  and  Joe Lieberman  said they support creating a no-fly zone over  Libya 
and that more should be done to oust Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  “Now is the time for action, not just for statements,”
Lieberman said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program. Both
McCain, the senior Republican on the  Senate Armed Services
Committee , and Lieberman, an independent panel member, said they
support sending arms and humanitarian aid to the anti-Qaddafi
government and recognizing that government.  The senators said U.S. troops aren’t needed to intervene
now.  “I’m not ready to use ground forces,” said McCain on
NBC’s “Meet the Press.” He and Lieberman are traveling in the
Middle East meeting with government leaders as the region
experiences widespread civil unrest that has led to the ouster
of leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .  The UN Security Council late yesterday voted 15-0 to freeze
the foreign assets of Qaddafi and four aides and bar them from
traveling. On Feb. 25, Obama announced what his administration
said was the first of a series of sanctions against the Libyan
government, signing an order to freeze the U.S. assets of
Qaddafi, his family and members of his regime.  How Many Dead  Qaddafi will be overthrown, McCain, an Arizona lawmaker,
said on “State of the Union.” “The question is how many
people are going to be massacred between now and the time he
leaves,” he said.  The U.S. policy should be to “shorten” that time period,
McCain said.  Obama should tell mercenaries and others fighting on
Qaddafi’s behalf that they will be held accountable for their
actions by a war crimes tribunal, McCain said on “Meet the
Press.”  After a meeting with  Egypt ’s military leaders, who are
running the country following the overthrow of President  Hosni Mubarak , Lieberman said he believes they want to hand control to
a democratically elected government as soon as possible.  “The military can’t really wait until it can go back to
being just the military,” Lieberman, a Connecticut independent,
said on “State of the Union.”  Egypt’s Economy  The U.S. should do more to strengthen the economy of Egypt
if democracy is to take hold there, McCain said.  “We need investment, we need the kind of entrepreneurship
and other kinds of assistance that I think will get their
economy moving again,” McCain told “Meet the Press.”
“Otherwise they’re going to have far more severe
difficulties.”  The U.S. also should help spread the push for democracy in
the Middle East to the rest of the world, including China and  Iran , he said.  “I’m not sure these winds of changes are going to remain
confined to just blowing in the Arab world,” McCain said on
“Meet the Press.”  Both senators said that they didn’t know the veracity of
allegations that the U.S. military-led coalition misused
psychological operations to win the backing of lawmakers
visiting  Afghanistan .  “I don’t see how it could have affected my positions in
any way,” McCain said on NBC. “Put me down as skeptical.”  Lieberman said on CNN that he didn’t believe he had been
“brainwashed.”  Army General David Petraeus, the top U.S. and NATO
commander in Afghanistan, has ordered an investigation of the
allegations, which were disclosed in an article published on
Feb. 24 on  Rolling Stone  magazine’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  