-- 
China Cuts Economic Growth Target as Premier Wen Calls for Sustainability

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-27T10:16:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/china-cuts-economic-growth-target-as-premier-wen-calls-for-sustainability.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
nation set a lower growth target for the period from 2011
through 2015 than in the previous five years as part of efforts
to create a more sustainable economy.  The government set an economic growth target of 7 percent
for the so-called 12th five-year plan period, which covers 2011
through 2015, Wen said in response to online questions today on
the website of the official Xinhua News Agency. China’s target
was 7.5 percent for the period from 2006 through last year, with
actual growth exceeding that each year.  “We want to put the emphasis of our work on the quality
and the benefits of economic growth,” Wen said. “We want the
fruits of development to benefit the people.”  China has introduced initiatives to increase domestic
consumption, make growth more energy efficient and encourage
investment in poorer inland provinces after the economy more
than doubled in the past five years as the wealth divide widened,
pollution increased and gains in food and  home prices 
accelerated. China can’t “blindly” pursue economic growth that
is unsustainable, Wen said today.  The lower growth target is a signal “the government will
probably be more aggressive towards controlling inflation,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “China is also increasingly serious about
protecting the environment.”  Economic Growth    China’s economy  surpassed Japan’s to become the world’s
second largest last year as the nation posted annual growth of
10.3 percent and expansion at a 9.8 percent pace in the fourth
quarter. The Chinese economy passed  Germany ’s in 2007 and those
of the U.K. and  France  in 2005.  During that period, China also became the world’s biggest
energy user and the largest emitter of  greenhouse gases . A leak
of acid-laced water into the  Ting River  in  Fujian province  from
a Zijin Mining Group Co. mine in July killed enough fish to feed
72,000 residents for a year. Lead fumes from a battery factory
poisoned more than 200 children in Anhui province, 23 of which
were hospitalized, Xinhua reported in January.  “We can no longer sacrifice the environment in return for
fast economic growth,” Wen said in the online discussion today,
ahead of the annual plenary meeting of China’s National People’s
Congress in Beijing.  Inflation Control  Wen also pledged to curb consumer price increases by
controlling liquidity, boosting agricultural production,
facilitating transportation of agricultural goods and punishing
hoarding and price manipulation. Inflation in  China , home to 150
million people living on less than $1 a day, accelerated to 4.9
percent in January from 4.6 percent in December as prices
excluding food rose the most in at least six years.  The nation has sufficient foreign currency and grain
reserves to curb inflation, Wen said. Credit Agricole’s
Kowalczyk said that may mean China will increase imports of
grain and other foodstuffs to counter price gains.  “The government is going to pay more attention to
sustainable growth, the environment and better distribution of
income rather than the pure pursuit of growth,” said Kevin Lai,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa Capital Markets.  China will also continue efforts to curb speculation in the  property market  and will use legal and economic measures against
hoarding of land, Wen said. Home prices in January rose in 68 of
the 70 Chinese cities tracked by the statistics bureau, defying
measures such as higher down payment restrictions and limits on
property purchases issued by the government to curb increases.
Wen said today the measures are becoming more effective and he’s
confident of controlling property prices.  In addition, the government is also discussing changes to
the nation’s system for income tax deductions that will help
medium- and low-income individuals, Wen said.  --William Bi, Winnie Zhu. Editors: John Liu, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or  wbi@bloomberg.net 
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3046 or  wzhu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  John Liu  at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  