-- 
China Bank Share Slide May Persist as Inflation Hits Growth

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-28T09:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/china-bank-share-slide-seen-persisting-with-inflation-undermining-growth.html
Chinese banks, set to post record
profits, are trading at their cheapest level in two years and
may stay depressed in 2011 as investors bet faster inflation and
slower economic growth will erode earnings.  Shares lost allure over the last three months, even as
banks are forecast to have boosted earnings by more than 25
percent in 2010 and have slashed non-performing loan ratios. The
nation’s five biggest lenders, with a combined $777 billion
market value, trade at an average of 8.6 times forecast profits,
compared with 10.4 times at the world’s 20 largest banks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. India’s five largest
banks trade at an average of 19 times.  The combination of rising profits and cheap valuations has
failed to lure investors concerned that China’s government will
be forced to step up measures to combat inflation, creating a
drag on the economic growth that has fueled demand for loans.
Expansion may cool to 9 percent this year, the slowest pace in a
decade, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “Banks as a barometer of the macro economy are more
sensitive to inflation and tightening policies,” said Li Ming,
a portfolio manager at Dacheng Fund Management Co., which
oversees more than $15 billion in Shenzhen. “Lack of conviction
in banking shares is ultimately a reflection of no confidence in
the economy.”  BlackRock, Prudential  Global institutional investors, including  BlackRock Inc .
and  Prudential Financial Inc ., have reduced their holdings in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China  Ltd. by 66 million Hong
Kong-listed shares since October and in  China Construction Bank
Corp . by 1.27 billion shares, Bloomberg data show.  The banks, both based in Beijing, are the world’s two
largest by market value. ICBC, also the most profitable, has
gained 3.3 percent in Hong Kong trading this year after falling
8.4 percent in 2010. Construction Bank, the second-most
profitable, has dropped 2.3 percent.  “Obviously the big challenge facing China right now is
inflation,” said  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based head
of investment strategy for scientific active equities at
BlackRock, which oversees $3.56 trillion as the world’s largest
asset manager. “Most of what investors focus on when they think
about investment in China over the short term is the success the
central bank has been having in bringing down inflation. We have
a position that during the first half of the year we prefer to
be overweight in developed markets rather than emerging markets,
precisely because of the inflation reason.”  Theresa Miller, a spokeswoman for Prudential in  Newark ,  New
Jersey , declined to comment, as did spokesmen for ICBC and
Construction Bank.  Underperforming Banks  Five of the nine Hong Kong-listed Chinese banks
underperformed the benchmark  Hang Seng Index , which has gained
1.3 percent this year. The banking sector is the second-cheapest
among 18 industry groups in the index, higher only than airlines,
Bloomberg data show. Based on price to book value and return on
equity, Chinese banks are the cheapest industry in Asia,
according Sheng Nan, a Shanghai-based analyst at brokerage firm
UOB Kayhian Investment Co.  “Chinese banks are cheap, very cheap considering that
these are probably the most successful banks in the world, but
the problem is the stock market may not care so much about it,”
said Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. “Some of the macro issues have to be resolved, but
that doesn’t seem to be happening. Inflation is the biggest risk
concerning investors.”  Inflation Rising    China ’s January inflation rate of 4.9 percent exceeded the
government’s 2011 target of 4 percent for a fourth month as
prices, excluding food, jumped the most in at least six years.  Jun Ma , a Hong Kong-based economist at Deutsche Bank AG, said he
expects inflation to peak at 5.8 percent in June and the annual
rate to stay at 5 percent.  The People’s Bank of China, the nation’s central bank, has
raised its benchmark one-year lending rate three times since
mid-October to 6.06 percent and increased the amount of deposits
banks must set aside as reserves to curb lending to the highest
level in at least two decades.  Economists at Nomura International Ltd. predict an
additional 75 basis points of interest-rate increases and a 150
basis-point rise in the reserve-requirement ratio in 2011. A
basis point is one-hundredth of a percent. The State Information
Center, a government think tank in Beijing, said on Feb. 15 that
the reserve ratio for the biggest banks may be raised to as much
as 23 percent from the current 19.5 percent.  China has set an annual economic growth target of 7 percent
for the five years through 2015, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
yesterday. The target was 7.5 percent for the period from 2006
through last year -- actual growth averaged 11.2 percent.  Capital Levels  The government has also told Chinese banks to recalculate
capital levels by March 31 to account for higher risk weightings
on at least $1.2 trillion in loans to local governments. The
move may increase pressure on China’s five largest lenders to
raise money or reduce lending, two people with knowledge of the
matter said, declining to be identified as the deadline hasn’t
been publicly announced.  Some tightening measures, such as lending curbs, have
started to take effect. Domestic banks lent 1.04 trillion yuan
($160 billion) of new loans in January, 13 percent below
economists’ estimates and 25 percent less than the same period a
year earlier.  Tighter liquidity and slower loan growth raises corporate
borrowing costs and leads to higher interest payments, which
will increase default risks. China’s biggest lenders derive
almost 80 percent of their revenue from interest income.  ‘Macro Views’  “Concerns on Chinese banks for 2011, as in the past,
always dwell on top-down macro views related to a China growth
slowdown, which would impact banks’ asset quality,” said  Lei Wang , who helps oversee more than $56 billion at  Santa Fe , New
Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which owns
shares of ICBC.  BlackRock Fund Advisors sold 75.5 million shares in ICBC
and 60.2 million shares in Construction Bank last month,
according to filings on Jan. 31. Prudential Financial sold 20.7
million ICBC shares and 394,170 Construction Bank shares in
December, filings showed.  ‘Matter of Time’  ICBC may report next month that 2010 net income climbed 26
percent to 162 billion yuan, according to the average estimate
of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Construction Bank is
expected to boost full-year profit by 30 percent to 139 billion
yuan, a survey of 17 analysts showed.  Analysts expect ICBC’s return on equity, a measure of
profitability, to have risen about two percentage points to 22
percent in 2010, according to the survey. That would be more
than double returns for London-based HSBC Holdings Plc and New
York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., the two largest non-Chinese
banks by market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “People may be surprised by the good earnings numbers and
be relieved,” said Claude Tiramani, who manages $50 million of
emerging-market stocks at Lutetia Capital in Paris. “The value
is there, it’s just a matter of time before the market
reassesses that.”  Tiramani said he invested in ICBC, Construction Bank and  Bank of China Ltd ., China’s third-largest bank by market value,
“over the past few months” and plans to add to his holdings if
share prices drop. He said he expects inflation to peak in June.  Chinese bank shares may jump as much as 30 percent this
year from their lows as investors seize on depressed valuations
and as concerns about worsening asset quality and tougher
regulations dissipate, said May Yan, an analyst at Barclays Plc
in  Hong Kong .  Stricter Rules  Still, people familiar with China’s banking regulator have
said the watchdog agency will enforce stricter rules governing
lending and asset quality.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission may order the
country’s biggest lenders to boost capital adequacy ratios as
high as 14 percent when credit growth is judged excessive, a
person with knowledge of the matter said on Jan. 28. The minimum
ratio, used to gauge banks’ ability to withstand financial
stress, stands at 11.5 percent.  Banks may also be told to draw up contingency plans for how
to deal with a possible crisis, according to a person familiar
with the CBRC’s plans. The regulator may also enforce stricter
standards governing liquidity for the biggest lenders, the
person said.  The CBRC’s January order requiring banks to transfer 1.66
trillion yuan of off-balance-sheet assets often packaged as
wealth-management products back onto their books may also force
lenders to raise more capital, Xiang Junbo, chairman of  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd ., the country’s fourth-largest
bank by market value, told China Finance magazine this month.  China’s five biggest lenders have raised $56 billion by
selling shares and convertible bonds in the past year.  “This is a market that’s still dominated by negative
sentiment toward China’s banks because of regulatory and macro
uncertainties,” said Sheng, the UOB Kayhian analyst. “Banks
will be range-bound in the first half unless all the dust
settles.”  --Luo Jun. Editors: Robert Friedman, Philip Lagerkranser  To contact Bloomberg News staff responsible for this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  