-- 
Wen Pledges to Curb Graft, Income Inequality as Police Head Off Protests

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-28T12:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/china-police-blanket-planned-jasmine-protest-sites-in-beijing-shanghai.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged
to punish abuse of power by officials and narrow the growing
wealth gap as police blanketed Beijing and Shanghai to head off
planned protests inspired by revolts in the Middle East.  The root of corruption lies in a government that has too
much unrestrained power, Wen said in a two-hour online interview
with citizens yesterday. He promised to curtail food costs and
tackle surging property prices. Wen also cut economic growth
targets and said the government would focus on ensuring the
benefits of expansion were more evenly distributed.  Wen’s comments came as hundreds of police deployed in
Beijing and Shanghai at the sites of demonstrations called to
protest corruption and misrule. At least seven people were
bundled into police vans near  Shanghai ’s People’s Square, while
in Beijing several foreign journalists were forcibly removed
from the Wangfujing shopping district.  China’s leaders have emphasized the country’s economic
successes in their response to demonstrations both in China and
in the Middle East. While the country’s economy has expanded
more than 90-fold in the past three decades, Wen said rising
inequality is threatening social stability.  “The party leadership needs to reassure the people that in
the absence of political reform they can nonetheless meet the
people’s rising expectations,” said Chinese University of Hong
Kong’s adjunct professor of history Willy Wo-lap Lam. “The
expectation for what the government should do for the people has
increased” as a result of protests sweeping Arab nations.  ‘Deeply Disturbing’  Unrest in  China  is on the rise. “Mass incidents,”
everything from strikes to riots and demonstrations, doubled
from 2006, rising to at least 180,000 cases in 2010, Sun Liping,
a professor of sociology at Beijing’s Tsinghua University, the
nation’s top academic institution, said in a Feb. 25 article in
the Economic Observer.  U.S. Ambassador Jon Huntsman said in a statement today that
foreign journalists had been “illegally detained or harassed as
they attempted to do their jobs” and that this type of behavior
was “unacceptable and deeply disturbing.”  The government has set an annual economic growth target of
7 percent for the five-year period through 2015, Wen said.
China’s target was 7.5 percent for the period from 2006 through
last year, with actual growth exceeding that each year.  Quality Growth  “The new five-year plan will be more about quality of
growth,” said Kevin Lai, a Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets. “The government is going to pay more attention
to sustainable growth, environment, better distribution of
income, rather than pure GDP pursuit.”  An August report by Zurich-based Credit Suisse AG put  income inequality  in China at levels not seen outside of sub-
Saharan  Africa . High food prices, unemployment and anger over
corruption helped spark the protests that toppled Tunisian
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali,  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and
have fueled rebellion against  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi.    Oil prices  in  New York  have surged on concern the unrest
will continue to spread, disrupting supplies. Crude for April
delivery rose as much as 5.4 percent to $103.41 a barrel on Feb.
24, the highest intraday price since September 2008. Libya is
the largest holder of oil reserves in Africa.  “China is a rich country, yet food prices are sky high,”
said a 23-year-old university student in Shanghai who declined
to be identified because he feared arrest. “We can’t afford to
buy property, yet all the corrupt officials gamble our money
away in  Las Vegas .”  Fight Corruption  An open letter on the U.S.-based website  Boxun.com  called
for people to gather in at least 27 sites around the country
yesterday from  Tibet  to Manchuria for “jasmine” rallies, named
after the uprising last month in  Tunisia . “Come out and take a
stroll at two o’clock on Sundays to look around,” the letter
said.  The letter called for the ruling Communist Party to fight
corruption, create an independent judiciary and reduce income
inequality or else “exit the stage of history.” The letter
said economic booms in  Taiwan  and  South Korea  were accomplished
with much more equitable income levels.  In Shanghai yesterday, at least 23 police vehicles were
stationed around Shanghai’s Peace Cinema in the shopping area of
People’s Square. Police in Beijing, which included paramilitary
units and patrols with Rottweiler and German Shepherd dogs,
forcibly removed several foreign journalists from Wangfujing
Street at about 2:45 p.m. Police were stationed at every
entrance to Wangfujing today.  Protest Sites  The street, most of which is closed to vehicle traffic and
is one of Beijing’s busiest shopping districts, did not appear
more crowded than on a usual Sunday. No demonstrators were seen.  “You see how the police try to control the crowd? They
spend so many resources on this, yet why does the government do
so little to improve people’s livelihoods?” said a 72-year-old
retired car mechanic in Shanghai, who didn’t want to be named
because he feared being detained.  The China rallies were first called for Feb. 20. That day,
scores of Chinese police gathered at the protest sites, which
included a Beijing  McDonald’s Corp . restaurant, to quell
demonstrations. Hundreds of people were present at the rally,
though only a handful actively participated, the  Associated
Press  reported at the time.  On the corner of Jinyu Hutong and Wangfujing Streets,
police officers yesterday asked for passports of people who
appeared foreign. Journalists were asked to show their press
cards and their information was taken down in a notebook and
they were reminded about the rules on interviews.  Jasmine Notions ‘Absurd’  Zhao Qizheng, who heads the foreign affairs committee of
the Chinese People’s Consultative Conference, said the idea that
there would be a Jasmine Revolution in China was “absurd,”
Xinhua reported on Feb. 24.  The government’s reaction reflects its decades-long effort
to keep unrest in check through a combination of economic
growth, social reforms and political repression, said Nicholas Bequelin, a China researcher for  Human Rights Watch  in  Hong
Kong .  “One of the key aspects of the Chinese system is that it
does not try to suppress social demands as much as to respond to
them before they turn into political ones,” Bequelin said.
“Everyday politics is about how to handle social demands --
which ones to accept, which ones to channel, which ones to
suppress, which ones can be ignored.”  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:  Bruce Grant  in Hong Kong at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant in Hong Kong at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  