-- 
China's Wen Vows to Contain Food, Home Prices Amid `Jasmine' Protest Calls

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-27T05:58:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/china-s-wen-vows-to-contain-food-home-prices-amid-jasmine-protest-calls.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged
to curb inflation and punish abuse of power in an online forum
with citizens as the government tries to head off dissent amid a
renewed call for nationwide “jasmine revolution” protests.  The leadership is “determined” to punish abuse of power,
which is too concentrated in the government and key officials,
Wen said in an online interview with Chinese citizens on the
site of the official  Xinhua News Agency . Wen promised to boost
food supplies to hold down costs, and to tackle surging property
prices that have put home ownership beyond the reach of many.  Growing inequality is a threat to social stability, Wen
said in the discussion, which comes as the ruling Communist
Party prepares for the annual meeting of  China ’s  legislature .
Wen’s pledges also come as online postings called for the second
week for rallies in major cities to protest corruption and
misrule, inspired by the “jasmine revolutions” in the Middle
East.  The police presence in downtown Beijing and  Shanghai  was
increased today. Every entrance to Beijing’s Wangfujing shopping
district was patrolled by police. People were able to enter and
leave the area, though some were stopped and searched. At least
23 police vehicles were stationed around the Peace Cinema in the
shopping area of People’s Square.  An open letter posted on U.S.-based website  Boxun.com  and
circulated on the Internet urged people to gather at both
locations, as well as others in cities nationwide, at 2 p.m.
today. The letter calls for rallies to take place every Sunday
at that time in cities from Beijing to Wuhan to Hangzhou.  Root Causes  High food prices, unemployment and anger over corruption
helped spark protests that toppled undemocratic regimes in
Tunisia and  Egypt  and have pushed  Libya  toward civil war.  The China rallies were first called for Feb. 20. Scores of
Chinese police gathered at the protest sites, which included a
Beijing  McDonald’s Corp . restaurant, to quell demonstrations.
Hundreds of people were present at the rally, though only a
handful actively participated, the  Associated Press  reported at
the time.  Several Beijing correspondents received phone calls from
Chinese police asking them to “obey reporting rules” that
require prior consent for interviews, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday by the  Foreign Correspondents’ Club  of China.
The phone calls suggest “tighter-than-usual” reporting
conditions in Beijing today, it said.  Revolution ‘Absurd’  Zhao Qizheng, who heads the foreign affairs committee of
the Chinese People’s Consultative Conference, said the idea that
there would be a Jasmine Revolution in China was “absurd,” the
official Xinhua News Agency reported on Feb. 24. Responding to
the Feb. 20 protests,  Ma Zhaoxu , a Foreign Ministry spokesman,
emphasized China’s economic growth and success in raising  living
standards .  “It is the Chinese people’s common aspiration to
safeguard social and political stability, promote social harmony,
and safeguard people’s livelihood,” Ma told reporters in
Beijing Feb. 22. “No one nor any force can sway our resolve.”  The government’s reaction reflects its decades-long effort
to keep unrest in check through a combination of economic growth,
social reforms and political repression, said Nicholas Bequelin,
a China researcher for  Human Rights Watch  in Hong Kong.  How to Handle  “One of the key aspects of the Chinese system is that it
does not try to suppress social demands as much as to respond to
them before they turn into political ones,” Bequelin said.
“Everyday politics is about how to handle social demands; which
ones to accept, which one’s to channel, which ones to suppress,
which one can be ignored.”  The open letter addressed to the Chinese People listed a
series of grievances including official corruption, a widening
disparity between rich and poor, rising inflation, expensive
housing and a poor health-care system.  In his two-hour discussion, Wen said China will curb
inflation by controlling liquidity, by boosting agricultural
production and by punishing hoarding and price manipulation,
according to the website of the official Xinhua News Agency.  He also said the country has sufficient grain and foreign
currency reserves to control food prices.  --Michael Forsythe,  John Liu  and William Bi in Beijing,
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai and Debra Mao in  Hong Kong . Editor:
Ben Richardson,  Jim McDonald   To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:  Bruce Grant  in Hong Kong at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant in Hong Kong at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  