-- 
Christchurch Faces Task of Rebuilding After Quake Strikes

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-02-27T22:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/christchurch-faces-task-of-rebuilding-after-earthquake-strikes.html
Almost 700,000 visitors a year flock
to Christchurch’s 130-year-old  cathedral  to admire its stained-
glass windows or climb the spire. As many as 22 bodies may be
entombed in its rubble today after  New Zealand ’s deadliest
earthquake in 80 years, police say.  More than 140 people were killed last week by the 6.3-
magnitude temblor that devastated New Zealand’s oldest city and
toppled the cathedral’s tower, according to police estimates.
Restoring Christchurch’s reputation as one of the nation’s top
travel destinations will take as much rebuilding as its stone
and concrete landmarks, business leaders say.  “The central city has changed forever,” Peter Townsend,
head of the  Canterbury Employers’ Chamber of Commerce , said in a
telephone interview. “I can relate to the fact that people will
not want to come to Christchurch while we have this specter of
earthquakes and aftershocks.”  The city, modeled after Oxford in  England  by mid-19th
Century settlers, drew 519,000 tourists who flew in from abroad
last year, or 21 percent of all visitors to the country,
according to  Tourism New Zealand . Tourism generated almost
10,000 jobs and almost NZ$800 million ($600 million) for
Christchurch and the surrounding region in 2009, Tourism
Industry Association of New Zealand figures show.  A third of all those who visited Christchurch last year
said they did so to look at heritage sites such as the
cathedral, the  old Provincial Chambers  on Durham Street and the
former municipal chambers built in 1887, according to Tourism
New Zealand.  History’s Appeal  All three sites are damaged, as are dozens of smaller brick
and masonry buildings built in the early 1900s and now used to
house shops, businesses, bars and restaurants.  About 755 buildings in the city center, or about a quarter
of the total, have been condemned, according to the  Christchurch
City Council  website. More than 40 percent of the buildings have
been cleared by inspectors and about a third can be entered
though more analysis is needed.  “Without question, the  tourism industry  is severely
disrupted,” Tim Cossar, chief executive officer of the  Tourism
Industry Association of New Zealand , said in a telephone
interview. “The cold hard facts of it are that central city
Christchurch is closed down and that’s the main part of the
visitor experience.”  Historic churches in the central city, some of which were
surrounded by scaffolding for repairs after an earthquake on
Sept. 4, are among the buildings most badly hit.  St Luke’s , an
Anglican church on Kilmore Street, partially collapsed, though a
separate white wooden bell tower remains intact.  Disaster’s Toll  “I don’t think a lot of people are going to want to go
anywhere near the city,” said  David Paterson , a 69-year-old
taxi driver who was sitting in his taxi north of the city center
when the latest quake struck. “The historic buildings are a
draw card when people visit and I’m afraid they’re gone.”  The most recent quake adds to a mounting toll of disasters
on New Zealand’s  South Island , where 29 men were killed when an
explosion ripped through a  coal mine  in November.  The Feb. 22 quake could cut New Zealand’s gross domestic
product by at least half a percentage point, ANZ National Bank
Ltd. said last week. The local currency approached a decade low
against its Australian counterpart on concern the fallout may
tip the country into a recession. The Christchurch region
accounts for about 15 percent of GDP.  Economic Costs Mount  The economic costs of this week’s temblor will likely put
more strain on  consumer confidence , tourism revenue and public
finances already facing an estimated NZ$5 billion ($3.7 billion)
cleanup bill from the September quake. Both quakes may cost more
than NZ$10 billion, Earthquake Recovery Minister  Gerry Brownlee 
told reporters on Feb. 25.  For Christchurch, the disasters threaten its image as a
quiet city proud of its English heritage.  Since the Feb. 22 quake, many local events have been
canceled and hotel operators say tourists are going elsewhere.  The  Ellerslie Flower Show  scheduled for next month was
scrapped. The city may also be unable to host its 2011 Rugby  World Cup  matches scheduled for Sept. 9-Oct. 23 at AMI Stadium,
Hamish Riach, chief executive officer of the Canterbury Rugby
Football Union, told  Television New Zealand  on Feb. 23.  “We were getting full days and then this happened,” said
Grant Kelly, owner of the  Alcala Motor Lodge , which is located
three blocks from the city’s cathedral. “Hopefully people have
short memories.”  Square Falls Silent  Since the Feb. 22 quake, the cathedral square that once
bustled with tourists and shoppers has fallen silent and is
deserted except for rescue workers crawling over the rubble of
the collapsed spire. The statue of  John Godley , founder of the
province in 1850, lies collapsed on the ground.  Shop fronts are broken. Wine bottles, books and souvenirs
are strewn across the ground. Mannequins displaying woolen
clothing are overturned.  Bridges over the  Avon River , which meanders through the
city center, are cordoned off, their supports riddled with
cracks. Edwardian-style boats normally used to carry visitors on
a 30-minute river trip sit unattended. Cracks can be seen in the
city’s 87-year-old  Bridge of Remembrance , built to commemorate
soldiers killed in World War I.  “There’s going to be a big step to get back to business as
usual,” said Townsend of the chamber of commerce. “Tourism is
an extraordinarily important industry for Christchurch and we
have to make sure we do everything we can to encourage people
back.”  Back at the cathedral, a crane lowers rescue workers
through a hole in its roof. A car lies crushed beneath a pile of
the landmark’s rubble.  “If we rebuild, we rebuild the spirit of the community,”
Rev. Peter Beck, dean of the Christchurch Cathedral, said in a
telephone interview. “Every community needs its icons, and
that’s what the cathedral is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  