-- 
Doosan Engine Orders May Double on Fleet Expansion, Push Into Generators

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-02-28T09:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/doosan-engine-orders-may-double-on-ship-pickup-non-marine-push.html
Doosan Engine Co., the world’s
second-largest maker of ship engines, said orders may more than
double this year as shipping lines resume fleet-enlargement
plans and the company works to expand its non-marine businesses.  Contracts may climb to 1.8 trillion won ($1.6 billion) from
890 billion won last year, Chief Executive Officer Lee Sung Hee
said in a Feb. 24 interview at the engine maker’s headquarters
in Changwon,  South Korea . The company wants non-marine products,
such as generators for power plants, to account for 40 percent
of sales in 2020 from about 5 percent now, he said.  “We are in the early stages of recovery,” Lee, 60, said.
“Shipping lines seem to realize they can’t wait any longer
because rising raw-material costs could push ship prices
higher.”  To help boost sales, the engine maker plans to expand in  China ,  Brazil ,  Russia  and  India  through technology tie-ups and
other accords, Lee said. The company will also bid to supply
engines for 10 record-sized  container ships  ordered by A.P.
Moller-Maersk A/S on Feb. 21 as the Danish line adds capacity in
anticipation of rising global trade.  “Things look good for Doosan,” said Choi Won Kyung, an
analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co. in  Seoul . “It wouldn’t be all
that surprising if they end up making all the engines for
Maersk’s order.”  Maersk Mega-Ships  The engine maker fell 5.1 percent to 17,650 won at the 3
p.m. close of trading in Seoul as concerns of unrest in the
Middle East caused the benchmark Kospi index to have the biggest
monthly decline in two years. The company has fallen 8.5 percent
from the price at its December initial public offering, which
raised 202.7 billion won.  Maersk ordered vessels able to carry 18,000 containers
apiece, with options for 20 more, from Daewoo Shipbuilding &
Marine Engineering Co. in a deal worth as much as $5.4 billion.
Daewoo, the world’s third-largest shipbuilder, and second-ranked
Samsung Heavy Industries Co. both own stakes in Doosan.  The Maersk ships will use engines fitted with a heat-waste
recovery system that will help pare  carbon emissions  50 percent
compared with current vessels on Asia-Europe routes, according
to the shipping line. Engines generally account for about 20
percent of a ship’s price, Lee said.  Non-Marine Products  Doosan expects 2011 operating profit, or sales minus the
cost of goods sold and administrative expensive, to surpass last
year’s 230.4 billion won, Lee said, without elaboration. The
company had a backlog worth 4.6 trillion won, or more than three
years’ work, at the end of December.  “The shipping industry will have no choice but to continue
growing considerably because of free-trade accords,” Lee said.
“That is going to make the world into a shopping mall with the
bulk of the volume going by sea.”  To pare its reliance on shipping, Doosan plans to boost
sales in areas including making emergency diesel generators for
nuclear  power plants , Lee said.  “Our business structure is too exposed to the shipbuilding
industry,” he said. “There is a need to find means of ensuring
our long-term survival.”  Global container-ship orders dried up for almost two years
during the global recession as a shortage of credit and falling
trade sapped confidence. World trade may grow 7.1 percent this
year, the  International Monetary Fund  said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  