-- 
Saudi Stocks Drop to Nine-Month Low, Leading Mideast, on Region's Unrest

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-02-27T14:50:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/dubai-shares-rise-on-investor-bets-declines-are-overdone-deyaar-advances.html
Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index
plunged to a nine-month low, leading a drop in Middle East
markets, on concern clashes in Libya that caused  oil prices  to
surge to a more than two-year high will stall a global recovery.    Al-Rajhi Bank , the kingdom’s largest publicly traded lender
by market value, dropped 5.2 percent and  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp ., the world’s largest petrochemicals maker, tumbled to the
lowest since October. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index 
slid a 10th day, slumping 5 percent to 5,950.64, the lowest
since June 6, at the 3:30 p.m. close in  Riyadh . The measure has
lost 11 percent since Tunisia’s former president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled the country amid protests that spurred similar
uprisings in nations across the region. Oman’s measure decreased
2.8 percent as protests erupted in the sultanate.  “With no clear end to the geo-political turmoil in the
region, local investors are erring on the side of caution,”
said Amro Halwani, senior equity sales trader at  Shuaa Capital
PSC  in Riyadh. “The regional uncertainty, with Libya this
week’s reason to sell, has pushed fundamentals out of the
picture. The surge in oil is an ongoing threat of a possible
derailing in the global economic recovery, and gave investors a
reason to move away from riskier assets.”  The United Nations Security Council voted to freeze the
foreign assets of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and four aides
and to bar them from traveling, in the broadest international
effort to halt the attacks. Protests calling for the ouster of
Qaddafi have been met with a violent crackdown. Qaddafi has
bolstered defenses in the capital, Tripoli, and launched
counter-strikes against opponents who have seized much of the
rest of the country.  Oil’s Surge  Crude for April delivery surged as much as 5.4 percent to
$103.41 a barrel on Feb. 24, the highest intraday price since
September 2008, on estimates that Libya has lost as much as two-
thirds of its oil output. Libya is the largest holder of crude
oil reserves on the African continent.  Al-Rajhi fell the most since May 25 to 73 riyals and Sabic
decreased 3.4 percent to 93 riyals, the lowest since Oct. 23.
About 237 million shares traded on Saudi Arabia’s bourse today,
compared with a one-year daily average of about 137 million.  In Oman, police fired tear gas at stone-throwing protesters
in the industrial city of Sohar, Reuters reported, citing
unidentified witnesses. The protesters were demanding political
reforms, it said. Demonstrations were also taking place in the
southern town of Salalah.  Oman’s benchmark MSM 30 Index dropped to 6,458.37, the
lowest since September, led by  Renaissance Services SAOG . The
provider of services to the oil and gas industry slumped 6.8
percent to 1.085 rials, the lowest since Dec. 21.  Volatility  Egypt’s exchange, closed since the end of trading on Jan.
27, will resume operations on March 1, the Cabinet said today.
The head of the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority Ziad
Bahaa El-Din has resigned and will be replaced temporarily by
Ashraf El Sharkawy, the Cabinet said. The  EGX 30 Index  lost 16
percent in the week before trading was halted. An 18-day popular
revolt forced Egyptian leader  Hosni Mubarak  out on Feb. 11.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index  fell 0.9 percent after earlier
rising as much as 1.9 percent.  Emaar Properties PJSC , builder of
the world’s tallest skyscraper, dropped to the lowest since
February 2010, losing 2.4 percent to 2.85 dirhams. The shares
had gained as much as 2.1 percent earlier today and are down 20
percent so far this year. Abu Dhabi’s General Index climbed 0.6
percent.  Israel’s Gain  “We will see heightened volatility until we see a clear
resolution to the unrest in the region,” said Omair Ansari,
equity strategist at Gulfmena Alternative Investments in Dubai.
“With lack of market participation by many institutional
investors, spikes are occurring on low volumes led by retail.”  Bahrain’s BB All Share Index advanced 0.3 percent, while
Qatar’s  QE Index  slipped 0.2 percent. Kuwait’s bourse was closed
for a national holiday.  In  Israel , the TA-25 Index of stocks rose 1.7 percent, the
most this year, at the close in  Tel Aviv . Israeli bonds gained,
with the yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit note
maturing January 2020 declining 6 basis points to 5.04 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  