-- 
Egypt's Stock Market to Resume Trading on March 1 After One-Month Shutdown

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-02-28T14:54:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/egypt-bourse-to-resume-trading-tomorrow-as-gulf-stocks-tumble.html
Egypt’s bourse, shut for a month
because of the popular uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak , will resume trading tomorrow as unrest in  Libya  and
Oman is causing stocks in the region to tumble.  Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General Index  plunged 3.8 percent to
the lowest level since June 2004 at the 2 p.m. close in the
emirate. The Bloomberg GCC200 Index of companies in the  Persian
Gulf  has lost 9.8 percent since Jan. 27, the last day shares in
Egypt traded. The global depository receipts of  Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE  also slid.      “The market should have opened much earlier,” said Walaa Hazem, who helps manage $1 billion in Egyptian equities and
fixed income as vice president for asset management at HC
Securities & Investment in Cairo. “Locking people’s money is
something very bad. This will put selling pressure on the
market, in addition to the regional turmoil and the economic
slowdown.”  Unrest in the Middle East and North  Africa  has also spread
to Bahrain, Algeria, Morocco, Jordan, Iraq and Yemen. While
trading has been suspended, the heads of some companies with
ties to Mubarak’s regime, such as  Ezz Steel , have been put under
investigation on fraud charges. Finance Minister Samir Radwan
said Feb. 12 the popular uprising may slow economic growth this
fiscal year to about 4 percent compared with an earlier estimate
of 6 percent.  EFSA Resignation  Egypt’s  Financial Supervisory Authority , which regulates
financial markets, said on Feb. 19 it will limit daily share
price movement to 10 percent, lower the cash reserve requirement
for brokerages to 5 percent of their capital from 10 percent and
reduce the trading session to three hours from four. Ziad Bahaa
El-Din, the agency’s chairman, resigned yesterday, according to
a cabinet statement.  The political turmoil raised borrowing costs, with yields
on treasury bills hovering around two-year highs since Mubarak’s
Feb. 11 resignation.  Egypt  yesterday sold 2 billion pounds ($340
million) in 91-day bills and 3 billion pounds in 273-day notes
in an auction, falling short of its 3.5 billion pound goal,
according data on the Ministry of Finance’s  website . Samy
Khallaf, Radwan’s public debt adviser, declined to comment.  “The high yields, especially on the longer-term notes, are
a big concern because the government is becoming unable to cover
its intended issuances,” said Moustafa Assal, managing director
of Cairo-based Beltone Financial’s fixed income unit. “They
will not come down unless there’s political stability.”  Yields Climb  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond due 2020 has
dropped 36 basis points to 6.85 percent since reaching a high of
7.21 percent on Jan. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to a yield of 5.16 percent at the
beginning of the year.  The cost of insuring government debt against default rose
to 375 basis points today from 366 at the close in  London  on
Feb. 25, according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps. It
reached the highest since April 2009 of 442 on Jan. 31.  Public prosecutors have referred executives of some
companies to trial on charges of corruption. Apart from Ahmed Ezz, who is chairman of the country’s biggest producer of the
metal, the list also includes Yasseen Mansour, chief executive
officer of Palm Hills Development SAE, a Cairo-based real-estate
developer. Both companies have said their operations are run
independently of the chairmen. Ezz was cut to “sell” from
“neutral” at investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, which
also lowered  Palm Hills  to “neutral” from “buy.”  ‘Better Position’  The global depository receipts of Orascom Telecom, the
country’s largest mobile network operator by subscribers, lost
6.7 percent at 2:28 p.m. in London today. The shares have
dropped 5.8 percent since Jan. 27.  Some industries, such as food and telecommunications, will
be in a “better position” than others when the market opens,
Hazem said. “People are still going to eat and talk on the
telephone,” he said, singling out fixed-line operator  Telecom
Egypt . Commercial International Bank,  National Societe Generale
Bank SAE  and  Credit Agricole Egypt SAE  “won’t have good growth
stories but they have strong balance sheets.”  The Egyptian uprising was inspired by a revolt that led to
the ouster of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan.
14. In Libya,  Muammar Qaddafi , in power since 1969, is facing a
rebellion, which has taken over the eastern part of the country.  Dubai Shares  The turmoil in Libya sent crude oil for April delivery up
as much as 5.4 percent to $103.41 a barrel on Feb. 24, the
highest intraday price since September 2008, on estimates that
the country has lost as much as two-thirds of its oil output.
The contract rose as much as 2.1 percent to $99.96 a barrel
today. Libya is the largest holder of oil reserves in Africa.  Oman’s  MSM30 Index  tumbled 4.9 percent, the most since
January 2009. Hundreds of Omanis, many unemployed, gathered in a
sit-in for a second day in the city of Sohar, refusing to go
home after the nation’s ruler pledged to provide jobs following
clashes that left two dead.  “With no clear end to the geo-political turmoil in the
region, local investors are erring on the side of caution,”
said Amro Halwani, senior equity sales trader at  Shuaa Capital
PSC  in  Riyadh . “The regional uncertainty, with Libya this
week’s reason to sell, has pushed fundamentals out of the
picture. The surge in oil is an ongoing threat of a possible
derailing in the global economic recovery, and gave investors a
reason to move away from riskier assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  