-- 
Fujifilm Buys Merck Biotech Supply Unit, Accelerates Medical Industry Push

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-02-28T06:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/merck-agrees-to-sell-its-u-s-u-k-units-for-biotech-supplies-to-fujifilm.html
  Fujifilm Holdings Corp . will buy two
units of Merck & Co. that make biopharmaceuticals as it targets
growth in the health-care industry to make up for declining
sales in cameras and film.  The Tokyo-based maker of imaging equipment and digital
cameras will acquire laboratories in the U.S. and U.K. for 40
billion yen ($490 million), Nikkei English News reported today
without saying where it got the pricing information. Toshihiro
Matsumoto, a Fujifilm spokesman, confirmed the purchase by phone
today, without giving a price.  Fujifilm plans to triple sales in health care in the next
decade as the market for supplying biologic vaccines and drugs
is expected to increase by 15 percent a year, it said. The deal
comes as sales from its imaging solutions, which includes color
films and digital cameras, fell 16 percent last fiscal year as
more consumers use smartphones for taking photos.  “Fujifilm is planting seeds in health care for future
growth as its existing digital cameras and film material
businesses are dwindling,” said Kogo Horie, an equities analyst
at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in Tokyo. “The purchase makes
sense.”  Stronger Yen  The company will buy BioManufacturing Network Diosynth RTP
LLC of Research Triangle Park,  North Carolina , and MSD Biologics
(U.K.) Ltd., based in Billingham,  England . The deal for the
units, which generate about 13 billion yen in sales a year,
should be completed by early April, Matsumoto said.  The units of Merck, the second-largest drugmaker in the
U.S., include manufacturing facilities for biologic products
used in vaccines and drugs based on human proteins.  The yen has strengthened 14 percent against the dollar in
the past year, making it easier for Japanese companies to
purchase overseas assets. They announced 495 overseas
acquisitions valued at a combined $25.8 billion in the past 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This is the fifth acquisition announced by Fujifilm
in the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
list includes the $47.2 million purchase of Japan Tissue
Engineering Co. in August.  Triple Sales  Fujifilm, which makes equipment for medical scans, had a
loss of 38.4 billion yen in the year ended March 31 on
structural reforms to cut costs, the company said in April.
Sales dropped 10 percent to 2.18 trillion yen in the period on
weaker demand, and as the stronger yen pared the value of
overseas revenue, it said.  Sales from imaging solutions fell 16 percent to 345.5
billion yen in the year ended March 31. Fujifilm generated 263.9
billion yen from medical systems and life sciences in the period,
a 2 percent decrease from a year earlier.  Fujifilm aims to more than triple sales from its health-
care unit to 1 trillion yen by 2019. The company bought
drugmaker Toyama Chemical in February 2008 and established a
generic-drug joint venture with Mitsubishi Corp. last year.  “This will be one of the core businesses along with
digital cameras and liquid-crystal material,” said Kazuyoshi Saito, an equities analyst at Cosmo Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“This will be positive for its earnings in the long run.”  Schering-Plough Deal  Fujifilm rose 0.1 percent to 2,860 yen as of the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo trading. The benchmark  Nikkei 225  Stock Average
rose 0.9. Merck advanced 0.5 percent to $32.19 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading on Feb. 25 before the announcement
was made.  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , acquired
Diosynth as part of its $49 billion purchase of Schering-Plough
Corp. in November 2009, Ian McConnell, a Merck spokesman, said
in a telephone interview. The company bought MSD Biologics the
following month.  Merck’s “commitment to developing biologics and biosimilar
products remains unchanged,” McConnell said. The company’s
“decision to sell the Merck BioManufacturing Network is part of
its ongoing effort to focus on core competencies.”  Biologic products include antibodies that are part of the
immune system’s response to the infections. Laboratory-produced
versions have been created to mute overactive immune systems,
seen in diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn’s
disease.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Randall in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 