-- 
Yen, Franc Strengthen as Middle East Tension Spurs Demand for Safer Assets

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-02-28T06:34:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/euro-is-near-two-week-low-versus-yen-on-ireland-vote-middle-east-unrest.html
The Swiss franc and the yen advanced
against a majority of their most-traded counterparts on
speculation unrest spreading through North Africa and the Middle
East will derail a global economic recovery.  The euro fell for a third day versus the franc on concern a
new Irish government will seek to share the burden of rescuing
the nation’s financial system with senior bank bondholders. The
dollar touched a three-week low against the yen on prospects
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal this week
that  interest rates  will stay near zero.  “There’s still some spreading of political unrest in the
Middle East, with Oman starting to get involved as well,” said
Darryl Conroy, financial markets analyst at Suncorp-Metway Ltd.
in Brisbane. “The yen and the franc are likely to be supported
in this uncertain environment.”  The franc rose to 92.63 centimes per dollar at 2:54 p.m. in
Tokyo from 92.82 on Feb. 25, when it touched 92.28, the
strongest since at least 1971, when Bloomberg records began. The
franc has risen 1.9 percent versus the dollar since Jan. 31,
headed for a monthly gain versus 12 of its 16 major peers. The
yen was at 81.64 per dollar from 81.68 yen, after trading as
strong as 81.62, the highest level since Feb. 4.  The euro fell to 1.2751 francs from 1.2768 francs on Feb.
25. It touched 1.2706 francs on Feb. 24, the least since Jan.
13. The single currency was at 112.38 yen from 112.35 yen, after
earlier touching 111.96 yen, the lowest since Feb. 8. The euro
fetched $1.3766 from $1.3754.  Middle East  The unrest that swept the Middle East in the past month,
ousting President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from  Tunisia  and
Egyptian leader Hosni Mubarak, spread to Oman, where protesters
clashed with security forces in the province of Sohar yesterday.
In  Libya ,  Muammar Qaddafi , in power since 1969, is facing a
rebellion that has taken over the eastern part of the nation.  U.S. officials will meet foreign counterparts in Geneva
today to discuss Libya, including measures to pressure Qaddafi
out of power while building ties to opposition leaders. U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said for the first time
yesterday that the U.S. has begun “reaching out” to Libyans
organizing for a post-Qaddafi era.  The Swiss and Japanese currencies tend to strengthen in
times of political unrest because their export-reliant economies
don’t need foreign capital to balance current accounts, which
are the broadest measure of trade.  Political Shift  The euro approached a six-week low against the franc after
Enda Kenny said he’ll push for the quick formation of Ireland’s
next government and the re-negotiation of an international
bailout after a Feb. 25 general election left his Fine Gael
party in a position to form a coalition administration.  “Ireland’s election outcome suggests there may be
renegotiations over the bailout, which are unlikely to go
well,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-exchange
department at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in
Tokyo. “It’s negative for the euro.”  The leader of Fine Gael that won the most seats in the
ballot said on broadcaster RTE that he’ll start the process of
reopening the terms of the bailout from the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund  last year. He’s seeking to lower
the 5.8 percent interest rate on the bailout loans and end the
protection of senior bank bondholders.  The result follows a defeat earlier this month for  Angela
Merkel ’s party in the first of seven state elections which
threaten to limit her scope to tackle the region’s debt crisis.  China’s Growth  “We’ve got a political shift in Ireland and  Germany  and a
banking system that’s hooked on European Central Bank cash,”
said  Robert Rennie , Sydney-based chief currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp.,  Australia ’s second-largest lender. “The
euro is looking expensive.”  Gains in the dollar were curbed versus the yen before
Bernanke delivers the Fed’s semiannual report on monetary policy
to the Senate Banking Committee on March 1. A day later, he will
testify before the House Financial Services Committee.  “This will be an important week in deciding if the Fed
will lag other central banks in hiking rates, which in turn,
would set the dollar on a depreciation path,” said  Philip Wee ,
a senior currency economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . “Bernanke so far has prioritized jobs over inflation
in U.S. monetary policy.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last month affirmed plans
to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June even as policy
makers increased their projections for U.S. growth this year.
Bernanke is seeking to reduce 9 percent unemployment by bringing
about a “sustained period of stronger  job creation ,” he said
on Feb. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 