-- 
Glencore Said to Plan IPO Talks With Chinese, Qatari Investors, Analysts

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-02-28T11:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/glencore-said-to-plan-ipo-talks-with-chinese-qatari-investors-analysts.html
Glencore International AG, the
largest commodities trader, is poised to talk with potential key
investors in an initial public offering as briefings for
analysts begin, said people with knowledge of the plan.  Discussions with funds including China Investment Corp. and
Qatar Investment Authority are about to start, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. Mining analysts in  London  are attending a two-day
briefing in the city from today, with some visiting sites owned
by Glencore this week, two people said.  Glencore is studying a $10 billion IPO for London and  Hong
Kong , probably by the third quarter, led by  Citigroup Inc .,  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  Morgan Stanley , said another two
people with knowledge of the talks. While no other banks have
yet been hired, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Chase &
Co., UBS AG and Liberum Capital Ltd. are among those involved in
preliminary work on the IPO, according to the people.  Qatar is considering investing in Glencore, Prime Minister
Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Al Thani told reporters in Doha today.  “Glencore is very much run as a black box and it’s quite
opaque so there has to be a degree of transparency for people to
get comfortable with it,” said Ric Ronge, who helps manage the
equivalent of $1.3 billion at Pengana Global Resources Fund in  Melbourne . “It just comes down to the price and having the
confidence it’ll be run as a public company given that it’s
currently a private company.”  Additional Banks  Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, Chief Financial
Officer Steven Kalmin and other senior management will brief
analysts, all four people said. It’s unclear whether banks
attending are assured a role in the proposed IPO, they said.  Simon Buerk, a spokesman for Glencore, declined to comment
when contacted by phone yesterday. A China Investment Corp.
official in Beijing declined to comment or be named. Calls to
Qatar Investment Authority went unanswered.  The London-based Sunday Times yesterday reported Glencore
had opened talks with the Chinese and Qatari sovereign wealth
funds. Liberum Capital valued the Baar, Switzerland-based
company at $47 billion to $51 billion in a July report.  Glencore sold convertible bonds in December 2009 for the
first time, raising $2.2 billion and attracting investors
including BlackRock Inc., Government of Singapore Investment
Corp., Greenwich, Connecticut-based private equity investor
First Reserve Corp., and Zijin Mining Group Co.  Converting Bonds  “We will probably convert the bonds into stock” should
the IPO proceed, Zijin Mining’s Vice Chairman Lan Fusheng said
in a phone interview. “Glencore is a good company operationally
and in profitability.”  Glencore employs 2,000 people in its trading units and more
than 50,000 at its industrial operations at 15 plants in 13
countries, according to a company fact sheet on its website.  The trader also owns 34 percent of Swiss miner  Xstrata Plc 
and controls mines and metals plants on five continents. The
Xstrata stake is worth $23 billion at the current share price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  