-- 
Libyan Opposition Leaders Receive U.S. Offer of `Assistance,' Clinton Says

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-02-27T20:58:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/libyan-opposition-leaders-receive-u-s-offer-of-assistance-clinton-says.html
The U.S. has made contact with
and will offer assistance to opponents of Muammar Qaddafi’s
regime who control the eastern part of  Libya  and are making
gains in the west.  While opposition leaders began planning a provisional
government, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
for the first time today that the U.S. has begun “reaching
out” to Libyans organizing for a post-Qaddafi era.  “We’ve been reaching out to many different Libyans
who are attempting to organize in the east and, as the
revolution moves westward, there as well,” Clinton told
reporters traveling with her to Geneva for consultations
tomorrow with foreign ministers.  “I think it’s way too soon to tell how this is going
to play out, but we’re going to be ready and prepared to
offer any kind of assistance that anyone wishes to have
from the  United States ,” she said.  The disclosure of talks with opponents of the Qaddafi
government, however preliminary, signaled a new effort by
the U.S. to prod Qaddafi from power. State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said Feb. 25, “I can’t say
that we, the United States, have had any contact with the
opposition at this point.”  Mercenaries  “We want him to leave, we want him to end his
regime” and to call off the mercenaries who are targeting
Libyan citizens, Clinton said.  Former British Prime Minister  Tony Blair  spoke with
Qaddafi within the last two days to urge him to step down
and allow for a transitional government, Britain’s Channel
4 News reported today. The U.K. revoked the diplomatic
immunity of Qaddafi and his family, U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague  said today.  In another sign of European solidarity against
Qaddafi, Italy today said it has suspended a treaty with
Libya that includes a non-aggression clause, the Associated
Press reported. The suspension would allow  Italy  to use its
military bases or to take part in any peacekeeping
operations in Libya, AP said.  The  United Nations Security Council  late yesterday
voted 15-0 to freeze the foreign assets of Qaddafi and four
aides and to bar them from traveling, in the broadest
international effort to halt the violence in Libya that has
left more than 1,000 people dead.  Middle East shares fell, sending Saudi Arabia’s index
to a nine-month low, on concern the deadly clashes of the
past week that caused  oil prices  to surge to a more than
two-year high will stall a global recovery.  Oman Unrest  The unrest that has swept the Middle East in the past
month, ousting President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from  Tunisia  and  Hosni Mubarak  as Egyptian president, today
spread to Oman, where protesters clashed with security
forces in the province of Sohar. Omani security forces
fired tear gas and rubber bullets at protesters demanding
political reforms, killing at least one person, the  Associated Press  reported.  In Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil supplier,
Saudi activists and academics called on  King Abdullah  to
increase political rights and move the country toward a
constitutional monarchy.  In Tunisia, the country’s interim Prime Minister
Mohamed Ghannouchi resigned today after three people were
killed in street protests.  Unrest in Libya and Persian Gulf countries including
Bahrain has prompted concern that supplies of oil from the
world’s main region of crude production may be disrupted.  Oil Markets  Crude oil for April delivery climbed 60 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $97.88 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  on Feb. 25, the most recent day of
trading. U.S. oil rose to $103.41 on Feb. 24, the highest
intraday price since Sept. 29, 2008.  Clinton today praised the actions of King Abdullah of  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil producer, and
Bahrain’s King Hamad Bin Isa al Khalifa, saying they are
engaged in “meaningful outreach” to their citizens.  The Bahraini king has named five new cabinet
ministers, including a new housing minister who pledged to
increase the rate of housing construction. The Saudi king
has taken measures designed to improve employment in the
kingdom and, along with other OPEC nations, pledged to
replace any lost Libyan oil.  Libya and Saudi Arabia are among the 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which pumps
about 40 percent of the world’s oil.  Arms Embargo  The UN resolution also imposes an arms embargo on
Libya and calls for an immediate end to violence that it
says “may amount to crimes against humanity.” The measure
refers the allegations to the  International Criminal Court 
in The Hague for investigation and possible prosecution.
The vote followed a plea by Libyan Ambassador Mohammed Shalgham on Feb. 25 for the UN to “save” his nation.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says more than 1,000
people have died in the unrest.  Hundreds of armed anti-government forces backed by
rebel troops who control Zawiya, the city closest to the
capital, prepared late today to repel an expected offensive
by forces loyal to Qaddafi, the Associated Press reported.  On the roads between the Egyptian border and the
eastern town of Benghazi, anti-Qaddafi protesters carrying
assault rifles and former soldiers in uniform set up tents
and searched passing cars for weapons, some of them
welcoming passersby with juice and sweets. In Benghazi and
other eastern towns, public buildings including police
stations flew the red, black and green flag of Libyan
independence that pre-dates Qaddafi’s rule.  Benghazi Opposition  Opposition groups began planning for an interim
government, though reports of the progress of those talks
were sometimes in conflict.  Fathi Baja, a member of the city council in Beghazi,
said opposition groups nominated former Justice Minister
Moustafa Abdel Jalil as head of an interim government.
Jalil told Al Arabiya television that he isn’t forming an
interim government, though he foresees a transitional
national council.  It wasn’t immediately clear what form the provisional
government might take or what support it has.  Egyptian volunteer doctors said most of the violence
in Benghazi took place around the main army headquarters,
and began when mercenaries opened fire on protesters.  Several witnesses in Tripoli, the capital, said forces
loyal to the Libyan leader had shot people from ambulances,
used antiaircraft guns against crowds, and removed dead
bodies from hospitals to try to obscure the death toll, the
New York Times reported.  One of Qaddafi’s sons, Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, said
“nobody is leaving this country” on ABC’s “This Week”
program. “We live here. We die here.”  ‘Reality Gap’  Saif Qaddafi said the regime’s military hasn’t
attacked civilians and that most of Libya is calm. There is
“a big gap between reality and the media reports,” he
said on ABC. “The whole south is calm. The west is calm.
The middle is calm. Even part of the east.”  Al-Saadi Qaddafi, a former professional soccer player
and brother of Saif, told ABC in a separate interview that
he was concerned about UN sanctions prohibiting his travel.  “I’m going to hire a lawyer,” he said. “I’ve got to
go on safari.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 