-- 
Mideast Without Despots Needs Different U.S. Surge: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-02-27T16:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/mideast-without-despots-needs-a-new-u-s-surge-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
With a rapidity that would have been
unimaginable only a month ago, oppression in the Middle East --
Tunisia, Egypt and now, hopefully,  Libya  -- is on the run.
Whatever the short-term challenges, what emerges will probably
be better than the old dictatorial regimes.  That’s different than proclaiming that democracy and
freedom have arrived. Creating a representative political system
of self-rule in these countries, most of which have little
tradition or supporting institutions, will be an arduous task.  There are examples to emulate. While new to the Middle
East, with the exception of  Israel , democracy has been on the
march around the world in the last quarter century, in scores of
countries, from  Indonesia  to Eastern Europe to Latin America.  America’s ability to shape these events is limited, the
track record not always admirable. President  Barack Obama ’s
eloquent speech in Cairo two years ago is oft-cited; less noted
are his administration’s plans to cut funding for the private
nonprofit  National Endowment for Democracy , a global beacon for
promoting democratic values, by 12 percent.  President  George W. Bush ’s administration toppled  Saddam Hussein , and botched the aftermath by trying to impose its
political will in  Iraq . As documented in “ Imperial Life in the
Emerald City: Inside Iraq’s Green Zone ” by the Washington Post
reporter Rajiv Chandrasekaran, the administration was more
concerned with political patronage and ideology than in creating
a functioning democracy; Foreign Service and military
professionals were replaced with young flat-tax and anti-
abortion advocates; the White House even dispatched the former
New York City Police Commissioner Bernard Kerik, currently
serving a prison term, to train Iraqi law enforcement personnel.  National Endowment for Democracy  America today can offer some needed resources; more
important may be expertise. The National Endowment for
Democracy, created under President  Ronald Reagan  more than a
quarter century ago, gives money to  four nongovernmental
organizations  to promote democracy abroad: the politically
affiliated National Democratic Institute and International
Republican Institute, the union-affiliated American Center for
International Labor Solidarity and the business-oriented Center
for International Private Enterprise. There are serious people,
knowledgeable about democracy, intimately involved.  In conversations, those affiliated with the groups are
excited and guardedly optimistic about what’s occurring in the
region, especially  Egypt . They also offer instructive counsel
for democracy-builders.  No One Model  -- Every country has to devise a different system, tailored
to its situation. “It’s impossible to have one model,” says
 Kenneth Wollack , president of the National Democratic Institute.
“Chile is different than the Philippines, which is different
than Indonesia.”  Whether a country picks a president or prime minister, and
what type parliamentary system is adopted -- a bicameral or
unicameral legislature, proportional representation or winner-
take-all -- aren’t easy choices. Israel, one of the most robust
democracies in the world, has an electoral system that borders
on dysfunctional.  -- Creating a democratic government can’t be done easily or
quickly. “There’s no such thing as instant democracy,” says
former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, who chairs the
National Democratic Institute.  Some experts are especially worried that Egypt might rush
to satisfy the understandable demand for quick elections.
Currently, a ballot is scheduled for September.  ‘Push Too Fast’  “If you push too fast,” says  Steve McInerney , executive
director of the Washington-based Project on Middle East
Democracy, “the danger is the elections will be dominated by
remnants of the old ruling party that show up under a different
name and the Muslim Brotherhood.”  -- The sine qua non for any new system is a codified
constitution. “It’s more than a one-man, one vote at one
time,” says Norm Coleman, a former Republican senator from  Minnesota  who serves on the board of directors of the National
Endowment for Democracy. “You need the scaffolding that holds
up the democracy.” This includes protections like freedom of
the press and collective bargaining, he notes. Ironic, perhaps,
since some U.S. governors are trying to take away the latter
right for public-employee unions.  Bernard Aronson , a diplomat during the Reagan
administration and now a board member of the National Democratic
Institute, says it’s essential to create “checks and balances,
and separation of powers are very important. Nobody should have
too much power.”  Political Parties  -- Political parties are indispensable. Founding father
George  Washington  warned his countrymen to avoid what he called
the “baneful effects” of parties; they ignored this advice,
creating political parties, which have been central to two
centuries of stability.  “Americans love to hate political parties,” says Vin Weber, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota and past
chairman of the National Endowment for Democracy, “but they’re
essential to promoting democracy.”  Often change or revolution is generated by movements --
Solidarity in  Poland , the social media phenomenon in the Middle
East -- but it takes institutions like political parties to
build on that. Also crucial is the role played by the armed
forces, Weber says, with a good model provided by  Turkey , where
a strong military defers to civilian rule.  Unifying Leader  -- It’s helpful in times of traumatic change to have a
galvanizing or unifying leader. That occurred in the  Philippines , Ukraine and especially  South Africa ; it’s also
relatively rare. Nelson Mandela “was a unifying leader,”
Wollack says. “I doubt there is a unifying candidate in
Egypt.”  -- Backsliding is always a danger. A decade ago,  Venezuela 
was held up as a model of democratic change, but President  Hugo Chavez  moved the country back to authoritarian rule, censoring
the media and arresting opposition politicians. Five years ago,
a promising democratic movement in Lebanon was crushed by
Hezbollah.  “Democracy,” Albright says, “is an ongoing process.”  New democracies invariably struggle to develop their own
terms and definitions as well as models. They would do well to
follow the advice Abraham Lincoln provided a century and a half
ago: “government of the people, by the people, for the
people.” The runner-up might be  Winston Churchill , who
proclaimed, “Democracy is the worst form of government, except
for all those others that have been tried.”  Egypt,  Tunisia  and other Muslim countries for too long have
experienced the worst of these others.    Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 