-- 
Libyan Soldiers Flash Victory Signs, Hand Out Candy After Joining Uprising

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-02-27T22:26:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/in-freed-libyan-areas-soldiers-pass-out-sweets-to-celebrate.html
Libyan soldiers who defected to join
the uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi  flashed victory signs and
passed out candies and juice to motorists driving along the
eastern coast as they celebrated their control over that portion
of the North African nation.  “Qaddafi is finished,” said Mohamed Sunous, 35, a soldier
at a border post. “He is not the president here anymore. We are
the army, and we are with the people.”  Qaddafi has vowed to fight the uprising against his more
than four-decade rule as army units and diplomats defect,
leaving much of the east coast in the hands of the opposition.
The unrest follows popular revolts that forced the rulers of
neighboring  Egypt  and  Tunisia  to step down earlier this year.  In the eastern city of Benghazi, protesters yesterday
nominated former Justice Minister Moustafa Abdel Jalil as head
of a transitional authority, Fathi Baja, a member of the city
council said. It wasn’t immediately clear what form the
authority might take or what support it has.  More than 1,000 people have died so far in the unrest,
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said. Almost
100,000 people have fled the fighting, the Office of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said in a statement
yesterday.  “The people of Libya have risen up against Colonel
Qaddafi,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday
in an interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. “We have
here a country descending into civil war with atrocious scenes
of killing of protesters, of a government actually making war on
its own people.”  Independence Flag  On the roads between the Egyptian border and Benghazi on
Feb. 25, anti-Qaddafi protesters carrying assault rifles, some
of them former soldiers wearing their military uniforms, stopped
cars to search for armed supporters of the Libyan leader.  In Benghazi and other eastern towns, public buildings
including police stations flew the red, black and green flag of
Libyan independence that pre-dates Qaddafi’s rule. Youths and
former soldiers directed traffic in areas where traffic lights
weren’t working. Some shops were open and gas stations were
operating.  “We are ready to die for a free  Libya , we are not afraid
anymore,” Fathy Khalifa, 42, a policeman, said at a celebration
in the eastern town of Tobruk after the city came under the
control of protesters.  Qaddafi’s forces “might attack us, he might do anything,
there’s no way to predict what he will do.” Khalifa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen at the Libyan-Egyptian border at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net  