-- 
India, England Rack Up Record Run Tally in Cricket World Cup Group Match

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-02-28T07:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/india-and-england-tie-on-338-in-cricket-world-cup-group-match-in-bangalore.html
  India  and England played out the
fourth tie at the Cricket  World Cup  in a match that set the
record for the most runs in a game at the tournament.  England fell one run short of chasing down the victory
target after needing 14 from the final over in Bangalore last
night. Both teams made 338 in the Group B encounter, with
openers Sachin Tendulkar and Andrew Strauss hitting centuries.  The total run tally of  676  went past the previous highest
for a World Cup match of 671, when  Australia  beat  South Africa 
by 83 runs in St. Kitts at the 2007 edition in the Caribbean.  “It’s a great advert for the 50-over format,”  England 
captain Strauss said at the post-match ceremony. “In some ways
we’re happy, in some ways we’re distraught. Both sides will take
some positives from it and some negatives.”  The result left India and England atop their group with
three points. The top four teams from each of the seven-team
pools advance to the quarterfinals after a round-robin
competition. The tournament, co-hosted by India, Sri Lanka and  Bangladesh , ends April 2.  England seamer  Tim Bresnan  took 5-48, his first five-wicket
haul in one-day internationals. Bresnan was today given an
 official reprimand  by the International Cricket Council for
smashing his stumps with his bat following his dismissal in
England’s run chase.  Indian spinner Harbhajan Singh was the only other bowler
who went at less than a run a ball.  Tendulkar Ton  India, which won the toss, was dismissed for 338 with one
ball of its allotted 50 overs remaining. Tendulkar smashed 120
off 115 deliveries before being caught by  Michael Yardy  off  James Anderson . Yuvraj Singh made 58 and Gautam Gambhir hit 51.  Strauss led England’s run chase by firing 158 off 145 balls
for his highest score in one-day internationals. Ian Bell added
69 in a 170-run third-wicket stand with his captain before
Zaheer Khan dismissed both batsman in successive deliveries and
then removed Paul Collingwood.  England went into the last over on 325-8. Graeme Swann took
three runs off the first two balls before Ajmal Shahzad smashed
a six. A bye and two runs lifted England to 337 and Swann could
only manage a single off the last ball to leave the scores tied.  India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni said Zaheer, who
finished with 3-64, played a crucial role in helping the home
team avoid defeat at the Chinnaswamy Stadium.  “Zaheer came in to bowl a really good spell and brought us
back into the game,” Dhoni said. “There was a time where it
seemed like they were going to chase the score down in 48, 49
overs.”  In today’s matches,  Canada  meets Zimbabwe in Group A in
Nagpur and the Netherlands faces West Indies in Group B in Delhi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  