-- 
Ireland's Fine Gael, Labour May Form Coalition as Political Power Shifts

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-02-27T10:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/ireland-s-fine-gael-labour-may-form-coalition-as-political-power-shifts.html
Ireland’s two largest opposition
parties may form a coalition government after the collapse of
the banking system and an international bailout handed  Fianna
Fail  a record election defeat.  Counting will continue today to fill the 166-seat
 parliament , with an exit poll giving Fine Gael and the Labour
Party a combined 57 percent of the vote. Support for Fianna
Fail, which has ruled for the last 14 years, slumped to 15
percent from 42 percent in the 2007 election, the poll showed.  Voters punished Fianna Fail in the Feb. 25 vote after the
government presided over the worst recession on record and a
rescue from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund  in November. Fine Gael leader  Enda Kenny , likely to become
prime minister, wants to re-negotiate the interest rate on the
emergency loans and speed up planned spending cuts to narrow the
budget gap. Labour is pushing for more tax increases.  “The two parties have been out of government for so long,
they’ll be desperate to make it work,” said Kevin Rafter, a
professor at  Dublin City University  who in 2009 published a book
about Fine Gael. “It is going to be tough as policy options are
severely limited.”  The parliament is due to meet again on March 9. Fine Gael
won 36.1 percent of first-preference votes in the election,
according to the poll carried out for Dublin-based broadcaster
 RTE . Labour drew 20.5 percent support in the poll, indicating it
had its best-ever performance.  ‘Strong and Stable’  As of 10:00 a.m. in Dublin, 131 lawmakers had been elected
to the Dail, as the Irish parliament is known, according to
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE’s website. Fine Gael won 59 seats,
Labour 31, Fianna Fail 14, Sinn Fein 13, and the Socialist Party
three. Eleven independent candidates were elected. Among those
were Kenny, Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams, Fianna Fail leader
Micheal Martin,  Labour Party  finance spokeswoman  Joan Burton  and
former Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan .  It’s “unlikely that we will reach a majority” or be able
to form a government with independent candidates, Fine Gael
lawmaker Leo Varadkar said yesterday. While there might be
“difficult” negotiations, a coalition with Labour would help
create a “strong and stable government.”  A coalition between the two parties “is the most likely
outcome,” Labour leader Eamon Gilmore said.  The new government will inherit an economy that has shrunk
around 15 percent since the end of 2007 while unemployment has
tripled to 13.4 percent. At the same time, it will have to deal
with a  budget deficit  that widened to 32 percent of gross
domestic product last year after  tax revenue  slumped and bank-
bailout costs soared.  “This country is in receivership,” said Ruairi Quinn,
former Irish finance minister with the Labour Party. “Fianna
Fail has destroyed the sovereignty of the Irish economy, we are
going to have hard times ahead and let nobody be under any
illusion to that, we need a large broad majority government.”  ‘Severe Hammering’  Against that backdrop, Fianna Fail may win about 20 seats,
down from 78 in 2007. Lenihan told RTE after being re-elected
that the party had taken a “severe hammering.”  “It’s very regrettable that the party has lost the amount
it has lost,” he said. “Clearly people were anxious to see a
change. The financial crisis is a very serious one.”  Fianna Fail’s defeat has some parallels in recent political
history. In Japan, the  Liberal Democratic Party  enjoyed a half a
century of almost unbroken rule before losing power to the  Democratic Party  of Japan in 2009. In  Canada , the Progressive
Conservatives was almost wiped out in 1993 when it lost all but
two of its 151 seats. The reconstituted  Conservative Party 
didn’t win back power until 2006.  “I never thought I’d see the day when Fianna Fail, which
has dominated politics in Ireland virtually since the foundation
of the state, should now be in meltdown,” Joe Costello, a
Labour member of parliament, told reporters at the count center
in Dublin. “They have been savaged.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net 
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  