-- 
Irish Fine Gael, Labour May Form Coalition in Power Shift

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-02-27T15:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/ireland-s-fine-gael-labour-may-form-coalition-government-in-power-shift.html
Enda Kenny may lead a new coalition
Irish government after the collapse of the banking system and an
external bailout pushed  Fianna Fail  to a record election defeat.  With 144 out of 166 parliamentary seats filled as of 3:04
p.m in Dublin, Kenny’s Fine Gael won 65 seats and likely partner
Labour secured 33 seats. Fianna Fail, which ruled for the last
14 years, won 16 seats.  Sinn Fein  had 13 seats and independent
lawmakers, 17.  Voters punished Fianna Fail in the Feb. 25 vote after the
government presided over the worst recession on record and a
rescue from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund  in November. Fine Gael leader Kenny, who may become prime
minister, wants to re-negotiate the interest rate on the
emergency loans, speed up spending cuts to narrow the budget gap
and share the cost burden with lenders’ senior bondholders.  Burden sharing “is unlikely at this stage as the Germans
and the ECB are very concerned about the impact of such a
move,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at Eurasia Group in  London . The donors “want to see progress. Maybe after they see
this, there could be some room for maneuver.”  Bailout Burden  The parliament is due to meet again on March 9. Fine Gael
won 36.1 percent of first-preference votes in the election,
according to a poll carried out for Dublin-based broadcaster
 RTE . Labour drew 20.5 percent support in the poll, indicating it
had its best-ever performance.  Kenny told RTE that the parties will form a new government
“very quickly” as they “don’t have any time to lose” on re-
negotiations over Ireland’s emergency-loan terms.  “This country can’t borrow money, banks can’t borrow
money, we’re up to our necks here,” he said after being re-
elected to parliament yesterday. The current bailout burden is
“too much” for Ireland.  Richard Bruton, a lawmaker with Ireland’s Fine Gael, said
in an interview late yesterday that taxpayers can’t be expected
to shoulder all of the cost if stress tests next month reveal
further capital needs in the country’s lenders. It’s something
that “many would regard as unsustainable,” he said.  Coalition Government  Fine Gael and the  Labour Party  may start talks tomorrow
over who will win the post of finance minister, the Sunday Times
reported, without citing anyone. Phil Hogan and  Michael Noonan 
are among the Fine Gael candidates for the post while Pat Rabbitte and Brendan Howlin are under discussion for Labour, the
newspaper said.  Lucinda Creighton, a Fine Gael lawmaker, told RTE that a
new government can be formed within days.  “I certainly not only want to see a stable government, I
also want to see an effective government,” Creighton said. “I
think we are in a good position to do that.”  The new government will inherit an economy that has shrunk
around 15 percent since the end of 2007 while unemployment has
tripled to 13.4 percent. At the same time, it will have to deal
with a  budget deficit  that widened to 32 percent of gross
domestic product last year after  tax revenue  slumped and bank-
bailout costs soared.  ‘Hard Times’  “This country is in receivership,” said Ruairi Quinn,
former Irish finance minister with the Labour Party. “Fianna
Fail has destroyed the sovereignty of the Irish economy, we are
going to have hard times ahead and let nobody be under any
illusion to that, we need a large broad majority government.”  Fianna Fail’s defeat has some parallels in recent political
history. In Japan, the  Liberal Democratic Party  enjoyed a half a
century of almost unbroken rule before losing power to the  Democratic Party  of Japan in 2009. In  Canada , the Progressive
Conservatives was almost wiped out in 1993 when it lost all but
two of its 151 seats. The reconstituted  Conservative Party 
didn’t win back power until 2006.  “I never thought I’d see the day when Fianna Fail, which
has dominated politics in Ireland virtually since the foundation
of the state, should now be in meltdown,” Joe Costello, a
Labour member of parliament, told reporters at the count center
in Dublin. “They have been savaged.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  