-- 
Israeli Panel Criticizes Targeted Killing of Hamas Militant

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-02-27T18:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/israeli-panel-criticizes-targeted-killing-of-hamas-militant-1-.html
An Israeli government-appointed
panel criticized the military’s 2002 bombing of the house of a
Hamas militant that resulted in the deaths of 13 civilians,
while concluding it didn’t violate local or international law.  Decisions in carrying out the Israeli  Air Force ’s attack on
the Gaza Strip home of Salah Shehadeh, resulting in his death,
“were made on the basis of flawed, incomplete and inconsistent
information” and resulted in “disproportionate harm,”
according to a summary of the panel’s report, sent in an e-
mailed statement today from the prime minister’s office. An
Israeli human rights group called on Attorney General Yehuda
Weinstein to open a criminal investigation.  While the result was “an unforeseen, undesired and
unintended outcome,” the report said, an examination of the
operation “unequivocally removes any suspicion that a criminal
offense was committed by any of those involved in the
operation.”  The panel’s report was drafted in response to a petition to  Israel ’s High Court of Justice requesting criminal proceedings
against the military and political officials who authorized the
operation, including then-prime minister Ariel Sharon.  The killing of civilians in the attack on Shehadeh’s home,
including his wife and 15-year old daughter, drew widespread
international condemnation. Sharon defended the action saying
Shehadeh was responsible for organizing terrorist attacks and
rocket strikes against Israeli civilians.  Report Praised  The Jerusalem-based Public Committee against Torture in
Israel, which has sought to have so-called targeted killings
like Shahadeh’s outlawed, said the panel’s report should prompt
Weinstein to open a criminal investigation against those who
decided to carry out the bombing.  “The panel’s clear statement that the decision did not
address the need for a balance between a legitimate strike and a
disproportionate attack on innocent civilians requires more than
a lukewarm reprimand against the intelligence officers,” Ishai
Menuchin, the group’s executive director, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has no immediate comment
on the report, spokesman  Mark Regev  said.  In a series of recommendations, the panel said that in
future operations security forces must try harder to avoid harm
to uninvolved civilians, improve intelligence-gathering and
ensure proper legal advice is provided before approving the
mission. A transcript of every deliberation involving a decision
on target killings must be prepared “in real time,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden  at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 