-- 
Asian Stocks Advance, Reversing Loss, After Report of Libya Oil Shipments

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-02-28T10:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/japanese-stocks-advance-in-u-s-australian-shares-climb-after-oil-retreat.html
Asian stocks rose after a report
said oil shipments from  Libya ’s rebel-controlled eastern
territory may have resumed, even as political unrest spread to
Oman.  Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd., the country’s biggest
producer of the lightweight material, climbed 3.2 percent in  Hong Kong . Yue Yuen Industrial (Holdings) Ltd., a supplier of
branded athletic shoes, climbed 1.9 percent. Sony Corp., which
makes almost 70 percent of sales outside Japan, and Honda Motor
Co., a carmaker that receives 84 percent of its revenue abroad,
erased losses in Tokyo following the oil shipment report in the
Wall Street Journal.  There is speculation that “production is back up again in
Libya,” said Diane Lin, a Sydney-based  fund manager  at Pengana
Capital Ltd., which has about $1 billion of assets. “Everyone
has been worried about the  oil prices  and about inflation in
emerging economies.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.5 percent to 137.54 at
7:42 p.m. in Tokyo, set for a 0.7 percent advance this month.
The gauge earlier fell as much as 0.5 percent as unrest that
swept the Middle East yesterday spread to Oman.  The Wall Street Journal reported that oil shipments in
Libya may have resumed, citing Hassan Bulifa, a member of
Arabian Gulf Oil Co.’s management committee. A tanker carrying
700,000 barrels of crude was expected to depart Feb. 27 from
Tobruk in northeast Libya, Bulifa was quoted as saying. The
tanker may be bound for China, he said.  ‘Markets Can Rebound’  “If there’s any hint oil supplies are going to return to
normal, or that there won’t be a major problem, then markets can
rebound,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment
strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $93
billion. “The trigger for the correction over the last week was
the surge in the oil price on the back of worries about supply
and about the spread of the turmoil from Libya to other
countries.”  The MSCI gauge last week dropped 2.1 percent as crude oil
climbed above $100 a barrel amid escalating violence in Libya,
which has the largest oil reserves in  Africa .  “The higher oil price had investors concerned over future
economic growth,” said Chris Stott, who helps oversee about
$400 million at Wilson Asset Management in Sydney. “If oil
shipments have resumed in Libya, then it doesn’t put as much of
a restraint on global growth.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225  Stock Average rose 0.9 percent today.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 1.4 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index increased 0.9 percent.  South Korea ’s
Kospi Index dropped 1.2 percent.    Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.1 percent before the
entire market was suspended at 2:48 p.m. in Sydney due to a
glitch on the exchange’s computer system.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2
percent today. The benchmark gauge for U.S equities rose 1.1
percent on Feb. 25 as confidence among American consumers beat
forecasts.  In Hong Kong, Aluminum Corp. advanced 3.2 percent to
HK$7.69 and Yue Yuen rose 1.9 percent to HK$24.50.  Honda gained 0.1 percent to 3,545 yen in Tokyo, reversing a
drop of as much as 2 percent, while Sony climbed 0.9 percent to
2,993 yen, erasing a 1.9 percent loss earlier.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. rallied 1.8 percent to 168 yen
amid speculation Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value is
planning to make several units, including Mizuho Securities Co.,
wholly-owned subsidiaries.  Mizuho Speculation  The bank is discussing purchasing the remainder of Mizuho
Securities, Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. and Mizuho Investors
Securities Co. through stock-swap deals with minority
shareholders, Nikkei English News reported on Feb. 26, without
saying where it got the information.  Buying the rest of the units may bolster Mizuho’s capital
ratio under stricter global rules and improve operations, said
Tokyo-based Hironari Nozaki, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  Shares of Mizuho Securities, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and
Mizuho Investors rallied 12 percent, 6 percent and 7 percent
respectively.  South Korean builders declined amid speculation the unrest
in the Middle East will hurt demand or delay ongoing projects.
Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co. lost 6.9 percent to 10,750
won in  Seoul  and  GS Engineering & Construction Corp . fell 3.6
percent to 99,300 won.  “Sentiment towards construction companies continues to be
weak because of the Middle East concerns,” said Kim Young Joon,
head of equities at NH-CA Asset Management Co. in Seoul, which
manages the equivalent of $8.8 billion in assets.  Protesters Reported Killed  Hundreds of Omanis, many unemployed, gathered in a sit-in
for a second day in the city of Sohar, refusing to go home after
a pledge by the nation’s ruler to provide jobs.  Two demonstrators were killed and several were wounded in
clashes with police earlier yesterday, according to hospital and
Omani government officials. Oman, with a population of about 2.7
million Omanis and 600,000 expatriates, produces some 800,000
barrels of oil a day.  Among other stocks that fell today, NEC Corp. slumped 3.4
percent to 225 yen in Tokyo after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
downgraded Japan’s largest maker of personal computers. Goldman
lowered its recommendation for the shares to “neutral” from
“buy.” Nikko Cordial also cut its rating on the stock to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  NEC late last week cut its net-income forecast for the
current fiscal year ending March 31 to break even, citing
falling information-technology services sales.  “The downwards forecast revision by NEC is bad,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , an analyst at Shinkin Asset Management Co.,
which oversees about $6 billion. “The concern is whether this
is spreading to other IT related companies. It highlights that
domestic demand is weak.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .
Sarah Jones in Sydney at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 