-- 
Korea Exchange to Study ‘Every Option’ Amid Global Bourse M&A

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-02-27T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/korea-exchange-to-study-every-option-seeks-japan-china-trading-links.html
South  Korea ’s stock exchange plans
to consider “every option” including cross-trading and
strategic alliances to respond to mergers and acquisitions among
global bourses.  Korea Exchange Inc.  plans to meet with its Tokyo and
Shanghai counterparts this year to discuss cross-trading
ventures, Kim Bong Soo, chairman of the Korean bourse, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  “If Korea is isolated from the regrouping of global
exchanges, KRX could become only a small- or medium-sized
exchange in  Asia ,” the closely held exchange said. The
bourse plans to set up cross-trading partnerships with exchanges
in a similar time zone, such as those in Japan and  Hong Kong ,
before seeking other opportunities, it said.  Rising competition from alternative trading venues, faster
systems and increasing globalization of capital markets had
driven almost $100 billion in exchange mergers in the past
10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Boerse AG announced a $9.53 billion takeover of
New York-based NYSE Euronext on Feb. 15, less than a week after
London Stock Exchange Group Plc agreed to purchase TMX Group
Inc. of Toronto.  Singapore Exchange Ltd . offered to buy  Australia ’s ASX Ltd. in a cash and share deal in October valued
at A$8.4 billion ($8.5 billion).  South Korea, home to the world’s 13th-largest stock market,
also needs to start “thinking” about an initial public
offering because it’s harder for an unlisted exchange to forge
alliances with publicly traded global exchanges, Kim said. The
bourse said in August 2007 that it suspended plans to sell its
shares after the government called for the operator to surrender
its right to review companies for listing or delisting.  Expanding Overseas  Korea Exchange also needs capital to boost its overseas
business, according to the statement, which didn’t provide
further details on a share sale.    South Korea ’s stock exchange is aiming to sell its
information-technology system to 30 developing nations and is
seeking to lure more foreign companies to list in its stock
market to diversify revenue.  Korea Exchange  is working with  Laos , Cambodia, Vietnam,
Malaysia, the Philippines and Uzbekistan bourses to provide
systems including platforms for stock trading, market operation,
data and derivatives clearing, Park Jong Kil, head of the
exchange’s management strategy division, said on Jan. 19.  The Korean bourse helped  Laos ,  Southeast Asia ’s smallest
economy, open a stock exchange, in which Korea Exchange owns a
49 percent stake. The Korean company provided information
technology systems and trained employees in exchange for the
stake. It has a similar venture agreement with  Cambodia , and
aims to open a stock market in the nation in July, Park said.  Korea Exchange posted revenue of 367 billion won ($326
million) in 2009, compared with 296 billion won in 2008,
according to a finance ministry  website  that releases
information on government agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  