-- 
New Zealand Posts First Trade Surplus in Seven Months as Exports Increase

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-02-27T22:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/new-zealand-posted-8-3-million-trade-surplus-in-january-as-imports-fell.html
  New Zealand  had its first trade
surplus in seven months in January as record-high commodity
prices buoyed exports of milk powder and lumber, while imports
fell to an 11-month low.  Exports outpaced imports by NZ$11 million ($8 million) from
a revised NZ$264 million deficit in December,  Statistics New
Zealand  said today in Wellington. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of six economists was for a NZ$25 million
deficit.  Rising exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy,
may help New Zealand’s economy this year after an earthquake in
Christchurch that will likely subtract from growth. The
magnitude 6.3 temblor struck the nation’s second-biggest city on
Feb. 22, killing at least 147 people and reducing many central
business district buildings to rubble.  “Encouragingly, export values are getting a head of steam
up, reflecting record high commodity prices,” said Sharon
Zöllner, a senior economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington, wrote in a report after the release. “This data is
important in that it highlights that the fundamentals for the
export sector remain strong.”  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the report.
It bought 75.05 U.S. cents at 10:53 a.m. in Wellington from
75.00 cents immediately before the data were released.  Exports rose 4.3 percent from the year-earlier month to
NZ$3.29 billion, today’s report showed. Imports were NZ$3.28
billion, the lowest since February last year.  Commodity Prices  Commodity prices rose 3.8 percent in January from December
to a record, according to an index released earlier this month
and calculated by ANZ National Bank Ltd. From a year earlier,
the index increased 27 percent.  Dairy exports, which make up a fifth of overseas sales,
exceeded a billion local dollars for a second month, rising 9.8
percent from the year-earlier month to NZ$1.04 billion.  Last week, Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s
largest dairy exporter, raised its forecast payment to New
Zealand milk suppliers by 8.7 percent, citing higher
international prices.  Meat, lumber and fish exports also increased from the year-
earlier month, according to today’s report.  Exports of all goods to  China , the second-largest market
for New Zealand after Australia, increased 26 percent to NZ$453
million in January, the report showed. Sales to  Australia  gained
2.8 percent to NZ$694 million.  Imports were led higher by purchases of mechanical
machinery and equipment, including turbines, the statistics
agency said. Parts for wind-powered generators buoyed electrical
imports. Passenger car imports fell to a 16-month low.  New Zealand posted a trade surplus of NZ$865 million in the
12 months ended Jan. 31 from a revised NZ$1.13 billion in the
year through December. Economists expected a 12-month surplus of
NZ$860 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  