-- 
Payrolls Probably Accelerated in February: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-02-27T05:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/payrolls-probably-accelerated-in-february-u-s-economy-preview.html
Payroll gains in the U.S. probably
accelerated in February, buoyed by more seasonable temperatures
and a pickup in manufacturing, economists said before reports
this week.  Employment increased by 190,000 workers this month, the
most since May 2010, after a 36,000 gain in January, when winter
storms depressed the count, according to the median forecast of
59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Labor
Department data on March 4. The report may also show the jobless
rate increased to 9.1 percent from 9 percent.  Business spending on new equipment and gains in exports
explain why companies like  Intel Corp . are investing in new
factories and hiring. Nonetheless, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in testimony before Congress this week may reiterate
that he is dissatisfied with the pace of expansion and the
amount of time it’s taking to bring down unemployment.  Payrolls are “going to be distorted by weather, so it’s
going to be important to average out the January and February
numbers,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “We’re slowly
moving in the right direction, but we’re not improving as
quickly as we would like.”  Nationwide, temperatures during the week of the February
employment survey were near normal, except for the central and
southern Great Plains, according to  National Weather Service . In
contrast, economists said a storm that spread from the Midwest
and the South to  New England  during the prior month’s survey
week likely depressed January numbers as businesses temporarily
closed.  Weather Influence  Moody’s Sweet estimated the bad weather reduced January
payrolls by about 100,000 workers, “so we should get those jobs
back in February.”  The projected increase in the jobless rate would mean it
has been 9 percent or higher for 22 consecutive months, the
longest stretch at such elevated levels since monthly records
began in 1948. At the same time, the rate has dropped 0.8
percentage point over the past two months, the biggest decrease
in such a short period since 1958.  Bernanke will deliver the central bank’s semiannual report
on monetary policy before the Senate Banking Committee on March
1. A day later, he will testify before the House Financial
Services Committee.  Bernanke’s Concern  In an appearance before the same committee on Feb. 9,
Bernanke told legislators that while the declines in the jobless
rate in December and January “do provide some grounds for
optimism,” he cautioned that “with output growth likely to be
moderate for a while and with employers reportedly still
reluctant to add to their payrolls, it will be several years
before the  unemployment rate  has returned to a more normal
level.”  President  Barack Obama  last week told the first meeting of
his panel of outside economic advisers that the U.S. must deal
with stubbornly high unemployment even as the recovery is well
under way.  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, this month announced
plans to build a $5 billion microprocessor plant in Chandler,  Arizona , and hire 4,000 employees in the U.S. this year.  Factories remain a bulwark to the expansion. The Tempe,
Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing
index, due March 1, held at 60.8 in February, the highest level
since August 2005, economists forecast in the Bloomberg survey.
Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  The jobs report is projected to show factories boosted
staff by 25,000 workers this month after a 49,000 January gain
that was the biggest since August 1998, the survey showed.  Factory Orders  Orders to U.S. factories probably rose 2 percent last
month, the most since September, economists said ahead of a
March 4 report from the Commerce Department.  “2010 was a strong recovery year across the board and 2011
is shaping up to be even better for our semiconductor, service
and solar businesses,” Michael Splinter, chief executive
officer of  Applied Materials Inc ., said in a teleconference with
analysts on Feb. 24.  Shares of manufacturers since June 30, 2010, have
outperformed the broader market. The Standard & Poor’s Machinery
Index has increased 52 percent, compared with a 28 percent gain
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.    Service industries , which make up about 90 percent of the
economy and include financial firms, retailers and business
consultants, also are starting to pick up. ISM’s non-
manufacturing gauge was at 59.4 in February for a second month,
the highest reading in more than five years, economists
projected the March 3 report will show.  Consumer Slowdown  A Commerce Department report tomorrow may show household
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy,
slowed at the beginning of the year. Personal spending rose 0.4
percent in January after a 0.7 percent gain the prior month,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Much of the increase
will reflect the rising cost of food and fuel, economists said.  “The big thing for consumers now is: ‘Wow, I sure did
spend a lot of money to fill up the car, and then I went to the
grocery store and spent a few more dollars than I expected,’”
said  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities
LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  