-- 
Libyan Rebels Win Backing of U.S., EU as Qaddafi Says `My People Love Me'

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-02-28T21:41:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/qaddafi-asset-freeze-approved-by-un-as-rebels-declare-provisional-regime.html
The U.S. and European nations
solidified their support for  Libya ’s opposition, promising
humanitarian aid and planning for a no-fly zone, as leader
Muammar Qaddafi declared that “my people love me” and
suggested that the U.S. wants to occupy his country.  The European Union today imposed an arms embargo and other
sanctions, and the U.S. said it has frozen $30 billion in Libyan
assets. The U.S. said refugee-aid teams were sent to Libya’s
borders while U.S. American naval and air units were being
repositioned in the Mediterranean.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met with ministers
from the E.U. and  Russia  in Geneva. The actions by the U.S. and  Europe , a major consumer of Libyan oil, were designed to
pressure Qaddafi to quit. He has “lost the legitimacy to govern
and it is time for him to go without further violence or
delay,” Clinton said.  Middle East shares tumbled, sending Dubai’s stock index to
the lowest level in almost seven years, as political unrest in
the region spread to the Sultanate of Oman and reignited in
Tunisia, prompting investors to trim riskier assets.  The  United Nations  estimates that more than 1,000 people
have died in the uprising and almost 100,000 have fled amid the
heaviest fighting in six weeks of unrest that swept parts of
North Africa and the  Persian Gulf , home of the world’s biggest
oil reserves.  After the meetings in Geneva, Clinton said the U.S. is
allocating $10 million for refugee assistance and immediately
sending aid teams to the Tunisian and Egyptian borders with
Libya.  No-Fly Zone  Aid personnel at the borders will also be in position to
get information about what assistance is needed by the
opposition movement inside Libya, a State Department official
said under rules that don’t allow the use of names. The
imposition of a no-fly zone, intended to keep Qaddafi’s force
from conducting air strikes or flying in mercenaries, were part
of the contingency discussions among the ministers, the official
said.  Clinton told reporters that the movement of U.S. military
forces was to position them to help with humanitarian efforts
and, aside from discussion of a no-fly zone, the the U.S. is not
preparing for military intervention. “There is not any pending
military action involving U.S. naval vessels,” she said.  Qaddafi Laughs  Qaddafi, in an interview with ABC News, laughed at a
suggestion he quit and denied using force against his people,
ABC said in a news release. He said the rebels in control of
Benghazi are terrorists loyal to al Qaeda and he was
“surprised” that the U.S. isn’t supporting him. “Now that we
are fighting terrorists, they have abandoned us,” he said,
according to ABC.  In the latest clashes, three soldiers from a force loyal to
Qaddafi were killed in clashes with protesters in Zawiyah,  Al
Arabiya  reported, citing rebels in the town. It said that
Qaddafi’s troops were trying take control of the town, 45
kilometers (28 miles) west of Tripoli and the nearest population
center to fall to the rebels. An Associated Press reporter saw a
large pro-Qaddafi force massed on the western edge of town with
about a dozen armored vehicles and tanks and jeeps mounted with
anti-aircraft guns.  Rebels Organize  Libyan rebels are organizing in the eastern port of
Benghazi, the biggest city they control. On the roads between
Benghazi and the Egyptian border, anti-Qaddafi protesters
carrying assault rifles and former soldiers in uniform set up
tents and searched passing cars for weapons, some of them
welcoming passersby with juice and sweets.  Oil fell the most in two weeks as  Saudi Arabia  offered to
make up for supplies lost because of unrest in Libya and on
reports the North African country is exporting crude.  Crude oil for April delivery declined 91 cents to settle at
$96.97 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest
daily drop since Feb. 11. Futures reached $103.41 a barrel on
Feb. 24, the highest intraday price since Sept. 29, 2008. They
have advanced 22 percent in the past year.  The regional unrest that ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  reached  Oman , where two demonstrators were killed yesterday and several
were wounded in clashes with security forces in the city of
Sohar, according to hospital and government officials.  Demonstrations in Sohar resumed today, and a hypermarket in
the coastal city was set on fire as hundreds gathered to protest
and roads were closed. Sultan Qaboos Bin Said, the ruler since
1970, has told the government to create 50,000 jobs and boost
allowances for those without full-time work.  Oman Impact  Oman, where companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and
Total SA have a stake in the oil industry, produces about
800,000 barrels a day and lies at the entrance to the  Strait of
Hormuz , through which a fifth of the world’s oil passes.  Oman’s benchmark MSM30 stock index slumped 4.9 percent, the
biggest drop for more than two years. In Dubai the main index
fell 3.8 percent to a seven-year low. The Bloomberg GCC 200
index of regional shares fell 1 percent.  In  Tunisia , where the regional turmoil began two months
ago, protests have flared up again, forcing interim Prime
Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi to resign after at least three
people were killed. The demonstrators had called for the removal
of Ghannouchi because of his links with former ruler Ben Ali,
who fled the country on Jan. 14. Interim President Fouad Mebazaa
named former foreign minister Beji Caid Essebsi as the new prime
minister and appealed for calm.  Saudi Actions  In Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil supplier,
activists and academics yesterday called on  King Abdullah  to
increase political rights and move toward a constitutional
monarchy. Libya and Saudi Arabia are among the 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which pumps about
40 percent of the world’s oil.  Yemeni opposition movements, which have been holding daily
protests demanding the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh
after more than three decades, today refused an offer by Saleh
to form a national unity government, al-Jazeera television said.
Thirteen lawmakers quit Yemen’s parliament today to protest
violence against demonstrators, as the government said three
security officers have been killed in recent days.  Egypt stock trading is set to resume tomorrow after a
suspension of more than a month amid a popular revolution that
toppled the 30-year-old regime of former President Hosni
Mubarak. The measure lost 16 percent the week ended Jan. 27,
when it last traded. The Tunisian bourse suspended trading from
today until further notice, the bourse said on its website.  International Sanctions  The UN Security Council voted 15-0 on Feb. 26 to freeze the
foreign assets of Qaddafi and four aides and to bar them from
traveling. The resolution also imposes an arms embargo on Libya
and calls for an immediate end to violence that it says “may
amount to crimes against humanity.”  Qaddafi’s family has no bank accounts abroad, Libya’s state
television reported today, citing the leader’s son Saif al-Islam
Qaddafi.  Austria has frozen assets valued at more than 1 billion
euros (1.4 billion dollars) belonging to the Qaddafi family,
Austrian state television ORF reported, citing the alpine
country’s central bank governor Ewald Nowotny.  The U.S. Treasury today announced it had frozen $30 billion
in cash and securities of  Muammar Qaddafi  and the Libyan
government in what amounts to the largest ever U.S. blockage of
assets, said  David Cohen , acting Treasury undersecretary for
terrorism and financial intelligence. He gave no details on the
types of assets or the number of banks involved.  Governments throughout the world have rushed to get their
nationals out of Libya.  China  has evacuated about 29,000 people,
state news agency Xinhua said today, and  Turkey  said 18,000 of
its citizens have been removed. The U.K. and  Germany  sent
military missions to help with the evacuation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  