-- 
Qatar Says OPEC Can Make Up for Loss of Libyan Production

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-02-27T08:59:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/qatar-s-al-sada-says-opec-can-make-up-for-loss-of-libyan-crude-production.html
OPEC members and oil producers
outside the group can compensate for any halt in crude shipments
from  Libya , Qatari Oil Minister Mohammed Saleh Al Sada said,
after prices surged last week to a two-year high.  “We think there is no shortage of supply,” Al Sada told
reporters in Doha today. “OPEC and others outside OPEC can make
up for the loss of Libyan production.”  Concern that political upheaval in North Africa and the
Middle East would disrupt supplies drove the price of crude to
$103.41 a barrel last week, the highest level since September
2008. Libya holds the largest proven oil reserves in  Africa .  Al Sada’s comments followed those of a Saudi Arabian oil
official, who said on Feb. 24 there was no reason for  oil prices 
to rise because  Saudi Arabia  and the  Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries  wouldn’t allow shortages to exist. Qatar and
Libya are among the 12 members of OPEC, which pumps about 40
percent of the world’s oil. Saudi Arabia is the group’s largest
and most influential member.  The Saudi official, who declined to be identified by name,
said in a telephone interview that some African oil going to
Asian markets can be redirected to Europe, while extra Saudi oil
can go to  Asia  to replace Nigerian or Angolan supplies there.  Violent clashes between opponents of Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi and forces loyal to him have reduced the North African
nation’s oil output by at least 850,000 barrels a day from 1.6
million before the conflict, according to a statement on the
website of the  International Energy Agency  on Feb. 25. The
Paris-based IEA advises industrialized, oil-consuming nations.  Libyan Fields Shut  “Almost all international  oil companies  operating in Libya
have reported partial or full shut-in of output,” the IEA
statement said. These companies account for about 72 percent of
the North African country’s output. The status of oil fields
operated by the National Oil Corp., which accounts for the
remaining 28 percent of production, was “still unclear,” the
agency said.  Crude oil for April delivery climbed 60 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $97.88 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  on Feb. 25, the most recent day of trading. U.S. oil
rose to $103.41 on Feb. 24, the highest intraday price since
Sept. 29, 2008.  North Sea Brent crude, the European benchmark, for April
settlement rose 78 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $112.14 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, the highest close
since Aug. 29, 2008. Brent rose 9.4 percent last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  