-- 
Risk of Widespread Municipal Bond Defaults Near `Zero,' Moody's Zandi Says

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-02-27T21:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/risk-of-widespread-municipal-bond-defaults-near-zero-moody-s-zandi-says.html
Dire warnings about impending
defaults in the municipal-bond market are overblown, an
economist and analyst told a group of the nation’s governors.  The risk of a major default or round of defaults is “close
to zero,”  Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said during a panel session
at the  National Governors Association ’s winter meeting in  Washington .  “I think that the very loud hand-wringing over the
prospects for major municipal-bond defaults is entirely
misplaced,” Zandi said.  Thomas Doe, founder and chief executive officer of Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, said he has seen
nothing to change his view that general-obligation debt at both
the state and local level is secure.  “I don’t want to be Pollyanna about it,” Doe told the
governors. “I have great confidence in you all, the markets do
have confidence in you as well, and the informed investor, the
institutional investor, understands that your debt is good.”  Speculation about the possibility of widespread municipal-
bond defaults intensified in recent months after  Meredith Whitney , the banking analyst who attracted attention for
correctly predicting Citigroup Inc.’s 2008 dividend cut, said
last month that “hundreds of billions” of municipal bonds may
default this year as a result of the financial strains. Her
analysis drew criticism from investors and state officials such
as California Treasurer Bill Lockyer who said Whitney’s analysis
was flawed and her estimates too high.  Rolling in Cash  Zandi, speaking during a meeting of the National Governors
Association’s Economic Development and Commerce Committee, said
he’s optimistic about the prospects for economic growth during
the next year after the worst economic slump since the Great
Depression.  Zandi predicts that the nation will add about 1.25 million
private-industry jobs during the next year, and he expects the
U.S. unemployment rate of 9 percent in January to fall to about
8 percent by the end of 2012.  “Most industries are rolling in cash,” he said. “It’s
really, in my mind, no longer a question of, ‘Can businesses
invest and hire more aggressively?’ It’s really a question of
their willingness, and that’s a very important distinction.”  Zandi said that “the coast is not clear” because of
4 million first  mortgage loans  in foreclosure nationwide and
rising energy prices. He also said that despite his forecast for
job growth, he expects about 250,000 state and local government
employees will be fired during the next year.  $175 Billion  States are seeking to close budget deficits that may total
$175 billion during the next two years, Washington Governor
Christine Gregoire, the Democrat who heads the National
Governors Association, said yesterday.  Zandi’s comments prompted Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels to
say that the foreclosures and oil prices “are of a dimension
that’s liable to keep things frozen as unfortunately they have
been in terms of business investment and expansion.”  “I’m going to try to cheer you up, governor,” Zandi
replied. He said energy prices are unpredictable but an
encouraging sign is that 30-day, 60-day and 90-day delinquencies
on first-home mortgages are falling nationwide.  “A year from now, the fiscal situation will look
measurably better,” Zandi said.  The association’s annual meeting, which began yesterday,
concludes tomorrow after the governors meet at the White House
with President  Barack Obama  and members of his cabinet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in New York at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  