-- 
Rubber Rebounding 32% as Reserve Drop Drives Michelin Costs

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-02-28T14:05:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/rubber-seen-rising-32-as-biggest-demand-in-decade-drives-michelin-prices.html
Rubber’s 15 percent slump in about a
week may be the prelude to rallies to a record high, driving up
the cost of everything from Michelin tires to surgical gloves.  Harvests in  Thailand , Indonesia and  Malaysia , the biggest
growers, will fail to meet demand for a second year in 2011,
leaving stockpiles equal to 69 days of demand, the lowest in
more than a decade, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates. Prices
may advance as much as 32 percent to 605 yen a kilogram ($7,407
a metric ton) by December, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts and traders.    Bridgestone Corp . and Michelin & Cie., the world’s biggest
tire makers, are boosting prices by as much as 15 percent, and
Top Glove Corp., the largest rubber-glove producer, is charging
more. The rally in rubber mirrors the 93 percent advance in the
S&P GSCI Agriculture Index since its June low caused by floods
from  Canada  to Australia and droughts in China and Russia.  While that’s bad news for consumers, it means “the best
price I’ve ever seen,” said Saneh Panpipat, 54, who tends about
2,000 rai (320 hectares) of rubber trees in southern Thailand,
the country’s main growing region. “My staff and many farmers
who were unable to afford their own cars now have brand-new
Toyota or Isuzu pickup trucks.”  Heavier-than-usual rain in Southeast Asia, which supplies
70 percent of the world’s rubber, disrupted harvests in the past
several months. While farmers will increase supply by 9 percent
this year, they won’t eliminate shortages, as demand advances to
its highest level since at least 2000, according to the team of
Goldman analysts, led by Tokyo-based Yuichiro Isayama.  Global Recession  Benchmark futures on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange jumped
more than fourfold since reaching a six-year low of 99.8 yen in
December 2008 as the global recession curbed demand. That
compares with a more-than-doubling in the S&P GSCI Index of
commodities and a 58 percent advance in the  MSCI World  Index of
equities. Treasuries returned about 3.7 percent, a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index shows.  Shortages should mean prices as high as 1,200 yen by the
end of the year, said Masayo Kondo, president of Tokyo-based
Commodity Intelligence Ltd., the most bullish participant in the
Bloomberg survey. The price gained 0.9 percent to 470.50 yen in
after-hours trading today. Kondo correctly predicted prices
would reach a record in September, when futures markets were
anticipating gains of no more than 6 percent through this month.  Toppled Regimes  The 15 percent decline from a record 535.7 yen on Feb. 18
to 457.6 yen at the end of after-hours trading on Feb. 25
reflected the slump across commodities and equity markets amid
the conflict in Libya and after the toppling of autocratic
leaders in Egypt and Tunisia. Oil in  New York  climbed to $100 a
barrel for the first time in more than two years on Feb. 23 as
the MSCI World Index had its biggest weekly rout since November.  “Commodities used for industrial production including base
metals and rubber may be vulnerable” if crude keeps rising,
said Tomomichi Akuta, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Research &
Consulting Co. in Tokyo.  Oil above $120 for a sustained period would likely cause a
“meaningful shortfall in global growth,”  Jonathan Garner ,
Morgan Stanley’s chief Asia and emerging-market strategist, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview in  Hong Kong  on Feb. 23.  Higher energy costs and record food prices are already
driving up inflation. The U.K. consumer-price index, which
 includes  tires and condoms, increased an annual 4 percent in
January, twice the Bank of England’s target.  Record Food Prices  The U.S. consumer-price index gained a greater-than-
forecast 0.4 percent in the same month, led by higher prices for
food and fuel. Inflation will accelerate toward 2 percent over
the next year, the top of the central bank’s target, Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said in a
speech in  Alabama  on Feb. 23.  Euro-region inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent last month,
from 2.2 percent in December. European Central Bank council
member Yves Mersch said officials may toughen their language on
inflation, indicating policy makers are growing closer to
raising  interest rates .  The global economy can withstand higher oil prices for a
short period,  John Lipsky , first deputy managing director of the  International Monetary Fund , said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television on Feb. 22.  Rubber supplies will drop in the next few weeks, even if
demand weakens. Plantations in Thailand,  Indonesia  and Malaysia
are in their so-called wintering period, when output can drop by
as much as 60 percent, according to the Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia-
based Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries. Trees
shed their leaves and reduce latex production during the months
from February to May.  Global Sales  For now, demand isn’t expected to slow. Global sales of
light vehicles will advance 7.9 percent to a record 75.5 million
this year, according to Ashvin Chotai, the London-based managing
director of Intelligence Automotive Asia Ltd.  Passenger-car sales in China, the world’s biggest auto
market, will grow about 10 percent to 15 percent this year,
according to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.
Total vehicle sales jumped 32 percent to 18.06 million last year.  China ’s economy will expand 9.5 percent this year, almost three
times the rate of the U.S., according to the median of as many
as 67 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The jump bolsters demand for tires, whose manufacturers use
about 60 percent of the world’s rubber, according to the
Singapore-based International Rubber Study Group. Surging
commodity prices are also increasing their costs.  Michelin Tires  Michelin, the world’s second-largest tiremaker, said on Feb.
11 that higher raw-material costs would cut about 1.5 billion
euros ($2 billion) from profit this year. The company, based in
Clermont Ferrand,  France , is raising some tire prices in  Europe 
by as much as 7.5 percent and by an average 8 percent in Japan
in May. Its shares rose 9.2 percent in Paris trading this year.  “We will have and we’ll show it again, a very firm and
responsive pricing policy,” Jean-Dominique Senard, non-general
managing partner at Michelin, told investors on a conference
call Feb. 11. “We have increased quite significantly our price
in the world everywhere in every segment.”  Global rubber production capacity should increase by almost
40 percent over the next decade and there is an “exuberance”
in markets driven by the liquidity from government spending to
encourage economic growth, Senard said.  Consumer Business  Bridgestone, the world’s largest tiremaker, said Feb. 18 it
expects to report a 17 percent drop in profit this year as
higher material costs and a stronger yen erode earnings. The
Tokyo-based company said this month it will increase prices in  North America  by as much as 8 percent on April 1, and by as much
as 15 percent in Japan from June 1. Its shares rose 6.7 percent
in Tokyo trading this year.  “The entire industry is going through very challenging
times,” D.P. Singh, vice president of consumer business at
Goodyear India Ltd., a unit of  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co ., said
in Mumbai on Feb. 22. “Commodity prices are going up across
industries but the tire industry is especially hard-hit.”    Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd ., Japan’s second-largest
tire maker, said it will boost prices by as much as 10 percent
from May. The company forecast Feb. 14 that profit this year
will tumble 58 percent from a year earlier.  Top Glove, based in Klang, Malaysia, has been raising
prices since rubber started climbing about a year ago, Executive
Director Lim Cheong Guan said. The company said in January it
would spend about $52 million planting rubber trees in Cambodia
to help counter the jump in latex costs.  “Rubber users don’t have much raw material stockpiled, so
they have no option but to keep buying,” said Hisaaki Tasaka, a
Tokyo-based analyst at brokers ACE Koeki Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  