-- 
U.K. Revokes Diplomatic Immunity for Qaddafi and Family

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-02-27T16:16:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/u-k-revokes-diplomatic-immunity-for-qaddafi-and-family-1-.html
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said
the U.K. has revoked the diplomatic immunity of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and his family.  It is the first time the U.K. has made such a move, which
strips Qaddafi of the usual privileges given to heads of state
and makes him subject to immigration controls and U.K. law when
on British soil, a  foreign office  spokeswoman said in a
telephone interview today in  London .  “Last night, I signed a directive revoking his diplomatic
immunity in the  United Kingdom , also the diplomatic immunity of
his sons, his family, his household, so it’s very clear where we
stand on his status as a head of state,” Hague said in a BBC
television interview. “It is time for Colonel Qaddafi to go.
That is the best hope for Libya.”  Hague said former Prime Minister  Tony Blair  had informed
the U.K. government that he had contacted Qaddafi by telephone.  “We didn’t initiate those conversations, but he did let us
know about them, clearly we’re not going to get into a
negotiation with Colonel Qaddafi,” Hague said.    Peter Mandelson , the former business secretary and a close
political ally of Blair, said the former prime minister had
spoken to Qaddafi “over the last two days.” Blair’s spokesman
did not return a call to his mobile phone.  Hague said Blair was right to engage with Qaddafi when he
was prime minister and the fighting in Libya would be worse if
Qaddafi had continued his programs to develop weapons of mass
destruction, including mustard gas.  “It was right to try to establish a relationship with the
Qaddafi government that took  Libya  away from pursuing weapons of
mass destruction programs and the state sponsorship of
international terrorism,” Hague said. “If we hadn’t done that
we might be in a worse situation now because the country
descending into this state would also have a greater variety of
weapons of mass destruction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Harrison at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  