-- 
Donald Defeats Kaymer to Win Match Play, Oust Tiger Woods as World No. 3

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-02-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/luke-donald-beats-kaymer-to-win-world-championships-match-play-golf-title.html
  Luke Donald  moved past  Tiger Woods 
as No. 3 in golf’s world rankings by beating  Martin Kaymer  in
the Match Play Championship final to secure his first title in
the U.S. since 2006.  Donald, a 33-year-old Englishman, won the first of the
year’s four World Golf Championships events against new No. 1
Kaymer 3-and-2, meaning he led by three holes with two left to
play. The win at the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club’s Dove Mountain
course in Marana,  Arizona , was worth $1.4 million.  Donald’s victory yesterday lifts him six places in the
 Official World Golf Ranking  and gives  Europe  the top four
players for the first time since 1992. Woods, who was eliminated
in the first round and hasn’t won a tournament in 15 months,
drops to No. 5.  Lee Westwood  of England gives way to Kaymer and
Graeme McDowell of  Northern Ireland  climbs to No. 4.  “We’ve really had a purple patch in European golf,”
Donald told reporters. “Whether I deserve No. 3 in the world, I
don’t know, but certainly in terms of my work ethic and wanting
it, then I do deserve it.”  Donald never trailed in his six matches and set a
tournament record by reaching the final after playing 73 holes
out of a possible 90. He’s the only golfer to have won the title
without playing the 18th hole.  Donald now has three titles in 200 starts on the U.S. PGA
Tour, with his previous victory coming at the Honda Classic five
years ago. The last of his three individual wins on the European
Tour was at the 2010 Madrid Masters.  “It’s been a long time since I won in the U.S. and to come
here and beat the top 63 players in the world is very
gratifying,” Donald said. “I felt like I hadn’t won my fair
share for as good a player as I felt I was.”  Donald’s Scrambling  Donald, who is 5-foot-9 and 160 lbs (1.75 meters, 72 kg),
ranked 177th in driving distance on the  PGA Tour  in 2010 and
120th in accuracy from the tee. To compensate, he was fourth in
making par from off the green, or scrambling, first in saving
par from greenside bunkers and tied for eighth for the fewest
number of putts per round.  “I need to get better off the tee, a little bit straighter
for the distance I hit it,” Donald said. “I’m very diligent
about working on my short game. I know that with my game off the
tee and some of my iron play there’s room for improvement if you
look at my statistics, but I make up for it around the greens.”  Kaymer, 26, has won seven tournaments in two years,
including the U.S.  PGA Championship  in August, his first major
title. He takes over as world No. 1 today from Westwood, who
ended Woods’s record 281-week run atop the rankings on Nov. 1.  ‘Enjoying the Moment’  “I was very relaxed (yesterday) morning and was enjoying
the moment a little bit, knowing I will become the No. 1 in the
world,” Kaymer said. “For us to make golf even more popular in
the world, it’s fantastic to have four Europeans up there. It
was always Tiger Woods and  Phil Mickelson .”  Westwood, who was ranked as low as 266th eight years ago,
was the first European player to top the list since  Nick Faldo 
in 1994. Kaymer will become the 14th player to lead the rankings
and the second German after  Bernhard Langer , the inaugural world
No. 1 in 1984.  The finalists arrived on the first tee bundled up against
temperatures of about 45 degrees Fahrenheit (7 Celsius). Dove
Mountain is at an elevation of about 3,000 feet (914 meters) and
at dawn yesterday the iconic saguaro cacti that dot the desert
landscape were covered by about an inch of snow.  Birdies, Hailstones  Donald took the lead with a birdie at the second hole. Play
was then held up briefly at the fourth by a flurry of hailstones
before Donald doubled his advantage with a birdie.  Kaymer bogeyed the next to drop three behind and rallied to
tie the match by the ninth hole.  Donald retook the lead for good at No. 11, moved two ahead
at the next with a second straight birdie and went three up with
as many to play with another birdie at No. 15.  Kaymer, who needed to win the remaining holes to keep the
match alive, conceded at the 16th hole.  It was the second straight all-European Match Play final
after  Ian Poulter  beat fellow Englishman  Paul Casey  last year.  In yesterday’s third-place playoff,  Matt Kuchar  beat Bubba Watson 2-and-1.  The next WGC event is the Cadillac Championship, scheduled
March 10-13 in Miami. That’s followed by the Bridgestone
Invitational in August and November’s HSBC Champions in  Shanghai .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in New York at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  