-- 
UN Security Council Approves Assets Freeze, Travel Ban on Libya's Qaddafi

-- B y   W i l l i a m   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-02-27T01:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/un-security-council-approves-assets-freeze-travel-ban-on-libya-s-qaddafi.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
voted 15 to 0 today to bar the travel and freeze the foreign
assets of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and four officials in an
effort to halt his regime’s attacks on protesters.  The resolution, which also imposes an arms embargo on Libya,
calls for an immediate end to violence that it says “may amount
to crimes against humanity.” The text, while referring the
allegations to the  International Criminal Court  in The Hague,
cites as authorization for all the sanctions a  provision  of the
UN Charter that precludes military intervention.  The unanimous passage of the resolution circulated
yesterday by Britain and  France  followed a plea by Libyan
Ambassador Mohammed Shalgham for the UN to “save” his nation.
Shalgham, in an emotional speech to the Security Council
yesterday, broke with the Qaddafi regime and asked that
sanctions be adopted.  The vote came amid reports that Qaddafi is digging himself
into the Libyan capital Tripoli after army units defected in the
east of the North African country. The regime is giving weapons
to civilian supporters to set up roving patrols and checkpoints
around Tripoli, the  Associated Press  reported today.  In addition to the travel ban and asset freeze affecting
Qaddafi and his four aides, the text bars the travel of 11 other
family members and officials.  Monitoring  The resolution creates a  Security Council  committee to
monitor enforcement of the sanctions, designate other
individuals to be subject to the asset freeze and travel ban,
and report on implementation within 30 days. All UN member
nations are asked to report on progress in imposing the
sanctions within 120 days.  President  Barack Obama  took the first step in what his
administration said will be a series of sanctions against the
Libyan government, signing an order freezing any U.S. assets of
Qaddafi, his family and members of his regime.  Obama told German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in a phone call
today that “when a leader’s only means of staying in power is
to use mass violence against his own people, he has lost the
legitimacy to rule and needs to do what is right for his country
by leaving now.”  The leaders “reaffirmed their support for the Libyan
people’s demand for universal rights” and a responsive
government, according to a statement from the White House.    Switzerland  on Feb. 24 froze the assets of Qaddafi and his
entourage for three years. U.K. officials have identified
billions of pounds in assets held by Qaddafi in British banks
and are planning to freeze them, the  Daily Telegraph  reported,
citing an unidentified official with knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Varner in Washington at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  