-- 
Qaddafi Asset Freeze Approved by UN as Rebels Declare Provisional Regime

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-02-27T17:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/un-security-council-votes-unanimously-to-place-sanctions-on-qaddafi-regime.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  must
go “as soon as possible,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary
Clinton  said after the United Nations  Security Council  voted
unanimously to freeze his assets.  “We want him to leave, we want him to end his regime,”
and to call off the mercenaries who are targeting Libyan
citizens, Clinton told reporters traveling with her to Geneva to
discuss the turmoil with her counterparts.  The Security Council late yesterday voted 15-0 to freeze
the foreign assets of Qaddafi and four aides and to bar them
from traveling, in the broadest international effort to halt the
violence in Libya that has left more than 1,000 people dead.
Middle East shares fell, sending  Saudi Arabia ’s index to a nine-
month low, on concern the deadly clashes of the past week that
caused  oil prices  to surge to a more than two-year high will
stall a global recovery.  The unrest that has swept the Middle East in the past
month, ousting President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from Tunisia
and  Hosni Mubarak  as Egyptian president, today spread to Oman,
where protesters clashed with security forces in the province of
Sohar. In  Tunisia , the country’s interim Prime Minister Mohamed
Ghannouchi resigned today after three people were killed in
street protests.  Unrest in Libya and Persian Gulf countries including
Bahrain has prompted concern that supplies of oil from the
world’s main region of crude production may be disrupted.  Oil Markets  Crude oil for April delivery climbed 60 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $97.88 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  on Feb. 25, the most recent day of trading. U.S. oil
rose to $103.41 on Feb. 24, the highest intraday price since
Sept. 29, 2008.  Clinton also praised the actions of  King Abdullah  of Saudi
Arabia, the world’s biggest oil producer, and Bahrain’s King
Hamad Bin Isa al Khalifa, saying they are engaged in
“meaningful outreach” to their citizens.  The Bahraini king has reduced government housing loans by
25 percent. The Saudi king has taken measures designed to
improve employment in the kingdom and, along with other OPEC
nations, pledged to replace any lost Libyan oil.  Libya and Saudi Arabia are among the 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which pumps about
40 percent of the world’s oil.  Arms Embargo  The UN resolution also imposes an arms embargo on  Libya  and
calls for an immediate end to violence that it says “may amount
to crimes against humanity.” The measure refers the allegations
to the  International Criminal Court  in The Hague for
investigation and possible prosecution. The vote followed a plea
by Libyan Ambassador Mohammed Shalgham on Feb. 25 for the UN to
“save” his nation.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says more than 1,000
people have died in the unrest, which has left protesters in
control of much of the east of the country.  Hundreds of armed anti-government forces backed by rebel
troops who control Zawiya, the city closest to the capital,
prepared late today to repel an expected offensive by forces
loyal to Qaddafi, the  Associated Press  reported.  On the roads between the Egyptian border and the eastern
town of Benghazi, anti-Qaddafi protesters carrying assault
rifles and former soldiers in uniform set up tents and searched
passing cars for weapons, some of them welcoming passersby with
juice and sweets. In Benghazi and other eastern towns, public
buildings including police stations flew the red, black and
green flag of Libyan independence that pre-dates Qaddafi’s rule.  Benghazi Opposition  Opposition groups nominated former Justice Minister
Moustafa Abdel Jalil as head of an interim government, Fathi
Baja, a member of the city council in Benghazi, said today. It
wasn’t immediately clear what form the provisional government
might take or what support it has.  Egyptian volunteer doctors said most of the violence in
Benghazi took place around the main army headquarters, and began
when mercenaries opened fire on protesters.  Several witnesses in Tripoli, the capital, said forces
loyal to the Libyan leader had shot people from ambulances, used
antiaircraft guns against crowds, and removed dead bodies from
hospitals to try to obscure the death toll, the New York Times
reported.  One of Qaddafi’s sons, Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, said “nobody
is leaving this country” on ABC’s “This Week” program. “We
live here. We die here.”  ‘Reality Gap’  Saif Qaddafi said the regime’s military hasn’t attacked
civilians and that most of Libya is calm. There is “a big gap
between reality and the media reports,” he said on ABC. “The
whole south is calm. The west is calm. The middle is calm. Even
part of the east.”  Three Tunisian youths were killed in clashes between
protesters and security forces yesterday, the official Tunis
Afrique Presse news agency said, citing the Interior Ministry.  In Oman, several people were wounded today when Oman’s
security forces fought rioters in Sohar, where protesters
damaged public and private property, the official Oman News
Agency reported today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 