-- 
Tunisian President Names al-Sebsi to Succeed Ghannouchi as Prime Minister

-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-02-27T22:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/tunisian-president-names-al-sebsi-prime-minister-correct-.html
  Tunisia ’s interim president named
octogenarian former foreign minister Beji Caid Essebsi as prime
minister and appealed for an end to “chaos” after street
protests left at least three people dead.  “We ask everyone for quiet,” Fouad Mebazaa said today in
an address on state television.  Earlier in the day, interim Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi resigned, meeting a main demand of protesters.
Ghannouchi had served as premier to ousted President Zine El
Abidine Ben Ali and demonstrators had repeatedly called for his
departure.  Essebsi, who was born in 1926, served as foreign minister
under late President Habib Bourguiba from 1981 until 1986, the
year before Ben Ali became president.  European Union Foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said
in a statement that she hoped Ghannouchi’s resignation “will
prevent any further tension and will allow the present
transition phase to proceed in a peaceful and stable way.”  Mass protests forced Ben Ali to leave office on Jan. 14,
inspiring a wave of unrest throughout the region that led to the
Feb. 11 ouster of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  Three protesters were killed in clashes with security
forces yesterday, the official Tunis Afrique Presse news agency
said, citing the Interior Ministry. More than 3,000 protesters
rallied in central Tunis on Feb. 20 to demand Ghannouchi’s
resignation, TAP reported.  Serving the Revolution  “This resignation is a service to Tunisia’s revolution,”
Ghannouchi said at a televised press conference today. “I am
not prepared to be someone who makes decisions that result in
victims.”  Salim Saadi, a 38-year-old civil servant who was among
about 1,000 people staging a sit-in outside the Cabinet offices
in Tunis today, said he was “happy that after nearly two weeks
of protests we finally succeeded to force Ghannouchi to
resign.” He said he wanted Ghannouchi’s entire cabinet quit.  Tunisian parties agreed Jan. 18 on an interim national
unity government in which Ghannouchi retained his position as
premier. The government included three opponents of the deposed
president and aimed to move the nation toward a system of
elected institutions.  Ghannouchi announced reform measures including the
dissolution of the Communications Ministry, the release of all
political prisoners and the formation of a committee to
investigate corruption and abuse of power.  Tunisia’s benchmark Tunindex has declined some 11 percent
since Ben Ali’s departure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden  at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 