-- 
Volkswagen, Ford Rush to Seal Russian Deals Before Tax-Incentive Deadline

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-02-28T08:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/volkswagen-ford-rush-to-seal-russian-deals-before-tax-incentive-deadline.html
Russia’s government closes the door
today to new tax incentives aimed at attracting investments by
foreign automakers in a country where car sales may overtake  Germany ’s within four years.  In the past two weeks,  Volkswagen AG  and billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s OAO GAZ agreed to produce VW brand and Skoda cars at
a Russian factory, while  Ford Motor Co . announced an assembly
and distribution venture with OAO Sollers. The Ministry of
Industry expects as many as six applications from foreign
manufacturers and their Russian ventures, Alexey Rakhmanov, head
of the ministry’s automotive department, said in an interview.  Under the new rules, carmakers may import components with
zero or 3 percent duties in return for investment agreements to
build at least 300,000 cars locally a year. As the western
European car market braces for another year of shrinkage,
manufacturers are closing deals in Russia, where passenger-car
sales may reach 3 million by 2014 to surpass Germany as  Europe ’s
biggest auto market, according to Rakhmanov.  “Foreign carmakers don’t want to expand their own
capacities to 300,000, but they may apply for benefits with a
Russian partner, that is why we saw so many deals recently,”
said Elena Sakhnova, an analyst in VTB Capital in Moscow.    Russia  may become the world’s sixth-largest auto market in
2020, with 4 million deliveries a year, the  Boston Consulting
Group  said in a report this month. The nation now is the world’s
10th-largest, with 1.9 million annual sales, according to the
consulting firm.  Kaluga Factory  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest automaker, plans to build more
than 100,000 VW and Skoda cars at GAZ’s plant in  Nizhny
Novgorod , the companies said Feb. 24. VW, based in Wolfsburg,
Germany, has a factory in the Kaluga region with annual
production capacity of 150,000 cars.  The companies haven’t decided on the type of cooperation,
said two people with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. GAZ is more interested
in a joint venture than building VW cars in return for assembly
fees, they said.  Ford Sollers, the 50-50 venture between Dearborn, Michigan-
based Ford and Sollers, Russia’s second-largest automaker, plans
to manufacture Ford vehicles at plants near St. Petersburg and
the Republic of Tatarstan starting this year. Sollers’s factory
in Tatarstan, east of Moscow, can build 200,000 cars a year,
while Ford’s near  St. Petersburg  has annual production capacity
of 125,000 vehicles.  Fiat Deal  The companies plan to build in Tatarstan Ford Transit,
Explorer, Kuga and a new sedan, Russian newspaper Vedomosti
reported last week. Zoya Kaika, a Sollers spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  While setting up its venture with Ford, Sollers backed away
from a 2.3 billion-euro ($3.2 billion) deal with  Fiat SpA , the
Italian carmaker that owns 25 percent of Chrysler Group LLC.
Fiat said last week that it submitted to the Russian government
a plan based on the production on C- and D-segment cars, sport-
utility vehicles and commercial vehicles.  The Fiat and Jeep brands will be “the mainstays of the
project,” the Turin-based carmaker said in a Feb. 25 statement.
Fiat may link up with TagAZ in southern Russia, Vedomosti
reported today, citing government officials.  Fiat slipped 0.2 percent to 6.77 euros at 9:14 a.m. in
Milan. Volkswagen’s preferred shares added 0.8 percent to 120.40
euros in  Frankfurt . Ford rose 2.5 percent to $15.07 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading on Feb. 25.  Local manufacturing  Russia’s government presented details of the new industry-
assembly regime, which replaces a 2004 plan, in February last
year. In addition to receiving tax benefits for eight-year
investment agreements, automakers may also pursue so-called
semi-knocked down production during the first three years.  After that carmakers should start to produce engines
locally and by the eighth year, local components should make up
60 percent of the vehicles. By 2020, Russia will produce 3.6
million cars -- double the figure last year -- with 80 percent
of the foreign models to be assembled locally by the time, the
Ministry of Industry’s Rakhmanov said.  “The main target of new rules is to save and develop full-
scale automotive production in the country as well as deepening
components manufacturing,” Rakhmanov said.  OAO AvtoVAZ, the largest passenger-car maker in Russia, and
partners  Renault SA  and Nissan Motor Co. have applied to work
under the new regime along with truck manufacturer OAO KamAZ and
its German partner  Daimler AG . The companies are treated as a
group because  KamAZ  and  AvtoVAZ  have common shareholders.  Toyota, GM    General Motors Co ., which has a factory in St. Petersburg
with production capacity of 60,000 cars per year, is also
seeking to expand its own capacity, said two people familiar
with the matter who asked not to be identified because the plan
isn’t public. GM may set up a venture with Avtotor from
Kaliningrad, which has a production capacity of more than
200,000 cars a year, they said.  GM and Avtotor Chief Executive Officer Valery Gorbunov
declined to comment. Earlier this month, Detroit-based GM signed
an agreement with GAZ to produce the new Chevrolet Aveo model.    Toyota Motor Corp ., the world’s largest carmaker, signed a
deal under the old regime in 2008 and continues to receive the
incentives until 2016.  Hyundai Motor Co . has an agreement with
the government through 2019.  The new rules will also help boost component manufacturing
in Russia. Magneti Marelli’s Automotive Lighting, owned by Fiat,
has made eight applications to produce parts locally, while
truckmaker  Volvo AB  has submitted requests for 22 components,
Rakhmanov said.  “The effect is already noticeable,” Rakhmanov said.
“While with the old decree only 38 auto-component suppliers
came to work in Russia, now we have 80 applications from the
suppliers to work under new rules, and we expect them to rise to
100.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  