-- 
Wen Vows to Control Chinese Food, Home Prices as Police Head Off Protests

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-27T11:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/wen-vows-to-control-chinese-food-home-prices-as-police-head-off-protests.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged
to curb inflation and punish abuse of power in an online forum
as Chinese police blanketed Beijing and Shanghai to head off
planned protests inspired by revolts in the Middle East.  The leadership is “determined” to punish corruption,
which is too concentrated in government and key officials, Wen
said in an online interview with Chinese citizens on the site of
the official  Xinhua News Agency . Wen promised to boost food
supplies to hold down costs, and to tackle surging property
prices that have put home ownership beyond the reach of many.  Growing inequality is a threat to social stability, Wen
said in the discussion, which comes as the ruling Communist
Party prepares for the annual meeting of China’s  legislature .
Wen’s pledges also came as online postings called for the second
week for rallies in major cities to protest corruption and
misrule, inspired by the “jasmine revolutions” that have led
to the overthrow of leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Hundreds of Chinese police and more than 100 vehicles today
patrolled Wangfujing Street, one of Beijing’s busiest shopping
streets and the site of one planned rally. Several journalists
were forcibly removed from the area by police.  In Shanghai, at least seven people were bundled into police
vans outside a cinema near People’s Square, one of at least 27
planned protest sites around the country. At least 23 police
vehicles were stationed around the Peace Cinema in the shopping
area of People’s Square.  Sunday Rallies  An open letter posted on U.S.-based website  Boxun.com  and
circulated on the Internet urged people to gather at both
locations, as well as others in cities nationwide, at 2 p.m.
today. The letter calls for rallies to take place every Sunday
at that time in cities from Beijing to Wuhan to Hangzhou.  High food prices, unemployment and anger over corruption
helped spark protests that toppled  Tunisia ’s Zine el Abidine Ben Ali, Egypt’s Hosni Mubarak and fueled rebellion against Libya’s
Muammar Qaddafi.  The China rallies were first called for Feb. 20. Scores of
Chinese police gathered at the protest sites, which included a
Beijing  McDonald’s Corp . restaurant, to quell demonstrations.
Hundreds of people were present at the rally, though only a
handful actively participated, the  Associated Press  reported.  Containing Unrest  Zhao Qizheng, who heads the foreign affairs committee of
the Chinese People’s Consultative Conference, said the idea that
there would be a jasmine revolution in China was “absurd,” the
official Xinhua News Agency reported on Feb. 24. Responding to
the Feb. 20 protests,  Ma Zhaoxu , a Foreign Ministry spokesman,
emphasized  China ’s economic growth and success in raising living
standards.  The government’s reaction reflects its decades-long effort
to keep unrest in check through a combination of economic growth,
social reforms and political repression, said Nicholas Bequelin,
a China researcher for  Human Rights Watch  in  Hong Kong .  The open letter addressed to the Chinese People listed a
series of grievances including official corruption, a widening
disparity between rich and poor, rising inflation, expensive
housing and a poor health-care system.  In his two-hour discussion, Wen said China will curb
inflation by controlling liquidity, by boosting agricultural
production and by punishing hoarding and price manipulation,
according to the website of the official Xinhua News Agency.
Inflation in China, home to 150 million people living on less
than $1 a day, accelerated to 4.9 percent in January from 4.6
percent in December as prices excluding food rose the most in at
least six years.  Curb Speculation  Wen also said the country has sufficient grain and foreign
currency reserves to control food prices. China will also
continue efforts to curb speculation in the  property market  and
will use legal and economic measures against hoarding of land,
Wen said.    Home prices  in January rose in 68 of the 70 Chinese cities
tracked by the statistics bureau, defying measures such as
higher down-payment requirements and limits on property
purchases issued by the government to curb increases. Wen said
the measures are becoming more effective and he’s confident of
controlling prices.  --Michael Forsythe,  John Liu  and William Bi in Beijing,
Stephanie Wong in  Shanghai  and Debra Mao in Hong Kong.
Editor: Ben Richardson  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:  Bruce Grant  in Hong Kong at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant in Hong Kong at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  