-- 
West Ham United Beats Liverpool 3-1 to Boost Its Fight Against Relegation

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-02-27T17:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-27/west-ham-united-beats-liverpool-3-1-to-boost-its-fight-against-relegation.html
West Ham beat Liverpool 3-1 to climb
off the bottom of English soccer’s Premier League, boosting the
east London’s club fight against relegation.  Manchester City  and
Fulham tied 1-1.    Scott Parker , Demba Ba and Carlton Cole scored at Upton
Park for the Hammers, who record a sixth league win of the
season. Glen Johnson got Liverpool’s goal.  West Ham moves to 28 points, between 17th-place
Wolverhampton Wanderers and West Bromwich Albion in 19th on goal
difference. Wigan, on 27 points, drops to the bottom of the 20-
team league. Three teams are relegated at the end of the season
in May.  Fulham climbs two spots to 13th, now four points above the
Hammers. Man City remains in third.  Thomas Hitzlsperger, playing his second match for West Ham
after returning from a six-month injury absence, had the game’s
first on-target shot with a 40-yard volley.  Liverpool’s Raul Meireles then headed wide and hit a shot
straight at goalkeeper  Robert Green .  The hosts were ahead after 22 minutes when Parker and
Hitzlsperger, who were playing in a three-man midfield with Mark Noble, exchanged passes before Parker curled the ball into the
far corner of the net with the outside of his foot.  Dirk Kuyt hit the sidenetting as Liverpool broke soon
after, but West Ham had more possession and went into halftime
with a two-goal advantage. Gary O’Neil collected the ball on the
right and swung in a cross for Ba to head his third goal in four
games since joining from Hoffenheim last month.  Unmarked  Liverpool was disrupted by injuries to Martin Kelly and
Meireles, with David N’Gog and former Hammer  Joe Cole  coming on.  West Ham continued to create chances, with Frederic
Piquionne heading wide from one of the best opportunities when
unmarked eight yards out.  Green stopped a powerful drive from  Luis Suarez  and a
dipping volley from Reds captain  Steven Gerrard  to protect his
team’s advantage. However, with six minutes remaining Johnson,
who started his career at West Ham, converted a Suarez cross
from close range.  West Ham sealed the win when substitute Cole struck a low
shot past  Jose Reina  in injury time.    Mario Balotelli  scored for the ninth time in 14 games for
Manchester City, with Damien Duff getting Fulham’s goal as thee
day’s other game ended up as a draw at Eastlands.  Fulham is on a five-match unbeaten run in the league
following its third straight draw.  Yesterday, Manchester United moved four points clear of
Arsenal atop the standings with a 4-0 win at Wigan. Wolves beat
Blackpool 4-0, Aston Villa defeated Blackburn 4-1, Everton won
2-0 against Sunderland, while Newcastle and Bolton tied 1-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  