-- 
ABN to Double Number of Private Bankers in Asia in 5 Years

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-03-01T10:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/abn-to-double-number-of-private-bankers-in-asia-in-5-years-1-.html
ABN Amro Group NV plans to double
the number of private bankers it has in  Asia  within five years
from 90 now to tap the region’s growth in wealth.  “It doesn’t have to be adding a few dozen per year, it may
stagnate one year and accelerate the next but we are going full-
steam ahead,” Hans Diederen, who heads ABN Amro’s Asian private
banking unit, said at a press conference in Singapore today.
  Taiwan ,  Hong Kong  still dominate in terms of wealth
accumulation, but Singapore and  Indonesia  are rapidly growing
markets.”  The nationalized Dutch lender, whose private bank has
assets under management of about $200 billion including $18
billion in Asia, said it would also introduce a certification
course for its private banking employees in the region beginning
this month. The program, a collaboration with European graduate
business school  Insead , will be mandatory for all  ABN Amro ’s
private bankers and consists of three, four-day modules.  The bank’s existing private bankers in Asia are all
expected to complete the course by 2013, said Peter Schut, ABN
Amro Private Banking’s global head of human resources. There is
no penalty if staff complete the program and subsequently leave
the bank, he said.  About 35 people would do the course at any one time, and
there are breaks of about three to five months between modules,
Schut said.  Diederen said he is in the process of relocating to
Singapore from Hong Kong to focus on Southeast Asian clients.  “In addition to my regional private banking role I will
be, subject to regulatory approval, the CEO for the business in  Singapore ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  