-- 
Accidental Death Becomes Suicide When Insurers Dodge Payouts

-- B y   D a v i d   E v a n s
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/accidental-death-becomes-suicide-when-insurers-dodge-paying-life-benefits.html
Jane Pierce spent nine years
struggling alongside her husband, Todd, as he fought cancer in
his sinus cavity. The treatments were working. Then, in July
2009, Todd died in a fiery car crash. He was 46. That was the
beginning of a whole new battle for Jane Pierce, this time with
Todd’s life insurance company,  MetLife Inc .  A state medical examiner and a sheriff in Rosebud County,  Montana , concluded that Pierce’s death was an accident, caused
when he lost control of his silver GMC pickup after passing a
car on a two-lane road.  Their findings meant Jane was eligible to collect $224,000
on the accidental death insurance policy that Todd had through
his employer, power producer  PPL Corp . MetLife, however, refused
to pay. The nation’s largest life insurer told Pierce on Dec. 8,
2009, that her husband had killed himself. The policy didn’t
cover suicide, the insurer said, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its April issue.  “How dare they suggest such a thing,” says Pierce, 44, a
physician assistant in  Colstrip , a Montana mining and power
production city of 2,346 people.  She says she’s insulted that the man who courageously
battled his disease for a decade was accused by an insurance
company of abandoning his wife and two sons -- one a U.S.
Marine, the other a National Guardsman -- and giving up on his
fight to live.  Pierce Sues  Pierce argued with MetLife for months. She supplied the
insurer with the autopsy report, medical records and a letter
from the medical examiner saying the death was accidental.
MetLife still said no. Finally, in May 2010, she sued.  In July, a year after Todd’s death, MetLife settled and
paid Pierce the full $224,000 due on the policy. The New York-
based insurer, as part of the agreement, denied wrongdoing and
paid Pierce no interest or penalties for the year during which
it held her money.  Life insurers have found myriad ways to delay and deny
paying death benefits to families, civil court cases across the
U.S. show. Since 2008, federal judges have concluded that some
insurers cheated survivors by twisting facts, fabricating
excuses and ignoring autopsy findings in withholding death
benefits.  Insurers can make erroneous arguments with near impunity
when it comes to the  112.8 million life and accidental death
policies  provided by companies and associations to their
employees and members. That’s because of loopholes in a federal
law intended to protect worker benefits.  ERISA Loopholes  Under that law -- the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act, or  ERISA  -- insurers can win even when they lose in court
because they can keep and invest survivors’ money while cases
are pending.  Congress enacted ERISA in 1974, after  bankruptcies  and
union scandals caused thousands of employees to lose benefits.
The law requires employers to disclose insurance and pension
plan finances, and it holds company and union officials
personally accountable for sufficient funding.  In order to achieve ERISA’s goals, federal courts have
ruled that employees must surrender their rights to jury trials
and compensatory and punitive damages if they sue an insurer for
wrongfully denying coverage. Judges have reasoned that companies
and insurers should have these protections to encourage them to
continue providing benefits.  ERISA puts these issues under federal jurisdiction, so
state regulators sometimes say they can’t help consumers.  ‘Law Backfired’  “The most important federal insurance regulation of the
past generation is ERISA,” says Tom Baker, deputy dean of the
University of Pennsylvania Law School in Philadelphia. “If ever
a law backfired for the public, ERISA is the perfect example.”  Life insurers do pay most claims in full -- more than 99
percent of the time, according to data from the  American Council
of Life Insurers , a Washington-based trade group. Nobody keeps
track of how often companies delay making those payments or how
often they use spurious reasons.  As of 2009, the latest year for which figures are
available, insurers in the U.S. were disputing an accumulated
total of  $1.3 billion  in claims, the ACLI reports. Included in
that amount was $396 million in death benefits turned down in
2009. In the same year, insurers paid out $59 billion, the ACLI
reports.  What those numbers don’t measure is the trauma survivors
like Jane Pierce face when wrongfully denied, says  Aaron Doyle ,
a professor of sociology and criminology at Carleton University
in Ottawa.  Most Don’t Sue  Most survivors don’t have the stamina and knowledge to file
a lawsuit, says Doyle, who has spent  a decade interviewing   life
insurance  customers, employees and regulators in the U.S. and  Canada . Often, survivors are dissuaded by their insurers from
taking their grievances to state regulators or to court, Doyle
says.  “The company tells the customer, ‘Oh no, that’s not an
unusual practice, so you don’t really have a complaint,’” he
says.  Insurers have an obligation to policyholders and
shareholders to challenge death claims they consider fraudulent,
says  John Langbein , a professor at Yale Law School who co-
authored  Pension and Employee Benefit Law  (Foundation Press,
2010). Insurers maintain a reserve of money to cover benefits.  ‘Conflict of Interest’  “It’s their job to protect the insurance pool by blocking
undeserved payouts,” Langbein says. That doesn’t give them the
right to wrongly deny claims, he adds. “There’s a profound
structural conflict of interest,” he says. “The insurer
benefits if it rejects the claim. Insurers like to take in
premiums. They don’t like to pay out claims.”  MetLife and Newark, New Jersey-based  Prudential Financial
Inc . declined to answer all questions on cases cited in this
story, as well as all queries about ERISA and accidental death
policies.  “We pride ourselves on delivering on our promises, paying
claims in accordance with the terms of the policy and applicable
law,” says Joseph Madden, a MetLife spokesman.  “Our insurance businesses’ primary focus is on paying
claims,” says Simon Locke, a Prudential spokesman. “Contested
claims represent a small fraction of the overall number of
claims that are paid. Prudential’s claims professionals are
trained to conduct an appropriate review and follow applicable
laws, regulations and the terms of the policy.”  Locke says Prudential denied 33 claims for
misrepresentation in 2010, while paying out on about 255,000
policies. He declined to say how many claims Prudential denied
for other reasons.  $7.7 Trillion  Company-provided life insurance is a big business.
Employers can offer either accidental death policies -- which
cover just fatalities an insurer deems to be an accident -- or
term life insurance, or both. Group policies in the U.S. have a
total face value of $7.7 trillion, or about 40 percent of all
life insurance in the nation, according to ACLI data.  ERISA contracts bring the industry about  $25 billion  in
annual revenue. MetLife says it has 20 percent of the ERISA
market.  So eager are the largest insurers to get these ERISA
contracts that they sometimes cross a line, according to
prosecutors in  California  and  New York . MetLife and Prudential
have made improper undisclosed payments to brokers to win
business with companies, according to settlements.  The Settlements  MetLife and Prudential each paid $19 million to settle
accusations by the New York Attorney General’s Office in 2006
that they had illegally paid brokers to get new corporate
clients. In a similar case, MetLife paid $500,000 and Prudential
spent $350,000 to settle with  three California counties  in 2008.
In those cases, the insurers didn’t admit wrongdoing.  On April 15, 2010, in a  San Diego  case, MetLife  admitted
that it broke the law  by paying a dealmaker to win insurance
contracts, and it agreed with the U.S. Department of Justice to
pay $13.5 million to avoid criminal prosecution.  “MetLife made illegal payments that should have been fully
disclosed,” says Karen Hewitt, who was then the U.S. attorney
in San Diego and is now a partner at  Jones Day . “Because they
were not, the transactions were criminal.”  MetLife’s Madden says the company improved its broker
compensation reporting starting in 2004. Prudential says it
cooperated with investigators and enhanced disclosure.  The money life insurers refuse to pay to people like Jane
Pierce is emblematic of how the industry is increasingly making
efforts to delay paying out benefits. In the past two decades,
insurers have made a common practice of keeping money owed to
survivors in their own investment accounts, even after claims
are approved.  Withholding Benefits  Instead of sending lump-sum checks to survivors, companies
send them “checkbooks.” More than 130 insurers held $28
billion, as of July 2010, owed to families in these so-called
 retained-asset accounts .  Prudential, which has a contract with the U.S. government
to provide life insurance to 6 million soldiers and their
families, has sent such “checkbooks” to survivors requesting
lump sums since 1999. MetLife uses the same system for payments
to survivors of the 4 million federal employees it covers.  In September, seven weeks after Bloomberg Markets magazine
reported that Prudential was sending “checkbooks” to families
of those killed in combat, the U.S. Department of Veterans
Affairs  changed its policy  and required that Prudential pay a
lump sum when survivors make such a request.  Jane Pierce’s Battle  Jane Pierce’s battle with MetLife began two months after
her husband died. Todd Pierce, a power plant mechanic for
Allentown, Pennsylvania-based  PPL , was diagnosed in 1999 with a
skin cancer called  squamous cell carcinoma , in his nasal cavity.
The treatment of the disease itself was a success. Within two
years, he was cancer-free.  During the next eight years, Todd had more than 40
surgeries to rebuild his jaw and palate following his medical
therapies.  “He was a fighter,” Jane says.  On July 5, 2009, Todd was at a family reunion in  Bismarck ,
North Dakota, 350 miles (560 kilometers) east of Colstrip. While
there, he made plans to go pheasant hunting three months later
with his father, Donald, and elk hunting with an old friend
after that.  “He had a lot planned,” Jane says.  It was sunny and hot that day as Todd drove home. He had
been on the road for more than four hours when, at 5:25 p.m., 18
miles north of Colstrip, he lost control of his pickup on
Highway 39, according to state police records. The vehicle
rolled down an embankment and burst into flames.  Letters and Calls  He  died  of smoke inhalation, according to the autopsy
report. No one else was hurt in the accident.  A month later, MetLife sent Jane Pierce a  “checkbook”  for
her to tap the $224,000 from Todd’s term life insurance policy
through PPL. She didn’t receive any form of payment on Todd’s
accidental death policy. Instead, for four months, MetLife
officials flooded Jane with letters and phone calls.  They asked her to send them the state’s accident report,
the death certificate, toxicology reports, medical records from
20 doctors and Todd’s drug prescription files.  Jane, who lives in a three-bedroom ranch house filled with
framed photos of Todd and her sons, says she did everything she
could to get MetLife all the facts. She didn’t know what the
company was after and says she felt the insurer was trying to
wear her down.  ‘Misconstruing Information’  “I was just so frustrated,” she says. “MetLife was
taking and misconstruing information to see if I would give
up.”  At one point, a MetLife employee told her by telephone that
Todd’s medical files showed he had toxic levels of  Tramadol , a
pain reliever, in his body when he died. Jane told him that a
doctor had prescribed the drug for Todd.  At Jane’s request, Thomas Bennett, Montana’s associate
medical examiner, explained the high readings of the pain
medicine to MetLife.  “This Tramadol elevation is an artifact of the severe
damage Mr. Pierce’s body received following the crash and is not
a result of taking sky-high levels of the drug,” Bennett wrote.
He said the drug wasn’t the cause of death.  Jane recounts the ordeal as she sits at her kitchen table
with Debra Terrett, a family friend. Laid out before them are
stacks of neatly organized health and insurance file folders.  “She not only lost Todd,” Terrett says. “Every time she
had to go through the paperwork, she had to walk through losing
him again.”  The Denial  The toughest day turned out to be Dec. 8, 2009. That’s when
MetLife sent her an unsigned letter containing this sentence:
“We will not pay benefits for any loss caused or contributed to
by intentionally self-inflicted injury.” MetLife concluded that
Todd had killed himself taking an overdose of Tramadol.  Jane says she was dumbfounded. She cried for days.  “It’s bogus,” she recalls thinking. “How can a
responsible company possibly lie in such a terrifying way?”  Not only was Todd an upbeat man who had defeated a dreadful
disease, he also opposed suicide as a matter of faith, Jane
says. Todd and Jane attended St. Margaret Mary Catholic Church
every Sunday, and they were members of a Bible study group.  “After a suicide in our town, Todd and I used to talk
about it,” Jane says. “As Catholics, we agreed that was no way
to heaven.”  A co-worker referred Jane to a lawyer,  Don Harris , in
Billings, Montana. Under  ERISA , Harris had to first file an
appeal directly with MetLife, which the insurer ignored, Harris
says. Pierce sued the company in federal court in Billings for
breach of contract in May 2010.  ‘Very Quickly’  The insurer hired a local Montana lawyer who rebuffed Jane
again, six weeks later. Harris says he had a rational telephone
call with the lawyer about the facts.  “Very quickly, he realized that they didn’t have a leg to
stand on,” Harris says. After that, MetLife agreed to pay out
the full policy amount. The case never went to trial.  Because ERISA prevents compensatory and punitive damages,
Pierce wasn’t entitled to receive anything more. Harris -- who
was paid a fee of $4,500 for his seven months -- estimates that
a jury not bound by ERISA would have awarded punitive damages of
more than $1 million, or 5 to 10 times the death benefit.  “They accused her husband of committing suicide, which is
outrageous,” he says. “They had no facts to support it. They
just literally made it up.”  ‘Nothing We Can Do’  Pierce never requested help from  Montana’s insurance
department . If she had, she would have been turned away, says
Amanda Roccabruna Eby, a spokeswoman. She says the agency can’t
assist people like Pierce because of ERISA’s federal preemption.  “There’s nothing we can do,” she says. “We don’t have
any authority.” The department doesn’t even track ERISA
complaints.  Prudential used the ERISA shield when it denied payment to
the widower of a middle school teacher in Rochester, New York.
Lois Brondon died of a heart attack at age 49 while refereeing a
 soccer game  in May 2007.  The company refused to pay her husband, Christian, the
$50,000 death benefit, saying the educator had failed to
disclose her “heart trouble” when she applied for insurance.  Christian, who knew his wife had no history of a heart
condition, sued Prudential in U.S. district court in Rochester.  “Mrs. Brondon had absolutely no symptoms referable to
cardiac disease or heart trouble,” Judge Michael Telesca ruled
on Nov. 9, 2010. He said her records showed common and mild
thickening of the aorta that required no medical treatment and
didn’t limit her activities in any way.  False Grounds  The judge said she’d been truthful on her application for
insurance and ordered Prudential to pay the full $50,000.  The judge said Prudential’s reasoning created false grounds
the company could use to wrongfully deny death benefits to
others.  “Indeed, under such a scenario, only Prudential would be
allowed to define what constitutes ‘heart trouble,’” the judge
wrote.  Three weeks later, a judge in Lexington,  Kentucky , ruled on
a case that shows how inventive insurers can be in their denials
-- even to the point of invoking drunk-driving laws when the
person who died wasn’t in a car.  U.S. District Court Judge Joseph Hood ruled that Prudential
had wrongly denied a $300,000 accidental death benefit to the
family of Ernest Loan.  Loan, a medical sales representative for Bayer AG, fell
down a staircase in his house after drinking three glasses of
wine on June 29, 2006, according to court records. Prudential
told his wife, Mimi, in a Nov. 7, 2006, letter that 53-year-old
Ernest was drunk by state driving intoxication standards.  Court Reversal  The Loan family sued Prudential in January 2008. Hood
initially dismissed the case, saying Prudential’s argument was
sufficient under ERISA guidelines. The judge was reversed by the
Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, which said drunk-driving law
doesn’t outlaw conducting chores around the house.  “A legal definition specifically intended to apply to
someone who is driving a motor vehicle is not rational as
applied to someone who is in his home and is not operating
machinery,” the court wrote.  On Nov. 30, 2010, Hood ordered Prudential to pay the family
$300,000.  The threshold for what judges will accept as evidence in an
ERISA case can be so low that an insurer can use Internet
searches and not interview witnesses.  Pfizer Employee  Brad Kellogg, an employee of  Pfizer Inc ., died in September
2004 when he drove his Dodge Caravan into a tree in Merced,
California. MetLife paid his wife, Cherilyn, $443,184 under
Kellogg’s term life policy. The insurer then received a letter
from Stephen Morris, Merced County’s deputy coroner.  “Mr. Kellogg died as a result of traumatic injuries
sustained in a motor vehicle accident,” Morris wrote. “His
death is considered to be accidental.”  MetLife refused in November 2005 to cover his $438,000
accidental death policy, saying Kellogg’s death was caused by a
seizure while driving. The insurer referred to a police report
citing an eyewitness to the crash.  “It appears that Mr. Kellogg may have possibly had a
seizure,” police wrote.  Cherilyn wrote to MetLife, disputing its conclusion, on
Jan. 13, 2006. MetLife again refused to pay.  She sued in U.S. District Court in Salt Lake City on July
26, 2006, for breach of contract. MetLife didn’t provide medical
evidence and didn’t specify what kind of seizure, court records
show.  ‘The Low End’  Judge Dale Kimball found that MetLife’s medical research
was limited to Internet searches. The company failed to
interview witnesses, the coroner, the police or responding
paramedics and didn’t obtain Kellogg’s medical records, the
judge wrote.  Even with those findings, Kimball dismissed the case. He
said the insurer met the standard of proof under ERISA.  “The court need only assure that the administrator’s
decision falls somewhere on the continuum of reasonableness --
even if on the low end,” the judge wrote.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 10th Circuit reversed
that decision in December 2008.  “MetLife wholly ignored Kellogg’s counsel’s request for
documentation,” the court wrote. “The car crash -- not the
seizure -- caused the loss at issue, i.e. Brad Kellogg’s
death.”  Kimball then ordered the insurer to pay the full face value
of the accidental death policy, as well as $75,377 in legal fees
and 10 percent interest.  Medical Errors  Under ERISA, insurers have also been able to dispute the
nature of deaths that involve medical errors. In February 2007,
Trudy Barnes, a 31-year-old housewife in Wills Point,  Texas , had
elective surgery for scoliosis, an abnormal curvature of the
spine.  During the procedure at  Baylor Regional Medical Center  in
Plano, an anesthesiologist incorrectly inserted a catheter into
her chest causing massive internal bleeding, a medical examiner
found. She died two days later.  Barnes’s husband, Clint, an aircraft mechanic, had
purchased an  American International Group Inc . accidental death
insurance policy for Trudy in 2004. The coverage came through a
group plan from his employer,  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc .,
a New York-based company that maintains Air Force planes.  It was Trudy’s only life insurance policy.  AIG sent a letter to Clint on Sept. 6, 2007, saying it
wouldn’t pay out on the policy.  ‘We Regret’  “This is an accident-only policy and does not cover
sickness or disease,” AIG, then the world’s largest insurer,
told Clint in a letter. “We regret that our decision could not
be favorable.”  Clint Barnes says he couldn’t believe an insurer could make
up such an excuse.  “How could they say that when the death certificate says
it’s an accident?” he asks. He needed $16,000 for his wife’s
funeral, he says, and he expected to get the money from her
insurance.  Barnes sued AIG for breach of contract in July 2008 in New
York. His lawyer, Michael Quiat, says insurers face no risk when
denying claims under ERISA.  “From a business standpoint, it makes perfect sense for
them,” he says.  On Feb. 4, 2010, U.S. District Court Judge Denny Chin
granted Barnes’s motion for summary judgment, meaning he found
the facts against AIG so overwhelming that there was no need for
a trial.  ‘Arbitrary and Capricious’  “This was an unintentional, unexpected, unusual and
unforeseen event -- an accident,” the judge ruled. “AIG’s
determination to the contrary must be set aside as arbitrary and
capricious.”  AIG paid Barnes the $148,000 death benefit, along with
unspecified interest and attorney fees of $50,533. New York-
based AIG spokesman Mark Herr declined to comment on the case.  “It is AIG’s practice to conduct a good faith review of
all claims submitted to determine whether a particular claim is
covered,” Herr says. “If a claim is not covered by the policy
in question, we do not pay it.”  Barnes says he can see why life insurers would routinely
deny legitimate claims.  “They know the average person doesn’t know what to do,”
he says. “They figure you’re the little guy. Just pay us your
money, and we’ll keep it.”  One of the highest-profile cases of an insurer refusing to
pay a death benefit claim involved television correspondent
David Bloom. He reported live from  Iraq  for NBC News for 18 days
in 2003.  ‘Trauma Plates’  He spent up to 20 hours a day sitting with his knees bent,
jamming his 6-foot (1.8-meter) frame into a 2-foot-by-3½-foot
space inside an M88 tank recovery vehicle, says his cameraman,
Craig White.  “We were unable to straighten our legs, and we weren’t
able to stand,” White says. “Added to this, we were required
to wear chemical gear, flak jackets with trauma plates and
helmets.”  On April 2, 2003, Bloom hurt his left foot leaping down
from the vehicle to the sand, White says. Four days later, the
journalist collapsed and died. He was 39.  A blood clot from his leg, called a deep vein thrombosis,
had traveled through his bloodstream to his lungs, causing a
fatal pulmonary embolism, his autopsy report says.  MetLife, which provided insurance for  General Electric Co .,
then the parent company of NBC, paid Bloom’s wife, Melanie, $2.9
million on his term life policy. The insurer refused to pay on
Bloom’s $1.2 million accidental death policy.  MetLife’s Doctor  In a denial letter dated July 23, 2003, MetLife said Bloom
had died because his genetic background had put him at three to
six times greater risk for a deep vein thrombosis than the
average person. MetLife relied on  Clayton Hauser , a  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , family physician.  Hauser is the same doctor who in 1994 performed a drug test
that resulted in a new employee at Bankers Insurance Group
losing her job because of what she ate for breakfast. The
insurer dismissed Julie Carter after Hauser determined she had
tested positive for morphine.  Actually, Carter was clean; she’d just eaten two poppy seed
bagels. Carter sued Bankers under a federal law protecting
workers wrongly accused of drug use. She won $859,000 from the
insurer.  “That’s not my fault,” Hauser says. “That’s what the lab
reported. I collected a urine sample.”  Bloom’s Experts  In the Bloom case, Abraham Jaros,  Melanie’s attorney , asked
three medical experts to examine Bloom’s death, and each
determined it was accidental. Kenneth Hymes, a  professor  at New
York University School of Medicine, concluded that MetLife was
wrong to blame Bloom’s genes for his death.  “That would be like saying the cause of a fire was oxygen
rather than gasoline or a match,” Hymes wrote on Nov. 18, 2003.
“Almost every person has some genetic mutation. Mr. Bloom had
this gene mutation for 39 years, traveled extensively on
airplanes with cramped conditions and experienced no problems.”  Melanie Bloom sued MetLife in federal court in New York in
July 2004. The company settled for an undisclosed amount in
October 2005. Melanie declined to comment in detail.  “Given the painful and deeply personal nature of this
matter, I am not able to participate,” she says.  In Colstrip, Jane Pierce says the odds are stacked against
families when insurers wrongfully deny benefits.  “I think it’s just a racket,” she says.  Sitting at her kitchen table, she recalls how her husband’s
health had been improving just before his death and how she and
Todd were looking forward to skiing in the winter. Two years
after Todd died, his voice is still on their home answering
machine.  Jane says she got the strength to fight a life insurance
company from Todd, who would never give up.  “He’d amaze me,” she says.  Editors: Jonathan Neumann, Gail Roche  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Evans in  Los Angeles  at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at   jneumann2@bloomberg.net . 