-- 
Advantest Poisoning Verigy Bid Creates Costliest Deal: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-03-01T04:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/advantest-poisoning-verigy-bid-creates-costliest-deal-real-m-a.html
  Verigy Ltd .’s bid for  LTX-Credence
Corp ., a little-noticed friendly merger within the semiconductor
industry, is poised to explode after  Advantest Corp . offered to
acquire Verigy with a premium price not seen since the dot-com
bubble of 2000.  Verigy, a maker of machines that test chips, reached an
all-stock agreement to purchase rival LTX-Credence in November
that now values the Milpitas, California-based company at $500
million including net debt. Japan’s Advantest, the world’s
second-largest maker of chip-testing equipment, a month later
stepped in with an unsolicited bid at a 68 percent premium for
Verigy. LTX-Credence is trading 28 percent below Verigy’s offer
price, indicating it’s the most likely among pending U.S. deals
to fail, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Traders who profit from mergers and acquisitions are
betting Advantest’s offer will prevail even as Verigy’s board
recommends the LTX-Credence deal. Advantest, which has lost
money the last two fiscal years, boosted its original $12.15-a-
share bid to $15 to gain Verigy’s testing equipment for chips
that run mobile devices such as  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and iPad.  “The market is not giving a high probability for the
current LTX-Verigy transaction to be completed,” said Will Harrington, a New York-based merger arbitrage analyst at Wall
Street Access. “There is a real possibility that a deal is
struck with Advantest and that the LTX situation is
terminated.”  Terminate Arrangement  Advantest’s $607 million proposal, including net debt,
would create the world’s biggest manufacturer of equipment for
testing semiconductors. Singapore-based Verigy, which would be
 required to terminate  its arrangement with LTX-Credence, is
still trading 14 percent below Tokyo-based Advantest’s offer
amid concern from the board and investors that the bid may not
be approved by regulators.  Yoichi Oyama, a spokesman for Advantest, said the company
is still in talks with Verigy and declined to comment further. A
phone call and e-mail to Judy Davies, a spokeswoman for Verigy,
weren’t returned. Rich Yerganian, a spokesman for LTX-Credence,
also didn’t respond to a call and e-mail.  The 68 percent premium to Verigy’s 20-day trading average
that Advantest is offering is the highest for a chip-equipment
takeover of at least $500 million in more than 10 years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Veldhoven, Netherlands-based  ASML
Holding NV  said in October 2000 it would buy Silicon Valley
Group Inc. for $1.53 billion at an 84 percent premium. ASML,
Europe’s biggest semiconductor-equipment maker, fell 31 percent
in the year after the deal closed, compared with a 19 percent
drop for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  Applied Materials  Earlier in 2000,  Applied Materials Inc . of  Santa Clara ,  California , bought Etec Systems Inc. for $1.7 billion, a 79
percent premium. Applied Materials’ stock fell 53 percent in the
12 months after the acquisition, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index declined 22 percent.  Deals in the industry were struck at an average 19 percent
premium since the start of 2005, Bloomberg data show.  “The most likely scenario is for Verigy to be acquired by
Advantest,” said Thomas Diffely, a  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based
research analyst at DA Davidson & Co. “It was a very good
offer. It will be hard for them to pass up.”  Negotiations with Advantest executives have focused on
regulatory hurdles, Verigy Chief Executive Officer Jorge Titinger said on an earnings conference call last week. The U.S.
Department of Justice issued a second request for information on
Feb. 18, he said. Orders dropped last quarter because some
customers delayed final purchase decisions amid the uncertainty
regarding LTX-Credence and Advantest, according to Titinger.  LTX-Credence  Prior to the Advantest bid, Verigy had offered 0.96 shares
for each share of LTX-Credence, or the equivalent of a 39
percent premium based on both companies’ 20-day averages, to
compete with larger rivals as demand for semiconductor-testing
equipment shrinks. The new entity would be 56 percent owned by
Verigy and generate cost savings of at least $25 million a year,
they said in November.  “The proposed deal with Verigy made a lot of strategic
sense because we didn’t have overlapping products and
overlapping customers,” LTX-Credence Chief Executive Officer
David Tacelli said on an earnings call last week. He said any
other industry deals would not affect the company’s competitive
position.  LTX-Credence closed yesterday at $8.94 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, $3.51 below Verigy’s bid. That’s still a 39 percent
premium if the deal is completed, the highest for any pending
U.S. takeover greater than $1 a share, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Biggest Acquisition  Advantest is chasing Verigy in what would be its biggest
acquisition in at least a decade after losing 86.4 billion yen
($1.1 billion) in the past two fiscal years. Advantest fell
about 19 percent in Tokyo in the last 12 months, giving it a
market value of $4.1 billion, trailing the 5.8 percent gain for
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Since sweetening its offer for Verigy on Dec. 23, Advantest
shares have dropped 9.7 percent.  The Japanese company, which has no debt, is valued at 22
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, the seventh highest among Nikkei 225 companies,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Advantest’s takeover would value Verigy at 12 times Ebitda,
in line with the industry median since 2005. Verigy’s bid values
LTX-Credence at 6 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Agilent Technologies  Verigy was spun off from Santa Clara, California-based  Agilent Technologies Inc ., the world’s biggest maker of
scientific-testing equipment, in 2006. The two were formerly
part of Palo Alto, California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co . Verigy
posted adjusted profit of $34 million for fiscal 2010, which is
projected to drop to $31 million this year, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.    Teradyne Inc ., based in North Reading,  Massachusetts , has
the largest market share of testing equipment sales at 36
percent, according to 2009 data compiled by Stamford,
Connecticut-based market research firm Gartner Inc. Advantest
was second with 24 percent, followed by Verigy with 20 percent
and LTX-Credence at 7.9 percent.  “If Verigy and LTX-Credence integrate, Advantest will lose
its current position,” said Haruo Sato, a Tokyo-based analyst
at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. “Advantest wants to stop their
integration.”  ‘Testing Challenges Remain’  Advantest needs new technology to lessen its reliance on
memory-chip testing and to better combat Teradyne, according to
Gus Richard, an analyst for Piper Jaffray Cos. in  San Francisco .
Verigy would help expand its so-called system on chip business,
where demand is growing because of new mobile devices that rely
on the chips. The need for testers in the memory-chip market has
waned because the technology isn’t evolving as quickly.  “As devices get smaller and more complicated, the testing
challenges remain,” DA Davidson’s Diffely said.  System on chip semiconductors are increasingly becoming the
heart of mobile devices such as Cupertino, California-based
Apple’s iPhone and iPad. The chips, a combination of several
discrete semiconductors into one piece of silicon, require more
comprehensive testing to make sure that all parts are
functioning properly, according to Richard. Verigy makes the
equipment to test such chips.  “Advantest wants Verigy to increase its share of the
tester market and to beat Teradyne,” said Yuichi Ishida, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co.  Health-Care REITs  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Ventas Inc ., the
owner of more than 600 senior-care and medical properties,
agreed to buy Newport Beach, California-based  Nationwide Health
Properties Inc . for about $5.7 billion in the biggest deal ever
among health-care real estate investment trusts.  Ventas will pay 0.7866 of its stock for each Nationwide
share, the Chicago-based company said in a statement yesterday.
That’s equal to about $44.99 as of Ventas’s closing share price
on Feb. 25, a 15 percent premium to Nationwide’s close that day.    Health Care REIT Inc . of Toledo,  Ohio , the third-largest
U.S. health-care REIT, agreed to buy substantially all the
property assets of Genesis HealthCare for $2.4 billion.  There have been 3,696 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $360 billion, a 27 percent increase from the $283.7
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 