-- 
Amazon.com, Apple, Google, NYSE Euronext: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-02T13:37:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/mako-surgical-tivo-verifone-systems-wisdom-tree-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 7:55 a.m. in New York.  Index changes:  Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates
Inc. (VSEA)   will replace J. Crew Group Inc. (JCG US) in the
Standard & Poor’s MidCap 400 Index, and  Prestige Brands Holdings
Inc. (PBH)   will replace Varian in the S&P SmallCap 600, S&P
said.    Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  : The top maker of graphic-
design programs was raised to “overweight” from “neutral” at
Atlantic Equities LLP. The 12-month price estimate is $45 a
share.  Amazon.com (AMZN US): The world’s largest online retailer
threatened to sever ties with more than 10,000 affiliates in  California  over a dispute about proposed taxation of Internet
purchases.    Apple Inc. (AAPL)  : The maker of the iPad is expected to
introduce a new version today at an event in  San Francisco . The
new model is expected to have a more powerful processor, a
thinner body and front- and rear-facing cameras, according to  Yankee Group , a research and consulting firm. The iPad is one of
Apple’s top sellers.    Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  : The discount store
chain was cut to “neutral” from “overweight at JPMorgan Chase
& Co.    Google Inc. (GOOG)  : The owner of the world’s most
popular search engine was rated ‘‘buy’’ in new coverage at B.
Riley & Co.    Mako Surgical Corp. (MAKO)  : The medical device company
posted a fourth-quarter loss that was wider than analysts’
average estimate. Revenue also fell short of projections.    MBIA Inc. (MBI)  : The company that backed some of Wall
Street’s most toxic debt securities settled $19 billion in
guarantees with five financial institutions since September,
resolving the obligations with a one-time payment.    McDermott International Inc. (MDR)  : The offshore oil and
gas contractor posted fourth-quarter revenue that fell short of
estimates, Bloomberg data show.    MetLife Inc. (MET)   declined 4.6 percent to $43.90. The
largest U.S. life insurer said 146.8 million of its shares will
be sold in public offerings as the firm raises funds to redeem
securities given to American International Group Inc. in the
purchase of a non-U.S. life insurer.    Nektar Therapeutics (NKTR)  : The biotechnology company
posted a fourth-quarter loss that was 29 percent narrower than
analysts estimated. Revenue exceeded their average forecast,
Bloomberg data show.    NYSE Euronext (NYX)  : The biggest operator of U.S. stock
exchanges and Tokyo Stock Exchange, the biggest stock market
operator in Japan, said they may allow their customers to trade
shares listed on each other’s venues.    Scientific Games Corp. (SGMS)  : The New York-based gaming
company reported a fourth-quarter loss of $1.74 a share.  Sina Corp. (SINA US) declined 3.4 percent to $79.25. The
owner of  China ’s third-most visited website posted a loss in the
fourth quarter, missing analysts’ estimates, because of an
investment writedown. The company also agreed to pay $66 million
for a stake in  Mecox Lane Ltd. (MCOX)  , a Shanghai-based
online apparel retailer.    Staples Inc. (SPLS)  : The office supply retailer reported
fourth-quarter earnings of 39 cents a share excluding certain
items, missing the average analyst estimate of 40 cents,
Bloomberg data show.    TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  : The digital-video recording pioneer
reported a fourth-quarter loss of 30 cents a share, 6 percent
wider than the average analyst estimate, Bloomberg data show.    VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  : The second-largest maker of
electronic payment equipment forecast annual earnings and
revenue that beat the average analyst estimate. The company also
said earnings for the first quarter were 43 cents a share, more
than the projected 39 cents, according to Bloomberg data.        Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT)   slumped 15 percent
to $19.90. The oilfield-services provider delayed its annual
report and expects to make about $500 million in adjustments
from 2007 to 2010, according to a regulatory filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.    WisdomTree Investments Inc. (WSDT)  : The asset-management
firm was rated ‘‘buy” in new coverage at Sterne, Agee & Leach
Inc.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO US) advanced 3.9 percent to $16.72. The
most-visited U.S. Web portal is in talks to dispose of its 35
percent stake in its Japanese joint venture with Softbank Corp.,
according to two people briefed on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Johnson in  New York  at 
 jjohnson156@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  