-- 
Alexi Murdoch Haunts Allen Room; Drive-By Truckers Hit the Road

-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/alexi-murdoch-haunts-allen-room-drive-by-truckers-on-a-roll-march-music.html
Alexi Murdoch’s deep, smoky vocals
had a grand backdrop in the view from the Time Warner Center’s
Allen Room:  Manhattan ’s nightscape lights and Central Park on
the near horizon.  The Scotsman’s Feb. 17 show, part of  Lincoln Center ’s
American Songbook season, marked one of his rare performances in
the last two years, indeed since the release of his 2006  debut
album , “Time Without Consequences.”  Jitters would have been understandable, and Murdoch
confessed as much, saying he felt like “an insect with a pin
stuck in it.” His playing, smooth and flawless, said otherwise.  As he began with “Through the Dark,” humming as his fingers
plucked an acoustic guitar, we were hypnotized. He followed with
the rackety “Dream About Flying.” The pristine sound of the room
lent itself to the strings that joined him for “Song for You.”  A horn section came in for the title track from his new
album, “Towards the Sun,” which is scheduled for March 8 release.
It was a simple acoustic tune that had subtle wind and string
presence. On “At Your Door,” the pace picked up, the horns took
over.  Murdoch then took up a shruti box, a droning wind
instrument, for another new song, “The Light (Her Hands Were
Leaves).”  The combination of the odd instrument and Murdoch’s
mellow voice created a raw, powerful moment.  Another glimpse of Murdoch is possible on March 24 at the
 Music Hall of Williamsburg .  ‘Go-Go  Boots’  Marking the Feb. 15 release of their 11th album, “Go-Go
Boots,” the Drive-By Truckers showed the sold-out  Bowery
Ballroom  that night how Southern rock is done.  The six-piece band from Muscle Shoals,  Alabama , took to the
instrument-cluttered stage to lead with “I Do Believe,” the new
record’s opening number. Jay Gonzalez’s keys then led into “Go-
Go Boots” and lead singer Patterson Hood’s craft of storytelling
took over. Slide guitar over a steady beat carried the dark
tune.  For the new record, the band has taken on a different
style, adding soulful country to their brash guitar-fused rock.
The move explores the players’ influences and translates into
one of the band’s most promising releases.  While new material made plenty of appearances over the 30-
song show, the back catalog was amply explored. Guitarist Mike
Cooley led one of the many sing-it-out-loud moments with “Women
Without Whiskey” -- the band was swigging tequila this night --
and Hood brought on the foot stompers of “Lookout Mountain” and
“Sink Hole.”  The group, through various personnel changes, has been
brewing this musical mash of consistent albums and powerful live
shows since the mid-1990s, and it remains not just one of the
South’s, but one of the country’s finest rock ‘n’ roll outfits.    LCD Soundsystem   As March wraps up, so does the New York City dance-rock band LCD
Soundsystem. Lead singer James Murphy has notified fans that
their final show ever will be at  Madison Square Garden  on April
2. After that quickly sold out, the band responded with four
shows at  Terminal 5  from March 28-31. Those too are now sold
out, but there’s usually something to be found.  Bear in mind, though, that no physical tickets were sold
for the Terminal 5 shows. All tickets will be held at “will
call.”  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in March. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 