-- 
Malinga's Hat-Trick Lifts Sri Lanka to 9-Wicket World Cup Win Over Kenya

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-01T19:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/malinga-s-hat-trick-lifts-sri-lanka-to-9-wicket-world-cup-win-over-kenya.html
  Sri Lanka  fast-bowler Lasith Malinga
took the second Cricket World Cup hat-trick of his career as his
team beat  Kenya  by nine wickets in Colombo to go top of Group A.  Kenya was all out for 142 yesterday as Malinga finished on
6-38, taking the last four wickets in six deliveries. Only the
Obuya brothers, Collins and David, reached double figures, with
52 and 51, respectively.  Upul Tharanga made an unbeaten 67, Tillakaratne Dilshan 44
and captain Kumar Sangakkara 27 not out as the hosts reached
146-1 in less than 19 of the allotted 50 overs.  Malinga took four wickets in as many balls against South
Africa at the 2007 tournament. His consecutive dismissals of
Tanmay Mishra, Peter Ongondo and Shem Ngoche made up the second
hat-trick in two day at the tournament, after Kemar Roach’s for
the West Indies against the Netherlands.  “Lasith, the champion that he is, he bowled reverse swing
and that did the trick for us. He did a great job,” Sangakkara
told reporters as he praised his team for rallying after losing
to  Pakistan . “It was important to come back from Saturday. We
showed we are mentally strong and finished it off today.”  Sri Lanka next plays three-time defending champion
Australia in Colombo on March 5. It has four points and leads
Pakistan and  Australia  on run rate. New Zealand and Zimbabwe
have two points, and Canada and Kenya have none.  India and England lead Group B with three points, one ahead
of West Indies, South Africa and  Bangladesh . Ireland and the
Netherlands have no points. England plays Ireland in Bangalore
today.  The top four teams from each of the groups advance to the
quarterfinals after a round-robin competition. The tournament,
co-hosted by  India , Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, ends April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  