-- 
Amazon.com Plans to Open Online App Store to Rival Google’s

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-03-01T21:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/amazon-com-will-open-store-to-sell-android-applications-vie-with-google.html
  Amazon.com Inc ., the largest online
retailer, is opening a store to sell software for the Android
mobile-operating system, stepping up rivalry with  Google Inc .  Amazon will keep 30 percent of the revenue generated by
applications sales, while developers will get 70 percent, the
Seattle-based company said. Amazon didn’t say when the store
will open.  The retailer is aiming to tap rising demand for games and
entertainment that can be downloaded on mobile phones. That
market, which is being pursued by more than 30 app stores, may
rise to $40 billion by 2014 from $14.3 billion last year,
according to Booz & Co. Competitors are trying to grab business
from Google’s own Android Market, which has rankled some users
for being cumbersome.  “There is a huge volume of apps out there,” said Aaron
Rubenson, who oversees Amazon’s app store. “The challenge that
creates for the Android ecosystem is it can be hard to find the
products that are relevant to you. We’ve spent years developing
an e-commerce platform that helps customers find relevant
products amidst a massive selection.”  One-Click Option  The Amazon app store can be downloaded to a phone or tablet
computer. Customers can also buy apps on  Amazon.com  using a one-
click option that links back to their Amazon account, rather
than entering a credit-card number manually for each purchase.
The service will start off in the U.S., Rubenson said.  Google, owner of the biggest Internet search engine and
creator of the Android operating system, also gives developers
70 percent of app sales, while splitting the rest with carriers
and payment processors.  Amazon dropped $3.85 to $169.44 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has slipped 5.9 percent this
year. Google, which has gained 1.1 percent this year, fell
$12.64 to $600.76.  Applications for  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and iPad, which
compete with Android-based devices, are available only through
Apple’s own app store.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  