-- 
Amazon Still Lovable Company With Stock to Hate: David Pauly

-- B y   D a v i d   P a u l y
-- 
2011-03-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/amazon-still-lovable-company-with-stock-to-hate-commentary-by-david-pauly.html
  Amazon.com Inc ., which has helped
change the face of retailing, remains a puzzle for investors.  Do they concentrate on the Seattle-based company’s 28
percent profit increase in 2010, when the global economy was
struggling? Or focus on Amazon’s rich shares, up almost 50
percent in the past year to about $175 and now trading at almost
70 times its earnings?  It’s been that way since Amazon went public in 1997. Though
investors were right to be intrigued by the way the online
retailer was shaking up the book business back then, they paid
far too much for the stock of an enterprise mired in red ink.  Profit did come in 2003. Last year, Amazon earned $1.15
billion on revenue of $34.2 billion. Under Chief Executive
Officer Jeffrey Bezos, 47, the company expanded into television
and computer sales. Electronic gear now accounts for 54 percent
of sales.  The company now also leases server space and computer power
to other companies and delivers streamed movies and TV shows.  After changing the way people buy books, Amazon in 2007
changed the way they read them, peddling the Kindle e-reader and
downloaded books.  Though  Barnes & Noble Inc ., the biggest U.S. bookstore
chain, followed Amazon into Internet retailing and e-books, its
market value has fallen to less than $1 billion compared with
Amazon’s almost $80 billion. Barnes & Noble last month stopped
its dividend about the same time  Borders Group Inc ., another
rival, filed for bankruptcy.  Big Spender  Bezos continues to invest in warehouses and data storage.
Amazon will spend $850 million this year on  capital
expenditures , double the 2010 amount, according to a Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. report. Heavy spending, which can impinge on
short-term profit, is one of the few things that occasionally
turns investors against Amazon.  Amazon has helped change the way all retailers sell. Every
merchandiser, starting with $422-billion-sales behemoth  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc ., now promotes goods on the Internet.  Macy’s Inc .,
the U.S.’s second-biggest department store chain, last week said
its online sales increased 29 percent in both its fourth quarter
and fiscal year, though it didn’t give dollar amounts.  Amazon’s electronics sales hurt retailers such as Best Buy
Co., which said in December that it was losing market share in
the U.S. In 2010 Amazon had $18 billion in annual electronics
sales, compared with about $50 billion for Best Buy.  Out of Reach  While you might love everything about Amazon, you should be
wary of its high-priced shares. In the past four years, the
stock’s average P/E has been 67. The current average P/E on
stocks in the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is about
15.5.  For argument’s sake, say Amazon’s growth and merchandising
smarts make it worth double that, or a P/E of 31. The shares
would still be pricey. The P/E for  Google Inc ., the Internet
search giant, is 23.  EBay Inc ., like Amazon a survivor of the
dot-com craze, trades at 24 times earnings.  Optimists can argue that the company’s earnings are up 142
percent in the past three years, a time when most retailers were
hurt by a recession. Yet Amazon must keep growing at that rapid
clip to justify a 70 P/E -- a tall order as it gets bigger. The
company is now more than twice the size it was in 2007 in terms
of sales.  Amazon pays no dividends, so shareholders are entirely
dependent on market gains for returns.  Admire the company. Don’t buy the stock.    David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David Pauly in  Fort Myers , Florida 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  