-- 
Lance Armstrong Targets California for $20 Million Cigarette Tax Campaign

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/lance-armstrong-targets-california-in-20-million-tax-campaign.html
  Lance Armstrong , the champion
cyclist and cancer survivor, plans to lead a $20 million
campaign to persuade voters to finance  medical research  by
doubling California’s cigarette tax.  Armstrong’s goal of adding $1 a pack to the current tax of
87 cents would yield about $850 million a year and raise the
average retail cost to $5.40. That would still be well behind  New York City , where state and local taxes add $6.46 a pack,
according to the city Finance Department  website .  Armstrong may be joined on the June ballot by Governor  Jerry Brown , who’s pressing for a statewide vote to extend $9.3
billion in taxes and fees to help close a budget deficit. In
2006,  tobacco companies  defeated a proposed $2.60-a-pack
additional levy at a cost of $66.6 million. The last tax
increase was in 1999.  “Jerry’s not going to have a lot of opposition other than
the Tea Party and the tobacco companies," said Don Perata, the
former state Senate president co-chairing the campaign with
Armstrong. He said advocates plan to spend $20 million to
counter the anti-tax messages. ‘‘If they’re using a shotgun,
they’re going to hit everybody," Perata said.    Altria Group Inc ., the Richmond, Virginia-based parent of  Philip Morris USA , has established a political committee to
oppose the increase. The largest U.S. tobacco company
contributed more than $128,000 to launch  Taxpayers Against Out-
of-Control Spending  in early February, state  records show .  Altria’s effort has the support of six anti-tax groups
including the  California Taxpayers Association , a spokeswoman,
Beth Miller, said in a press release yesterday. She declined to
estimate how much opponents may spend to try to defeat the
measure.  ‘Flawed’ Measure  ‘‘We all believe cancer research is important, but this
measure is flawed and poorly written,” Teresa Casazza,
president of the taxpayers association, said in a statement
released through Miller. “At a time when California is faced
with a crippling  budget deficit  of more than $25 billion, we
can’t afford to start a new program spending nearly $1 billion a
year.”  Armstrong’s campaign comes less than two weeks after the
39-year-old, seven-time Tour de France champion said he was
quitting professional cycling, ending a two-year comeback.  Armstrong, who recovered from testicular cancer that spread
to his brain and lungs, said he wanted to devote more time to
his family and his nonprofit foundation Livestrong.org, which
funds cancer survivor and support programs. Calls and e-mail
messages seeking comment weren’t returned yesterday.  “We’re going to be up against the anti-tax sentiment
that’s being promoted by the tobacco companies,” said Paul Knepprath, vice president of the  American Lung Association of
California , which is backing the campaign. “This is a measure
to dramatically increase cancer research all over  California . On
this issue, Lance Armstrong is the right person to be out
speaking for us.”  Medical Research  Medical  research  would get $468 million a year from the
increase to study cancer and other tobacco-related diseases,
with $156 million for smoking prevention programs and $23
million for law-enforcement initiatives against tobacco
smuggling and sales to minors, according to the nonpartisan
 Legislative Analysts Office .  Cigarette consumption per person in California plunged to
28.5 packs annually in the year ending in June 2009, from 47.3
packs a decade earlier, according to the state  Board of
Equalization . In the same period, revenue declined to $913
million from $1.1 billion.  Ten cents of the tax on each pack now goes to the state’s
general fund, while most of the rest is earmarked for health and
smoking-prevention programs.  The campaign committee backing the tax increase, Hope 2010
Cure Cancer,  reported $40,000  in contributions, all from a trio
of Bay Area residents who listed their occupations as investors
and retired. Knepprath said he expects supporters to raise
enough money for  TV advertising  in major markets.  2012 Ballot  The measure originally was scheduled to be on the February
2012 ballot, which is the next regularly scheduled statewide
election in California. It would be moved up to June if two-
thirds of lawmakers back Brown’s proposal for a ballot measure
on the tax extensions.  Brown, a Democrat, hasn’t announced a position on the
tobacco tax.  Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa , a Democrat, joined
Armstrong at a press conference yesterday at Cedars-Sinai
Hospital in  Los Angeles  to endorse the higher cigarette tax.  “The California Cancer Research Act will spur  job creation 
at the state’s leading  cancer research  centers and will bring us
a step closer to curing a disease that has hit too close to home
for each and every one of us,” the mayor said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  