-- 
Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Grew in February at Fastest Pace Since 2004

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-03-01T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-grew-at-fastest-pace-since-2004.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
grew in February at the fastest pace in almost seven years,
indicating factories are providing more momentum for the
expansion, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose
last month to 61, the highest since May 2004, from January’s
60.8, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Readings greater than 50 signal growth. Other data may
show construction spending fell 0.4 percent in January.  Business investment in new equipment is prompting companies
like  Eaton Corp . and  Deere & Co . to raise profit forecasts as
the global economy expands. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke , testifying before Congress today, may reiterate that
policy makers are concerned about the pace of recovery and the
time it’s taking to reduce unemployment even as manufacturing
prospers.  “Manufacturing remains one of the undeniable bright spots
in the economy,” said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at  Standard Chartered  Bank in New York. “We’re looking for hiring
to pickup this year and we are looking for it to be investment-
led. People don’t buy these machines to leave them idle.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m.  New
York  time. Estimates of the 77 economists in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from 58.7 to 63.3.  Also at 10 a.m., the Commerce Department in Washington will
release data on construction spending. Projections in the
Bloomberg survey of 49 economists ranged from a drop of 2
percent to a gain of 0.8 percent, following a 2.5 percent
decline in December.  Regional Manufacturing  Recent regional factory reports underscore the strength of
manufacturing at the start of the year. The Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. said yesterday that its business
barometer rose in February to the highest level since July 1988.  The Fed Bank of New York on Feb. 15 reported manufacturing
accelerated in that region in February, while the Philadelphia
Fed said two days later that factories in its area expanded at
the fastest pace since January 2004.  The strength in manufacturing has been reflected in higher
share prices. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Industrial
Machinery Index, which includes Caterpillar Inc. and Deere, has
climbed 47 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 19
percent increase in the broader  S&P 500 .  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 11 percent of the
world’s largest economy, led the recovery from the recession
that ended in June 2009 as businesses rebuilt stockpiles slashed
during the slump that began in December 2007. Rising exports
have also spurred production.  Last Year  In 2010, U.S. gross domestic product increased 2.8 percent,
the most in five years.  “The numbers coming out of the U.S. for GDP and industrial
production are pretty solid, but we have an issue with regard to
employment,” James Meil, chief economist at Eaton said on a
Feb. 25 teleconference. The Cleveland-based maker of pumps used
in forklifts, raised its full-year forecast amid higher
hydraulics sales.  Employment increased by 190,000 workers last month, the
most since May 2010 and rebounding after a 36,000 gain in
January, when winter storms depressed the count, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of
Labor Department data on March 4. The report may also show the
jobless rate increased to 9.1 percent from 9 percent.  Bernanke will deliver the central bank’s semiannual report
on monetary policy before the Senate Banking Committee today at
10 a.m. Tomorrow, he will testify before the House Financial
Services Committee.  Bernanke Testimony  In an appearance before the same committee on Feb. 9,
Bernanke told legislators that while the declines in the jobless
rate in December and January “do provide some grounds for
optimism,” he cautioned that “with output growth likely to be
moderate for a while and with employers reportedly still
reluctant to add to their payrolls, it will be several years
before the  unemployment rate  has returned to a more normal
level.”  Further gains in manufacturing may be constrained in coming
months by a slowdown in  consumer spending , which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy. Household purchases rose at a
0.2 percent pace in January, half the rate forecast by
economists and the slowest pace since June, the Commerce
Department reported yesterday.  At the same time, auto dealers are seeing improved demand.
Car sales in February probably rose to a 12.6 million unit pace,
the highest since the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in
August 2009, after a 12.54 million annual rate the previous
month, according to the median of analysts surveyed before
industry data today.  Factories may receive a boost this year from a government
program that accelerates tax depreciation for equipment
purchases. The incentive is part of the $858 billion bill signed
by President  Barack Obama  in December that extended tax cuts for
two years, continued expanded unemployment insurance benefits
through 2011 and trimmed payroll taxes.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  