-- 
Harding Advisory, Citibank, NYSE, SocGen in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-03-01T11:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/harding-advisory-nyse-mbia-lehman-madoff-in-court-news.html
Author Michael Lewis was sued by
Wing Chau, president and principal of Harding Advisory LLC, who
accused the writer of defaming him in his 2010 book “ The Big
Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine .”  Chau, a manager of collateralized debt obligations,
according to a complaint filed Feb. 25 in Manhattan federal
court, claims the book unfairly casts him as one of the
“villains” responsible for the 2008 financial collapse.  The book “depicts Mr. Chau as someone who ignored his
professional responsibilities, made misrepresentations to
investors, charged money for work that was not performed, had no
stake in the CDOs he managed, was incompetent or reckless in
carrying out his responsibilities, and violated his fiduciary
duties by putting the interests of ‘Wall Street bond trading
desks’ above those of his investors,” according to the
complaint.  Also named in the suit, which seeks unspecified damages,
are the book’s publisher,  W.W. Norton & Co. , and Steven Eisman,
managing director of FrontPoint Partners LLC, whom Chau
describes in the complaint as “one of the principal sources
Lewis relied on in writing ‘The Big Short.’”  Lewis, a columnist for Bloomberg News, had no comment on
the suit. Norton spokeswoman Elizabeth Riley had no immediate
comment  The case is Chau v. Lewis, 11-cv-1333, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  NYSE, Deutsche Boerse Sued by Louisiana Fund Over Sale    NYSE Euronext , the parent company of the New York Stock
Exchange, was sued by the Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System in an effort to stop a planned $9.53 billion
sale to  Deutsche Boerse AG .  The proposed deal, which would create the largest owner of
equities and derivatives markets, won’t offer a fair price to
NYSE’s public shareholders, the Louisiana pension fund said in a
class-action complaint filed Feb. 25 in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan. The suit also names Deutsche Boerse and the
NYSE’s board as defendants.  “In light of defendants’ breach of their fiduciary duties
in agreeing to an unreasonably low price for the sale of the
NYSE and agreeing to unreasonable and draconian deal
protections,” shareholders are “entitled to enjoin the
proposed transaction or, alternatively, to recover damages in
the event the proposed transaction is consummated,” according
to the complaint.  Eric Ryan, a spokesman for NYSE, declined to comment
yesterday. Naomi Kim, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Boerse, had no
immediate comment.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System v. NYSE Euronext, 650537-2011, New York State
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Massey West Virginia Mine Security Chief Charged, U.S. Says  The chief of security at the  Massey Energy Co . West
Virginia coal mine where an explosion killed 29 workers last
year was charged with obstructing justice and making false
statements to U.S. agents.  A federal grand jury’s two-count indictment against Hughie
Elbert Stover, returned on Feb. 25, was unsealed yesterday as he
made his initial appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge R.
Clarke VanDervort in Beckley, West Virginia. He will be
arraigned on March 15.  Stover, 60, of Clear Fork, West Virginia, is accused of
lying to an FBI agent and a U.S. Mine Safety and Health
Administration investigator about whether he instructed security
guards at the Upper Big Branch mine to announce the arrival of
safety inspectors. He also allegedly ordered the disposal of
security-related documents in January.  Stover’s lawyer, William Wilmoth of Steptoe & Johnson,
declined to comment on the charges against his client.  “The company takes this matter very seriously and is
committed to cooperating with the U.S. Attorney’s office,”
Shane Harvey, Massey’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is U.S. v. Stover, 11-cr-38, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of West Virginia (Beckley).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  MBIA Shareholder Lawsuit Reinstated by U.S. Appeals Court    MBIA Inc . must face a shareholder lawsuit that accuses the
bond insurer of misleading investors about a 1998 transaction,
an appeals court ruled in reinstating the case.  The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York yesterday
reversed a 2007 ruling by U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton, who
had dismissed the lawsuit, saying that the plaintiffs waited too
long to file it. The statute of limitations expired because
investors had notice of alleged wrongdoing in 2002, Stanton
ruled.  Under the district court’s analysis, “the statute of
limitations period began to run more than six months before the
first stock purchase giving rise to the class’s claims,” the
appeals court said. “That cannot be.”  Investors led by Southwest Carpenters Pension Trust sued
MBIA in 2005, saying the company improperly accounted for
proceeds of the 1998 deal as income from reinsurance rather than
as a loan. The accounting enabled Armonk, New York-based MBIA to
overstate reported income from 1998 to 2003, according to the
complaint in Manhattan federal court.  Yesterday’s ruling “remands the case back to the lower
court and directs it to apply recent Supreme Court precedent
when reconsidering our motion to dismiss,” Kevin Brown, a
spokesman for MBIA, said in an e-mailed statement.  “It also directs the lower court to consider other
multiple grounds on which we contended that the case should be
dismissed. We remain confident that on reconsideration, the
district court will once again dismiss this litigation,” Brown
said.  Samuel Rudman, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at his office
seeking comment.  The case is In re MBIA Inc. Securities Litigation, 05-
cv-3514, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lehman’s Marsal, After $11 Billion Defeat, Faces Tough Path  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Chief Executive Officer Bryan
Marsal, after losing a court battle to recover an alleged $11
billion “windfall” from  Barclays Plc , may face difficulties if
he decides to appeal to a higher court, Bloomberg News’ Linda
Sandler reports.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in Manhattan told Lehman
last week he found no “willful misconduct” as Barclays bought
defunct Lehman’s brokerage in the 2008 credit crisis. He awarded
Lehman no money, concluding after more than 30 days of court
testimony the sale was fair.  Under bankruptcy law, a district court must accept a
bankruptcy’s judge’s findings of fact unless they are clearly
erroneous. Marsal’s other option is to fight for some of the
money Peck awarded on Feb. 22 to the trustee liquidating the
remnants of the brokerage, as Lehman previously said it might
do.  “It seems difficult for Lehman on both fronts,” said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy professor at Seton Hall University
School of Law in Newark,  New Jersey . “This will be a difficult
ruling to appeal from, given that Judge Peck has so much
discretion in a matter like this, and the trustee can argue that
the funds that are left are for broker-dealer customers.”  Marsal said he still needs to review Peck’s decision with
lawyers.  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, said he couldn’t
comment on the trustee’s calculations.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Citibank Agrees to Withdraw From MBIA Restructuring Suits  Citibank NA agreed to withdraw from lawsuits against MBIA
Inc. challenging the bond insurer’s restructuring, according to
a stipulation filed yesterday in New York state Supreme Court.  Eleven other institutions including  UBS AG  and  Bank of
America Corp . will continue legal action against MBIA. The banks
are set to go before New York’s highest court on May 31 to argue
why a lower court erred in throwing out a lawsuit in response to
the restructuring. A second lawsuit by the banks, brought under
New York’s Article 78 statute, also is pending in state court.  “Eleven global financial institutions remain committed to
undoing MBIA’s illegal restructuring,” Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
lawyer Robert Giuffra Jr., who represents the banks, said in an
interview.  Citibank, a unit of  Citigroup Inc ., discontinued the
proceedings with prejudice, according to the stipulation.
Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to
comment. Kevin Brown, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based
MBIA, also declined to comment.  The banks claim the restructuring, approved by New York’s
insurance department in 2009, transferred $5 billion in cash and
securities out of MBIA’s primary operating unit, MBIA Insurance
Corp., to another entity now known as National Public Finance
Guarantee Corp., according to court papers.  The banks claim the move left MBIA Insurance
undercapitalized and possibly unable to pay out future claims.  The cases are ABN Amro Bank NV v. MBIA Inc., 601475-2009,
and ABN Amro Bank NV v. Eric Dinallo, 601846-2009, New York
state Supreme Court (Manhattan).    Morgan Stanley  Loses Bid to Dismiss Taiwanese Bank Claims  Morgan Stanley lost a bid to dismiss fraud claims by
Taipei-based China Development Industrial Bank, which seeks to
recover losses from an investment tied to U.S. residential
mortgage-backed securities.  The Taiwanese bank claims Morgan Stanley made an investment
linked to U.S. subprime mortgage bonds in mid-2006 and “dumped
those losses” on CDIB in April 2007 after learning of problems
with the investment.  New York state Supreme Court Justice Melvin L. Schweitzer’s
decision was posted yesterday on the state’s court filing
system.  “CDIB has alleged in sufficient detail that Morgan Stanley
knew the Supersenior Swap was a highly risky, if not troubled,
investment and also that the ratings process which made it
appear to be safe, or even more secure than a ‘AAA’ rated
security, was deeply flawed,” Schweitzer wrote.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on the decision.  CDIB claims it was fraudulently sold a $275 million
interest in what the bank called the STACK 2006-1 Ltd., a hybrid
collateralized debt obligation. CDOs are pools of assets such as
mortgage bonds packaged into new securities.  CDIB said in its lawsuit it had lost $228 million on the
transaction.  The case is China Development Industrial Bank v. Morgan
Stanley, 650957/2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Drug Industry Rebuffed by Top U.S. Court on Sales Force Wages  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to insulate the drug
industry from having to pay overtime to thousands of sales
representatives, turning away appeals from units of  Novartis AG 
and Merck & Co.  The companies sought to overturn a federal appeals court’s
conclusion that their salespeople are covered by a federal wage-
and-hour law. The decision against the Novartis unit leaves the
company with claims of as much as $100 million on behalf of
2,500 past and current employees.  Drugmakers are facing a wave of suits by sales
representatives for overtime pay. More than a dozen suits have
been filed, including cases against  Johnson & Johnson , Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. and a  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  unit. Drug companies
have long treated sales representatives as exempt from the
overtime requirements, according to court papers filed by an
industry trade group.  The lower court ruling “threatens untold costs in
unforeseen liability,” the Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America argued in the Novartis case.  The rulings by the New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals came in two separate suits -- one against Novartis
Pharmaceutical Corp. and another against Merck’s Schering unit.  The cases are Schering v. Kuzinski, 10-459, and Novartis v.
Lopes, 10-460, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington)  For more, click here.  Ford Pickup Suit Revived by U.S. High Court After Mazda Ruling  The U.S. Supreme Court injected new life into a suit
against  Ford Motor Co . brought by the mother of a South Carolina
teenager killed in a 2002 pickup truck accident.  The justices yesterday told the South Carolina Supreme
Court to reconsider its rejection of the suit, pointing to their
Feb. 23  ruling  allowing a claim against a  Mazda Motor Corp . unit
over seatbelt design.  Yesterday’s order hints at the potential impact of the
Mazda ruling, which said automakers can be sued for not
equipping back seats with shoulder straps, even if the
manufacturers were in compliance with federal regulations.  In the South Carolina suit, Mary Robyn Priester blames Ford
for the death of her son, James Lloyd Priester, who was crushed
after being ejected from the back seat of a 1997 Ford F-150
pickup. Priester faults Ford for its use of tempered glass,
contending that some form of advanced glazing would have
prevented her son from being ejected.  The South Carolina Supreme Court said the suit was
preempted by a federal safety regulation that permitted tempered
glass as one of several options for side windows.  “The Priester case is vastly different from the Mazda case
because it involves a different federal motor vehicle safety
standard with a different regulatory record,” Kristen Kinley, a
spokesman for Ford, said in an e-mail. “We think it is exactly
the kind of case that the Supreme Court envisioned being
preempted.”  The case is Priester v. Ford Motor Co., 10-668, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  Glaxo Seeks Billions in AIDS Drug Trial Against Abbott
GlaxoSmithKline Plc lawyers, in a trial seeking billions of
dollars in damages, told jurors that  Abbott Laboratories  had an
illegal monopoly over HIV drugs.  Glaxo’s lawyers made their opening statements to jurors
yesterday in federal court in Oakland, California. In a trial
expected to last three weeks, Glaxo,  Rite Aid Corp . and drug
distributors seek an award of triple their damages in the case.  Abbott, in December 2003, quadrupled the price of its AIDS
medicine Norvir, a boosting agent for other HIV medicines such
as Abbott’s Kaletra. The price increase meant that other
drugmakers that used Norvir in their medicines couldn’t compete
on price with Kaletra, said Brian Hennigan, a Glaxo attorney.  “Why was a price increase taken?” Hennigan asked jurors.
“To stop competition from Glaxo.”  The higher cost also penalized drug customers such as Rite
Aid that wanted to buy medicines that competed with Kaletra,
lawyers for Rite Aid and other drug distributors said in court
filings.  Abbott denies wrongdoing in the lawsuit. It has said the
price increase for Norvir was fair. The company, based in Abbott
Park, Illinois, contends there was strong competition for HIV
drugs and Kaletra had only 30 percent of the market for such
drugs.  The case is SmithKline Beecham Corp. v. Abbott
Laboratories, 07-5702, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (Oakland).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex  Societe Generale  Trader Gets 3 Years in Prison for Theft  Former Societe Generale SA trader Samarth Agrawal was
sentenced to three years in  prison  for stealing the bank’s high-
speed trading software.  A federal jury in Manhattan in November found Agrawal, 27,
guilty of theft of trade secrets and transporting stolen
property in interstate commerce after a two-week trial. U.S.
District Judge Jed S. Rakoff sentenced him at a hearing
yesterday.  At trial, Agrawal testified under questioning by his own
lawyer that he shared information about Societe Generale’s
trading software with a Manhattan hedge fund,  Tower Research
Capital LLC , where he hoped to create a similar system. Rakoff
said at the time that he was “puzzled” by Agrawal’s testimony
and that he assumed it was part of a “sympathy defense.”  Agrawal also testified that his superiors at Societe
Generale encouraged him to work at home because spending too
many nights and weekends in the office would raise “red flags”
for company security. He said that was why he printed copies of
the computer codes in June 2009 to study at home.  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-cr-00417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Elan Pleads Guilty as Part of $203 Million Accord on Zonegran  A unit of Elan Corp., the Irish drugmaker, pleaded guilty
yesterday as part of an agreement to pay $203 million to resolve
U.S. criminal and civil investigations into the illegal
marketing of the epilepsy medicine Zonegran.  Elan Pharmaceuticals Inc. pleaded guilty in federal court
in Boston to a misdemeanor violation of the Food Drug and
Cosmetic Act and was sentenced to a fine of $97 million and must
forfeit $3.6 million. The company previously agreed to pay $102
million to resolve civil allegations under the False Claims Act.  After the Food and Drug Administration approved Zonegran in
2000 for treatment of epileptic seizures in adults over age 16,
Dublin-based Elan promoted the drug for uses including mood
stabilization, bipolar disorder, migraine headaches, weight loss
and seizures in children, according to prosecutors.  “Elan deliberately chose to prioritize profit over its
obligation to the FDA and consumers,” U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz said in a statement. “Today’s plea and sentencing should
serve as a reminder to any company engaging in off-label
marketing schemes that the government is continuing to
aggressively investigate and prosecute companies.”  Elan entered into a corporate-integrity agreement with the
inspector general of the Health and Human Services Department.
It also settled a whistleblower lawsuit filed in 2004 under the
False Claims Act by Lee Chartock, a Massachusetts physician. The
law allows private citizens to sue on behalf of the government
and share in any recovery.  A spokesman for Elan, Paul McSharry, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  The case is United States ex rel. Lee Chartock v. Elan
Corp., 04-cv-11594, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Former SEC Lawyer Says Ethics Counsel Allowed His Madoff Work  David M. Becker, the former chief Securities and Exchange
Commission lawyer being sued for inheriting money linked to
Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, said he didn’t recuse himself
from Madoff-related matters at the SEC on advice from the ethics
counsel.  Becker, whose latest two-year stint as the SEC’s chief
counsel ended Feb. 25, wrote the same day in a letter to U.S.
House Republicans that he had consulted with the SEC’s ethics
counsel at least twice about work related to Madoff. He said he
had no recollection of having any contact with the imprisoned
money manager.  Becker, 63, and his brothers inherited about $2 million
from his parents’ Madoff account after their mother’s death in
2004. Irving H. Picard, the bankruptcy court trustee unwinding
Madoff’s business, is seeking to recover about $1.5 million,
which he alleges is fraudulent profit.  John Nester, a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
on Lenox’s advice to Becker.  For more, click here.  Ex-McGuireWoods Lawyer Gets Three-Year Term in PIPEs Case  Louis Zehil, a former lawyer at McGuireWoods LLP who
pleaded guilty to securities fraud for trading unregistered
private-placement shares of companies that belonged to his
clients, was sentenced to three years in prison.  Zehil was charged by federal prosecutors with illegally
trading shares in seven companies for which he helped structure
private investment in public equity, or PIPE, transactions,
between January 2006 and February 2007, according to the
charging document in his case. He was sentenced yesterday by
U.S. District Judge Deborah Batts in New York federal court.  PIPE shares can’t be publicly traded until they’re
registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Zehil bought his clients’ shares in the private placements and
sold them into the market before they were registered. At a
hearing last year he admitted that he told the issuers’ transfer
agents to label as unrestricted the stock going to his two
entities. The stock to the other investors was labeled as
restricted.  Zehil bought the shares through two entities, Strong Branch
Ventures IV LP and Chestnut Capital Partners II LLC, which he
and his wife controlled and ran out of their house in Ponte
Vedra Beach, Florida, according to an SEC complaint, which
alleged he made $17 million in illegal profits.  McGuireWoods is a 900-attorney law firm in Richmond,
Virginia. The firm said it alerted its clients to Zehil’s trades
when it learned about them and cooperated with federal officials
in their investigations.  Andrew Lawler, a lawyer for Zehil, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail sent to him after regular business hours
seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Zehil, 07-cr-659, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  