-- 
Harvard's Feldstein Says U.S. Economy Has Slowed as Consumers Cut Spending

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-01T17:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/harvard-s-feldstein-says-u-s-economy-has-slowed-as-consumers-cut-spending.html
Harvard University economics
professor  Martin Feldstein  said the  U.S. economy  has cooled at
the start of this year as consumers cut back on spending amid
higher gas prices and a decline in housing wealth.  “There is a mixed picture now in terms of how much the
economy is on track,” Feldstein said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”
Growth “started slowing down toward the end of the fourth
quarter. The January numbers are not very good at all.”  Feldstein cited less-than-forecast  consumer spending  in
January, continuing monthly declines in U.S. housing prices and
weakness in industrial production. While fourth-quarter growth
was bolstered by consumers spending more after a rise in the
stock market, those gains came as the personal savings rate
fell, he said.  “So this is not a strong economy,” Feldstein said.
“There hasn’t been a pull-through from the fourth quarter to
the first quarter.”  Last week, the Commerce Department reduced its estimate of
fourth-quarter growth to a 2.8 percent annual pace. Consumer
purchases rose at a 4.1 percent pace, the most since the same
three months in 2006, compared with a 4.4 percent rate
originally estimated.  “Higher- and middle-income people felt pretty good”
because of higher stock prices, Feldstein said. “They went and
spent more money. But that doesn’t mean they will keep doing
it.”  Bernanke’s Comments  Feldstein’s comments were more cautious than Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who reiterated his forecast
today to the Senate Banking Committee that growth will
accelerate this year. Fed policy makers raised their estimates
for growth at their meeting last month, according to minutes of
the Jan. 25-26 meeting released Feb. 16.  The Harvard economist also said that congressional cuts in
the U.S. budget won’t have much of an effect on economic growth.  The debate centers around “plus or minus $30 billion or
$40 billion,” he said. “That is not going to have a very
substantial impact on aggregate demand and on GDP growth.”  Feldstein, 71, is a former president of the  National Bureau
of Economic Research  and a member of the NBER committee that
declared the recession ended in June 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  