-- 
Las Vegas Sands Faces SEC Subpoena, Justice Probe of Macau Unit

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-03-01T23:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/las-vegas-sands-faces-sec-subpoena-justice-department-probe-2-.html
  Las Vegas  Sands Corp. said it
received a subpoena from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to produce documents relating to its Macau
operations’ compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is conducting a similar
investigation, the Las Vegas-based company said yesterday in a
regulatory filing. Las Vegas Sands, which owns casinos in Macau,  China , said it “intends to cooperate with the investigations.”  The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries
from making improper payments to foreign officials to win or
retain business.  Sands China Ltd ., the Hong Kong-listed unit of
Las Vegas Sands, said in July that Chief Executive Officer
Steven Jacobs was fired by the board, without specifying
reasons. Jacobs sued his former employer in October in a Nevada
state court, alleging breach of contract.  “It is the company’s belief that the subpoena emanated
from allegations contained in the lawsuit filed by Steven C.
Jacobs,” Sands said in the filing, its annual report. The SEC
subpoena arrived Feb. 9.  Jacobs’s complaint alleges, among other things, that Las
Vegas Sands demanded that he use improper “leverage” to win
government concessions, that he retain a lawyer who was part of
the Macau government and that he mislead the board.  ‘Fact-Finding’  “The authorities said they were making fact-finding
inquiries,” Ron Reese, a Las Vegas Sands spokesman, said in a
phone interview. “We believe these inquiries came from the
Jacobs’ lawsuit allegations, which the company once again
strongly denies.”  Donald Campbell, Jacobs’s lawyer, declined to comment
beyond saying a hearing on defense motions to dismiss is
scheduled for March 15.  Las Vegas Sands fell $2.94, or 6.3 percent, to $43.70 at
4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Sands
China rose 2.9 percent to HK$19.04 in Hong Kong trading before
the announcement.  The case is Jacobs v.  Las Vegas Sands Corp ., A-10-627691,
Nevada District Court,  Clark County  (Las Vegas)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 