-- 
Oil Surges, Stocks Retreat on Middle East Turmoil; Gold Rallies to Record

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-01T19:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/asian-stocks-gain-for-third-day-on-oil-drop-growth-outlook-yen-weakens.html
Oil surged, approaching $100 a
barrel, amid speculation unrest in the Middle East and northern  Africa  will disrupt supplies. U.S. stocks sank on concern rising
energy costs will threaten the economic recovery, while
Treasuries reversed losses and gold rallied to an all-time high.  Oil for April delivery rallied 1.9 percent to $98.85 a
barrel at 1:34 p.m. in New York and gasoline advanced 9.3
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.5 percent to
1,307.63 after yesterday capping a third straight monthly gain.
Ten-year Treasury yields lost two basis points to 3.41 percent
after rising six points earlier. Gold futures for April delivery
climbed as much as 1.7 percent to a record $1,433.40 an ounce.  Oil jumped as unrest threatened to spread from  Libya  to
Iran, OPEC’s second-largest producer. Concern higher energy
costs will hurt  consumer spending  and corporate profits
overshadowed data showing that U.S. manufacturing grew at the
fastest pace since 2004. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the increase in oil and other commodity prices
probably won’t cause a permanent increase in broader inflation,
suggesting the central bank will continue its stimulus efforts.  “There’s a cloud over the market,” said Burt White, who
helps oversee $284 billion as chief investment officer at LPL
Financial Corp. in  Boston . “We’ve had very strong manufacturing
data,” he said. “Bernanke said that the fire is not hot enough
for the Fed to take the foot off the gas pedal and put it on the
brake. They are committed to spur the economy going forward.
Still, the market will struggle as people are more concerned
about oil than the strength of the  U.S. economy .”  Manufacturing Growth    Brent crude  for April settlement climbed $2.84, or 2.8
percent, to $114.97 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Gasoline 9.3 percent to $2.9827 in  New York .  The surge in energy prices overshadowed an increase in the  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index to 61.4 in
February, the highest since May 2004.  Bernanke said that while sustained rises in oil and other
commodities may threaten growth, experience with price gains in
recent decades suggests a “temporary and relatively modest
increase in U.S. consumer price inflation.”  In his semi-annual monetary policy testimony before the
Senate Banking Committee, the Fed chief reiterated the central
bank’s outlook that while growth will accelerate this year, he
still wants to see a “sustained period of stronger  job
creation ,” suggesting the central bank will stay on course to
complete its planned $600 billion of Treasury purchases through
June.  Default Swaps Gain  Costs to protect corporate bonds from default climbed after
three days of declines. The Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
2.2 basis points to a mid-price of 84.18 basis points, according
to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index has increasingly traded in lockstep
with oil futures. A measure of correlation between crude futures
in New York and the CDX, using 21 days of trading, was 0.59
yesterday and reached the highest since August 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A correlation of 1, which gauges
the percent change of the two contracts, would show they are
moving in lockstep, and a -1 reading reflects the opposite.  European Shares  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.6 percent, reversing a
gain of 0.9 percent, with banks and travel and leisure companies
leading declines among 19 groups. The index climbed earlier
after European manufacturing growth accelerated to the fastest
pace in more than 10 years in February, according to London-
based  Markit Economics .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 1.1 percent for a
third day of gains. Japan’s  Nikkei 225  Stock Average rose 1.2
percent as Shinsei Bank Ltd. jumped 7.7 percent after Credit
Suisse Group AG upgraded shares of lender partly owned by J.
Christopher Flowers.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.4 percent.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index jumped 3.5
percent, the most since May 2009, after manufacturing expanded
at the fastest pace in three months. The rupee strengthened 0.7
percent against the dollar.  Commodities  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of commodities jumped 1.7
percent to the highest since November 2008. Cotton, for the
third day in a row, jumped the daily limit of 7 cents, or 3.7
percent.  Metals, crops and fuel beat stocks, bonds and the dollar
for a third straight month in February, the longest stretch
since June 2008, as inflation lifted cotton and cocoa and
investors speculated violence in the Middle East and northern
Africa will restrain energy supplies. The S&P GSCI Total Return
Index of 24 commodities gained 3.8 percent in February and rose
for a sixth consecutive month, the longest streak since 2004,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities in 45 nations
returned 3 percent including dividends last month, while
corporate and government bonds rose 0.21 percent, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index. The
U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six
counterparts such as the euro and yen, fell 1.1 percent in
February.    Iran  Concerns  Today’s surge in crude oil came as Iran, the second-largest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
arrested opposition leaders to derail protests scheduled today.
The European Union yesterday imposed an arms embargo and other
sanctions on Libya, and the U.S. said it has frozen $30 billion
in Libyan assets.    Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index  tumbled 6.8 percent,
the most since November 2008, as concern deepened political
unrest in the Middle East may spread to the kingdom. Arabian
authorities “should immediately release” Tawfiq al-Amir a
Shiite cleric in the country, who was apparently arrested after
he called for a constitutional monarchy and equal rights for
Shiites,  Human Rights Watch  said on its website yesterday.  Kuwait’s benchmark equity index dropped 2.5 percent as
state news agency KUNA reported Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-
Jaber Al-Sabah will address the country today. The  Bloomberg GCC
200 Index  of Persian Gulf shares fell 3.7 percent.  The krona appreciated against 11 of 16 peers after
Stockholm-based  Statistics Sweden  said gross domestic product
expanded 1.2 percent in the three months through December,
compared with a 1 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 17 economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 Mregan12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  