-- 
Mason Hawkins Adds Leverage by Swapping Dell Shares for Options

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/mason-hawkins-swaps-dell-shares-for-options-to-add-leverage-to-longleaf.html
Money manager Mason Hawkins
increased his stake in  Dell Inc . by selling company shares and
buying more than twice as many options on the computer
manufacturer.  The $8.75 billion  Longleaf Partners Fund , managed by
Hawkins through his Southeastern Asset Management Inc., sold
about 10.5 million Dell shares during the fourth quarter,
according to a report filed Feb. 17 with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Longleaf bought  call options  that entitle
the Memphis, Tennessee-based fund to buy 25 million Dell shares
through 2015.  The move permitted Longleaf to increase its bet on Dell,
the third-largest personal-computer maker, even as the fund was
investing in other stocks and had cash reserves equaling just
3.4 percent of net assets. Because interest rates help determine
the price of option contracts, the fourth quarter decline in
yields on five-year  U.S. Treasuries  to 1.03 percent presented
investors such as Longleaf with an opportunity to boost
potential returns at minimal expense.  “For the man on the street, the attractive points are that
you are locking in a financing rate,” said Michael McCarty,
managing partner at Differential Research LLC, an Austin, Texas,
firm that advises institutions on derivatives.  Longleaf paid $213 million for the options, or about $8.52
a share. By contrast, buying 25 million Dell shares at the
stock’s average fourth-quarter trading price of $13.86 would
have required a cash outlay of almost $347 million.  ‘In the Money’  The fund’s options are known as “in the money,” because
they permit Longleaf to buy Dell shares for $7 each, about half
their average trading price during the quarter. The premiums for
“deeply” in-the-money options, such as Longleaf’s, are
determined primarily by prevailing  interest rates , McCarty said,
whereas options that can be exercised at or above market prices
are affected more by a stock’s implied volatility.  Dell shares rose 4.6 percent to $15.83 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday. The stock has gained  16.8
percent this year and 16.7 percent over the last three months.  By selling Dell stock during the fourth quarter, Longleaf
cut its direct stake in the company to 33.8 million shares at
Dec. 31 from 44.3 million shares at Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The purchase of private option contracts,
from Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG, raised its total
investment to the equivalent of almost 59 million shares.  7.5% Stake  Southeastern reported a 7.5 percent stake in the Round
Rock, Texas, computer company at the end of last year, second
only to founder  Michael Dell  in the number of shares held. That
total includes the holdings of the Longleaf mutual funds as well
as other accounts managed by Southeastern.  Dell’s free cash flow yield, a ratio of excess cash earned
by the company to its market capitalization, exceeded 20 percent
last year, making the stock undervalued, according to the
Longleaf report. The company has delivered “strong” profit
margins and earnings in recent quarters thanks to reduced
component costs and renewed corporate spending on computers,
Longleaf said.  “By selling a portion of the underlying equity position to
pay for very in-the-money options with extended maturities, we
secured significant additional exposure to the stock at very low
long-term interest rates,” Longleaf said in its report.  Lee Harper, a spokeswoman for Southeastern, declined to
comment. Longleaf Partners, which invests primarily in stocks it
deems significantly undervalued, has produced average annual
returns of 2.6 percent during the past five years, better than
61 percent of funds that follow a comparable strategy, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  