-- 
Maurel & Prom Is Said to Weigh Sale, Draw Interest From Chinese Companies

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-03-01T16:29:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/maurel-prom-said-to-weigh-sale-of-oil-company-draw-interest-from-china.html
Etablissements Maurel & Prom, a
French oil producer with a market value of about 1.65 billion
euros ($2.28 billion), is weighing a sale, said three people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The Paris-based company, whose shares have surged 29
percent this year, is working with banks including Citigroup
Inc. to explore options and has drawn interest from potential
bidders, including Chinese companies, said two of the people,
who declined to be identified because the process isn’t public.  While Maurel & Prom has discussed a sale process with its
advisers, a deal isn’t imminent and a buyer for the company may
not emerge, the people said.  “Independent companies that have made recent discoveries
and that are beginning to increase their output,” are the
“best targets” for Chinese, Indian and South Korean oil
companies, CM-CIC Securities said in a note to clients. The bank
said national  oil companies  such as China Petrochemical Corp.,
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and Korea National Oil Corp. are under
pressure to raise output and reserves as quickly as possible.  Maurel & Prom surged as much as 8 percent, the most in
almost 22 months, and was trading 46 cents higher at 13.58 euros
at 5:06 p.m. in Paris.  Previous Talks  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Henin has held talks
with potential buyers before. Henin transformed the company into
a common stock firm from a limited partnership in December 2004,
ending its ability to block a takeover bid. The company said the
same year that it had spoken to Indian and Chinese companies
about a sale.  A Paris-based spokesman for Maurel & Prom declined to
comment, as did Jeffrey French, a Citigroup spokesman in London.  Maurel & Prom, which started in 1813 as a trading company
between Bordeaux and the French colonies in West Africa, has
struggled to raise oil production since selling Congolese fields
to  Eni SpA  in 2007 for $1.4 billion.  At the time, Henin said output would be halved after the
disposal and returned to pre-sale levels within two years,
helped by new wells in Gabon. He has so far failed to reach this
target. The company had production of about 30,000 barrels a day
before the sale of the Congo wells and reported output of about
15,600 barrels a day at the end of 2010 from onshore Gabon and
Nigerian fields.  Henin owns 24 percent of the company through Pacifico SA
and has said he wants to more than double proven and probable
reserves to 250 million barrels of oil equivalent from about 116
million barrels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in  London  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  