-- 
Aurora Fashions to Separate Karen Millen Clothing Brand With View to Sale

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-03-01T15:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/aurora-fashions-to-separate-karen-millen-clothing-brand-with-view-to-sale.html
Aurora Fashions, the U.K. fashion
retailer that is majority owned by Iceland’s failed Kaupthing
Bank Hf, plans to split off its Karen Millen unit, a step that
may lead to the sale of its largest, most profitable business.  Karen Millen , founded in 1981 and with outlets across 40
countries including the U.S., Dubai and  Russia , will become a
“separate company,” Aurora said in an e-mailed statement
today. The remaining brands of Coast, Oasis and Warehouse will
stay together as Aurora Fashions Group. Derek Lovelock will be
executive chairman of both companies.  The change “would facilitate” a sale of Karen Millen,
Chief Financial Officer Richard Glanville said in an interview.
“We know Kaupthing will not be long-term holders of our shares,
but there is no pressure on us to sell for a year or so,”
Glanville said. “We are in no hurry.”  Karen Millen, which sells women’s fashions such as a $350
satin dress, had revenue of 250 million pounds ($406 million)
last year and got 60 percent of sales from outside the U.K.,
compared with 6 percent in 2004. The planned independence of the
business, which includes an additional 20 million pounds of bank
funding, will help accelerate international expansion in markets
such as  China , Mexico, Canada and  Italy , Glanville said. The
brand has 91 stores in the U.K. and 220 overseas.  “It appears that Aurora is looking to break up the company
and it would be a logical move as Karen Millen has a good brand
position and brands are in fashion,”  Kate Calvert , a retail
analyst at  Seymour Pierce , said by phone.  Aurora Fashions, which has 1,278 stores globally excluding
Karen Millen, is owned by Kaupthing and former managers, who
bought the brands from administrators in March 2009. The
Icelandic bank owns about 90 percent and managers 10 percent.  The owner of the clothing chains before Aurora, Mosaic
Fashions Hf, entered  bankruptcy protection  two years ago
following newspaper reports that it owed creditor Kaupthing 450
million pounds in the wake of Iceland’s financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 