-- 
Australia’s Current-Account Deficit Unexpectedly Widens

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-01T01:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/australia-s-current-account-deficit-unexpectedly-widens-1-.html
  Australia ’s current-account deficit
unexpectedly widened in the three months through December as
investors abroad received larger dividends and other income from
holdings in the country.  The shortfall on goods, services and investment increased
to A$7.3 billion ($7.4 billion) from a revised A$6.5 billion in
the third quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists
was for a A$7 billion gap.  The current account is the broadest measure of trade
because it includes investment flows as well as goods and
services shipments. A deficit represents money Australia has to
borrow overseas to pay for the goods and services it imports and
to finance investment not covered by local savings.  “The deficit is relatively low by Australian standards and
consistent with more saving in the economy,” said  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura Australia Ltd. in Sydney.
“It’s probably going to be bigger this quarter due to the
floods in Queensland.”  Net exports were “expected to make no contribution” to
gross domestic product growth in the fourth quarter, the bureau
said today. In the previous quarter, net exports subtracted 0.4
percentage point from growth.  Outbound income on investments advanced to A$11.9 billion
in the fourth quarter from A$11 billion in the July-September
period, the report showed.  The net-income deficit widened to A$13.7 billion in the
fourth quarter from a A$12.2 billion gap in the previous three
months, today’s report showed. The goods and services trade
balance recorded a A$6.8 billion surplus in the fourth quarter
compared with a A$6 billion surplus in the prior quarter.  The Australian dollar rose 5.8 percent in the fourth
quarter, the third-best performance among the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  GDP advanced 0.6 percent in the three months through
December from the previous quarter, when it rose 0.2 percent,
according to the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. The figures will be released tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. in
Sydney.  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  