-- 
Australia Can Influence `Bold Advance' on Carbon Policy, De Boer Declares

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-01T04:07:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/australia-should-make-bold-advance-on-carbon-policy-kpmg-s-de-boer-says.html
  Australia  can influence global
efforts to reduce  carbon emissions  and should make a “bold
advance” to tackle the issue, said Yvo  de Boer , former head of
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.  “Australia is well-positioned to make a move,” De Boer,
an adviser to KPMG International, told reporters in Sydney
today. “Contrary to many other industrialized countries, you
have not been severely affected by the economic crisis. You have
a very energy-intensive economy, which is very clearly at odds
with where the international community wants to go. I would
argue this is the moment for Australia to make a bold advance.”  Australia, the world’s biggest coal exporter, will impose a
price on carbon in July next year before the start of a trading
system as early as 2015, according to plans set out by the
ruling  Labor Party . The opposition Liberal-National coalition
has vowed to repeal Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s proposal if
it wins the next election.  Developed countries are falling “far short” of achieving
a target of reducing emissions in a range of 25 percent to 40
percent below 1990 levels by 2020, De Boer said. He is hearing
companies in Australia and across the world “cry out for
clarity” on the cost of greenhouse gas emissions, the former UN
official said.  “We are nowhere near, as an international community,
delivering on the ambitions that the scientific community has
said we need to have if we’re really going to address climate
change in a fundamental way,” he said.    China ’s Leadership  In countries such as China, economic expansion plans
reflect an “understanding that we need to see a fundamental
shift,” he said. This is “not just because of  climate change ,
but because of global trends that relate to energy prices,
energy security, material scarcity, and the huge population
growth coming our way,” he said. “In a conversation about
leadership, my inclination would be to point to countries like
China, rather than a number of industrialized nations.”  China, the biggest emitter, has set a target of cutting
greenhouse gas emissions per unit of gross domestic product by
between 40 percent and 45 percent by 2020 from 2005 levels.  “I often hear, ‘Does it actually make any difference if
Australia acts on this issue or not?’ with the argument being
that Australia is small,” said De Boer, who is from the
Netherlands.  “As somebody who comes from a country that’s about the
size of Sydney and  Melbourne  combined, it’s fascinating to hear
Australia talk about itself as being small. The international
community is watching very closely the extent to which
Australian politics and Australian policy develops.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 