-- 
Australian Retail Sales Rise More Than Forecast on Department-Store Spend

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-01T02:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/australia-retail-sales-rise-more-than-forecast-as-consumers-boost-spending.html
Australian retail sales rose more
than economists predicted in January, led by supermarkets and
grocery stores as floods in the nation’s northeast drove up food
prices.  Sales advanced 0.4 percent from a month earlier, when they
gained 0.2 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. That was more than the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 25 economists for a 0.3 percent increase.  Torrential rains in Queensland in December and January
affected about 30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut rail
lines and damaged crops, while Victoria state was also hit 
by floods. The deluge probably boosted prices of goods from 
the region, having a short-term effect on food costs reflected
in today’s report.  “With food the largest component of nominal retail sales,
we suspect that the supply disruptions to fruit and vegetable
prices caused by flooding were largely responsible for higher
prices and not higher volumes,” said  Joshua Williamson , a
senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens has paused
raising  interest rates  for the past two meetings after boosting
borrowing costs seven times from October 2009 to November 2010
as consumer caution eases inflation pressures. Woolworths Ltd.,
the country’s biggest retailer, said last week first-half
earnings rose 6 percent on growth at its supermarkets.  Food Retailers  Spending on food retailing advanced 2.5 percent, and
consumers spent 2.3 percent more at department stores, today’s
report showed. They spent 4.6 percent less on household goods.  The Australian dollar extended earlier gains after the
reports, trading at $1.0187 as of 1:18 p.m. in Sydney from
$1.0180 before the data and $1.0186 yesterday in  New York .  The statistics agency, in today’s report, said while
flooding continued to affect data collection, it hasn’t changed
the “quality or reliability” of the series. The retail figures
released today were based on lower-than-usual responses from
some industries in Queensland, it said.  Sydney-based Woolworths said in a statement on Feb. 25 that
net income rose to A$1.162 billion in the six months ended Dec.
31 from A$1.096 billion a year earlier.  Current Account  A separate report today showed Australia’s current-account
deficit unexpectedly widened in the three months through
December as investors abroad received larger dividends and other
income from holdings in the country.  The shortfall on goods, services and investment rose to
A$7.3 billion from a revised A$6.5 billion in the third quarter,
the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists was for a
A$7 billion gap.  Net exports were “expected to make no contribution” to
gross domestic product growth in the fourth quarter, the bureau
said today. In the previous quarter, net exports subtracted 0.4
percentage point from growth.    Australia ’s economic growth probably accelerated 0.6
percent last quarter from three months earlier, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists
before a report tomorrow. The RBA is forecast to keep rates
unchanged today for a third meeting, according to a separate
poll of analysts.  In minutes of its Feb. 1 meeting, the RBA said it left
interest rates unchanged as consumer restraint slowed inflation.  “The continuation of subdued growth in  consumer spending 
and the lower-than-expected inflation outcomes provided
additional time for the board to assess at future meetings the
evolving balance of risks to both output and inflation,” the
minutes released Feb. 15 in Sydney said.  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  