-- 
Australia Government Reviews Pathology Service to Cut Costs

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-01T05:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/australia-government-reviews-pathology-service-to-cut-costs-1-.html
Australian health professionals will
get cheaper pathology services if companies like  Primary Health
care Ltd . and Sonic Health Care Ltd. have to compete for about
A$2 billion ($2.03 billion) in medical testing contracts, a
review said.  The government-commissioned review said tendering for
pathology services as opposed to a fee-setting system could
deliver a “significant price reduction.” The government will
include any pathology changes for the public health system,
known as Medicare, in its May 10 budget, the review said.  Analysis of pathology tendering elsewhere shows it “has
provided significant price reduction,” the  review  said. “Many
pathology fees, historically set through Medicare arrangements,
are not in line with contemporary practices.”    Ramsay Health Care Ltd .,  Australia ’s biggest private
hospital operator, rose 3.3 percent to A$18.32 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney, the highest since the company went
public in 1997. Primary, which provides medical tests, fell 4.9
percent to A$3.08, the most in more than a year. Sonic dropped
2.9 percent to A$10.95, the lowest in more than three months..    Government spending  on pathology has grown an average of
7.3 percent a year since 1984, the Department of Health and
Ageing review said. Growth slowed to 2.1 percent last year after
the government imposed a 5 percent fee cut in November 2009.
Funding for pathology may increase less than 2 percent this
year, it said.  The review said tenders would be for a defined geographic
area, with multiple suppliers, to provide “a comprehensive
range of pathology tests.” It has called for submissions before
March 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  