-- 
Bank of China Says Yuan Settlement Volume to ‘Greatly’ Increase

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-01T10:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/bank-of-china-says-yuan-settlement-volume-to-greatly-increase.html
  Bank of China Ltd . said the volume
of cross-border yuan settlement handled by its branches will
“greatly” increase this year as expectations for appreciation
make the Chinese currency more attractive to hold.  The volume of yuan settlement handled by the lender’s
domestic branches in January hit 40 billion yuan ($6.1 billion),
already equal to a quarter of last year’s total, Cheng Jun,
general manager of global trade services for Bank of  China ’s
corporate banking unit, said at a briefing in Beijing today.  “We expect this year’s total settlement volume will
greatly exceed last year,” Cheng said. “Yuan settlement will
in turn open up business opportunities in trade finance, risk
management and other new profit driving businesses.”    Bank of China ’s yuan settlement, the only official
designated service in Hong Kong and Macau, has benefited from
expectations that China’s double-digit growth rate,  trade
surplus  and attractiveness as an investment destination will
lead to the appreciation of the currency. Yuan deposits in Hong
Kong surged fivefold from a year earlier at the end of December
to 314.9 billion yuan.  Bank of China’s operations in Hong Kong last year handled
350 billion yuan of settlement transactions, more than double
the 160 billion yuan processed by the lender in China, Cheng
said. The bank’s overseas yuan settlement excluding Hong Kong
was 23 billion yuan last year, he said.  About 80 percent to 90 percent of total settlement volume
at the bank is currently import related, with the yuan from
those transactions leaving China, according to Cheng.  In December,  Hong Kong ’s monetary authority ordered banks
to ensure that customers are buying or selling yuan for trade
settlement purposes rather than for speculation and ruled that
settlements must be conducted within three months of trade
transactions.  Bank of China’s Cheng said that of the 160 billion yuan
handled by the lender’s domestic branches last year, 150 billion
yuan was classified as trade related under China’s current
account.  --Eva Woo,  Henry Sanderson . Editors:  John Liu , Stephanie Wong  To contact the Bloomberg News story on this story:
Eva Woo in Beijing at 
 Ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  