-- 
K+S, Yara Study Option of Purchasing Fertilizer Assets From BASF

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-03-01T15:47:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/basf-seeks-trade-buyer-for-bulk-of-its-fertilizer-business.html
K+S AG,  Europe ’s largest potash
company, and  Yara International ASA  said they’re evaluating
whether fertilizer assets being put up for sale by  BASF SE  would
make viable acquisitions.  BASF plans to carve out a nitrogen plant in Antwerp. K+S,
which is the Belgian plant’s exclusive customer, is considering
if buying the site could be an option, said spokesman Michael Wudonig. He declined to elaborate. The operations may be of
interest at the right price, Yara’s Asle Skredderberget said.  “If K+S wants to be in nitrogen production and not only
sales, and if they get the assets for a good price, then buying
them may make sense,” said Christian Faitz of Macquarie in  Frankfurt . “Still, such production is materially different from
mining, and I don’t know if K+S would be prepared to pour their
lifeblood into this.”  BASF’s fertilizer exit heralds the likely reduction in
BASF’s 10 percent holding in K+S, according to Cheuvreux analyst
Martin Roediger. Andrei Melnichenko, K+S’s largest shareholder,
has already reduced his stake in the Kassel, Germany-based
company to below 15 percent and a similar move by BASF may spur
speculation of a takeover bid, said Roediger, adding that those
hopes would be unwarranted.  Faitz recommends clients to “buy” K+S and sees them
rising to 65 euros within 12 months. He has a “neutral” rating
on BASF, which he sees falling to 65 euros by then. K+S added 1
percent to 56.52 euros as of 4:03 p.m. local time.  BASF is also seeking a buyer for a share of a joint venture
with  Total SA  in Ottmarsheim,  France . Together with the Antwerp
site, the businesses generate annual revenue of about 500
million euros ($691 million).  Unlikely Buyer  Oslo-based Yara International ASA is the world’s largest
publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, competing with  Russia ’s EuroChem and CF Industries Holdings of Deerfield,  Illinois .  K+S is unlikely to buy the assets because of its change in
strategy in 2010 to focus on potash and salt, Cheuvreux’s
Roediger said.  The move highlights BASF’s steps to refocus away from
cyclical products and follows a November agreement with Ineos
Group Holdings to bundle styrene-plastic operations into a
single entity. BASF purchased personal-care ingredient maker
Cognis on Dec. 9.  “Our aim is to find a strategic investor who sees
fertilizer as their core business,” Juliana Ernst, a
spokeswoman for BASF, said by telephone. The assets generate
sales in the “mid three-digit-million euro” region, Ernst
said.  Fertilizer operations at BASF’s chemical complex in
Ludwigshafen will be retained. BASF plans to complete the
transaction by the first quarter of 2012.  K+S runs its nitrogen operations as a trading business,
with BASF and Leverkusen, Germany-based  Lanxess AG  supplying it
with ammonium sulphate and nitrogen fertilizers. The unit sold
4.7 million tons of products last year, according to a December
 presentation .  K+S will continue to be supplied by the Antwerp plant even
after a sale, the company said in a separate statement today.
The contract can be terminated by BASF or a potential buyer as
of Dec. 31, 2014, at the earliest, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 