-- 
Belgium's Debt Is Great Unifier as Government Talks Head Into 10th Month

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-03-01T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/belgium-debt-load-is-great-unifier-as-government-talks-head-to-10th-month.html
There are 342 billion reasons why  Belgium  won’t break apart.  That figure is the size of the national debt in euros:
31,560 euros ($43,560) for every Belgian on both sides of the
north-south schism that has left the linguistically fractured
country without a government 262 days after national elections.  Unwilling to subsidize the economically depressed French-
speaking south, the richer Dutch-speaking north is determined to
grab powers from federal authorities. Looming over both is
Europe’s third-highest debt load -- keeping the country in
political limbo yet preventing it from unraveling.  “Belgium blowing up, to put it quaintly, I find that hard
to imagine,” says Elmar Keutgen, 63, mayor of Eupen in the
German-speaking east, itself a byproduct of Belgium’s patchwork
history. “There are a few unifying things: There’s the king,
Brussels, the national debt and the easygoing lifestyle.”  Belgium’s political class -- led by Flemish nationalist
Bart  De Wever , the top vote-getter in the north in the June 13
election, and Socialist Elio Di Rupo, the winner in the French
region -- has been unable to break the deadlock and forge a
coalition to keep Europe’s fiscal crisis from lapping over the
country’s borders.  With interruptions for summer vacation, Christmas holidays
and the February ski break, negotiations -- sometimes directly,
sometimes through royal mediators -- have dwelled on
institutional arrangements such as more regional control of
health-care and unemployment insurance or the redistricting of
voting precincts around Brussels, the mostly French-speaking
capital and headquarters of the European Union and the  North
Atlantic Treaty Organization .  Failed Mediation  The eighth political troubleshooting mission broke down
yesterday, when Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  failed to
broker a constitutional accord.  King Albert II  gave no
indication what his next move will be.  Little effort has gone into pocketbook issues like taxes,
crime-fighting, filling the potholes left from winter snows or
cutting the  budget deficit  toward the euro area’s limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product from 4.6 percent last year.  “It’s been  Groundhog Day  over and over again,” says Marc De Vos, a Ghent University law professor. “Part of the reason
why the status quo can just continue forever for now is that
externally there is not a lot of pressure. What happens if we
have a real oil crisis? What happens in March or April when  Europe  starts really hitting the nails in terms of budget
policy? If we will reform, it will take a lot of external
pressure.”  Bond Spreads  An inkling of that pressure came in January, when Belgium
got caught up in investors’ flight from bonds of high-debt
states. Belgium’s 10-year yield rose to 139.9 basis points above
the German level on Jan. 11, the highest in at least 18 years.
The extra yield has since slipped back to 108 basis points --
still above the euro-era average of 80 basis points.  The 76-year-old king, on the throne since 1993, stepped
close to the limits of his authority as a constitutional monarch
on Feb. 2 by ordering the caretaker prime minister, Yves Leterme, to draw up a 2011 budget and make contingency plans to
meet European fiscal targets in future years.  A day later, Leterme, a Flemish conservative with a French-
sounding name who once confused Belgium’s national anthem with  France ’s Marseillaise, told VRT television that higher-than-
forecast economic growth will do the job for him, ruling out the
need for tax increases or spending cuts.  With growth in export-oriented Belgium tabbed by the
national forecasting agency at 2 percent in 2011, some business
leaders aren’t stressed by the absence of a fully empowered
government.  ‘Political Soap Opera’  For Bert De Graeve, chief executive officer of Flanders-
based Bekaert NV, the world’s largest maker of steel cord for
tires, the “political soap opera” is less of a problem than a
planned March 4 union strike for higher wages.  “Let the parties continue to talk,” De Graeve says. “The
more they do, the bigger the chance some will wake up to
reality.”  Belgium has straddled Europe’s political, ideological and
economic fault lines since Napoleon’s 1815 defeat at Waterloo,
just south of Brussels. Having been then pasted together with
the Netherlands and then winning its independence in 1830, the
kingdom was at first dominated by a French-speaking elite. Its
coal and steel industries made Belgium one of the world’s
leading commercial powers on the eve of World War I.  Flanders Rising  As the sun set on the industrial era, Flanders rose to
prominence. Belgium’s version of the youth revolts of the 1960s
featured Flemish students booting the French out of the
country’s largest university, in Dutch-speaking Leuven. Power
has since flowed to the north in five constitutional revamps.  Animated by the belief that Belgium won’t be around
forever, De Wever’s N-VA party is seeking to put Flanders in
charge of its economic destiny. Home to companies such as  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV  and Europe’s second-largest port in
Antwerp, Flanders generates annual  economic production per
person  of 31,067 euros, according to 2009 figures. Blighted by
industrial decay, the French-speaking south musters output per
person of 22,868 euros.  The gulf mirrors the incomes and competitiveness gap at the
root of Europe’s economic malady, with richer countries such as
Germany and  Finland  balking at granting more aid to the fiscally
downtrodden  Greece  or Ireland.  “The important thing is to secure that we don’t get that
split in the European Union,” said Gunnar Hokmark, a Swedish
member of the  European Parliament . “The more we open up the
internal market, the less we will have the problem that we see
in Belgium.”  Revenue Sharing  In Belgium, though, one thing is different: the federal
revenue-sharing system requires the Flemish to prop up their
French compatriots. Flanders forked over 5.8 billion euros, or
967 euros per Fleming, to the French region in 2005, the year of
a central bank number-crunching exercise too politically
sensitive to be repeated since.  At 97.2 percent of GDP, the national debt is lower only
than Greece’s and  Italy ’s in the 17-nation euro region. Even the
most ardent Flemish separatists have no plan for dividing it up.
In a  position paper  predicting that the federal government will
“evaporate,” De Wever’s party skirts the debt question.  “We don’t want to think about a Plan B -- our thinking is
geared toward a unified Belgium,” says Michael Verbauwhede, a
25-year-old Brussels law student who co-sponsored a university
protest against political inertia. “Look at all the European
regions like the Basque country, Brittany,  Scotland  with their
independence movements. The situation is worrisome for
everyone.”  ‘French-Fry Revolution’  Dubbed the  “French-fry revolution,”  the Feb. 17
demonstrations drew 5,000 students countrywide, showcasing the
wry humor that is a Belgian trademark. The revolutionaries
claimed that on that day, Belgium set the world record for going
the longest without a government, surpassing  Iraq . The same
mindset is behind a  http://www.belgiq.eu/  website that displays
a Google-like error message “Government Not Found.”  “Belgium’s image in the outside world right now is
catastrophic,” says Laurent Louis, 31, a French-speaking member
of parliament who, in a reflection of Belgium’s fragmented
politics, broke with one maverick party to found his own. “It’s
important to support the students’ French fry revolution --
obviously with some Belgian mussels -- just to show that this is
the real Belgium.”  Le Soir, the country’s leading French-language newspaper,
has a prize for whoever guesses when a government will be found.
The lucky tipster will win his or her weight in  waffles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  