-- 
Bentley, Maserati Flaunt Top Models in Geneva to Tap Rebound in Spending

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-03-01T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/bentley-maserati-flaunt-top-models-in-geneva-to-tap-rebound-in-spending.html
Bentley Motors , Bugatti and Maserati
are flaunting some of the most extravagant and powerful vehicles
they’ve ever made at the Geneva auto show this week as the
superrich in the U.S. and China resume spending.  Bentley unveiled the 243,000-euro ($335,000) Continental
Supersports ISR, which set a new world record last month in
driving on ice at 330.7 kilometers per hour (206 miles per
hour). Bugatti put three models on display, including the  Super
Sport  priced at 1.9 million euros.  “The number of wealthy buyers worldwide is clearly on the
rise,”  Wolfgang Duerheimer , chief executive officer of Bentley
and Bugatti, both part of  Volkswagen AG ’s stable of ultra-luxury
brands, said yesterday in an interview. “It’s a suitable time
for new products. The barometer is pointing up.”  Supercar sales are growing amid renewed optimism in the
finance industry after the  U.S. economy  expanded 2.9 percent
last year, the most in five years. Lamborghini, another VW
division which is presenting the 700-horsepower Aventador, its
most powerful serial model ever, may sell more vehicles in China
than in the U.S. this year, according to CEO Stephan Winkelmann.  Deliveries in the U.S., the top market for the most
expensive cars, may surge 146 percent in 2011 for vehicles
costing from $200,000 to $400,000, according to Lexington,
Massachusetts-based IHS Automotive.    China , the world’s biggest auto market, will remain the
fastest growing major economy in 2011, with a 9.6 percent
expansion, the  International Monetary Fund  predicts.  Aventador  “The Asia-Pacific area only suffered a little drop”
during the economic recession, Winkelmann said in an interview
in Geneva. “The super-luxury market is coming back.”  While Winkelmann says the 255,000-euro Aventador will be
“one of the main drivers” of public attention, Lamborghini
will have to compete with models made by Maserati and Ferrari at
the annual  exhibition , which opens to the public tomorrow and
runs through March 13.  Maserati is presenting its GranCabrio Sport, a sportier
version of its GranCabrio with a top speed of 285 kilometers per
hour. The manufacturer is starting to collect orders for the
450-horsepower vehicle, which will be on sale from September.
Maserati plans to further boost sales in China, where its
deliveries rose 54 percent last year, outpacing a 47 percent
increase in the U.S. Both manufacturers belong to Turin, Italy-
based  Fiat SpA .  GranTurismo MC Stradale  Maserati, based in Modena, will begin to deliver its top-
of-the-line GranTurismo MC Stradale this month. The company
already sold out the first 200 of the 156,000-euro flagship
model. The car surges to 100 kilometers per hour in 4.6 seconds
and has a top speed of 301 kilometers per hour.  “At the top of the market the overall trend globally looks
to be good, helped by improvements in the mature economies such
as the U.S. and western  Europe  alongside growth in China, the
Middle East and  Russia ,” said  Ian Fletcher , an analyst at IHS
Automotive in  London .  Ferrari unveiled the four-seat 260,000-euro FF, its first
four-wheel drive model. The company aims to build 800 FFs
annually, with the first year of production already sold out,
Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo said yesterday.  “Lower down the scale, the McLaren MP4-12C will find a
customer in those who perhaps want something that isn’t the
Ferrari F430,” said Fletcher. “The Bentley Continental GT has
also got a bit of a following now and this is likely to carry on
with the new next generation.”  Bentley’s 640-horsepower ISR model will be limited to 100
units, Duerheimer said, forecasting the series may be sold out
by the summer. Bugatti has now sold 294 Veyron supercars and
orders for the remaining six vehicles may be given away in
Geneva, the CEO said.  “The ISR is like a raging bull,” Duerheimer said. “I’m
pretty confident it will sell fairly quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Geneva via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Geneva via 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 