-- 
Fed’s Bullard Sees Europe Debt Crisis as Top Risk to U.S. Economic Outlook

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-18T16:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/fed-s-bullard-sees-europe-debt-crisis-as-top-risk-to-u-s-economic-outlook.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the European sovereign-debt crisis
has surpassed rising oil prices to become the biggest risk to
the economic outlook in the U.S.  “I would have said oil a few weeks ago, but now with those
prices retreating, just sitting here today, I’m a little more
worried about  Europe  than anything else,” Bullard said today in
an interview at Bloomberg’s global headquarters in New York.  The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond rose 17 basis points
today to 15.8 percent, more than twice the rate at the time of
the country’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue a year ago.
European Union finance ministers for the first time this week
floated the idea of extending  Greece ’s debt-repayment schedule
as the nation struggles to meet the terms of the rescue.  Any such decision “has the potential to rock global
financial markets, so it has to be handled very carefully,”
Bullard said. “I do think we’ll get a solution at the end of
the day because I do think there’s a lot of resolve in Europe
among policy makers to keep the European project alive, keep the
euro alive.” Still, “it’s hard to see exactly what they’re
going to do at this point.”  Commodity prices have diminished as a risk to the economy,
Bullard said. The price of oil has fallen about 12 percent since
April 29, when crude traded in  New York  settled at $113.93 a
barrel, the highest since September 2008. The drop underscores
the view of Fed officials that the rise in commodity prices may
have a transitory effect on overall inflation.  ‘New Phase’  In a separate interview today on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg on the Economy,” Bullard said “the European
sovereign-debt crisis has entered a new phase here where
decisions have to be made.”  “It’s very difficult, you’re trying to negotiate between
16 or 17 countries,” he said. “Unfortunately, that creates a
lot of uncertainty in the European markets.”  Bullard, 50, doesn’t vote this year on Fed monetary policy.
He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in 1990 and
became president of the bank in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  