-- 
Bernanke Sees Temporary Inflation Gain From Commodities

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-01T19:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/bernanke-sees-temporary-inflation-growth-from-crude-oil-commodity-prices.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the surge in oil and other commodity prices
probably won’t cause a permanent increase in broader inflation
and repeated that borrowing costs are likely to stay low.  Experience with such price gains in recent decades, along
with currently stable labor costs, suggests a “temporary and
relatively modest increase in U.S. consumer price inflation,”
Bernanke said today in his semi-annual monetary policy testimony
before the Senate Banking Committee in Washington. He reiterated
the Fed’s outlook that while growth will accelerate this year,
he still wants to see a “sustained period of stronger  job
creation .”  The comments suggest the Fed will stay on course to
complete $600 billion of Treasury purchases through June in a
bid to reduce an  unemployment rate  persisting at 9 percent or
higher for almost two years. Bernanke didn’t say what the Fed’s
next step will be after finishing the bond buying under record
monetary stimulus that has been criticized by Republicans he’s
facing today and tomorrow.  Even with his inflation outlook, “sustained rises in the
prices of oil or other commodities would represent a threat both
to economic growth and to overall price stability, particularly
if they were to cause inflation expectations to become less well
anchored,” said Bernanke, 57, a former Princeton University
economist. “We will continue to monitor these developments
closely and are prepared to respond as necessary to best support
the ongoing recovery in a context of  price stability .”  Oil Rallies  Oil for April delivery rallied 2.7 percent to $99.63 a
barrel in New York, the highest since September 2008, amid
speculation unrest in the Middle East and northern  Africa  will
disrupt supplies. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.3
percent to 1,310.20 as of 2:53 p.m. on concern rising energy
costs will threaten the economic recovery.  “There is no rush to tighten” monetary policy, said  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global Inc. in New
York. “Growth has improved, but we have a long way to go.
Bernanke is emphasizing that a sustained labor-market recovery
is not yet established.” In addition, Bernanke’s message is
that “while they are watching commodity prices, they will have
only have a temporary impact on inflation,” O’Sullivan said.  A separate report today showed U.S. manufacturing
accelerated in February to the fastest pace since May 2004. The
Tempe, Arizona-based  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index increased to 61.4 from 60.8 a month earlier. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth.  Sixth Year  Now in his sixth year as Fed chief, Bernanke helped
navigate the world’s largest economy through an 18-month
contraction, the longest slump since the Great Depression,
according to the  National Bureau of Economic Research .  Under questioning from senators, Bernanke said he didn’t
think there would be a “big impact” on market interest rates
when the Fed ends its asset purchases, because rates are
affected more by the stock of central bank holdings rather than
the flow of purchases.  The chairman repeated his call for lawmakers to adopt a
long-term plan to reduce the federal government’s debt, and said
the Fed won’t buy state debt to alleviate any funding crunch.
It’s “possible” that U.S. states could pose a risk to the
financial system, he said.  “Currently, while states are facing very tough financial
conditions, at least as long as the recovery continues, they are
seeing higher tax revenues and that will at least be helpful to
some of them,” Bernanke said.  Deflation Risk  Since August, when Bernanke signaled the Fed might buy
securities to stimulate the economy, “downside risks to the
recovery have receded, and the risk of deflation has become
negligible,” he said today.  Last week, the Commerce Department reduced its estimate of
fourth-quarter economic growth to a 2.8 percent annual pace from
3.2 percent as state and local governments made deeper cuts in
spending. Consumer purchases rose at a 4.1 percent pace, the
most since the same three months in 2006, compared with a 4.4
percent rate originally estimated.  Inflation is likely to remain low through 2013, Bernanke
said. Crude oil has gained 14 percent since Feb. 18 as political
turmoil intensified in  Libya , Africa’s third-biggest oil
producer.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, matching
December’s year-over-year gain, the lowest in five decades of
record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation
of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  Global Demand  Increases in commodity prices in recent months mainly
reflect “rising global demand for raw materials, particularly
in some fast-growing emerging market economies, coupled with
constraints on global supply in some cases,” Bernanke said. He
also said that commodity prices “have risen significantly in
terms of all major currencies,” rejecting the idea that the
Fed’s easy monetary policy is responsible.  Increases in gasoline prices, “while obviously a problem
for a lot of people,” don’t pose a major risk yet to the
recovery or inflation, Bernanke said.  Fed officials differed in January over whether signs that
the recovery is gaining strength would warrant reducing or
slowing record monetary stimulus, according to minutes of the
Jan. 25-26 meeting by the policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee . The panel next meets on March 15.    New York  Fed President  William Dudley , who serves as the
FOMC’s vice chairman, said in a speech yesterday that the
“considerably brighter” economic outlook isn’t yet reason for
the central bank to withdraw its record monetary stimulus.  High Threshold  At the FOMC’s December meeting, some Fed officials
indicated that “they had a fairly high threshold for making
changes to the program” of so-called quantitative easing,
according to minutes of the session.  Fed policy makers “continue to regularly review the asset
purchase program in light of incoming information, and we will
adjust it as needed to promote the achievement of our mandate
from the Congress of maximum employment and stable prices,”
Bernanke said today. “We have all the tools we need to achieve
a smooth and effective exit at the appropriate time.”  Bernanke signaled the possible use of an additional tool by
saying the Fed can drain money from the banking system by
“ceasing the reinvestment of principal payments on the
securities it holds,” reversing a policy begun in August.  Growth Forecasts  The Fed chief and his colleagues in recent months have
forecast that growth would pick up this year without producing a
big drop in joblessness. In January projections made public on
Feb. 16, central bankers said inflation-adjusted gross domestic
product would rise 3.4 percent to 3.9 percent this year,
compared with November forecasts of 3 percent to 3.6 percent.    Service industries  expanded in January at the fastest pace
since August 2005, while manufacturing grew by the most since
2004, according to reports last month from the Institute for
Supply Management.  Manufacturers such as  Deere & Co. (DE)  are raising profit
forecasts as business investment in new equipment accelerates
and exports climb as the global economy recovers.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed in the week
through Feb. 20 to the highest level since April 2008 as
Americans grew less pessimistic about their finances.  At the same time, the labor market “has improved only
slowly,” and it may take “several years” for the unemployment
rate to reach a “more normal level,” Bernanke said today.  Bernanke reiterated his view that the asset-purchase plan
has helped narrow corporate bond spreads and boost share prices.
The  S&P 500  has increased 9 percent since Nov. 3, when policy
makers announced the program.  Enhancing Transparency  He said the Fed “will continue to seek ways of enhancing
our transparency without compromising our ability to conduct
policy in the public interest.” Bernanke didn’t announce any
new steps toward increasing communication with the public; Fed
officials are reviewing options including having the chairman
hold regular press conferences.  Also today, the Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco  said
it had chosen its research director, John C. Williams, 48, as
its new president. He replaces  Janet Yellen , who left last year
to become the Fed board’s vice chairman. Williams will
participate in the central bank’s policy discussions and vote on
the Federal Open Market Committee once every three years,
starting in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  