-- 
Centro Swaps Australian Malls for Debt After $9.4 Billion Blackstone Deal

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-03-01T05:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/blackstone-to-buy-centro-properties-s-u-s-malls-for-about-9-4-billion.html
  Centro Properties Group  has agreed
with a majority of creditors to swap debt for its Australian
shopping centers after  Blackstone Group LP  bought the company’s
588 U.S. malls for $9.4 billion.  Holders of about 73 percent of Centro’s liabilities agreed
to cancel the Melbourne-based company’s senior debt in exchange
for the Australian malls. Centro, which had a stock market value
of about A$8.5 billion ($8.7 billion) in May 2007, will be left
with $100 million to distribute to shareholders and other
minority interests after the deal, it said in a statement today.  Centro creditors, mostly hedge funds who purchased the debt
from its original lenders, gain 108 properties in  Australia ,
where unemployment is about half the U.S. level. For Blackstone,
the purchase signals the world’s largest private-equity firm is
betting on a recovery in U.S. commercial real estate after the
subprime crisis.  “We have previously said that the capital structure of
Centro is unsustainable in its current form,” Centro Chairman  Paul Cooper  said in the statement. A deal with creditors “will
return Centro to a positive equity position and potentially
allow Centro to return some value to its stakeholders.”  About $600 million from the sale will be used to pay off
debt on Centro Properties’ Australian assets, and $500 million
to cut debt in Centro Retail Trust, its listed property vehicle,
to 43 percent of assets from 75 percent, the company said.  Unified Trust  Centro plans to combine all its Australian funds into one
listed trust, it said, with Centro Properties’ share being
distributed to its senior lenders. Shareholders in Centro Retail
will continue to invest in the new vehicle, and investors in its
managed funds will exchange their holdings for shares in the new
entity, Chief Executive Officer Robert Tsenin said on a
conference call today.  “Centro headstock equity holders have done better than I
expected with the payout,” said Stuart Cartledge, managing
director at Phoenix Portfolios in  Melbourne . “With Centro
Retail, the sale of the assets materially changes the nature of
that investment now, from being something that was highly geared
and quite scary to being something that’s far more sensibly
geared and more easily accessible.”  Centro shares slumped 13 percent to 13 Australian cents at
the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney, the lowest since Aug.
12, 2009. Centro Retail Trust shares surged as much as 10
percent before ending the day up 2.9 percent at 35.5 cents.  Centro Properties has a market capitalization of A$126.4
million, and Centro Retail A$811.7 million at today’s close.  There’s no guarantee an agreement with creditors will occur,
Centro said, while the sale of the U.S. assets is expected to
close around the middle of the year. A sale of its Australian
assets is still a possibility, Tsenin said.  Expansion Backfires  Centro, which manages A$16.5 billion of shopping malls in
Australia,  New Zealand  and the U.S., had A$16 billion of debt
across all its businesses as of Dec. 31, with A$3.1 billion of
loans due by the end of this year.  Centro first announced a restructure in 2009 after a debt-
fueled U.S. buying spree backfired when the global financial
crisis caused property values to plummet and borrowing costs to
soar, leaving Centro unable to refinance its ballooning debt.  Since then, property and financial markets have improved:
the S&P/ASX 200 Index has climbed 54 percent since its trough in
March 2009, and U.S. commercial property values are back to
where they were five years ago.  Centro returned to profit, posting net income of A$553.4
million in the fiscal first half, as the value of its properties
rose and the Australian dollar strengthened. Centro Retail 
reported a A$292 million profit for the period.  Credit Crunch  Former Chief Executive Officer Andrew Scott borrowed to
accumulate malls to raise management income and accelerate
profit growth. Attempts since then to raise enough capital to
repay the debt had been largely unsuccessful, and Glenn Rufrano,
who took over from Scott in January 2008, stepped down two years
later to be replaced by Tsenin.  Centro’s lenders, including BNP Paribas SA and  National
Australia Bank Ltd ., which took stakes in Centro in December
2008 to cancel some debt and keep the company out of bankruptcy,
recently sold their holdings at losses to hedge funds.  Blackstone’s affiliate BRE Retail Holdings Inc. will pay a
1.3 percent discount to the U.S. malls value as of Dec. 31,
Centro said in the statement today.  ‘Extract Value’  The purchase is Blackstone’s biggest deal since October
2007, when it bought Hilton Worldwide Inc., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The team at Blackstone’s very sharp and they know how to
extract value from a portfolio like this,” said  Dan Fasulo ,
managing director at Real Capital Analytics Inc. in  New York , a
real estate research firm.  Defaults on U.S. commercial real estate mortgages held by
U.S. banks fell in the fourth quarter from the previous three
months, the first decline in almost five years, according to
Real Capital.  Blackstone’s purchase could boost other U.S. real estate
investment trusts, analysts at Citigroup Inc. led by Quentin Velleley wrote in a report dated Feb. 28.  “The deal could support REIT valuations, given a large
portion of Centro’s U.S. assets are B grade,” they wrote. “If
the Centro platform is recapitalized and used to acquire B
assets, private market valuations of B assets would be
supported.”  Supply Shortage  The purchase will give Blackstone ownership of 556
community and neighborhood shopping centers, seven malls and
lifestyle centers, 11 “miscellaneous” properties and nine land
parcels in 39 states. New supply of neighborhood and community
centers is at a 30-year low, according to Victor Calanog, an
economist at New York-based real estate research firm Reis Inc.  The malls, anchored mainly by  discount stores  and
supermarket chains, add to Blackstone’s recent $500 million
investment in U.S. mall owner General Growth Properties Inc. The
private equity firm also formed a venture with Glimcher Realty
Trust in March 2010 to look for retail acquisitions including
the Pearlridge mall in  Hawaii , which it bought later in the year.  Besides retail, Blackstone has been buying hotel and
warehouse assets in a wager on better times ahead.  The total equity proceeds for Centro, Centro Retail Trust
and its other managed funds from the sale to Blackstone are
$1.38 billion, Centro said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  