-- 
Bloomberg Television Launches New Technology Program

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-01T22:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/bloomberg-television-launches-new-technology-program.html

Press Release  “Bloomberg West” to Air Weekdays at 3 PM PT/6 PM ET; Repeats 8
PM PT/11 PM ET    New York  and  San Francisco  -- Bloomberg Television today
announced the launch of “ Bloomberg West ,” the only daily
business news program to focus exclusively on innovation,
technology and the future of business.  Airing weekdays at 3pm
PT/6pm ET, “Bloomberg West” will provide in-depth coverage of
the tech giants, entrepreneurs, media moguls and venture
capitalists shaping the world of business and investing from  California .  The hour-long program can be seen via live
Webstream at  http://www.bloomberg.com/tv/  as well as on
Bloomberg Television’s global news channel, available in more
than 252 million homes worldwide.  Hosted by  Emily Chang  and  Cory Johnson , “Bloomberg West” expands
Bloomberg’s growing technology coverage.  With a team of over 60
San Francisco-based editors and reporters, Bloomberg News
provides continuous daily coverage of the large-scale technology
companies, privately-held start-ups, venture capitalists and
entrepreneurs fueling the next generation of innovation.  “Bloomberg has been breaking more exclusives in the technology
space than ever before, on the major technology players that
Bloomberg’s core audience of business professionals care about,”
said Jeff Taylor, Bloomberg Television’s managing editor for
West Coast-based coverage. “We look forward to bringing our
viewers daily, live coverage of this hugely important area for
investors, entrepreneurs and tech consumers.”  “Bloomberg West” host Emily Chang joined Bloomberg from her
previous role as a correspondent for  CNN  in Beijing and  London .
Chang brings extensive experience covering Asian markets and the
influence of technology on society, government, business and
politics. Chang is joined by co-host Cory Johnson, a seasoned
investor and investigative journalist who previously served as a
hedge fund manager.  Johnson was also CNBC’s first-ever Silicon
Valley correspondent and prior to that, founded TheStreet.com’s
West Coast Bureau.  About Bloomberg Television  Bloomberg Television is the only truly global business news
channel, reaching more than 250 million homes around the world
from the network’s studios in New York, London and  Hong Kong .
The network provides breaking news coverage and analysis of the
people, companies and ideas that move the markets.  For more
information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about  and follow us on Twitter
( @BloombergTV ) and  Facebook .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses.  Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms.  Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations with more than 2,300 news and
multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Contact:  Amanda Cowie, +1 212-617-1689,  acowie@bloomberg.net 
