-- 
Boeing Seeks to Develop Indian Fighter Jets, Equip Manned Space Missions

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-03-01T04:31:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/boeing-seeks-to-help-develop-india-fighter-equip-space-missions.html
  Boeing Co ., the second-biggest U.S.
defense contractor, is seeking to help  India  develop a medium-
fighter jet to boost sales in a defense market it expects to be
worth $31 billion over the next 10 years.  The planemaker is also interested in cooperating with
India’s Defence Research and Development Organisation on aero-
structures, avionics and materials, Vivek Lall, the head of its
Indian defense and space operations, said in a Feb. 25 interview
in  New Delhi . The Chicago-based company is in talks to sell
equipment for manned space missions, he said.  Boeing has separately bid to sell India 126 multirole
fighters in an $11 billion deal and military helicopters, taking
advantage of improving U.S.-India ties.  Lockheed Martin Corp .,
European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. and BAE Systems Plc. are
also seeking sales in India and other emerging markets as
western nations pare military spending as part of wider budget
cuts.  Boeing’s discussions with the Indian Space Research
Organisation cover crew accommodation units, reusable space
systems and composite cryogenic tanks, Lall said. The U.S. last
year ended a ban on selling space and military equipment to
India that was introduced following nuclear tests in 1998.  India is developing a twin-engine medium-combat aircraft in
the 20-ton category with stealth capabilities that may
eventually replace the air force’s fleet of Mirage-2000 and
Jaguars. Last year, the country separately signed a deal to co-
operate with  Russia  on developing a larger 30-ton fighter.  The Indian Air Force is also seeking to buy 22 attack
helicopters and 15 transport ones. Boeing is offering its  Apache 
and Chinook models.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net 
BA US <Equity> CN 