-- 
Sterling Reaches 13-Month High Versus Dollar on Signs of Economic Growth

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-03-01T17:37:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/british-pound-strengthens-as-house-prices-unexpectedly-rise-gilts-decline.html
The pound strengthened to above
$1.63 for the first time since January 2010 after an unexpected
rise in U.K. house prices and manufacturing sentiment at a
record high boosted speculation that interest rates may rise.  Sterling also advanced against the euro and was the biggest
gainer after the Norwegian krone in a basket of 10 developed-
nation currencies as measured by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  Nationwide Building Society  said the average
cost of a U.K. home increased 0.3 percent in February, compared
with a 0.2 percent contraction predicted in a Bloomberg survey
of economists. An index of U.K. manufacturing stayed at 61.5
last month, matching a record high reached in January, Markit
Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply 
said in a report today.  “The interest-rate argument is pushing sterling higher,”
said  David Bloom , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at
HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “We would resist that temptation.
We think sterling is going to retrace its gains. If they raise
interest rates it’ll be a mistake.”  The pound rose 0.2 percent to $1.6289 as of 5:20 p.m. in  London , and appreciated 0.2 percent to 84.78 pence per euro. The
currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 133.35 yen and 0.1 percent
to 1.5116 Swiss francs.  Price Growth  Britain’s currency has advanced 4.3 percent against the
dollar this year amid mounting speculation that the Bank of
England will raise interest rates from a record low 0.5 percent
to quell inflation. Consumer-price growth accelerated to an
annual 4 percent in January, the 14th consecutive month above
the government’s 2 percent target.  Increasing the benchmark interest rate as a gesture in the
fight against inflation would be “self-defeating,” Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  said, according to statements to
lawmakers in London today. Still, King said he expects to have
to write letters to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
explaining why the rate is above the 3 percent upper limit
“through the rest of this of this year.”  King was forced to write a fifth letter after the January
data was released on Feb. 15.  “I don’t believe we’ve yet seen significant evidence of a
pickup in medium-term inflation expectations,” King told
parliament’s cross-party Treasury Committee. Still, it’s
“reasonable to believe that if we continue to experience above-
target inflation for long enough there could be an upside risk
to inflation expectations,” he added.  MPC Split  Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has led calls for the central
bank to raise its benchmark interest rate since June and last
month voted for a 50 basis-point increase. Minutes from the
bank’s Feb. 10 meeting showed policy maker Spencer Dale joined
Sentance and  Martin Weale  in voting for higher borrowing costs.  Dale and Weale favored a 25 basis point rise. The next rate
decision is due on March 10.  Weale said today that he is “more worried” than other
members of the monetary policy committee about the potential for
a rise in inflation expectations, according to statements to
lawmakers. Parts of the private sector were also exhibiting
“wage buoyancy,” he said.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, an indication of
investors’ inflation expectations over the life of the
securities, derived from the yield gap between conventional and
index-linked bonds, rose two basis points to 3.26 percent, the
highest since Feb. 10.  Bean Comments  Charles Bean, the deputy governor of the  Bank of England ,
said in parliament today that the effect of a weaker pound on
U.K. consumer prices was bigger than anticipated. The pound has
weakened 18 percent against the dollar since the end of 2007.  Ten-year gilt yields, typically less responsive to short-
term rate expectations, climbed two basis points to 3.62
percent, while two-year yields were unchanged at 1.4 percent.  Money markets signal policy makers will probably raise the
key rate by about 64 basis points by year-end, according to
sterling overnight index average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc
data show. So-called Sonia rates indicate an increase of about
21 basis points in May.  The U.K. sold 4 billion pounds of 2 percent securities due
in January 2016 today at an average yield of 2.658 percent
compared with 2.701 percent at a previous auction of the debt on
Feb. 1. Investors bid for 1.79 times the securities on offer,
down from 1.93 at the earlier sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  