-- 
Buffett's 2008 Investment in Goldman Sachs Was Leaked by Gupta, SEC Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-01T23:07:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/buffett-s-trust-in-goldman-sachs-betrayed-by-insider-trade-leak-sec-says.html
  Warren Buffett ’s decision to invest
in Goldman Sachs Group Inc. during the financial crisis was
leaked to a hedge fund by Rajat K. Gupta, who was then on the
bank’s board, U.S. regulators said.  Gupta alerted hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam  to
Buffett’s $5 billion investment in the company before the deal
was made public in September 2008, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in an administrative order today. Rajaratnam’s
Galleon Group made more than $18 million on that tip and other
insider information from Gupta, the SEC said.  “Gupta was honored with the highest trust of leading
public companies, and he betrayed that trust by disclosing their
most sensitive and valuable secrets,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement. “Directors who violate the
sanctity of board room confidences for private gain will be held
to account for their illegal actions.”  Buffett, the 80-year-old chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc ., has spoken out against Wall Street greed and said the
pursuit of short-term profit can compromise longer-term
performance. His 2008 investment was a bet “not just on the
strength of Goldman, but its integrity,” Berkshire Director Ron Olson said in an interview with Bloomberg Television last year.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment to Carrie Kizer, an assistant.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment on the SEC’s accusation against Gupta.
Berkshire makes $500 million a year in interest on the Goldman
Sachs investment. Warrants that Buffett negotiated as part of
the deal give Berkshire a paper profit of more than $2 billion.  ‘Totally Baseless’  “The SEC’s allegations are totally baseless,” Gupta’s
attorney,  Gary Naftalis , said in a statement. “Mr. Gupta has
done nothing wrong and is confident that these unfounded
allegations will be rejected by any fair and impartial fact
finder.”  Buffett’s support buoyed New York-based Goldman Sachs as
the bank navigated the credit crunch and was criticized by
lawmakers. Buffett, whose relationship with Goldman Sachs dates
to his childhood when he met an executive of the bank, defended
the firm and Chairman  Lloyd Blankfein  after the company was sued
by the SEC for fraud last year.  “If it’s just one individual found to have acted
improperly, I don’t think it will have long-term consequence
unless something is implicated in the Goldman control
structure,” said  Charles Elson , director of the University of  Delaware ’s John. L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance .  ‘Important Client’  Buffett is “an important client as well as an investor,”
said Blankfein, also Goldman Sachs’s chief executive officer, in
an interview in April. Buffett, the world’s third-richest
person, said in May that he supports Blankfein “100 percent.”  Goldman Sachs settled the SEC’s lawsuit in July by agreeing
to pay $550 million, and said it made a mistake in omitting
disclosure to investors. The regulator had said the bank’s
clients weren’t told when they invested in a collateralized debt
obligation from the bank that a hedge fund picked mortgages in
the investment and was betting on them to fail. Buffett said it
makes no difference who was on the other side of a trade.  Gupta, who stepped down from Goldman Sachs’s board last
year, was a direct or indirect investor in some of the Galleon
hedge funds at the time of the tips, the SEC said. Gupta, 62,
also passed information on quarterly earnings at Goldman Sachs
and Procter & Gamble Co., where he also was a board member, the
SEC said.    John Dowd , a lawyer for Rajaratnam, said there is “no
merit” to the SEC’s claims against Gupta.  “This is simply an effort to destroy a favorable
witness,” Dowd said in a statement.  Buffett  relied  on Goldman Sachs for some of his biggest
deals, including the $4.5 billion acquisition of Marmon Holdings
Inc. in 2008 and the $1.45 billion takeover of McLane Co. Those
deals were facilitated by Byron Trott, the former Goldman Sachs
managing director of whom Buffett said, “I  trust him 
completely.”  Berkshire’s warrants give Buffett the option to buy $5
billion of Goldman Sachs stock at $115 a share. That compares
with $161.31 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  