-- 
Buffett Adds Another Name to Successor List as Rose Completes First Year

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-01T00:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/buffett-adds-another-name-to-successor-list-as-rose-completes-first-year.html
  Warren Buffett , the 80-year-old
chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., added a name
to a list of potential successors a year after his $26.5 billion
railroad takeover brought manager Matt Rose to the firm.  Buffett placed Rose, CEO of Burlington Northern  Santa Fe ,
in the company of Berkshire executives  David Sokol  and Greg Abel
when doling out praise in his  annual letter  to shareholders on
Feb. 26. Buffett said he was “proud and grateful” for the
performance of the three managers. Berkshire, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , said yesterday it had identified four candidates to
succeed Buffett, up from three a year ago. No names were given.  Berkshire’s next CEO will be handed oversight of a firm
that posted $13 billion of profit last year and invested  $6
billion  in property and equipment. Rose, 51, joined Berkshire in
February 2010 after selling Burlington Northern to Buffett. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based railroad, which has  6,600 locomotives 
and  23,000 miles  of track, contributed $2.2 billion to
Berkshire’s profit last year.  Rose is “an absolutely splendid CEO, who’s young, proven
and skilled at running a public company,” said  Thomas Russo , a
partner at Berkshire investor Gardner Russo & Gardner. “If
someone excels at massive  capital spending , they have a long and
profitable future at Berkshire Hathaway, because that’s what the
business is all about.”  Buffett, who’s also chairman and head of investments, is
preparing Berkshire for his eventual departure after more than
four decades leading the firm. He hired investment manager Todd Combs to help run the company’s portfolio. Buffett has said his
son,  Howard Buffett , a Berkshire director, would be an effective
non-executive chairman.  Preserving Culture  “He wants me to make sure that the culture’s not
disrupted,” Howard Buffett said Feb. 25 in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “Maintaining it with the right CEO in
place will not be that hard to do.”  Rose is among the Berkshire operating-unit CEOs that
Buffett refers to collectively as  “the All-Stars.”  These
executives, including Sokol and Abel, manage more than 70
subsidiaries across industries spanning insurance and energy, as
well as luxury travel and  consumer goods .  “Matt has said in the past that he is focused on running
BNSF and is not interested in engaging in this kind of
speculation,” Steve Forsberg, a spokesman for Burlington
Northern, said in an e-mail.  Sokol, 54, came to Berkshire in 2000 after selling
MidAmerican Energy Holdings to Buffett for $8.3 billion,
including assumed debt. He is MidAmerican’s chairman after
ceding the CEO job to Abel in 2008. Sokol became CEO of
Berkshire’s NetJets subsidiary in 2009 and was praised by
Buffett last year for halting losses at the unit.  Praising Executives  In his letter, Buffett lauded reinsurance lieutenant Ajit Jain and Geico car insurer CEO Tony Nicely for their
performance. Buffett also cited Grady Rosier, who heads the
McLane food distribution business, and Vic Mancinelli, who leads
CTB Inc., a farm-products business.  Buffett hasn’t named candidates for the post of CEO. Paul Howard, director of research at Solstice Investment Research,
said Rose may not be the most likely replacement for Buffett.
Berkshire is more likely to pick a manager with a background in
insurance or investments or one who, like Sokol, has been with
the company for years, Howard said in an interview.  “For all we know, that list changes,” said Howard. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if it’s a total name from left field and
people are like, ‘Who is this guy?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  