-- 
Buy Bullish Gold Options as U.S. Deficit Rises, Macro Risk Says

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-01T20:45:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/buy-bullish-gold-options-as-u-s-deficit-rises-macro-risk-says.html
Investors should buy bullish gold
options because bullion may extend gains on as U.S. federal and
state lawmakers struggle to close budget gaps, according to
Macro Risk Advisors LLC.  The New York-based derivatives advisory firm is
recommending April $140  call options  on the SPDR Gold Trust
exchange-traded fund, which tracks futures on the metal, Macro
Risk President Dean Curnutt said today in a presentation at the
CBOE Risk Management Conference in Dana Point,  California .  The ETF headed for a record close, rising 1.4 percent to
$139.63 as of 3:36 p.m. in New York as unrest in  Libya  spurred
demand for the metal as an investment haven. Curnutt said gold
is likely to climb as lawmakers confront a federal deficit
that’s projected to reach $1.6 trillion this year.  “The country at large is in a pretty substantial negative
net worth situation,” Curnutt said in a presentation. “Less
money is going to need to be spent and that’s not a good outlook
for risk assets like equities.”  President  Barack Obama  said in his fiscal 2012 budget sent
to Congress on Feb. 14 that the U.S. deficit will widen this
year to $1.6 trillion, partly because of the $858 billion  tax
cut  approved in December. States are still trying to recover
from the 18-month recession that battered tax collections and
swelled Medicaid rolls as residents lost their health insurance
along with their jobs.  “The country at large is in pretty substantial negative
net worth situation,” Curnutt said. “The unfunded liabilities
of the U.S. are just off the charts.”  Gold Record  Gold futures for April delivery rose to a record $1,433.40
after the close of regular trading on the Comex in  New York . The
metal had settled up $21.30, or 1.5 percent, to $1.431.20 at
1:49 p.m. The previous intraday record was $1,432.50 on Dec. 7.  “As the manufacturer of the world’s reserve currency, the
U.S. has an alternative to unpopular entitlement program cuts,
at least for awhile,” Curnutt wrote today in a related  report
to clients . “If we decide to go this route, inflation will soon
follow. We like owning upside calls in the GLD as a hedge
against this outcome.”  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Investors use options
to guard against fluctuations in the price of securities they
own, speculate on share-price moves or bet that volatility, or
stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 