-- 
BMW Leads U.S. Luxury Sales in February as Cadillac Tops Lexus, Mercedes

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-03-01T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/cadillac-tops-lexus-mercedes-as-bmw-leads-u-s-luxury-sales.html
  General Motors Co .’s Cadillac sold
more cars and SUVs in the U.S. than  Toyota Motor Corp .’s  Lexus 
and  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz in February when it was surpassed
only by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ’s namesake brand.  Cadillac’s U.S. sales rose 70 percent from a year ago to
15,768, as it topped Lexus and Mercedes for the first time since
June 2005. BMW reported an 8.7 percent increase last month to
16,416, overtaking Mercedes-Benz as the top-selling luxury line
in the U.S. Mercedes sales rose 4 percent to 15,464, while
Lexus, last year’s luxury leader, rose 0.2 percent to 13,814.  Cadillac’s CTS and DTS models each more than doubled their
sales in February as GM offered larger discounts.  Lexus  fell to
fourth place for the month after holding off the German
automakers to keep the top spot for the 11th consecutive year.
Through two months, BMW leads Mercedes 32,321 to 31,862.  “We decided to come out a little more aggressive at the
beginning of the year” with discount offers, Kurt McNeil, vice
president of Cadillac sales, said yesterday in an interview.
“But we’re not up 70 percent just based on incentive
spending.”  Cadillac’s incentive spending rose 43 percent from last
February to average $4,878 per vehicle, according to
TrueCar.com, a  Santa Monica , California-based website that
tracks industry incentives. Cadillac’s incentives were the
highest of any luxury brand and above the average of $3,500 per
car spent by all luxury lines in the U.S., TrueCar estimated.  BMW’s incentives fell 23 percent from last year, to $3,674
per car, while  Mercedes  discounts rose 4.4 percent to $3,289 per
vehicle, TrueCar said. Toyota spent an average of $2,295 per
vehicle on Lexus incentives, up 39 percent, TrueCar said.  Incentives Helped  “GM offered aggressive incentives to employees and friends
in February,” said  Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst with
TrueCar. “That helped GM overall and clearly helped Cadillac.”  Cadillac ranked fourth in U.S. luxury sales last year and
hasn’t led in annual luxury sales since 1997, according to
Detroit-based GM.  “We certainly feel good about coming in at No. 2,” McNeil
said. “But it will be very competitive and it remains to be
seen if we can hold on to No. 2.”  Cadillac said it sold about 10 percent of its models to
fleet buyers in February, down from about 15 percent
traditionally. The DTS sedan, which GM is phasing out this year,
gained limousine fleet sales from  Ford Motor Co .’s Lincoln Town
Car, which is also being discontinued this year, McNeil said.  Ford sold 5,948 Lincoln cars and trucks in February, an
11 percent decrease from a year earlier, according to a
statement from the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker.  BMW Models  BMW rose to the top on the strength of new models such as
the X3 sport-utility vehicle and its 3-Series line of cars,
Toprak said.  “BMW has better product at the moment,” Toprak said.
“They have a newer product lineup that brings people into the
showroom without need for much incentives.”  The results exclude Daimler’s Sprinter vans and Smart cars
and BMW’s Mini brand, which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  BMW’s sales would have been stronger if the German
automaker could build more all-wheel-drive versions of its
3-Series sedan and X3 models, said  Jim O’Donnell , president and
chief executive officer of BMW of  North America .  “I’m disappointed with February’s result,” O’Donnell said
yesterday in an interview. “Our 3-Series performance was off by
at least 2,000 cars because of the lack of all-wheel-drive
models. We should have been up at 18,000” sales for the month.  Bad Weather  Mercedes sales were hurt by snow storms in the Northeast
and Midwest, said Ernst Lieb, president and CEO of Mercedes-Benz
USA.  “This wasn’t an easy month,” Lieb said yesterday in an
interview. “We were definitely impacted by the weather
conditions.”  Mercedes sales will pick up later this year as new models
such as the C-class coupe, SLK and CLS arrive in showrooms, Lieb
said.  While Cadillac moved into the top tier in luxury sales,
Lieb said he doesn’t view the GM division as a key competitor.  “We are focusing mainly on two competitors, BMW and
Lexus,” Lieb said. “That’s where our customers are cross
shopping, not at Cadillac.”  O’Donnell said Cadillac’s edgy styling and its popular SRX
SUV has helped the brand emerge as a legitimate competitor to
BMW.  “There’s a new generation of people buying Cadillacs,”
O’Donnell said. “They used to say that people wouldn’t buy
their father’s Cadillac. Well, now it’s the grandchildren that
are buying them.”  Other Brands  U.S. deliveries of  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi brand rose
25 percent to 7,753 vehicles, its highest sales ever for
February.  Porsche SE, the Stuttgart-based automaker merging with
Volkswagen, said sales rose 32 percent to 2,019 last month, its
best February since 2006.  February Sales for Nissan Motor Co.’s Infiniti rose
30 percent to 9,144 vehicles, the company said.  Honda Motor Co., based in Tokyo, said sales for its Acura
brand rose 21 percent to 10,796, last month.    Tata Motors Ltd ., based in Mumbai, said its Land Rover line
rose 26 percent to 2,555 models last month. U.S. sales for its
Jaguar brand fell 9 percent to 692 cars in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  