-- 
Cameron Says U.K. Will Not Abandon Libyan Opposition Groups

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-03-01T15:56:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/cameron-says-u-k-will-not-abandon-libyan-opposition-groups.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron 
promised not to abandon Libyan opposition groups in the face of
attacks by forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi , stopping
short of saying Britain will provide arms for the rebels.  Cameron said the Libyan people must not be left to their
fate, as Kurdish rebels were after the  Gulf War  in 1991 when
they rose up against Saddam Hussein’s Iraqi regime on the
understanding of U.S. support that never materialized. “We
mustn’t let that happen in Libya,” Cameron told reporters in
London today.  “We should also be making contact with, and getting a
greater understanding of opposition forces that are now in
Benghazi and in quite a lot of the country,” Cameron said.
“And we are trying to step up our contact with them so we can
get to know them better. I don’t think we should go beyond that
for now.”  Yesterday Cameron ordered military chiefs to draw up plans
for an air-exclusion zone over  Libya  if diplomatic pressure
fails to prevent Qaddafi using military force against his
people.  Britain and  France  are pressing for the unrest in Libya to
be on the agenda of the March 11 European Union summit,
Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, said earlier today.  A  United Nations  mandate would be required for any Western
military operation in Libya, French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe
said.  “There are no military operations under way, though
various possibilities are being discussed,” Juppe said during a
parliamentary debate today. “But any operation would only be
done under a resolution from the United Nations.”  ‘Every Eventuality’  During a 50-minute discussion of Libya at today’s U.K.
Cabinet meeting, International Development Secretary  Andrew Mitchell  said the U.K. would be providing tents and blankets to
those in need on the Libya-Tunisia border after a request from
the United Nations. Mitchell plans to visit the region this
week, Field said.  “The next thing we have to do is to plan for every
eventuality,” Cameron told today’s news conference. “It is not
acceptable to have a situation where Colonel Qaddafi can be
murdering his own people using planes and helicopter gunships
and the like. That is why I have said it is right for us to look
at plans for the no-fly zone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 