-- 
Canadian Dollar Drops From Three-Year High as BOC Cites Currency Strength

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-03-01T22:14:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/canadian-dollar-trades-near-three-year-high-as-boc-cites-economic-strength.html
Canada’s dollar fell from a three-
year high against the greenback after the Bank of  Canada 
reiterated a strong currency poses challenges to the nation’s
exporters and held its target lending rate at 1 percent.  The loonie dropped against all of its 16 major counterparts
except the South African, Australian and New Zealand currencies
as the  Bank of Canada  said it will carefully consider future
rate increases in a recovery that is “slightly faster” than it
expected. Canada’s dollar rose 3 percent in February versus the
greenback, the most in five months, as crude oil, the nation’s
largest export, surged as Libyan unrest threatened supply.  “The Bank of Canada basically noted the recovery is a
little bit stronger, but they gave no hint about removing their
accommodative policy,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “They
remain very committed to an easy monetary stance, so that has
seen the Canadian dollar take a bit of a hit today.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, slid for the first time in
five days, depreciating 0.3 percent to 97.47 cents versus the  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.16 yesterday. It
earlier touched 96.84, the strongest level since Nov. 15, 2007.
One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0260.  The seven-day relative strength index of the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart rose yesterday to 75.20, the
highest level since Jan. 12. Readings above 70 indicate a
currency’s advance may be difficult to sustain.  BOC Rate  The central bank held its target rate for overnight lending
between commercial banks where it has been since September,
matching the forecasts of all of the 29 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “There is early evidence of a recovery in net exports,
supported by stronger U.S. activity and global demand for
commodities,” BOC Governor  Mark Carney  and his five deputies
said in a statement. Exporters still face “considerable
challenges” from a  currency trading  near three-year highs and
“poor relative productivity,” the Ottawa-based bank said.  The rate on June 2011 bankers’ acceptance contract dropped
to 1.45 percent, from 1.50 percent yesterday, the highest since
Feb. 17. So-called Bax contracts have settled an average of
about 0.20 percentage point above the central bank’s target rate
since 1992, Bloomberg data show.  “There wasn’t anything overly surprising or new in the
accompanying statement that leaned on the more hawkish side,”
said  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed income and
currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.  January Decision  The loonie dropped 0.4 percent on Jan. 18, when the central
bank signaled future interest-rate increases were on hold
because the nation’s economic recovery was threatened by a
strong currency and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The Bank of Canada, which led the Group of Seven nations
with three interest-rate increases last year, is expected to
boost its benchmark by a quarter-percentage point in the second
quarter, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 19 economists.  Canada’s currency may extend gains to 95 cents per
greenback if the central bank raises  interest rates  as soon as
May, according to Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank Group in  London .  “Growth figures are again higher than the U.S., so you’ve
got a decent fundamental backdrop, which is supportive of the
view that rates in Canada have to rise before those of the
U.S.,” Foley said. “The market was pricing in July, but we see
risks they may increase before then, perhaps on May 31.”  Canada’s Economy  Canada’s gross domestic product expanded at a 3.3 percent
annual rate in the fourth quarter,  Statistics Canada  reported
yesterday. The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 3 percent pace.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, slower than previously calculated, the Commerce
Department reported Feb. 25.  Longer-term  government bonds  were little changed today,
with the yield on the 10-year benchmark down one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 3.28 percent. The price of the 3.50
percent security due in June 2020 rose nine cents to C$101.70.
Two-year yields fell five basis points to 1.79 percent.  Crude oil for April delivery on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange increased 3.8 percent to $100.69 a barrel as unrest in
Libya threatened to spread to  Iran , the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries’ second-largest oil producer.
Futures touched $103.41 on Feb. 24, the highest level since
September 2008.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  