-- 
Bank of Canada Keeps Key Interest Rate 1% Amid `Slightly Faster' Recovery

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-03-01T16:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/canada-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-amid-slightly-faster-recovery.html
The Bank of  Canada  kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged, and policy makers said they
will carefully consider future increases in a recovery that is
“slightly faster” than they forecast.  The target rate for overnight loans between commercial
banks remains 1 percent, where it has been since September, in a
decision predicted by all 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  “There is early evidence of a recovery in net exports,
supported by stronger U.S. activity and global demand for
commodities,” Governor  Mark Carney , 45, and his five deputies
said in a statement. Exporters still face “considerable
challenges” from a currency trading near a three-year high and
“poor relative productivity,” the Ottawa-based bank said.  The recovery in the world’s 10th-largest economy is being
bolstered by the biggest jump in exports since 2004 during the
fourth quarter and job creation in January that quadrupled
forecasts. Policy makers reiterated today that there remains
“considerable slack” in the economy that will help keep
inflation close to their 2 percent target, and that the global
recovery is threatened by  Europe ’s banking and fiscal crisis.  Canada’s currency fell 0.3 percent to 97.43 cents versus
the  U.S. dollar  at 10:30 a.m. in Toronto, compared with 97.16
yesterday, after touching 96.84, the strongest level in more
than three years. One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0264.  ‘On Hold’  The June bankers’ acceptance contract yield, which is tied
to forecasts about the central  bank rate , fell to 1.46 percent
from 1.50 percent yesterday.  “The Bank of Canada is on hold and they don’t want to
signal a rate hike anytime soon,” said  Michael Gregory , a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “I don’t
see any step at all toward the hawkish side,” he said, adding
the statement was “acknowledgment of what’s on the ground
already.”  Canada’s decision will be followed in the next two weeks by
all other central banks from the Group of Seven nations,
including the  European Central Bank  on March 3 and the U.S.
Federal Reserve and  Bank of Japan  on March 15. Canada will raise
rates in the second quarter while the Fed will stay on hold
until the fourth quarter, according to Bloomberg surveys of
economists.  ‘Slightly Faster’  “Any further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would
need to be carefully considered,” the bank said today, echoing
its  last decision  in January. “The recovery in Canada is
proceeding slightly faster than expected, and there is more
evidence of the anticipated rebalancing of demand” from
stimulus measures and  consumer spending  to exports and business
investment, the statement said.  The central bank said that “geopolitical events” may give
a temporary boost to commodity prices. Goods such as crude oil
and metals make up 45 percent of Canada’s exports.
Demonstrations in nations from  Libya  to Bahrain have led to
higher  oil prices  that threaten to slow economic growth in
countries that import energy.  “What I see is a lot of uncertainty” in the economy, said
Merrell Moorhead, a business planning consultant in Halifax,
Nova Scotia. “Most businesses would say don’t do anything
sudden” on interest rates, he said.  Canada’s gross domestic product grew at a 3.3 percent
annualized pace in the fourth quarter, led by exports and
consumer spending. The Bank of Canada predicted in January the
economy grew at a 2.3 percent pace in the fourth quarter.  July Increase  “They recognized that strength but they don’t carry it
forward too much for the rest of the year,” said Pascal Gauthier, an economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank.  Gauthier and Gregory at BMO Capital Markets both predict a
July rate increase.  The bank increased its key policy rate three times last
year to 1 percent from a record 0.25 percent on signs Canada was
recovering from a recession. More interest-rate increases may
boost the Canadian dollar and slow shipments abroad from
companies such as auto parts maker  Magna International Inc .  The Canadian dollar rose to a three-year high after the
Feb. 28 gross domestic product report from  Statistics Canada ,
which followed the agency’s Feb. 4 estimate that 69,200 jobs
were created in January.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s plan to support the
recovery through corporate tax cuts as government stimulus
measures expire could lead to an election. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  is scheduled to present a budget this month and needs
the support of one opposition party for it to pass, while
Liberal Party Leader  Michael Ignatieff  said he favors spending
on education and worker training over tax cuts passed in
previous budgets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  