-- 
Slim Unveils $34 Million Museum With Fine Art, Free Admission

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/carlos-slim-unveils-34-million-museum-with-mexican-masters-free-admissio.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim , the world’s
richest man, gives a sneak peek tonight at his new  Soumaya
Museum  in Mexico City, representing one of his biggest gifts to
the art and museum worlds.  The gleaming, aluminum-plated structure, which cost an
estimated $34 million, will be free to visitors. The  Carlos Slim
Foundation  will underwrite all of the museum’s expenses,
including maintenance and the cost of mounting exhibitions.  “There will be no specific budget of a certain amount,”
said Slim, worth an estimated $69.5 billion, in a recent
interview at Bloomberg News’s  New York  headquarters. “There
will be no limits. We will decide what needs to be done at the
museum and just do it.”  The museum was designed by Slim’s son-in-law, architect
Fernando Romero, 39, who apprenticed under Pritzker Prize winner
and urbanist Rem Koolhaas. The 150-foot-tall building is named
after Soumaya Domit, Slim’s wife, who died of  kidney failure  in
1999.  The Soumaya, which opens to the public on March 28, will
display some works from Slim’s 66,000-piece collection. It
includes works by Mexican masters such as  Diego Rivera , Spanish
masters  Pablo Picasso  and  Salvador Dali , 15th-century European
masters and the second-largest private collection of Auguste Rodin sculptures outside of  France .  Slim’s Pickings  Slim said he had a hand in choosing the works from his
collection that would be displayed on the museum’s six
exhibition floors. He also created the museum’s logo, which is
Soumaya, in his own handwriting.  The museum is part of a 12-acre urban development that will
include the corporate headquarters for Slim’s business
conglomerate, Grupo Carso, and Telcel, the Mexican mobile-phone
company he controls. It will share space with a small shopping
mall, two upscale apartment towers and an underground theater.  “This museum is for the Mexicans who cannot travel outside  Mexico , so that they have a place to see this art in their
country,” Slim said.  The museum significantly increases Slim’s profile as a
Mexican cultural philanthropist. The son of a Lebanese immigrant
who ran a dry-goods store in Mexico, Slim once managed his
businesses from a windowless bunker-like office.  Land Lines  He built his fortune by buying businesses such as a
bottling company and a cigarette maker. In 1990, he bought
Telefonos de Mexico (Telmex) through a privatization sale. His
holdings in America Movil SAB, Latin America’s largest mobile-
phone carrier, were valued at about $49 billion at the end of
2010. More than two-thirds of his wealth comes from his stakes
in  America Movil  and Telmex, the nation’s biggest land-line
phone company.  Slim said the arts won’t become a key focus of his future
philanthropy. He’ll continue to fund and address health,
education, sports and public welfare issues through his
telecommunications company’s Telmex Foundation and the Slim
Foundation.  “In the world of culture, we will operate a museum and we
will find other works and we will lend the collection to other
museums,” he said. “Health and education is where our efforts
are focused and we want to support human capital. The most
important way to take people out of poverty is through
employment.”  Slim said he won’t join the  Giving Pledge  started by
billionaires  Warren Buffett  and  Bill Gates  to encourage the
world’s wealthiest people to promise to give away half of their
wealth to charity. More than 50 billionaires have joined the
pledge including  David Rockefeller ,  Eli Broad , Sanford Weill and  Ted Turner .  “When you are an investor maybe you can sell your
investments, but it’s important for me to develop these
companies,” he said. “We don’t think it’s necessary to give
away half. Why half? Why not 80 percent or 70 percent or 60
percent?”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 