-- 
Carney May Keep 1% Canada Lending Rate, `Carefully Consider' Future Moves

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/carney-may-keep-1-canada-lending-rate-carefully-consider-future-moves.html
The Bank of  Canada  will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent for a fourth
consecutive meeting today, and reiterate that any future
increases will be “carefully considered.”  The target rate for overnight loans between commercial
banks has been unchanged since September, and all 29 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predict no change today.  The recovery in the world’s 10th-largest economy was
bolstered by the biggest jump in exports since 2004 during the
fourth quarter and job creation in January that quadrupled
forecasts. Central bank Governor  Mark Carney  has said the
inflation will stay under control because the economy will have
“slack” until the end of 2012, suggesting no interest-rate
increase until May, said Royal  Bank of Canada  chief economist
Craig Wright.  “I don’t think they will overplay the recovery story,”
said Wright, who works at the country’s biggest bank by assets,
adding that the Bank of Canada would not likely want to increase
rates much sooner or much more aggressively than the U.S.
Federal Reserve.  Canada’s rate decision will be followed in the next two
weeks by all other central banks from the Group of Seven
nations, including the European Central Bank March 3 and the Fed
and Bank of Japan on March 15. Canada will raise rates in the
second quarter while the Fed will stay on hold until the fourth
quarter, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Exports Lead Growth  Canada’s gross domestic product grew at a 3.3 percent
annualized pace in the fourth quarter, led by exports and  consumer spending . The trade gains came as the country’s dollar
traded close to parity with the  U.S. dollar . The central bank
 said in January  that persistent currency strength and weak
productivity growth were a threat to the recovery, along with  Europe ’s fiscal crisis.  The bank increased its key policy rate three times last
year to 1 percent from a record 0.25 percent on signs Canada was
exiting a recession. Further interest-rate increases could boost
the Canadian dollar and curb shipments abroad from companies
such as auto-parts maker  Magna International Inc .  The Canadian dollar rose to a three-year high after
yesterday’s gross domestic product report from  Statistics
Canada , which followed the agency’s Feb. 4 estimate that 69,200
jobs were created in January.  “They have to acknowledge that Canadian growth is running
ahead of their last projection,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief
economist at  CIBC World Markets  in Toronto. Today’s statement
will also likely mention political turmoil in the Middle East
that has driven up oil prices, said Shenfeld, who also predicts
a May rate increase.  Higher Oil Prices  Demonstrations in nations from Libya to Bahrain have led to
higher oil prices that threaten to slow economic growth. Crude
oil rose 14 percent last week, the most in two years.  “What I see is a lot of uncertainty” in the economy, said
Merrell Moorhead, a business planning consultant in Halifax,
Nova Scotia. “Most businesses would say don’t do anything
sudden” on  interest rates , he said.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s plan to support the
recovery through corporate tax cuts as government stimulus
measures expire could lead to an election. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  is scheduled to present a budget this month and needs
the support of one opposition party for it to pass, while
Liberal Party Leader Michael Ignatieff said he favors spending
on education and worker training over tax cuts passed in
previous budgets.  The Bank of Canada in January predicted the economy grew at
a 2.3 percent pace in the fourth quarter and will expand 2.4
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  