-- 
Carrefour's Plans to Spin Off Units May Not Generate Value, Analysts Say

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-03-02T12:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/carrefour-plans-to-spin-off-dia-property-units-correct-.html
  Carrefour SA ’s plans to spin off 100
percent of its Dia discount chain and 25 percent of its real-
estate unit may not achieve the company’s aim of boosting value
for shareholders, some analysts said.  Dia shares will be listed on the Madrid stock exchange
after the separation, which the Paris-based retailer said
yesterday will enable it to focus on developing the Carrefour
brand. The spinoff of the property business will “unlock the
embedded value of its real-estate assets,” Carrefour said in a
statement. The unit will be listed in Paris.  Carrefour fell as much as 97 cents, or 2.8 percent, to 34
euros in Paris trading and was little changed as of 1 p.m. The
plans were announced after markets closed yesterday. The shares
have fallen 3 percent since the day after the company said it
was studying projects that may lead to the listings.  “Management argues that this will improve operational
focus and unlock value for shareholders but we are not yet
convinced,” Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Execution Noble,
wrote in a note in which she described the plans as “cosmetic
spin.” Gulliver recommends selling Carrefour shares.  A sale of 25 percent of Carrefour Property would be worth
1.8 euros a share for investors, and selling Dia would be worth
about 5.5 euros a share, according to preliminary estimates from
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analyst Justin Scarborough. He
said he still has questions about debt levels as well as
interest and tax charges.  Share Performance  “I would prefer a sale to another group instead of
spinning it off,” said John David Roeg, an analyst at ING Bank
in Amsterdam, referring to Dia. “But it’s always possible that
there could still come a good bid for all the assets.”  Dia is the world’s third-largest discount group, according
to Carrefour. It’s headquartered in  Madrid  and is managed
independently. Carrefour’s sales at its hard-discount business
rose 2.2 percent last year, according to Sanford C. Bernstein.
Should the company’s proposal be implemented, Carrefour
shareholders will receive a number of Dia shares equal to the
number of Carrefour shares held, the grocer said.  “Dia has largely been run as a separate entity within
Carrefour, so we would not expect an immediate loss of synergy,
but rather would see a spinoff as a lost opportunity to benefit
from Dia’s capability in sourcing discount products and from the
longer-term growth potential of the hard-discount format,” said
Christopher Hogbin, a Bernstein analyst.  Property Assets  Carrefour plans to put most of the company’s French,
Spanish and Italian real-estate assets into Carrefour Property
and to partially distribute its shares to Carrefour Group
shareholders. Carrefour Property has 10.4 billion euros ($14.4
billion) in assets and almost 4 million square meters of
property, the company said yesterday.  “Our concern is that growth for Carrefour Property could
come at the expense of the retail stores as they continue to
operate in a very competitive retail market and thus the net
result is a zero sum game for shareholders,” Gulliver wrote.  There are “question marks” regarding the risk profile and
revaluation of rents from a partial spinoff of the real-estate
unit, analysts at Cheuvreux wrote in a note.  Carrefour’s plans may hold significance for Tesco Plc, the
world’s fourth-largest retailer, according to Clive Black, an
analyst at Shore Capital.  Reduced Forecasts  “If the market does not over a sustained period of time
appreciate the implicit value within Tesco, one may see aired
ideas such as separate real estate listings of its mall
business, a listing of Tesco Asia, a spin-off of Tesco Bank and
the creation of new financial vehicles for its digital
businesses,” Black wrote in a note to clients.  Carrefour has fallen 13 percent in Paris trading since Oct.
14 after the retailer twice cut earnings forecasts amid
writedowns at its Brazilian unit and posting a worse-than-
expected performance at domestic stores. The French retailer has
pledged to invest about 1.5 billion euros to revive its
superstore format in western  Europe , where sales are stagnating.
The grocer is also refocusing its international business on
markets including  China  and Latin America.  Carrefour reports full-year results tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 