-- 
CFTC Warned Algorithm Rules `Virtually Impossible' to Enforce

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-03-01T21:07:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/cftc-warned-algorithm-rules-virtually-impossible-to-enforce.html
It would be “virtually impossible”
for the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  to enforce
rules governing how traders use algorithms before they complete
transactions, an advisory subcommittee told the agency.  “The only way to independently enforce any sort of
specific regulations on quality assurance for trading firms
would be to have a virtual army of CFTC employed quality
assurance professionals who have complete access to all trading
firms’ intellectual property,” the CFTC  Technology Advisory
Committee ’s pre-trade functionality unit said in a report.  Exchanges should require trading firms to have measures in
place that can disable algorithms, including a “kill button”
that could simultaneously cancel all existing orders and prevent
a firm from placing new orders, said the group, which met in  Washington  today.  The report was written by a group that included Gary Dewaal, general counsel at Newedge USA LLC; Bryan T. Durkin,  CME
Group Inc .’s chief operating officer;  Michael Gorham , professor
at Illinois Institute of Technology; Chuck Vice, president and
chief operating officer of  IntercontinentalExchange Inc .; and
Chuck Whitman, chief executive of  Infinium Capital Management .  The CFTC and the  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
writing new derivatives regulations required under the Dodd-
Frank Act after largely unregulated trades, including credit-
default swaps, helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The law,
enacted in July, seeks to reduce risk and boost transparency in
the swaps market by having most transactions guaranteed by
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other venues.  ‘Race to the Bottom’  Without government rules, exchanges and trading platforms
might compete in a “race to the bottom” if they were able to
set their own trading limits, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said at
the meeting.  “It’s like saying there should be speed limits, but don’t
set them,” Gensler said.  The financial industry hasn’t told regulators how the
private market would impose its own trading limits, CFTC
Commissioner Michael Dunn said at the meeting.  “You’re giving us the same argument that we heard for
credit defaults,” Dunn said.  The CFTC’s staff is working on a proposal for testing and
supervision of algorithmic trading, Gensler said on Feb. 24. The
agency’s proposal will be based in part on recommendations from
a  task force  set up by the CFTC and SEC in response to last
year’s May 6 stock-market plunge, he said.  Regulators or exchanges should test high-frequency and
algorithmic trading programs before they are used in markets,
Commissioner  Bart Chilton  said in a speech on Feb. 1.  “By raising the standards and establishing best practices,
we can ensure that all participants are treated equally and
ensure that the markets are protected from untested algorithms
that could undermine well-functioning markets,” Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said at the hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  