-- 
Mogul’s $250,000 Resurrects Beloved Opera Orchestra: Interview

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/chemical-mogul-s-250-000-resurrects-dying-orchestra-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Across from me at lunch is Agnes Varis, the only chemist I know. Between us sits one of the few
women conductors I know: Eve Queler.  Varis, 81, has made a fortune as president and chief
executive officer of the pharmaceutical company Agvar Chemicals
Inc.  Queler, 80, who founded the Opera Orchestra of New York 40
years ago to showcase stars in exotic repertoire, has often
looked for two nickels to rub together.  Yes. One old lady gave the other a lot of money.  “I nearly had a stroke,” says Queler, who was conducting
in Torre del Lago,  Italy , when her mobile rang last summer.  Opera Orchestra had received an unsolicited $250,000 from
Varis, who is best known in music circles for supporting the
rather grander  Metropolitan Opera .  The gift saved the scrappy outfit, which celebrates
tomorrow night at Avery Fisher Hall with a performance of
“L’Africaine,” Meyerbeer’s deranged epic about Vasco da Gama,
an African queen and a poisonous tree.  Sicilian hotshot and Queler adorant, Marcello Giordani,
gets to sing “O Paradis,” a tenor favorite.  “What possessed you?” I ask Varis, whose other interests
include Democrats, cats, jazz.  Varis shares her Central Park South apartment with Kallee,
a feline, since the death of husband Karl Leichtman in 2009.  The Bulgarian Wonder  “We went to many concerts over the years. We loved Eve’s
conducting and the unusual music. What was the one with the
Swedish fellow?”  “That was ‘Pearl Fishers,’” says Queler. “Nicolai Gedda.
Oh, the problems he caused me when I did ‘William Tell.’” He
canceled the day of. I wandered the streets to find a tenor who
could sing the role.”  In the 1970s, when Queler first stepped to the podium in
her age-defying black bun and draft-catching diaphanous tops,
the huge stars who once roamed the earth invariably joined her
for crazy nights at  Carnegie Hall .  Who can forget Bulgarian wonder Ghena Dimitrova in
“Nabucco” singing so loudly they clapped back home in Sofia?
Or crowds surging to the stage as a young Placido Domingo and a
ripe Raina Kabaivanska clasped one another after a sexy
performance of “Francesca da Rimini.”  How did you get all those big names?  “They wanted to sing operas no one performed like
“Parisina,” which I did for Montserrat Caballe.  “And they supported me. ‘I lift my chapeau to a woman,’
said Caballe. I hadn’t studied conducting. Let’s not forget
neither  Juilliard  nor  Manhattan  accepted women conducting
students then. But I got to know many singers as a rehearsal
pianist -- Domingo, for instance, during ‘Carmen’ at the  New
York City Opera .”  The big conducting career was never to be, though what
Queler achieved in the face of extreme prejudice -- and few
rehearsals -- was nothing short of miraculous. Her reward often
included snotty reviews, which fortunately did little to deflect
admiring hordes.  Dispensing Agvice  Varis has noticed there are no women conductors on the Met
roster, and that is probably a bad thing for Peter Gelb, the
general manager (and husband of conductor Keri-Lynn Wilson).  “I plan to discuss the matter with him soon,” Varis
says, adjusting her glasses as she looks up from her smoked
salmon plate at  Petrossian , a serene palace of caviar near
Carnegie Hall and her residence.  She remains fiercely devoted to women’s causes, now that
she has beaten off  brain cancer  and gotten back a lot of her
voom. Young women find “Agvice” helps them move up the
corporate ladder, and she welcomes them to her office, which she
visits daily.  As lunch progresses with salads and more salmon, Varis, the
daughter of poor Greek immigrants who settled in  Brooklyn ,
offers her own tales of survival.  At age 39, the new owners of the company she had joined at
age 20 offered her a $1 million consulting fee over three years.  “That was a lot of money then, but I dithered until my
husband asked, ‘What would you do if you were 39 years old and a
man?’ I said, ‘Start my own business.’ And so I did. I knew all
about the FDA and manufacturing.”  “I also remember, vividly, a friend saying: ‘You will
fail. Why? Because you are a woman.’ I was furious. Within two
years, I made the million. And then I bought a red Mercedes.”  (These days, the privately held Agvar Chemicals, has yearly
revenue between $50 million and $100 million).  The Bentley  Later, until someone crashed into it (sadly, a woman
driver), Varis checked on her generic pill kingdom in a $300,000
Bentley.  “I like things, but after you have the stuff, it’s time to
do some good,” she says.  Veterinary students at  Tufts University  relax in the Agnes
Varis Campus Center. “It is important to have your name up,”
she adds. “Not for ego. But so others know we women can do
it.”  Humans facing catastrophic costs for animal companions
needing cancer care or emergency treatment can seek help from
the funds she gave to Frankie’s Friends at the  New York 
Veterinary Clinic in the name of Kallee Varis and the deceased
Zeus Varis.  Especially opera nuts adore her. Varis money sets aside Met
tickets at $20 and $25 for seats costing around ten times that.  “People want to go, but can’t afford to. You should read
the letters I get, especially from seniors. We don’t do enough
for old people. What’s wrong with this country? You shouldn’t
have to wait for a private entrepreneur.”  For Queler’s show tomorrow, she underwrote 500 prime seats
at $20 for the concert.  “All gone!” says a happy Queler, making a quick call. She
retires with tomorrow’s performance, but Varis’s gift allows
Opera Orchestra to continue under a charismatic maestro who
shares her love of odd repertoire, Alberto Veronese.  As they describe their parallel lives, both note they have
the same birth date: Jan. 11.  “It was meant to be,” says Eve Queler.  The Opera Orchestra of New York performs “L’Africaine” at  Avery Fisher Hall  at 7:30 p.m. Information: +1-212-906-9137;
 http://www.operaorchestrany.org .  The concert is dedicated to tenor Richard Tucker, who sang
Vasco at Queler’s first performance nearly 40 years ago, and to
Karl Leichtman, husband of Agnes Varis.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, Bloomberg
News’s leisure and arts section. All opinions are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 