-- 
China's Treasury Holdings Rose to Record $1.175 Trillion, U.S. Data Shows

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-01T05:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/china-treasury-holdings-rise-to-1-16-trillion-in-december-u-s-data-show.html
  China , America’s largest creditor,
increased its holdings of  U.S. debt  to a record $1.175 trillion
in October, according to revised data issued by the Treasury.  The nation’s investment totaled $1.16 trillion at
year-end, the Treasury Department  reported  yesterday,  raising 
the figure from the previous $891.6 billion. Japan maintained
its place as America’s second-largest lender, with $882.3
billion of Treasuries at year-end, compared with $883.6 billion
before the revision.  China’s Treasury holdings underscore the government’s
confidence in President Barack Obama’s stewardship of the  U.S.
economy . Overseas investors own about half of the record $8.96
trillion in U.S. publicly traded debt, and Obama needs them to
keep buying as he borrows to sustain the expansion.  “They will keep on buying Treasury bonds,” said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman in Tokyo at CIBC World Markets Japan Inc.,
a unit of  Canada ’s fifth-largest bank. “The euro was in trouble
last year. They need to buy dollar assets.”  The U.K.’s investment was revised down to $272.1 billion
from $541.3 billion. It kept its place as America’s third-
largest lender.  China buys Treasuries with the dollars it takes in by
selling yuan to keep its currency from strengthening, and with
the funds it earns from exports.  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  told business executives in  Washington  in January that closer ties between his country and
the U.S. were critical amid a “tortuous” global economic
recovery.  Holdings Jump  The Asian nation’s Treasury holdings climbed amid a bond-
market rally. U.S. debt gained from April through September
before handing investors a loss in the fourth quarter of last
year. The euro tumbled to a four-year low against the dollar in
June as governments arranged a bailout fund to rescue the
region’s most indebted nations.  Chinese officials had been saying they wanted to seek
investments outside the U.S.  The government should consider investing in energy,
resources, high technology and agriculture, Jesse Wang, the
executive vice president of China Investment Corp., the nation’s
$300 billion sovereign wealth fund, said Jan. 15.  China’s yuan rose toward a 17-year high today on
speculation policy makers will permit gains to curb inflation.  The currency strengthened for a third day after the
Financial News reported  Liu Mingkang , chairman of the  China
Banking Regulatory Commission , as saying the yuan had entered a
period of “only appreciation.”  China, the world’s largest exporter, had a trade surplus of
$183 billion in 2010.  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 0.1 percent this
year, following a 5.9 percent gain in 2010, based on Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 