-- 
Home Prices in China Increase at Slowest Pace in Six Months, SouFun Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-01T08:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/china-home-prices-rise-0-5-last-month-slowest-in-six-months-soufun-says.html
China’s home prices rose 0.5 percent
in February, the slowest monthly gain since August, after the
government expanded efforts to curb risks of asset bubbles, said  SouFun Holdings Ltd .  Residential prices rose in 80 out of 100 cities tracked by
SouFun from January, with average home values nationwide
climbing to 8,686 yuan ($1,322) a square meter (10.76 square
feet). Home prices increased 1 percent in January from December,
SouFun, the nation’s biggest real-estate website owner, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  China has this year raised the minimum down payment for
second-home purchases and introduced taxes on residential
properties in Shanghai and Chongqing. Chinese cities including
the capital Beijing,  Shanghai  and Guangzhou also announced
restrictions on home purchases last month, responding to
measures imposed by the central government.  “Home price growth already slowed, but it will take some
time to fall because the most severe government curbs of
purchase limitations were issued late last month,” said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK Securities
Research Pte.  Shantou, a mid-sized southeastern city, posted a 2.6
percent gain from January, the biggest advance, while the
northern industrial city of Harbin fell 1.1 percent, the largest
decline, Soufun said.  Home prices  in Shanghai, Beijing and
Chongqing rose 0.5 percent each last month.  Shanghai Sales  A gauge tracking property shares on the Shanghai stock
exchange rose 1.1 percent as 3 p.m. close, compared with a 0.5
percent advance in the benchmark.    New home sales  in Shanghai fell 83 percent to 178,000
square meters (1.9 million square feet) in February from January,
the lowest in five years, property consultant Shanghai UWin Real
Estate Information Services Co. said in an e-mailed statement
today.  SouFun, based in Beijing, started compiling the monthly
home data of 100 cities in July and usually releases them before
national statistics bureau figures. Government indexes of new
and existing homes for February are due on March 18.  January new home prices rose in all but two of the 70
Chinese cities monitored by the government.  Building More Units  Premier  Wen Jiabao  restated that he’s still “confident”
of bringing property prices back to a “normal level,” and
pledged to build as many as 36 million units of social housing
in the next five years, in an  online discussion  with the public
on Feb. 27.  The government probably won’t issue additional property
tightening measures soon because the current ones are already
very strict, said CIMB-GK’s Hu.  Most residential developers’ contract sales will be
affected by the government’s purchasing restrictions in 19
cities, including Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and Jinan, given
their significant exposure in those cities, Zhang Haiyun, an
analyst for UBS Securities Co. said in a report on Feb. 28.  Poly Real Estate Group Co.,  China ’s second-biggest
developer, said yesterday that 2010 profit rose 40 percent as
rising investments and housing prices boosted sales, offsetting
the effects of government curbs on the  property market .  --Bonnie Cao. Editor: Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  