-- 
China Says Police `Properly Handled' Case of Assault of Foreign Reporters

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-01T19:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/china-says-police-properly-handled-reporters-at-protest-1-.html
  China ’s Foreign Ministry said some
journalists at the site of a planned protest in Beijing on Feb.
27 had broken reporting rules, disrupting “normal order,” and
that police “properly handled” the situation.  Several journalists said they were forcibly removed and
detained without explanation as they tried to report from
Wangfujing Street on protests called to demand an end to
corruption and misrule. A Bloomberg News reporter was beaten by
at least five plain-clothes men in front of uniformed police.  “Many media organizations haven’t encountered any trouble
while reporting in China for many years,” said Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Jiang Yu, during a 90-minute questioning by foreign
journalists at a longer-than-usual biweekly briefing. “Why do
some journalists always run into trouble? I find it strange. The
journalists should really respect the laws and regulations.”  An open letter posted online called for people to carry out
“jasmine” rallies, named after the uprising in  Tunisia  that
has spread through the Middle East. While at least seven people
were arrested in  Shanghai ’s People’s Square, there were no
visible signs of protest in Beijing.  Hours earlier, Premier  Wen Jiabao  answered citizens’
questions on a two-hour online forum, vowing to hold down
prices, create affordable housing and root out corruption. The
root of corruption lies in a  government  that has too much
unrestrained power, he said.  Social Stability  Wen also cut annual economic growth targets to 7.5 percent
from 7 percent in the coming five years and said the government
would focus on ensuring the benefits of expansion were more
evenly distributed. While the country’s economy has expanded
more than 90-fold in the past three decades, Wen said rising
inequality threatens social stability.  Hundreds of uniformed police including paramilitary units,
squads of dogs, and at least 100 vehicles, patrolled Wangfujing
Street on Feb. 27. Three water trucks drove up and down the
pedestrian-only thoroughfare, spraying water and soap on the
road as police ushered crowds to the sidewalks.  U.S. Ambassador Jon Huntsman yesterday said illegal
detention and harassment of foreign journalists in Beijing was
“unacceptable and deeply disturbing.” The European Union’s
delegation to China said it was “troubled” by accounts of
physical intimidation or assault from journalists.  In  Washington , U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman, Jay Carney, said the administration urges “the Chinese government
to respect the rights of foreign journalists to report in China
and urge public security authorities to protect the safety and
well-being” of anyone subject to harassment or intimidation.  China relaxed reporting rules for foreign journalists
before the 2008 Beijing Olympics, allowing reporters to travel
anywhere except  Tibet  without permission. Today, Jiang said that
camera crews needed prior permission to film in Wangfujing.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  