-- 
China’s Richest Man Zong to Expand Into Department Stores

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-02T12:38:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/china-s-richest-man-says-wahaha-to-expand-from-drinks-to-department-stores.html
Billionaire Zong Qinghou, whose
beverage maker  Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co.  has made him China’s
richest man, said he plans to venture into retailing by opening
100 department stores.  “We are in talks with many local governments as
establishing big stores require land,” Chairman Zong said in an
interview in Beijing late yesterday. “By setting up our own
shops, we can have more say in the distribution” of Wahaha’s
products, including carbonated drinks and mineral water, he said.  Wahaha, founded in 1987 by Zong with a 140,000 yuan
($21,300) loan, aims to boost sales 27 percent this year to 70
billion yuan, he said. The closely held beverage maker in 2009
ended two years of legal disputes with  Danone  over control of
the Wahaha trademark, with the Paris-based owner of the Evian
and Volvic bottled-water brands agreeing to sell its stakes in
their joint ventures.  Wahaha, the third-biggest soft-drinks maker in China by
market share, will also invest in mining and high-tech
industries, said Zong, 65, who is also a delegate to China’s
parliament. The National People’s Congress, a meeting of the
legislature, starts its annual session March 5.  “As for overseas investment, I’m not going to compete
against foreign companies,” said Zong, whose wealth was
estimated by Forbes at $8 billion last year. “What I’ll do is
buy companies that make products that China lacks or China isn’t
good at making and sell them back to China.” Wahaha already
makes milk powder in the Netherlands, he said.  Coca-Cola, Tingyi  The beverage maker, whose name means “Laughing Child” in
Chinese, competes against  Coca-Cola Co . and Tingyi   Cayman
Islands ) Holding Co. in the world’s most populous nation, where
retail sales grew by a monthly average of 18.4 percent in 2010.  Profit margins in the department store business are “much
better than in manufacturing,” Zong said. “We’ll have
opportunities for department stores and supermarkets in second-
tier cities, which will also ensure our products are sold across
the country.” He didn’t say when or where he plans to begin.  “As a sector, retail is a good one to explore, but it’s
not easy to understand,”  Shaun Rein , Shanghai-based managing
director of China Market Research Group, said in an interview.
“With no background in retailing and core expertise in
beverages, the key for Wahaha to win is to hire the right
management so that they can create the right concept.”  Fragmented Market  Building department stores may boost Wahaha’s revenue to
100 billion yuan, Zong said, without providing a time frame.
Major urban centers like Beijing and  Shanghai  have already
“been conquered by established players,” Zong said. “We’ll
eventually come back to the big cities” after establishing a
retail brand, he said.  “Most of Wahaha’s growth will come from new product
development and widening of the distribution network,” Zong said.  The country’s retail market will remain fragmented because
the size of the population and competition from local outlets
prevent the dominance of one chain, Roger Wang, chairman of
Nanjing, China-based department-store operator  Golden Eagle
Retail Group Ltd ., said in September.  Golden Eagle, which made all of its 1.2 billion yuan first-
half sales from 17 locations in China, had a profit margin of 40
percent in the period.  Parkson Retail Group Ltd ., the Beijing-
based operator of 46 department stores in 30 cities, had a 26
percent profit margin on its 3.82 billion yuan revenue last year.  Milk and Soda  Zong’s company, based in Hangzhou in China’s eastern
Zhejiang province, accounts for 9.7 percent of China’s dairy
market, the third-largest share, according to data from
Euromonitor International.  China Mengniu Dairy Co. leads the country’s dairy market
with a 19.5 percent share, with  Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial 
Group Co. at No. 2 with 15.7 percent, Euromonitor data show.
Annual sales for the industry increased 73 percent to 175
billion yuan in 2010 from 2005, the research company said.  Wahaha also ranks third in  China ’s soft-drinks market with
a 7.2 percent share at the end of 2010. Coca-Cola had 17.2
percent while Tingyi controlled 13.2 percent. PepsiCo Inc. was
fourth with 6.6 percent, the researcher’s data show.  Sales of soft drinks, a classification that includes soda,
juice and bottled water, almost doubled over five years to 270
billion yuan in 2010, according to Euromonitor data.  Zong topped the Hurun Rich List with an estimated wealth of
$12 billion in 2010. He also ranked first in Forbes Asia’s China
rich list last year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  