-- 
China Manufacturing Grows at Slowest in Six Months After PBOC Tightening

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-01T07:24:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/china-s-february-manufacturing-purchasing-managers-index-declines-to-52-2.html
China’s manufacturing expanded at
the slowest pace in six months as higher  interest rates  and
lending curbs aimed at containing inflation damped demand.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 52.2 from 52.9 in
January, the  China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing  said
on its website today, the third monthly decline. The gauge of
input prices climbed to 70.1, the highest level since November.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged Feb. 27 to contain gains in
consumer prices and tackle surging property prices that could
threaten social stability in the world’s most populous nation.
Wen may outline additional measures to tame inflation and cool
economic growth when he opens the annual session of the National
People’s Congress later this week.  “This is a good number, suggesting Beijing’s policy
tightening is starting to cool excessive growth and inflation,”
said  Qu Hongbin , Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.
The government “still needs to step up measures to combat
inflation in the months ahead,” he added, predicting the
central bank will raise interest rates and banks’ required
reserve ratios further.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.5 percent to
close at 2,919 today, while remaining down about 7 percent from
a Nov. 11 high amid concern that monetary tightening will hurt
earnings in the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The yuan
rose 0.02 percent in Shanghai to 6.5703, according to China
Foreign Exchange Trade System in  Shanghai .  Oil Prices  “Cost-driven inflation pressure is still large,” the
logistics federation said in a statement today accompanying the
data release. “Upward pressure on the CPI is still
significant,” the federation said, citing a drought in  China 
that’s boosted food prices, the impact of Middle East turmoil on
oil and liquidity injections by the U.S. Federal Reserve.  In contrast with China,  India ’s manufacturing grew at the
fastest pace in three months, a survey by HSBC and  Markit
Economics  today showed, adding to pressure on the central bank
to increase interest rates for the eighth time in a year.  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
manufacturing index rose last month to 61, the highest since May
2004, from January’s 60.8, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 77 analysts. A German manufacturing
index, also expected today, is forecast to have held at 62.6,
according to the average estimate of 19 economists.  Higher Prices  China raised gasoline and diesel prices on Feb. 20 by as
much as 4.6 percent after crude oil in  London  rose above $100 a
barrel. The government previously increased costs on Dec. 22.  Consumer-price inflation may have cooled to 4.8 percent in
February from 4.9 percent in January, China International
Capital Corp. and Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. said on Feb.
25.  Still, non-food inflation rose to the highest in at least
six years in January and companies including Qingdao Haier Co.
and  Gree Electric Appliances Inc ., the biggest makers of
refrigerators and air-conditioners in China, will pass on higher
prices to consumers, GF Securities analysts said on Feb. 28.  Chinese  steel mills  including Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. and
Angang Steel Co. said last month they raised prices for March
and April delivery. Cement prices may rise by more than 10
percent this year as government projects spur demand, Citigroup
Inc. analysts wrote today, benefiting companies including Anhui
Conch Cement Co. and China Resources Cement Holdings Ltd.  Input Prices  The People’s Bank of China has already raised its benchmark
one-year lending and deposit rates three times since mid-October
and imposed eight publicly announced increases in the reserve
requirement ratio. It has also used the so-called differentiated
reserve requirement on 40 banks, adjusting the level of deposits
individual lenders must keep as reserves.  “Today’s PMI shows input prices continued to rise at a
very fast pace,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “Inflation
pressures in China have been building even before the latest
spike in  oil prices  and today’s data should further reinforce
the case for more policy moves.”  Jackson forecasts two more increases in interest rates and
an appreciation in the yuan to 6.20 against the dollar by the
end of the year.  February’s PMI reading compares with the median forecast of
52.1 in a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists. A reading
above 50 signals expansion.  Slowest Expansion  A separate manufacturing index released by HSBC and Markit
Economics fell to 51.7 in February from 54.5 in January, the
slowest pace of expansion in seven months. The gauge was higher
than the 51.5 preliminary figure released by HSBC on Feb. 21,
the first month the bank has released an advanced reading.  Data in the first two months are typically distorted by the
timing of the weeklong lunar new year holiday. The break fell on
Feb. 3 this year, almost two weeks earlier than last year.  The output and new-orders sub-indexes in the logistics
federation survey indicated the slowest expansions since August,
according to today’s data.  “As many manufacturers, especially exporters, do not
resume full production for several weeks after the official
week-long holiday has ended, February’s reading might be
distorted on the downside,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists
Yu Song and Helen Qiao wrote in a note today.  The manufacturing survey released by the logistics
federation and the National Bureau of Statistics covers more
than 820 companies in 20 industries, including energy, metals,
textiles, automobiles and electronics. The HSBC study covers
more than 400 businesses.  China’s economic growth accelerated to a 9.8 percent annual
pace in the fourth quarter, overtaking Japan as the world’s
second-biggest economy.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong .
Editors: Nerys Avery, Lily Nonomiya  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  