-- 
Christchurch May Move Central Business District, Minister Says

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-03-02T05:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/christchurch-may-move-business-district-within-two-months.html
  New Zealand ’s government may
relocate Christchurch’s central business district to the edges
of the city after last week’s 6.3-magnitude earthquake destroyed
almost a quarter of the center’s office buildings.  The government is in talks with the Chamber of Commerce
about setting up temporary business parks within the next two
months to get Christchurch companies operating again, Earthquake
Recovery Minister  Gerry Brownlee  said in a telephone interview.
About 755 buildings in the city center have been condemned,
according to the Christchurch City Council website.  Buildings in the CBD were already badly damaged by a 7.0-
magnitude temblor that struck the South Island city on Sept. 4.
The estimated repair costs for New Zealand’s second-largest city
may be as much as NZ$20 billion ($15 billion) after both
earthquakes, Prime Minister John Key said this week.
Christchurch and the surrounding Canterbury region account for
about 15 percent of the country’s gross domestic product.  “There are opportunities on the edge of the city that do
mean that we could get temporary business accommodation up and
running fairly quickly,” Brownlee said. “We need to get
ourselves to a point where we can consider a new spatial plan
for the city as quickly as possible.”  The government was seeking portable offices for
Christchurch, and may get some of the temporary buildings from
overseas, Brownlee said. Some businesses were making their own
arrangements after the prime minister announced a short-term
financial support package this week, he said.  Support Package  The two-part support package will cost NZ$100 million to
NZ$120 million, Key said. The first portion allows employers to
pay wages, and the second component will support workers whose
employers view their business as no longer viable.  Key said today he expects the central bank to cut  interest
rates  as the nation grapples with the aftermath of the deadliest
earthquake in 80 years.  “That would probably be my expectation, that the  Reserve
Bank  would cut, but it’s for them to determine that,” Key said
in an interview in Wellington. A recession in the first half of
2011 cannot be ruled out, and there’s likely to be “virtually
no growth” recorded in New Zealand for the financial year
through June, he said.  The death toll from the Feb. 22 earthquake reached 160 and
is expected to rise further, according to New Zealand police.
More than 240 people are missing, which may include all of the
confirmed fatalities, according to a statement on the Civil
Defense department’s website.  More than 900 search and rescue personnel from 12 countries
are combing through the rubble of Christchurch’s office and
heritage buildings, including teams from Australia, Japan,  China ,  Singapore ,  Taiwan , the U.S. and the U.K., according to an
e-mailed statement from Foreign Minister Murray McCully.  Australia  has also provided 323 police officers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  