-- 
Dior to Fire Head Designer Galliano After Anti-Semitic Rant at Paris Cafe

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-01T18:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/christian-dior-to-fire-designer-galliano-over-anti-semitic-rant.html
  Christian Dior SA  said it will fire
its head fashion designer John Galliano after a video emerged
supporting claims that he uttered anti-semitic comments at
people in a Paris cafe.  A video of Galliano saying “I love Hitler” was posted
yesterday on the website of The Sun, a U.K. tabloid, showing the
designer at the same cafe where he was arrested Feb. 24
following an accusation that he verbally attacked a couple with
anti-semitic and racist statements.  “I condemn with the greatest firmness the statements by
John Galliano,” Maison Dior Couture Chief Executive Officer
Sidney Toledano said in an e-mailed statement.  Gibraltar-born Galliano, 50, was to present his collection
for Dior Couture on March 4 during  Paris Fashion Week  at the
 Rodin museum . Galliano joined Dior in 1996 from Givenchy, a
subsidiary of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA . Dior has a
stake in LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-goods manufacturer,
and LVMH Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault ’s Groupe
Arnault SAS holds 69 percent of Christian Dior.  Dior “had to take a position, an ethical stand,” said
Concetta Lanciaux, head of Strategy Luxury Advisors in Paris.
The show shouldn’t be affected, she said. “None of these
designers work in isolation. This is not some small company that
does everything on the last night.”  Stephane Zerbib, a lawyer for Galliano, declined to comment
on the firing.  Defamation Complaint  The designer has filed a defamation complaint against the
woman who claimed he’d insulted her on Feb. 24, Zerbib said.
Galliano and the woman met with police yesterday to discuss
their versions of what happened, he said.  “He responded, but he was never violent and never uttered
anti-semitic statements,” Zerbib said. Galliano insisted that
he was attacked first, the lawyer said Feb. 27.  Dior had suspended Galliano the day after last week’s
arrest pending the outcome of the police investigation.  The “particularly odious character of the behavior and
statements by  John Galliano ” in the video led the company to
fire the designer rather than await the outcome of the police
probe, Dior said in its statement.  While normally French labor law protects employees from
being fired for acts in their private lives, this situation is
different because the designer is the public face of the
company, labor lawyers said.  Incarnation of Dior  “Galliano’s case is very particular in that he incarnates
Dior,” said Yasmine Tarasewicz, a lawyer with  Proskauer Rose  in
Paris.  Should Galliano prevail in the criminal investigation, that
won’t necessarily help him before  France ’s labor courts because
of his duty to uphold the brand’s image, said Francoise Even, a
lawyer with Shearman & Sterling in Paris.  “They’re two autonomous procedures,” Even said. “A
public figure who represents a brand’s image cannot carry on in
public like this. It was damaging the company’s image; he
couldn’t stay.”  Oscar-winner  Natalie Portman , who is a face for Parfums
Christian Dior, wore another designer’s products at the awards
show Feb. 27, according to Women’s Wear Daily. She also issued a
statement disassociating herself from Galliano, according to
WWD.  “Today things are not like they were 10 years ago,”
Lanciaux said. “Even creative geniuses have to follow some
rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 