-- 
CIC, Temasek May Buy 39% Stake in Shanghai Jahwa, FT Reports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-01T08:05:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/cic-temasek-may-buy-39-stake-in-shanghai-jahwa-ft-reports-1-.html
Sovereign wealth fund  China 
Investment Corp. and Singapore state-owned investment company
Temasek Holdings Pte. may bid for a 39 percent stake in Chinese
cosmetics maker Shanghai Jahwa United Co., the Financial Times
reported without citing anyone.  Shanghai Jahwa is also speaking with private bidders, the
newspaper said today, citing an interview with Chairman Ge
Wenyao. He declined to identify them. Ping An Insurance Group
Co. also may bid for the stake from the Shanghai government, the
report said without citing anyone.  The 39 percent stake may be worth 6.1 billion yuan ($929
million), based on the Shanghai-based company’s closing share
price of 37.13 yuan on Dec. 3. The stock has been suspended from
trading in Shanghai since then.  Shanghai  Jahwa surged 62 percent
in the year until the trading halt.  Shanghai’s government is consolidating companies to improve
competitiveness. Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co. completed
a merger of two local drugmakers through a share swap in
September. Shanghai Airlines Co. was delisted from the exchange
in January after it was acquired by larger city rival China
Eastern Airlines Corp.  16 Percent Growth  Shanghai Guosheng Group Co. owns about 38 percent of the
cosmetics maker, which has about 423 million shares outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A CIC spokeswoman who declined to be identified because of
company policy wouldn’t comment on the report. A person who
answered the phone at the investment-and-development department
of state-owned Shanghai Guosheng declined to comment.  Shanghai Jahwa board secretary Feng Jun, and Jeffrey Fang
and Tan Yong Meng, Temasek spokesmen, declined to comment.  The restructuring of the company is due to take place in
April or May, according to the Financial Times.  China’s skincare market grew at a compound annual rate of
16 percent from 2004 to 2009, and total sales are expected to
reach 91 billion yuan by 2014, according to data from
Euromonitor International.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  