-- 
Cimpor Plans Another Brazil Plant, Studies Mozambique, Morocco

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-03-01T18:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/cimpor-plans-another-brazil-plant-studies-mozambique-morocco.html
  Cimpor-Cimentos de Portugal SGPS SA ,
the Portuguese cement maker with operations in a dozen
countries, plans to open another plant in  Brazil , Chief
Financial Officer Antonio Varela said.  “Besides the new factory and new line we announced in
November, we are planning another plant in Brazil,” he said at
a press conference today in Lisbon, declining to give more
details. Cimpor said in November it planned to open a new unit
in the northeast of the country and would increase capacity at a
plant in the central-west part of Brazil.  Brazil accounted for 30 percent of the company’s earnings
before  interest rates , taxes, depreciation and amortization in
2010, its biggest contributor, followed by  Portugal  with 22
percent. Total Ebitda rose 3.9 percent to a record 630 million
euros ($870 million) last year.  Cimpor in November said it planned to invest about 240
million euros in Brazil in the next three years as it increases
capacity in that market. Varela today declined to say if the
company’s capital spending would increase in 2011, after a 25
percent drop last year.  “Most of our investments take a while to have an impact,”
he said. “This will probably happen in 2012 and 2013. The
company is re-analyzing investments in Mozambique and  Morocco ,
after delaying these projects in recent years, he added.  Cimpor has no plans for further investments in Egypt or
other countries in the Mediterranean rim, where the company also
operates in Tunisia and  Turkey , besides Morocco, said Luis Filipe Sequeira Martins, a board member.  The factories in Egypt and Tunisia are operating as usual,
as the situation in these countries returns to normal, Chief
Executive Officer Francisco Lacerda said. Cimpor doesn’t expect
turmoil to spread to Turkey, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  