-- 
Citigroup Says It May Face Claims of Up to $3 Billion From Lehman Brothers

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-01T20:03:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/citigroup-may-face-3-billion-in-claims-from-lehman-after-brokerage-failed.html
  Citigroup Inc . said it may face
demands by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its defunct
brokerage for $3 billion in funds it took around the time of
Lehman’s September 2008 bankruptcy filing.  The trustee liquidating the remnants of Lehman’s brokerage
told Citigroup that he may try to recover $1 billion the bank
took as a setoff against the brokerage’s obligations, Citigroup
said in its annual report. Lehman may sue for the return of a $2
billion deposit placed with Citibank in June 2008,  New York- 
based Citigroup said in the Feb. 25 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Lehman, which unsuccessfully sued  Barclays Plc  over an
alleged $11 billion “windfall” that the U.K. bank realized in
buying the bulk of the brokerage, has sued banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co . demanding tens of billions of dollars. The
lawsuits follow a report by a bankruptcy examiner, Anton Valukas, into Lehman’s collapse, the largest in U.S. history.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, may have
grounds to sue JPMorgan and Citigroup because they helped cause
its failure by demanding more collateral and changing guarantee
agreements, Valukas said in his report last March, filed in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .    Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Jake Sargent, a spokesman
for brokerage trustee James Giddens, had no immediate comment.  The potential claims were reporter earlier by Reuters.  Citigroup also said the administrators of Lehman Brothers
International   Europe ) have disputed Citigroup’s right to retain
$2 billion in assets and cash held by the bank and related
parties as custodians.  Reasons to Protect  While encouraging Lehman’s suits, Valukas said lenders had
reasons to try to protect themselves as the investment bank’s
finances deteriorated, giving them “substantial defenses”
against any lawsuit.  JPMorgan, sued for $8.6 billion in collateral plus tens of
billions of dollars in damages, has countersued, saying the
defunct firm saddled it with securities Lehman employees
allegedly described as “goat poo” to back $25 billion in
loans.  Citigroup extended intraday credit to Lehman in handling
currency trades, taking on “a certain amount” of credit risk
under an agreement where the bank had “sole discretion” to
lend or not, Valukas said.  In June, Citigroup obtained the $2 billion deposit from
Lehman to reduce its intraday risk, he said. In July, Citigroup
refused to take securities Lehman proposed as collateral in lieu
of the cash deposit because it “questioned whether there was a
ready market for them,” he said.  ‘Acutely Concerned’  By early September, Citigroup had become “acutely
concerned” about its claim on the $2 billion deposit, the
Valukas report said.  An amended agreement gave Citigroup “a broad and explicit
security interest over cash, securities or other assets held by
Citi on behalf of Lehman,” according to the report.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 