-- 
Clean Air Act to Save $2 Trillion By 2020, EPA Report Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-03-01T23:40:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/clean-air-act-will-save-2-trillion-by-2020-epa-report-says.html
Cutting ozone pollution using the
 Clean Air Act  will have saved $2 trillion by 2020 and prevented
at least 230,000 deaths annually, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency said in a report.  Tougher emission restrictions adopted in 1990 helped avoid
more than 160,000 premature deaths, 130,000 heart attacks, 13
million lost work days and 1.7 million asthma attacks last year,
according to today’s  report , which measured only the impact of
amendments from 1990. By 2020, complying with the amendments
would prevent 200,000 heart attacks, 17 million lost work days
and 2.4 million asthma attacks, according to the report.  “The Clean Air Act’s decades-long track record of success
has helped millions of Americans live healthier, safer and more
productive lives,” EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson said in a
statement.  The EPA’s actions and rules tightening ozone standards were
cited as costly and damaging by  ConocoPhillips ,  Boeing Co . and
the  National Association of Manufacturers  in response to a call
from House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa  to identify rules needing review.  Of 111 regulations cited in letters the companies sent to
Issa, a California Republican, 57 were issued by the EPA.  The EPA’s report, required by the 1990 amendments, studies
the effects of regulations on the economy, environment and
public health from 1990 through 2020. It was released before
Gina McCarthy, assistant EPA administrator, testified to a House
panel on greenhouse-gas rules and the effect on U.S. jobs.  Executive Complaints  Business leaders told lawmakers that the regulations have
been onerous and stunted growth. Hugh Joyce, president of  James
River Air Conditioning Inc.  in Richmond,  Virginia , said new
construction is down and winning a permit takes more than six
months. He said environmental regulations cost his company, with
150 employees, about $150,000 each year.  “The EPA’s efforts to regulate  greenhouse gases  will
substantially enlarge the regulated community, increase
standards to near impossible levels, and impose severe paperwork
and compliance burdens on small-business owners at a time when
America’s small businesses can least afford it,” Joyce said.  Mike Carey, president of the  Ohio Coal Association , said an
“onslaught of regulations” from the agency will likely
accelerate the closing of coal-fired  power plants , undercutting
efforts to make the U.S. independent of foreign energy sources.
The U.S. will be challenged in competing with nations such as  China  that are subsidizing coal producers, he said.  ‘Must Oppose’  “We absolutely must oppose the new effort by the Obama
administration to eliminate coal through the new proposed plant
emissions and greenhouse gas regulations,” Carey said.  McCarthy said individuals and businesses have said
expanding regulations pose a threat, and groups warned that the
1990 amendments would cost millions of jobs. Instead, the U.S.
gets $30 in health benefits for every dollar spent, she said.  “In contrast to doomsday predictions, history has shown,
again and again, that we can clean up pollution, create jobs,
and grow our economy all at the same time,” McCarthy said.  Representative David McKinley, a  West Virginia  Republican
elected last year, said he was concerned that the jobs created
and the financial benefits wouldn’t help his district, where
coal mines may be forced to close and permits are slow to be
approved. His constituents are “scared to death” of losing
their jobs from over-regulation, he said.  “How can you say that the enforcement of greenhouse gases
will create jobs and the people of West Virginia will be OK?”
McKinley said.  ‘Clean Jobs’  McCarthy said the EPA has been identifying the most cost-
effective ways for new companies to get permits. With concerns
about the environment, she said people shouldn’t have to decide
between “clean jobs and good jobs.”  Henry Waxman, a California Democrat, complained the panel
didn’t include scientists to discuss climate change. In
response, Ed Whitfield, the chairman of the subcommittee on
Energy and Power, scheduled a hearing for next week on new
studies that link  climate change  to weather.  House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a
Michigan Republican, has introduced legislation to prevent the
EPA from regulating carbon dioxide through the  Clean Air Act 
after Congress failed to pass climate-change legislation.  “We live in a global economy with global competition, and
nations like China have absolutely no intention of similarly
burdening their interests,” Upton said at today’s hearing.
“Manufacturing jobs will leave this country unless EPA is
stopped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net ; 