-- 
Clinton Says Security Tied to Diplomacy, Aid Budgets

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-01T23:22:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/clinton-says-security-competitiveness-tied-to-state-budget.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
told House lawmakers today that a Republican-proposed 16 percent
cut to the agency’s budget would be “devastating” to U.S.
national security and would harm U.S. efforts to compete with
China for energy resources.  Defending the State Department budget request before the
House Foreign Affairs Committee, Clinton said proposed cuts
would force sharp reductions to programs in  Afghanistan ,  Pakistan  and  Iraq . The administration has requested $8.7 billion
for programs in those countries for fiscal year 2011, on top of
$47 billion for regular agency programs.  The top U.S. diplomat used the hearing to warn lawmakers
against the impulse to withdraw from global engagement. She
championed a combined military and diplomatic approach to
foreign affairs. The  U.S. Agency for International Development ’s
work to provide food and medical supplies to  Libya , supported by
the U.S. military, is an example, she said.  “This integrated approach is not just how we respond to
the crisis of the moment,” Clinton said. “It is the most
effective -- and cost-effective -- way to sustain and advance
our security across the world. And it is only possible with a
budget that supports all the tools in our national security
arsenal.”  After California Republican Representative Edward Royce
asked Clinton why the U.S. wasn’t jamming broadcasts by Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi , the secretary told him that the
administration is, in fact, “seriously considering” such
steps.  ‘Information War’  “This is an information war, to a great extent,” Clinton
said of the unrest. “And what we’ve been trying to do in the
last two years is to rebuild our credibility so that what we had
to say would be listened to.”  Lawmakers quizzed the secretary on topics including
Qaddafi’s responsibility for the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight
103, the potential of Middle East unrest to disrupt the Israeli-
Palestinian  peace process , and U.S. energy security. Some
lawmakers questioned the wisdom of providing aid to Pakistan
even as it refuses to release American Raymond Davis, who was
arrested in January for a shooting in Lahore. The U.S. says
Davis has diplomatic immunity.  In answer to Clinton’s assertion that cuts to the State
Department could hurt national security, several Republicans
argued that the nation’s deficit, which has been projected to
reach $1.6 trillion this year, also represents a threat to U.S.
stability.  Deficit Priorities  “We’re in trouble,” said Representative Michael Pence, an
Indiana Republican. “This country is going broke and we have to
ask every department in this government,” with the exception of
the military, to save, he said.  Senator  Richard Lugar , another Indiana Republican and a
longtime defender of foreign affairs funding, released a
statement today warning the State Department that “at this time
of economic and fiscal hardship,” all requested spending “will
have to pass the acid test of whether foreign assistance
programs contribute to national security and economic
development.”  Clinton plans to testify tomorrow before the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, of which Lugar is the ranking Republican
member.  AIDS Funding  The House committee’s Republican chairwoman, Ileana Ros- Lehtinen of  Florida , criticized the State Department for
“misplaced priorities” for investing in global health and
climate change over counterterrorism. The chairwoman quoted one
of her constituents in asking about the work of foreign aid.
“What is the return on our investment?” Ros-Lehtinen asked.  Clinton listed the increased death and disease likely if
global health programs, the largest area of State Department
spending, were cut. An HIV/AIDS program set up in the
administration of President  George W. Bush  would have to turn
away 400,000 people, and 16 million people would be denied
treatment, she said.  “These programs stabilize entire societies that have been
devastated by HIV, malaria and other diseases,” Clinton said.  Clinton was emphatic about the value of foreign aid as a
way to maintain U.S. influence overseas. The close ties between
the U.S. and Egyptian militaries are due in large part to State
Department programs, she said.  Her agency’s programs can help the U.S. get and maintain
access to markets as well, Clinton said, citing significant
energy reserves in the South Pacific. “We are in a competition
with China that is unbelievable,” Clinton said.  She noted that in many places, the State Department is
“the only representation of American power,” and she spoke
about her desire to “build the American brand.”    China  is competing with us,  Iran  is competing with us,”
she said. If the U.S. reduces foreign aid, “we have no lack of
people who would step forward to fill the void,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  