-- 
CoCos May Be Endorsed in Capital Rules for Systemic Banks

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-03-01T13:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/cocos-may-be-endorsed-in-capital-rules-for-too-big-to-fail-banks.html
International regulators will next
week consider allowing contingent convertible bonds to count
toward additional  capital requirements  for systemically
important banks whose failure would roil the global economy.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will discuss the
potential for the securities -- nicknamed CoCo bonds -- to
contribute to regulatory capital as an alternative to issuing
shares or retaining more earnings, which banks say may stymie
economic recovery by cutting their ability to lend.  The extra capital “has to be available to absorb losses
before the bank fails, and obviously common equity meets fully
that standard,” Stefan Walter, the Basel group’s secretary
general, said in an interview ahead of the March 8-9 meeting of
the committee. “We’re now also assessing CoCos and the
possibility of this type of instrument fulfilling part of the
loss-absorbency requirement.”  A global agreement by the Basel committee may expand the
market for CoCos, following  Credit Suisse Group AG ’s sale of $2
billion worth of the securities last month. A Swiss government-
appointed panel recommended last year that Zurich-based Credit
Suisse and  UBS AG  should hold as much as 9 percent of their
risk-weighted capital in CoCos by 2019.  “It looks like Basel is taking a leaf out of the Swiss
book,”  Monika Mars , a director at PricewaterhouseCoopers AG in
Zurich, said in a telephone interview. “Not necessarily for how
much extra capital” systemically important financial firms, or
SIFIs, must hold, she said, “but at least with the structure of
how the SIFI surcharge is going to work.”  Tougher Rules  The Group of 20 nations agreed in November that lenders
whose collapse would threaten the wider financial system should
face tougher capital rules than other banks, increasing their
ability to take losses without failing. The Basel committee has
been tasked by the  Financial Stability Board  with drafting the
requirements.  Cocos are “a more focused instrument that should limit the
need” for losses to be imposed on senior bondholders of
distressed banks, said Jesper Berg, senior vice president at
closely held Nykredit Realkredit A/S in Copenhagen. “The big
issue, however, is developing a market for CoCos.”  Berg said banks and regulators would also “need to develop
a special instrument” for mutually owned banks, “in order to
have a level playing field.”  Minimum Criteria  Regulators are examining “possible concrete minimum
criteria that CoCos would have to fulfil,” to form part of the
extra reserves for SIFIs, Walter said. “We’re already reviewing
some preliminary proposals” next week and “we will have much
more concrete proposals for the committee and the FSB to review
in June.”    Lloyds Banking Group Plc , which was bailed out by the U.K.
taxpayer, swapped existing notes for CoCos in November 2009,
Bloomberg data show.  CoCos alone may not be enough to provide the extra reserves
systemically important banks need to guard against their
failure, said Patricia Jackson, head of prudential advisory at
Ernst & Young LLP. Holders of other bonds may also be required
to suffer writedowns, known as bail-ins, at troubled lenders.  “Given the depth of market for CoCos it probably doesn’t
provide the full solution,” said Jackson. “The indications
have been that a combination of CoCos, bail-in and capital are
being considered by the Basel Committee.”  Systemically Important  The possible use of CoCos only concerns additional rules
for systemically important banks that go beyond capital and
liquidity standards agreed on by the Basel group last year,
Walter said.  The use of CoCos is “not being considered for the minimum
Requirement,” or for an extra capital buffer agreed by the
Basel group that would apply during credit booms, Walter said.
“It’s really for the additional loss absorbency of SIFIs.”    Stephen Miller , a partner at law firm Allen & Overy LLP in  London , said guidance would be needed “on criteria for setting
the trigger and guidance on how to determine the number of
shares per CoCo.”  Separately, the Basel committee will draw up standards
requiring banks to disclose what instruments are included in
their capital reserves, Walter said.  “All components of the capital base have to be fully
transparent,” Walter said. Investors should be able to look at
different banks’ “capital composition and compare them in terms
of their  capital structure , something that today is not
possible.”  Banker Pay  Other transparency efforts will target the way banks pay
their senior staff, Walter said.  The “focus here is not so much on levels of compensation
from one year to the next but more on the incentives, and the
governance process and the oversight,” he said.  Walter said the Basel committee also intends to examine
ways to ensure so-called shadow banks face similar rules to
traditional lenders when they carry out the same kinds of
activities.  “What you don’t want is something which is bank-like and
therefore could be susceptible to liquidity runs, deleveraging
and contraction of credit, not being subject to any
regulation,” he said.  Examples of shadow banks include structured investment
vehicles, credit hedge funds and money market mutual funds, the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said in a report last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 