-- 
German Stocks Sink; BMW, Daimler Fall, Celesio Slips on Analyst Downgrade

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-03-02T16:56:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/colonia-real-estate-e-on-thyssenkrupp-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated for a second
day amid concern that rising energy costs following revolts in
the Middle East and North Africa will hurt the economy.    Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Daimler AG led European
carmakers lower.  Celesio AG  dropped 6.2 percent as DZ Bank AG
recommended selling the company’s shares.  Salzgitter AG  declined
1 percent as metal prices retreated.  The benchmark  DAX Index  lost 0.6 percent to 7,181.12 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The measure dropped 3.3 percent
last week as opponents of Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi seized
control of large parts of the country. The broader  HDAX Index 
declined 0.6 percent today.  “The rising concerns about the stability in Middle East
countries and the fears of contagion -- frequently a deadly
virus in financial markets -- are spreading as rising oil prices
could affect Asian economies and thus seriously impact economic
recovery,” said Anita Paluch, a sales trader at ETX Capital in  London .  Oil in New York climbed above $100 a barrel for a second
day as Libyan rebels dug in after repulsing attacks by forces
loyal to Qaddafi and reports showed protesters clashed with
security forces in Iran, the second-largest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  A report today showed European producer-price inflation
accelerated more than economists forecast in January, as soaring
energy costs added to the European Central Bank’s concerns that
inflationary pressures are building. Factory-gate prices in the
euro area jumped 6.1 percent from a year earlier.  BMW, Daimler, Celesio  BMW and Daimler, the world’s biggest makers of luxury cars,
lost 2.8 percent to 58 euros and 2.8 percent to 49.6 euros,
respectively. European carmakers posted the worst performance
among 19 industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index
today, sliding 1.8 percent.  Celesio sank 6.2 percent to 18.52 euros, the biggest
retreat in almost ten months, as  DZ Bank  cut its recommendation
on the drug wholesaler to “sell” from “buy,” citing a
“cloudy” outlook for 2011.  Salzgitter, Germany’s second-biggest steelmaker, fell for
the first time in four days, losing 1 percent to 59.72 euros.
Lead, nickel, tin and zinc all retreated on the London Metal
Exchange today.    Axel Springer AG  tumbled 5.4 percent to 113.55 euros after
the publisher of Bild, Germany’s most popular newspaper,
forecast a “slight” increase in earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization this year.  “The sharp decline in the share price seems to be the
result of the gap between analyst expectations for 2011 and the
company’s outlook,” Jochen Reichert, an analyst at Warburg
Research, wrote in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  