-- 
Columbia Students Plead Not Guilty to Added Charges in Drug-Dealing Case

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-03-01T22:43:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/columbia-students-plead-not-guilty-to-added-charges-in-drug-dealing-case.html
A group of Columbia University
students accused last year of selling drugs on the  Ivy League 
school’s New York campus pleaded not guilty to additional
charges.  The five men, dressed in suits and ties, appeared today
before Justice Michael Sonberg in Manhattan State Supreme Court
to face additional allegations in a 65-count superseding
indictment that reflect drugs prosecutors say were found in the
course of their arrests in December.  The five students and three other people were indicted on
30 counts in December following a five-month investigation
called “Operation Ivy League.” They were accused of selling
cocaine, marijuana, MDMA, also known as ecstasy, LSD and other
drugs at fraternity houses and residences on the school’s campus
on the Upper West Side neighborhood of Manhattan.  The indicted students are Harrison David, 20, of Wrentham,  Massachusetts ; Chris Coles, 20, of Philadelphia; Adam Klein, 20,
of Closter,  New Jersey ; Jose Stephan Perez, 20, of Atlanta; and
Michael Wymbs, 22, of New York.  Undercover officers spent $11,000 in 31 purchases of drugs
including cocaine, marijuana, powdered MDMA, and LSD-laced
Altoids mints and Sweetarts candy, with most of the sales taking
place in common areas and bedrooms at the Alpha Epsilon Pi, Pi
Kappa Alpha and Psi Upsilon fraternities, prosecutors  said .  Police found a bottle of LSD, 50 capsules of MDMA, 15
Adderall pills, more than a half-pound of marijuana and about
$2,000 in cash during searches of the suspects’ rooms on campus
following their arrests, prosecutors said.  Other Arrests  Alleged suppliers Miron Sarzynski, 24, and his girlfriend,
Megan Asper, 22, were arrested in October in the East Village
neighborhood of  Manhattan . Another alleged cocaine supplier,
Roberto Lagares, 30, was arrested in December in  Brooklyn . None
of them attended Columbia.  Columbia, founded in 1754, has about 25,000 students and is
one of eight schools in the northeastern U.S. that make up the
Ivy League. The university’s undergraduate tuition is about
$42,000 a year, according to its website.  Graduates include President  Barack Obama  and  Warren Buffett , the chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.  Students who violate Columbia’s drug policy could face
expulsion, according to its website. The university doesn’t
comment on the status of individual students, Robert Hornsby, a
spokesman for the school, said in an e-mail.  Prison Time  All five students are free on bail and face as much as 10
years in prison if convicted of the charges, said Catherine
Christian, a spokeswoman for the city’s  Office of the Special
Narcotics Prosecutor .  Their next court appearance is scheduled for April 5.  Klein, a neuroscience and behavior major who competed on
the school’s fencing team, has been doing volunteer work since
his arrest while continuing to study, his attorney, Alan Abramson, said after today’s hearing.  Wymbs, a senior with a 3.5 grade point average who was
applying to graduate schools at the time of his arrest, has been
keeping up with his studies and undergoing treatment, said his
attorney, Michael Bachner. He has asked to have his client’s
case transferred to the city’s drug courts.  “He’s been keeping himself focused on his future,”
Bachner said.  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011, New York State
Supreme Court,  New York  Country (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  