-- 
Commercial Property Deals May Double in U.S. as Blackstone Bets on Rebound

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/commercial-property-deals-may-double-in-u-s-as-blackstone-bets-on-rebound.html
U.S. commercial property purchases
may double this year as confidence builds among investors with
access to credit and equity that values will rebound.    Blackstone Group LP ’s planned $9.4 billion purchase of U.S.
shopping centers and  Ventas Inc .’s proposed $5.7 billion buyout
of a health-care real estate investment trust, one of two multi-
billion dollar health care REIT deals announced yesterday, may
mean a wave of commercial real estate acquisitions is coming as
buyers regain confidence in the market.  “Both these deals are a great signal that liquidity has
returned to the commercial real estate space,”  Dan Fasulo ,
managing director of Real Capital Analytics Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “It certainly will have ripple effects on
the entire industry.”  Transactions surged over the past year as the economy began
to recover and low  interest rates  made it cheaper for REITs and
private-equity buyers to acquire office, retail, industrial,
apartment and health-care properties. Completed acquisitions by
U.S. REITs more than tripled to $24 billion in the 12 months
through the end of February compared with the previous year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fasulo said he
“wouldn’t be surprised” if U.S. commercial property purchases
double in 2011 from almost $140 billion in 2010.  Demand for commercial real estate plunged during the credit
crisis and recession as property values fell and investors had
difficulty securing financing for new purchases or refinancing
short-term debt from earlier deals. U.S. commercial property
transactions fell 89 percent to $66 billion in 2009 from the
peak of $579 billion in 2007, according to New York-based Real
Capital.  Confidence is Critical  An increase in takeovers shows that investors have
confidence in the market and “all the smaller players will look
to that,” said Christopher Macke, senior real estate strategist
at Washington-based  CoStar Group Inc ., a property-information
service. “That confidence level is just critical,” he said.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, agreed
to buy  Centro Properties Group ’s U.S. shopping centers for about
$9.4 billion, Melbourne-based Centro said in a statement today.  The 588 strip malls and related properties, anchored mainly
by  discount stores  and supermarket chains, add to Blackstone’s
$500 million investment in mall owner  General Growth Properties
Inc . and a March 2010 venture with  Glimcher Realty Trust  to look
for retail acquisitions. Blackstone also has been buying hotel
and warehouse assets.  Blackstone plans to hold onto the Centro assets in
anticipation of a recovery in U.S. property values, said a
person familiar with the deal. The person asked not to be
identified because the details of the transaction are private.  Health Care Deals  Ventas’s deal to buy  Nationwide Health Properties Inc . is
the biggest ever among health-care real estate investment trusts
and will create the largest health-care REIT.  HCP Inc . is
currently the biggest health-care REIT by market value.  Ventas announced almost $4 billion in acquisitions in 2010,
Ventas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Debra Cafaro said in
a conference call with investors on Feb. 17. Those deals, which
included the purchase of almost all the real estate assets of
Atria Senior Living Inc., made Ventas the largest U.S. owner of
senior housing in the U.S., Cafaro said.  “We’re putting the best two health-care REITs together and
we’re creating really a market leader in the REIT sector as well
as the health-care REIT space,” Cafaro said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The transaction brings tremendous
strategic and financial benefits to both sets of shareholders.”  The health-care real estate market is more than $700
billion and REITs own less than 10 percent of it, Cafaro said.    Health Care REIT Inc ., the third-largest health care real
estate investment trust, agreed to buy substantially all the
property assets of closely held Genesis HealthCare for $2.4
billion, in a deal announced yesterday.  Prologis-AMB Merger  In January,  ProLogis , the world’s largest warehouse
operator, agreed to merge with rival  AMB Property Corp .,
creating a real estate company that will own or manage $46
billion in assets.  Prices of commercial properties sold by institutional
investors surged 19 percent in 2010, the second-biggest gain on
record, according to an index developed by the MIT Center for
Real Estate in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Investments in office
properties, the largest part of the market, more than doubled
last year to $42.8 billion, according to  Real Capital .  Low Interest Rates  Near record-low interest rates are luring buyers with the
prospect of cheaper financing and higher returns.  A resurgent debt-securitization market is also driving the
recovery. Commercial mortgage-backed securities issuance in the
U.S. rose to $10.9 billion in 2010 compared with $2.1 billion in
2009, according to a  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc . report on Feb. 2.
Issuance is estimated to be over $40 billion in 2011,
“providing added liquidity to owners with maturing loans to
refinance,” the report said.  REITs may lead deals because of their access to capital for
funding, Macke of CoStar said. Global private-equity real estate
fund-raising fell to a seven-year low in 2010,  according  to
Preqin Ltd.  “The public market is raising money hand over fist and the
other group is not,” Macke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  