-- 
Commodities in Longest Winning Streak Since '04 Beat Stocks, Bonds, Dollar

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-01T14:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/commodities-in-longest-winning-streak-since-04-beating-stocks.html
Metals, crops and fuel beat stocks,
bonds and the dollar for a third straight month, the longest
stretch since June 2008, as inflation lifted cotton and cocoa
and investors speculated violence in the Middle East and
northern  Africa  will restrain energy supplies.  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities gained
3.8 percent in February and rose for a sixth consecutive month,
the longest streak since 2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities in 45 nations
returned 3 percent including dividends, while corporate and
government bonds rose 0.21 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index. The U.S. Dollar
Index, a gauge of the currency against six counterparts such as
the euro and yen, fell 1.1 percent.  Faster global growth pushed up raw-material prices since
September and gains accelerated after riots toppled leaders in
Egypt and Tunisia and threatened Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi. At the
same time, central banks in emerging economies from China to  Russia  are raising  interest rates  and boosting reserve
requirements at banks to fight inflation, holding back equities.  “These commodity price increases are staggering,” said  Kevin Rendino , a money manager at New York-based  BlackRock Inc .,
which oversees $3.45 trillion. “Each commodity is different,
but there is a supply issue for oil. There has been real
economic demand for these commodities since the economy began
recovering.”  June 2008  The last time commodities beat stocks, bonds and the dollar
for three straight months was June 2008, when the price of oil
surged following violence in  Iraq . Futures reached a record
$147.27 a barrel the next month, and the average price for U.S.
regular gasoline at the pump also climbed as high as $4.114.  The S&P GSCI index advanced 1.1 percent at 9:47 a.m. in New
York today.  Metals gained in February after reports showed Chinese
manufacturing expanded and U.S. factory output beat the most
optimistic forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Silver
rose 20 percent last month, the most of any metal in the S&P
GSCI index. The  Federal Reserve  raised its forecast for growth
in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, to a range of 3.4
percent to 3.9 percent, from 3 percent to 3.6 percent.  Libyan Supplies  Oil climbed to the highest price since September 2008 in
February. Oil rose after estimates showed exports from Libya,
the third-largest producer in Africa at about 1.6 million
barrels of oil a day, was cut. Barclays Plc said output was
reduced by more than 1 million barrels a day, while the
International Energy Agency said output was down 850,000
barrels. Clashes between Qaddafi and rebels intensified in the
second half of February. Futures gained 5.2 percent to $96.97 a
barrel in New York last month, reaching $103.41 on Feb. 24.  Cotton advanced 14 percent to a record $1.9123 a pound,
leading gains in crop prices. Production in  China , the world’s
biggest importer, fell 6.3 percent to 5.97 million metric tons
last year, the third consecutive drop, data from the National
Bureau of Statistics in Beijing show. Futures have risen 32
percent in 2011 through February, the biggest gain to start a
year, according to Bloomberg data starting in mid-1959.  Rising commodities are feeding inflation.  Brazil ’s price
increased to 6.08 percent in the 12 months through mid-February,
the fastest rate in more than two years.  India ’s benchmark
wholesale inflation rate averaged 9.4 percent in the nine months
through December, the most in the past decade, the  finance
ministry  said in a report on Feb. 25.  ‘Dominant Influence’  “The dominant influence with regard to strength in
commodities is equally split by global demand and dollar
weakness,” said Liam Dalton, president of Axiom Capital
Management Inc. in New York, which oversees $1.4 billion. “In
terms of traditional inflation in the U.S., we have a very tough
time getting that going right now, whereas in some of the
overseas markets like China, India and Brazil, there is
potential for inflation because of tremendous organic demand.”  Equities returned 3 percent worldwide including dividends
in February, led by energy companies. While all 10 industries in
the MSCI All-Country index advanced, the energy group rose the
most with a 6.4 percent gain, keeping it as the best-performing
group since the market’s lows in July.  Pride International Inc .,
a drilling contractor, climbed 28 percent, and Rowan Cos., the
oil and natural-gas driller that also builds rigs, advanced 24
percent.  Corporate Bonds  Corporate bonds worldwide rose 0.67 percent last month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. The advance was the first after three straight
monthly declines.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds returned 1.42
percent, following a gain of 2.17 percent in January, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global High Yield Index.
Speculative-grade bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Treasuries, the benchmark for borrowing costs around the
world, lost 0.05 percent. The drop was reduced by the biggest
weekly gain since May as unrest in  Libya  drove investors to the
safety of U.S. government debt and raised concern that surging  oil prices  may derail the economic recovery. Treasuries climbed
0.01 percent in January, lagging behind the 5.9 percent return
in 2010.  Safety of Treasuries  “In the beginning of February, there was clearly a trend
out of the relatively safe Treasuries market,” said  Ian Lyngen ,
a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “But since then we’ve seen that trend
reverse given the geopolitical uncertainties associated with the
crisis in the Middle East.”  The Dollar Index dropped 1.1 percent, following a 1.6
percent loss in January. The South African rand was the best-
performing currency in February, gaining 3.2 percent against the
dollar. New Zealand’s dollar performed worst, losing 2.7
percent.  “The markets are sending us a message,” said Hugh Johnson, who oversees $1.92 billion as chairman of  Albany , New
York-based Hugh Johnson Advisors LLC. “The message is that oil
prices are going to go higher. We’re talking about possible
interruption of oil flows and possibly higher oil prices and
that will have an impact on the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer A. Johnson in New York at 
 jjohnson156@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  