-- 
Congo Arrests More Than 50 People After Attack on President Kabila's Home

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-03-01T16:16:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/congo-arrests-more-than-50-people-after-attack-on-president-kabila-s-home.html
Authorities in the Democratic
Republic of Congo arrested more than 50 people following a Feb.
27 attack on the residence of President Joseph Kabila and a
military camp in Kinshasa, the capital.  Seven of the assailants and one member of the presidential
guard died in the attack, which was a “terrorist act” designed
to “sow fear in people,” the information minister, Lambert Mende, told reporters today. “This was an act of criminality.
It was not a coup d’etat.”  Kabila, 39, became Congo’s leader in 2001 when his father,
Laurent Desire Kabila, was assassinated. The younger Kabila led
the country in a transitional government from 2003 to 2006, when
he was elected president. Congo, which is  Africa ’s largest tin-
ore producer and has about 4 percent of the world’s copper and a
third of its cobalt resources, is set to hold in November its
second presidential election since the end of almost a decade of
war.  The assailants, armed with machetes and guns and wearing
amulets for protection, attacked the president’s residence at
about 2:00 p.m. and were repelled by the presidential guard
during a 20-minute gunfight, Mende said. Kabila wasn’t at home
at the time and returned to be with his family just before the
raid ended, he said.  Soon after that attack, another group of assailants opened
fire at an arms depot at a nearby military camp and fled on
motorcycles and in cars, Mende said. Congo’s security forces
stopped the raiders from striking other targets, including the
national television station, he said.  No Demands  The attackers made no political demands and there were no
opposition members among those arrested, Mende said. The leader
of the assailants was a former soldier with a defunct armed
group, Mende said, without specifying which one. He was killed
in the gunfight at the president’s house.  “The government has no proof to launch accusations against
the opposition,” he said. “They are our partners as we go
forward with elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 