-- 
Congo's Mining Ban Fails to Break Links With Armed Groups, Institute Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-03-01T08:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/congo-s-mining-ban-fails-to-break-links-with-armed-groups-institute-says.html
A ban on mining in three of the
Democratic Republic of Congo’s eastern provinces failed to halt
smuggling and break the link between armed groups and the
mineral trade, the head of a Congolese research institute said.  Congolese President Joseph Kabila suspended mining in the
Maniema, North Kivu and  South Kivu  provinces on Sept. 9 to close
a revenue stream for conflict in the region. Congo’s mines
minister asked Kabila to lift the ban last week.  “The president wanted to stop revenue from minerals
financing conflict and ensure that the military is not involved
in mining, but it has failed,” Aloys Tegera, a director at the
Pole Institute, a European Union-funded research group, said in
an interview on Feb. 22 in Goma, North Kivu’s capital. “The ban
has instead made the two million families that depend on mining
poorer and reduced consumption in the region because of less
money in circulation.”  The illicit trade in gold, tin ore and coltan, a mineral
used in electronics, has fueled more than a decade of conflict
in eastern Congo. Dozens of armed groups, including members of
the national army, have supported themselves by controlling or
taxing the trade, according to the Mines Ministry. Congo is  Africa ’s largest producer of tin ore, also known as cassiterite,
which comes mainly from the provinces affected by the ban.  Since the ban began, Congo’s military has removed illegal
armed groups from “many” mining sites and the government is now
working with domestic and international partners to develop ways
of tracing the supply chain of its minerals, Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said at a conference in Kinshasa on Feb. 25.  Military Stake  Some members of the military have used their role in
enforcing the ban to increase their stake in the mineral trade,
Tegera said.  “One trader was recently arrested at the airport here with
cassiterite and investigations tracked it back to a mining site
linked to a soldier,” he said.  The seizure of more than $6 million in cash and 400
kilograms (882 pounds) of gold on Feb. 4 in Goma may be linked
to soldiers as well, North Kivu Governor Julien Paluku said in
an interview in Kinshasa on Feb. 25. Four hundred kilograms of
gold is worth about $18.2 million at current prices.  Speculative traders have also stockpiled illegally mined
minerals in anticipation of selling them at higher prices when a
ban on their exploitation is lifted, Tegera said.  Most of the stockpiling took place soon after the ban had
been imposed, Emmanuel Ndimubanzi, head of North Kivu’s Division
of Mines, said by phone from Goma on Feb. 26.  “At the beginning of the ban, some people were buying and
keeping stock thinking that it would not take long, but now they
don’t know what will happen,” Ndimubanzi said.  Export Tonnages  North Kivu had about 1,500 metric tons of cassiterite ready
for export when the ban was imposed, according to Ndimubanzi.
There were about 71 tons of coltan, 15 tons of tungsten and 15
kilograms of gold, he said.  “We can’t establish how much stock is there now, but we are
sure it is much more because we know that soldiers are mining,”
Tegera said. The North Kivu stockpiles may be worth as much as
$30 million, Paluku said.  In 2009, North Kivu province produced 10,543 tons of
cassiterite and 280 tons of coltan for a combined value of about
$80 million, information from the North Kivu Division of Mines
shows. That translates into two-thirds of North Kivu’s revenue,
according to the Goma-based Pole Institute.  South Kivu  South Kivu had more than 330 tons of cassiterite stockpiled
at the time of the ban, according to provincial Mines Ministry
statistics. Data for Maniema wasn’t immediately available.  Mineral traders and provincial officials are concerned that
new industry auditing regulations on minerals from Congo will
mean they’re unable to sell their stockpiles. The rules were
prompted by a U.S. law requiring suppliers to certify that their
purchases don’t support conflict in Congo. The legislation
applies to mineral sales from Congo and its adjoining countries
and the auditing rules come into effect on April 1.  Rwanda’s Geology and Mining Authority has said the rules
effectively create a trade embargo on Central African minerals,
a claim the North Kivu business association echoed in a Feb. 25
letter to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which is
formulating the regulations. The head of the business
association, John Kanyoni, e-mailed the letter to Bloomberg
yesterday. Kanyoni is also the president of the provincial
association of mineral traders.  Kabwelulu denied the rules will result in an embargo. All
existing stocks must be certified and tagged, he said at the
Feb. 25 conference, and the regulation of the industry will help
clean up the trade and eventually provide more revenue to the
state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Kigali at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 