-- 
Copper Premiums in China Slump to Zero on Arbitrage

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-03-01T05:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/copper-premiums-in-china-slump-to-zero-on-arbitrage-correct-.html
(Corrects month in third paragraph.)  Copper premiums in  China , the
world’s largest consumer, dropped to as low as zero as
international prices rallied more than domestic prices, making
imports of the metal expensive.  Premiums paid by Chinese importers over the London Metal
Exchange cash price dropped to between zero and $50 a metric ton
over the  Shanghai  price, on a cost, insurance and freight basis,
according to metals consultancy CRU International Ltd. That’s
lower than $10 to $70 quoted before the weeklong Lunar New Year
holidays, which began on Feb. 2, said CRU’s Beijing-based
analyst Grace Qu.  China’s imports of refined copper were 245,617 tons in
January, customs data showed. That’s the highest level since
August and 25 percent more than a year ago. Copper in  London  has
traded at a premium to futures in China, rising 17 percent
between Nov. 1 and Jan. 31, compared with a 15 percent gain in
Shanghai. Prices in Shanghai include a 17 percent value-added
tax and import fees.  “There’s just no incentive to buy imported copper at the
moment as the arbitrage isn’t favorable,” Qu said. Arbitrage
traders and importers seek to profit by buying metal in London
and selling it in Shanghai, exploiting gaps between prices. That
trade had been mostly unprofitable since July, according to
Bloomberg data.  Copper Exports  Since October, Shanghai’s copper market has been mostly in
a contango, where metal for immediate delivery is cheaper than
contracts with later dates, suggesting ample short-term
availability. Inventories monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange were near a nine-month high last week.  “We believe this apparent surplus is due to transient
destocking, with the absence of usual Chinese seasonal
restocking at the moment,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
including  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a Feb. 25 report.  China’s refined-copper exports more than doubled in January
from a month earlier, climbing for a third month to 23,193 tons,
customs data showed, as the higher London prices encouraged
traders to sell overseas instead of domestically.  Stockpiles in London Metal Exchange warehouses in  South
Korea , Singapore and  Malaysia , the locations nearest to China,
were 117,125 tons yesterday, the highest level since March 2010.  “The physical market has been very quiet even after the
Chinese New Year break, as consumers are waiting for the price
to drop while traders are withholding supplies because selling
imported copper is a loss-making enterprise at the moment,”
said Pang Ying, an analyst at Shenzhen Rongtuo Trading Co.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange declined 0.5 percent to $9,833 a ton at 12:22 p.m.  Singapore  time, snapping a three-day winning streak. The
contract reached a record $10,190 a ton on Feb. 15. Futures on
the Shanghai Futures Exchange were dropped 0.4 percent to 74,020
yuan ($11,266) a ton.  To contact the reporter for this story: Glenys Sim in Singapore
at   gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  