-- 
Corporate Privacy Rights Limited by U.S. Supreme Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-03-01T16:19:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/corporate-privacy-rights-limited-as-u-s-supreme-court-rules-against-at-t.html
The U.S. Supreme Court said
companies can’t challenge the release of government documents on
corporate privacy grounds, ruling against  AT&T Inc . in a case
stemming from a probe of the telecommunications provider.  The justices today unanimously  barred  corporations from
invoking a provision in a federal document-disclosure law that
protects against invasions of “personal privacy.”  “When it comes to the word ‘personal,’ there is little
support for the notion that it denotes corporations, even in the
legal context,” Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote for the court.
He later said, “We trust AT&T will not take it personally.”  The ruling is a victory for the Obama administration, which
said a lower court ruling favoring AT&T upset the decades-old
understanding of the Freedom of Information Act, under which
hundreds of thousands of requests are filed every year. A
separate provision in FOIA protects against the disclosure of
corporate trade secrets.  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, is trying to block
disclosure of what it says are competitively sensitive documents
connected to a 2004 Federal Communications Commission
investigation into the company’s billing practices under a
government program aimed at improving telecommunications
technology in schools. AT&T reached a $500,000 settlement with
the FCC that year.  FOIA Request  CompTel, a trade association representing companies that
compete with AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc ., filed a
freedom of information request in 2005, seeking access to the
investigation file. The FCC concluded it was obligated to
release many of the records, saying the “personal privacy”
exemption applied only to individuals.  A federal appeals court had sided with AT&T, saying the
statute’s definition of “person” suggests that “personal
includes corporations.  Roberts today rejected that reasoning, devoting much of his
12-page opinion to discussing the finer points of grammar. He
said words like “corny,” “crabbed” and “cranky” have
distinct meanings from nouns that come from the same roots --
“corn,” “crab” and “crank.”  “Adjectives typically reflect the meaning of corresponding
nouns, but not always,” Roberts wrote.  AT&T’s Argument  Roberts said AT&T’s argument “treats the term ‘personal
privacy’ as simply the sum of its two words: the privacy of a
person.”  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in the case. She had
played in a role in the litigation as President Barack Obama’s
top Supreme Court lawyer before her appointment as a justice.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, was one
of 23 media organizations urging the court to side with the
government. In a separate case that hinges on the  trade-secrets 
exemption, Bloomberg is seeking to force the Federal Reserve
Board to release documents identifying banks that might have
failed without a U.S. government bailout.  The case is Federal Communications Commission v. AT&T Inc.,
09-1279.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 