-- 
Credit Suisse Banker Helped Cheat IRS While at UBS

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-03-02T19:56:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/credit-suisse-banker-bagios-appears-in-u-s-court-in-florida.html
(Corrects 18th paragraph to say Goldstein has not pleaded
guilty.)  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  banker
Christos Bagios helped 150 American clients hide as much as $500
million in assets from U.S. tax authorities when he worked at
 UBS AG (UBSN) , according to a criminal charge made public yesterday.  Bagios, who was arrested and jailed Jan. 26 in a crackdown
on offshore  tax evasion , appeared yesterday in federal court in
Fort Lauderdale,  Florida . U.S. Magistrate Judge Robin Rosenbaum
denied his request for his immediate release after his lawyers
argued he failed to get a prompt hearing on the evidence against
him.  The judge made public the charge against Bagios, 45, who is
accused of conspiring to defraud the U.S. by impeding the
 Internal Revenue Service . UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
avoided prosecution in 2009 when it admitted it helped Americans
cheat the IRS, paid $780 million in fines and penalties, and
turned over data on previously secret accounts.  “Christos Bagios and others would and did market
undeclared Swiss bank accounts and Swiss bank secrecy to wealthy
United States clients who were interested in attempting to evade
United States income taxes,” according to the criminal
complaint.  Bagios, a Swiss resident and Greek citizen, joined Credit
Suisse Private Advisors in 2009 after spending more than 15
years at UBS.  “He doesn’t understand what he’s accused of doing wrong,”
Arthur Greenspan, a lawyer for Bagios, told the judge. “He
doesn’t believe he did anything wrong. He doesn’t believe that
he aided tax evaders.  While at UBS, Bagios conspired with Renzo Gadola, a UBS
banker who pleaded guilty to conspiracy in December, according
to the complaint.  ‘Part of a Team’  Gadola told an IRS agent on Jan. 26 that he and Bagios were
“part of a team of UBS bankers who serviced hundreds of
undeclared accounts at UBS owned and controlled by U.S.
taxpayers,” according to the complaint.  The complaint doesn’t implicate Zurich-based Credit Suisse,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, in illegal conduct. Last
week, four bankers who worked at Credit Suisse were indicted on
charges of conspiring to help clients in the U.S. evade taxes
through secret bank accounts.  Credit Suisse managers in the cross-border business “knew
and should have known that they were aiding and abetting U.S.
customers in evading their U.S. income taxes,” according to the
indictment. In the fall of 2008, the bank had “thousands” of
accounts with $3 billion in assets not declared to the IRS,
according to the indictment.  January Appearance  Bagios was first detained in  New York , where he initially
appeared in a closed court proceeding on Jan. 28, his attorney
Arthur Greenspan said at yesterday’s hearing.  Lawyers for Bagios argued that he should be released
because the government violated his right to a prompt hearing on
the charges. They said the charges should be dismissed because
the government didn’t indict Bagios within 30 days, as required
by law.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Robin Rosenbaum refused to release
Bagios, after a prosecutor said the two sides had been in
negotiations.  “We thought it would not make sense to go forward with a
full charging document when we felt he might become a
cooperator” for the government, Kevin Downing, a senior trial
attorney in the  Justice Department ’s tax division, told the
judge during a conference call.  Transfer Delayed  Greenspan told Rosenbaum that U.S. authorities moved Bagios
to Pennsylvania and  Oklahoma  after his arrest, and his transfer
to Florida was delayed.  The judge set a preliminary hearing on the evidence for
today.  The offshore tax crackdown that has led to criminal charges
against UBS, the largest Swiss bank; two dozen former UBS
clients; four former bankers and two advisers.  Bagios helped California businessman Bernard Goldstein,
owner of an export-import company, conceal assets in an account
in  Panama  that Goldstein falsely claimed wasn’t subject to U.S.
income taxes, the complaint said. Goldstein has been charged
separately and hasn’t pleaded guilty.  Bagios met with other U.S. taxpayers to discuss their
undeclared accounts, according to the complaint. The complaint
identifies the taxpayers only by their initials, if at all.  The case is U.S. v. Bagios, 11-06030, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida ( Fort Lauderdale ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in New York at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Fort Lauderdale at 
 susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 