-- 
Oil Surges to Highest Price in 29 Months on Mideast Unrest, Supply Concern

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-03-01T21:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/crude-oil-advances-from-a-one-week-low-as-supply-concern-extends-to-iran.html
Oil surged to the highest level
since September 2008 as Middle East turmoil threatened to spread
from Libya to top OPEC producers  Saudi Arabia  and Iran.  Crude jumped 2.7 percent as Libyan rebels braced for
renewed clashes with forces loyal to leader Muammar Qaddafi.
Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index plunged the most since
November 2008 on concern regional unrest would extend to the
kingdom, and Iranian protesters clashed with security forces in
Tehran, Al Arabiya television reported.  “All over the region, things are keeping the market very
nervous,” said Phil Flynn, vice president of research at
PFGBest in  Chicago . “Right now in this Middle East situation
there’s no real end in sight.”  Oil for April delivery rose $2.66 to $99.63 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Sept.
30, 2008. Prices jumped 5.2 percent in February and have risen
27 percent in the past year. Oil touched $100.68 a barrel at
4:11 p.m. in electronic trading after the settlement.  Prices increased after the  American Petroleum Institute 
reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude stockpiles decreased 1.08
million barrels to 344.7 million and gasoline inventories
dropped 4.9 million barrels, the most since May 2009. April oil
rose $3.54, or 3.7 percent, to $100.51 a barrel in electronic
trading at 4:31 p.m.    Brent crude  for April settlement climbed $3.62, or 3.2
percent, to $115.42 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange, the highest close since Aug. 27, 2008.  Fighting in Libya caused its output to drop last month to
the lowest level since January 2003, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts.  Tanker Voyages  Contracts tied to the cost of shipping Saudi Arabian oil
jumped 12 percent on speculation that tanker voyages will
lengthen as the country compensates for reduced supplies from  Libya , according to broker ACM-GFI in  London .  Political turmoil has spread to Saudi Arabia’s neighbors,
with protests erupting in Oman and Bahrain. Websites have called
for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on March 11 and 20, Human
Rights Watch said yesterday.  The group wants the immediate release of dissident Shiite
cleric Tawfiq al-Amir, who called for a constitutional monarchy
and equal rights for the Shiite minority.  The kingdom’s  Tadawul All Share Index  slumped 6.8 percent
to 5,538.72. The measure has lost 20 percent since reaching its
2010 high, the common definition of a  bear market .  Risk Premium  “With the potential for negative developments in so many
countries, we’re starting to see the risk premium return for
crude,” said Matt Smith, a commodities analyst for Summit
Energy in Louisville,  Kentucky .    Iran ’s Foreign Ministry said issues relating to its
opposition are “internal affairs,” without commenting on
allegations by dissidents that authorities had detained the main
opposition leaders Mehdi Karrubi and Mir-Hossein Mousavi.  Saudi Arabia pumped 8.43 million barrels a day of oil in
February, the most since 2008, and Iran produced 3.71 million,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Riots from  Morocco  to Bahrain have already toppled leaders
in Tunisia and Egypt and protests have erupted in Yemen, to the
south of Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter.  In Oman, the largest Middle Eastern producer outside the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, protesters
blocked a highway linking the northern city of Sohar to the
capital Muscat today as the army set up checkpoints around Sohar
and inspected vehicles.  Oman pumped 885,600 barrels of oil a day in January,
according to data reported by the state-run Oman News Agency.    U.S. Economy   Crude also rose as manufacturing in the U.S. grew in
February at the fastest rate since May 2004, a signal that
demand may rebound in the world’s largest oil-consuming country.
The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index increased to
61.4, exceeding the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today.
Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  “The U.S. economy from this data today looks very
strong,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics,
an energy advisory firm in Austin,  Texas . “What you’ve got
right now is basically a price-bullish maelstrom of factors
driving the price of crude higher.”  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the surge in
oil and other commodity prices probably won’t cause a permanent
increase in broader inflation in his semi-annual monetary policy
testimony before the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington .  DOE Report  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
oil supplies rose 750,000 barrels last week from 346.7 million
barrels, according to the median of 17 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey before an Energy Department report
tomorrow. It would be the seventh week of gains.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 671,442
contracts as of 4:33 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 574,252
contracts yesterday, 26 percent below the average of the past
three months and the lowest level since Jan. 3. Open interest
was 1.54 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 