-- 
Crude Oil Climbs From One-Week Low as Iran Protests Add to Supply Concern

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-01T13:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/crude-oil-climbs-from-one-week-low-on-concern-libya-supply-cuts-may-spread.html
Oil rose from the lowest in a week
in  New York  as Libyan crude exports were curbed by fighting in
the North African country while demonstrations planned in  Iran 
raised concern of wider disruptions.  Futures climbed as much as 1 percent after authorities in
Iran, the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, arrested opposition leaders to
derail demonstrations scheduled for today. Fighting in Libya may
have shut as much as 850,000 barrels a day of output, according
to the  International Energy Agency .  “As the violence rages on in Libya, there are mounting
fears that the country’s supply disruptions will be prolonged
and that other producers in the immediate vicinity will suffer
similar outages,” Helima Croft and Amrita Sen, analysts at  Barclays Capital  wrote in a report today. Algeria and  Iraq , also
OPEC members, are at risk of disruption, according to Barclays.  Crude for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose as much as $1.08 to $98.05 a barrel and was at
$97.78 a barrel at 1:44 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the
contract slid to $96.97, the lowest settlement since Feb. 22.  Brent crude  for April settlement climbed $1.17 to $112.97 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  Iran pumped 3.7 million barrels a day in February,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg, making it OPEC’s
second-biggest producer behind Saudi Arabia. Opposition
supporters are planning to hold a demonstration today after
leaders Mehdi Karrubi and Mir-Hossein Mousavi were transferred
to a Tehran prison, according to the opposition Kaleme website.  EU Sanctions  The European Union yesterday imposed an arms embargo and
other sanctions on  Libya  while the U.S. said it froze $30
billion in the country’s assets. Leader Muammar Qaddafi declared
that “my people love me” and sent forces to regain territory
lost to rebellions outside Tripoli.  New York crude fell the most in two weeks yesterday after
Saudi Arabian Oil Co.’s Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al-Falih
said the kingdom is “ready to supply incremental change in
demand.” Most ships picking up Libyan cargoes have done so
successfully in the past week, Bob Knight, head of tankers at
Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker, said yesterday.  Libya pumped 1.6 million barrels of oil a day in January,
making it OPEC’s ninth-largest producer. It ships most of its
crude and fuels to Europe.  Protests Spread  Protests from  Morocco  to Bahrain have already toppled
leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and protests have erupted in Yemen,
to the south of  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil producer.  In Oman, the largest Middle Eastern producer outside OPEC,
hundreds of demonstrators gathered in Sohar for a third night
yesterday, demanding the government open talks on their demands
for more jobs, higher pay and more representative political
institutions. Two people were killed, several wounded and a
supermarket set on fire during the protests. Oman pumped 885,600
barrels of oil a day in January, according to data reported by
the state-run Oman News Agency.  Crude-oil exports from Libya may come to a stop as foreign
oil workers flee the country, according to Overseas Shipholding
Group Inc., the largest U.S.-based owner of oil tankers.  “It’s slowing down,” Mats Berglund, head of crude at OSG,
said on a conference call yesterday. “We foresee it slowing
down more and more, to more or less come to a halt.”  In the Netherlands, Royal Dutch Shell Plc plans to start
units at its Pernis oil refinery, Europe’s largest, following
maintenance that began at least five months ago, potentially
limiting gains in gasoline and diesel prices, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter. A fluid catalytic cracker
and hydrocracker will be started this week, they said.  Brent Backwardation  Brent oil in  London  for April settlement was trading 10
cents a barrel higher than the May contract and 16 cents more
than the June contract. The curve may flatten on signs that oil
producers such as Saudi Arabia and  Kuwait  are pumping more
supplies into the market, according to Petromatrix GmbH.  “The backwardation in Brent is easing,” even as supply
from Libya is reduced because of unrest,  Olivier Jakob , managing
director of the Switzerland-based researcher, said in a note
today. “We will not exclude that Brent moves back to a flat
structure.”  Backwardation refers to the premium paid for immediate
delivery cargoes relative to later-dated supplies, reflecting
near-term scarcity.  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
oil supplies rose 1 million barrels last week from 346.7 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. It
would be the seventh week of gains. The industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  will publish its data today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  