-- 
Crude Oil Rises a Second Day as Iran Protests Stoke Mideast Supply Concern

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-03-02T08:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/crude-oil-rises-a-second-day-exceeds-100-in-new-york-on-supply-concerns.html
Oil gained for a second day in  New
York , rising from the highest close in 29 months, as protests in
Iran stoked concern the turmoil spreading across the Middle East
may disrupt supplies from OPEC’s second-largest producer.  Futures gained as much as 1 percent after demonstrators
clashed with security forces in Tehran yesterday. Iran pumped
3.7 million barrels a day in February, according to Bloomberg
estimates. Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index plunged the most
in two years yesterday on concern disturbances may extend to the
kingdom, the biggest supplier in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. Libyan rebels braced for renewed clashes
with forces loyal to leader Muammar Qaddafi.  “Given the speed at which events are unfolding, we do not
rule out a further spike of $10 a barrel or beyond in the coming
weeks,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in an e-mailed
note today. “The unrest is threatening to spread to Iran.”  Oil for April delivery gained as much as $1.01 to $100.64 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, and was at $99.78 at 3:47 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract rose 2.7 percent to $99.63, the highest
since close September 2008. Prices are 25 percent higher
compared with a year ago.    Brent crude  for April settlement was at $115.25 a barrel,
down 17 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Yesterday, it climbed $3.62, or 3.2 percent, to $115.42, the
highest settlement since Aug. 27, 2008.  Price Decline  Fighting in Libya may have shut as much as 850,000 barrels
a day of the country’s output, according to the  International
Energy Agency .  Saudi Arabian Oil Co.’s Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al- Falih this week said the kingdom is “ready to supply
incremental change in demand,” to cover any shortfall from
Libya.  Saudi Arabia  pumped 8.43 million barrels a day of oil in
February, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices will probably decline to below $100 a barrel as
Saudi Arabia releases supply from its reserves and demand drops
from elevated December levels,  Andrew Garthwaite , an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note dated today. The rise in
prices is “manageable,” he said.    Nigeria , a favored supplier of oil to U.S. refiners, will
increase its daily crude exports of 14 main grades by 9.3
percent in April from this month, according to loading programs
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Middle East Riots  Riots from  Morocco  to Bahrain have already toppled leaders
in Tunisia and  Egypt  and there have been protests in Yemen, to
the south of Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil producer.
Websites have called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on
March 11 and 20, according to Human Rights Watch.    Iran ’s Foreign Ministry said issues related to opposition
figures in the country are “internal affairs,” without
commenting on allegations by dissidents that authorities had
detained the main opposition leaders Mehdi Karrubi and Mir- Hossein Mousavi  In Oman, the largest Middle Eastern producer outside of
OPEC, protesters blocked a highway linking the northern city of
Sohar to the capital Muscat yesterday as the army set up
checkpoints around Sohar and inspected vehicles. The country
pumped 885,600 barrels of oil a day in January, according to
data reported by the state-run Oman News Agency.  Gasoline Rises  Crude’s gains are inflating the cost of oil products such
as gasoline. Motor fuel for April delivery advanced as much as
2.94 cents, or 1 percent, to $3.0128 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Yesterday, it climbed 9.07 cents to settle
at $2.9834, the highest since August 2008.  Oil also rose as manufacturing in the U.S. grew in February
at the fastest rate since May 2004. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index increased to 61.4, exceeding the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said yesterday. Readings greater than
50 signal growth.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the surge in
oil and other commodity prices probably won’t cause a permanent
increase in broader inflation, in his semi-annual monetary
policy testimony before the Senate Banking Committee.  U.S. crude oil supplies fell 1.1 million barrels last week,
according to the industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute .
An Energy Department report today may show inventories rose
750,000 barrels last week from 346.7 million barrels, according
to the median of 17 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. It would be the seventh week of gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  