-- 
Crude Oil Climbs From One Week Low on Concern Libya Supply Cuts May Spread

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-01T08:08:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/crude-oil-advances-from-one-week-low-in-new-york-london-brent-climbs-0-5-.html
Oil rose from the lowest in a week
as demonstrations planned in  Iran  stoked concern the turmoil
that cut Libya’s crude output may disrupt Middle East supplies.  Futures climbed as much as 0.6 percent as authorities in
Iran, the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, arrested opposition leaders to
derail protests scheduled today. Fighting in Libya may have shut
as much as 850,000 barrels a day of output, according to the  International Energy Agency . Prices dropped yesterday after
Saudi Arabia said it will compensate for lost Libyan supplies.  “The amount that prices could rise is so much more than it
could go down at this point,” said  Anthony Nunan , the assistant
general manager for risk management at Mitsubishi Corp. in
Tokyo. “You’ve got chance of making more on the upside so why
not stick around in the market?”  Crude for April delivery rose as much as 62 cents to $97.59
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract was at $97.29 at 4:06 p.m. Singapore
time. It earlier fell as much as 0.6 percent.  Yesterday, the contract slid 91 cents to $96.97, the lowest
since Feb. 22. Prices gained 5.2 percent last month and are 24
percent higher than a year ago.    Brent crude  for April settlement climbed 33 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $112.13 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The contract slipped 0.3 percent yesterday,
ending the month 11 percent higher.  Iran Protests  Iran pumped 3.7 million barrels a day in February,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg, making it OPEC’s
second-biggest producer behind Saudi Arabia. Opposition
supporters are planning to hold a demonstration today after
leaders Mehdi Karrubi and Mir-Hossein Mousavi were transferred
to a Tehran prison, according to the opposition Kaleme website.  The European Union yesterday imposed an arms embargo and
other sanctions on  Libya  while the U.S. said it has frozen $30
billion in the country’s assets. Leader Muammar Qaddafi declared
that “my people love me” and sent forces to regain lost
territory.  New York crude fell the most in two weeks yesterday after
Saudi Arabian Oil Co.’s Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al-Falih
said the kingdom is “ready to supply incremental change in
demand.” Most ships picking up Libyan cargoes have done so
successfully in the past week, Bob Knight, head of tankers at
Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker, said yesterday.  Libya pumped 1.6 million barrels of oil a day in January,
making it OPEC’s ninth-largest producer. It ships most of its
crude and fuels to Europe.  Riots Spread  Riots from  Morocco  to Bahrain have already toppled leaders
in Tunisia and Egypt and there have been protests in Yemen, to
the south of  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil producer.  In Oman, the largest Middle Eastern producer outside OPEC,
two demonstrators were killed and several wounded in clashes
with police on Feb. 27, according to hospital and government
officials. Oman pumped 885,600 barrels of oil a day in January,
according to data reported by the state-run Oman News Agency.  “Regional protests spread to oil-producer Oman although
oil flows had not been impacted,”  Mark Pervan , head of
commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
in  Melbourne , said in an e-mailed note today. “But, this could
flare up concerns over further disruptions in other parts of the
Middle East.”  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
oil supplies rose 1 million barrels last week from 346.7 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. It
would be the seventh week of gains. The industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  will publish its data today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  