-- 
Dave Grohl Dresses Down, Rocks Out for Foo Fighters Gig: Review

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-03-01T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/dave-grohl-dresses-down-rocks-out-for-foo-fighters-gig-review.html
Dave Grohl looks like any guy from
next door: a garage mechanic maybe, with beard, plain T-shirt
and old jeans, out for a Saturday beer with the boys.  For all his everyday dress-down looks, he won the 2011
“Godlike Genius” award by U.K. magazine New Musical Express.
The 42-year-old has played in more than 30 acts, including
 Scream  and Them Crooked Vultures. He has also just given the
first live previews, in  London , of the new CD by his group Foo
Fighters, out next month. “Wasting Light” is produced by Butch Vig and features bassist Krist Novoselic, who performed with
Grohl in Seattle grunge trio Nirvana.  Grohl will deliver his sing-along hits with jovial punk
intensity at the world’s biggest arenas this summer. The new
song “Rope” grooves like AC/DC covered by Black Sabbath.
“These Days” punches at stadium weight, the tight verses and
raw choruses echoing Nirvana.  Foo Fighters  might be disparaged as a meat and potatoes
outfit. The London shows demonstrated how good a rock ‘n’ roll
Sunday lunch can be. The three guitarists made an enormous
noise, with Grohl in a singing, song-writing and guitar-playing
role. Taylor Hawkins provided drumming that was meatier than
half a cow, and he took lead vocals on “Cold Day in the Sun”  “Do you want me to tell stupid jokes,” Grohl asked, “or
play loud rock music all night?” There was a roar of approval.
A louder answer came with “Times Like These,” “The
Pretender,” “Best Of You” and “Everlong,” songs meshing
punk and radio-friendly melody. A cover of the Who’s “Young Man
Blues” was blistering.  Cee Lo’s Shirt  Also at the  NME Awards  show at Wembley Arena, Los Angeles
punk duo No Age made an angry, inchoate racket.  Band of Horses 
plodded amiably through its harmonious rock. Soul man Cee Lo Green did his best to fit the rock-centric bill by wearing a
Ramones shirt. His backing band of ladies squeezed their rather
more svelte figures into black cat suits.  Green  mixed his hit “Forget You” with the  Clash’s  “Rock
the Casbah.” His efforts were raucously applauded, boding well
for forthcoming shows played on his own terms. He tours Europe
this month, joined by  Rhianna  this summer in the U.S.  Rating: ***.  Information:  http://www.foofighters.com . The single
“Rope” is available for download today.    Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 