-- 
Doctors Urged to Move Aggressively Against Early Signs of Esophagus Cancer

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-03-01T16:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/doctors-urged-to-move-aggressively-against-early-signs-of-esophagus-cancer.html
Doctors should remove suspicious
cells in the esophagus during screenings to help prevent the
development of cancer, according to guidelines issued today.  Physicians are advised not to wait to see whether abnormal
cells turn into cancer and take quicker action using new
surgical technology, the Bethesda, Maryland-based  American
Gastroenterological Association  said in its recommendations. The
 death rate  from esophageal cancer is about 87 percent, making it
one of the most lethal malignancies, according to the    American
Cancer Society  in Atlanta. Acid reflux, smoking and obesity
raise the risk of the cancer.  The revised guidelines move toward prevention rather than
just detection, said John Inadomi, chair of the association’s
Clinical Practice and Quality Management Committee. The change
was prompted by advances in technology, particularly the more
widespread use of radio waves to heat and destroy the
precancerous cells in the top layer of esophagus tissue, he
said. The technology is called radiofrequency ablation.  “This is a step toward the kind of prevention we have for  colon cancer , but we need far more data and better technology to
reach that level,”  Inadomi , head of the gastroenterology
division at the  University of Washington  School of Medicine in  Seattle , said in a telephone interview.  Colon polyps are routinely removed during colonoscopies,
whether malignant or not, to prevent cancer, which has led to a
decline in colorectal cancer in women and men, cancer society
data show.  Gender Differences  About 16,640 new cases of esophageal cancer, three to four
times more common among men, were  diagnosed  last year in the
U.S., according to the  National Cancer Institute . The risk of
developing esophageal cancer jumps 10 times with the discovery
of precancerous cells.  Removing the precancerous cells may cause complications
such as scarring of the esophagus lining. The radiofrequency
technique causes less scarring and is more successful in
eliminating all of the abnormal cells, Inadomi said. There’s
insufficient data to prove this will reduce the number of cancer
cases, he said.  “Intuitively, it makes sense that if we reduce the threat
from precancerous cells by removing them, we are reducing the
risk,” Inadomi said. “But that can take a decade or two to
prove with data.”  ‘Opens the Door’  The AGA recommendation to eliminate abnormal cells applies
to more severe cases of what is called dysplasia, but the group
also suggested that removal by radio waves and other techniques
is an “option” for low-grade cases and patients with a history
of the disease or with risk factors.  “This statement opens the door for physicians to have
constructive conversations with patients,” said  Greg Barrett ,
chief executive officer of medical device company BARRX Medical
Inc. in Sunnyvale,  California . “This creates a real opportunity
for us to collaborate with physicians and work with payers to
adopt new policies.”  BARRX has developed a  radiofrequency ablation  technology
called the HALO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  