-- 
Dollar Strengthens Against Higher-Yielding Counterparts As Stocks Decline

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-02T08:27:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/dollar-near-one-month-low-versus-euro-on-view-fed-to-trail-ecb-on-rates.html
The dollar strengthened against
higher-yielding counterparts as Asian stocks declined after
unrest in North  Africa  and the Middle East boosted oil prices,
spurring concern the global recovery will falter.  The U.S. currency advanced versus 12 of its 16 major
counterparts as Libyan rebels braced for renewed clashes with
forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and Al Arabiya television
reported Iranian protesters fought with security forces. New
Zealand’s dollar fell to the lowest this year after Prime
Minister John Key said he expected a cut in the nation’s
benchmark rate.  South Korea ’s won declined toward a two-month
low on concern oil above $100 may derail economic growth.  “Events in the Middle East are stinging risk trades,”
said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP  Australia 
Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest interdealer broker. “We are
seeing safe-haven flows in play in the foreign-exchange
market.”  The dollar rose to $1.3770 per euro as of 8:14 a.m. in  London  from $1.3777 in New York yesterday, when it gained 0.2
percent. The New Zealand dollar slid 1 percent to 73.98 U.S.
cents after earlier touching 73.84 cents, the least since
Dec. 20, while the Australian dollar was 0.3 percent lower at
$1.0102. The greenback was at 82.04 yen, from 81.86 yen. Japan’s
currency traded at 112.93 per euro, from 112.77.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index of shares declined 1.4 percent,
the biggest drop in a week. Oil for April delivery rose for a
second day, climbing as high as $100.64 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.    Libya , Oman, Yemen  Libyan rebels yesterday braced for possible renewed clashes
with forces loyal to Qaddafi, who is attempting to regain
control of major cities after the U.S. and European nations
began planning for a no-fly zone. Oman deployed armored vehicles
in the city of Sohar after protests on Feb. 28 while Yemeni
demonstrators again took to the streets of Sana’a, the capital,
to demand the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  The dollar benefits as the world’s principal reserve
currency. The yen typically strengthens in times of political,
financial and economic turmoil. Japan’s trade surplus makes the
currency attractive because it means the nation doesn’t have to
rely on overseas lenders.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners such as the euro,
rose 0.1 percent.  New Zealand’s currency depreciated against all of its 16
major counterparts as traders increased bets for rate reductions
by the  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand .  Cut ‘Priced In’  “The market has priced in a cut from the Reserve Bank,”
Key said in an interview today in Wellington. “That would
probably be my expectation, that the Reserve Bank would cut.”  The nation is grappling with the human and financial toll
of a 6.3-magnitude earthquake on Feb. 22 that struck the South
Island city of Christchurch. It was the city’s second major
temblor in six months and wrecked the central business district.
Both quakes may have caused as much as NZ$20 billion ($15
billion) worth of damage, Key said this week.  “There have been rumors and talk of a rate cut,” said  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based head of global foreign-exchange
strategy at Credit Agricole SA, a unit of  France ’s second-
largest lender by total assets. “These comments helped
reinforce these rumors and again provide a more negative bias
for the  New Zealand dollar .”  Swaps traders are certain New Zealand’s central bank will
cut its benchmark by 25 basis points at its meeting on March 10,
with some betting on a 50-basis point reduction, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index.  South Korea’s Won  The won weakened as oil for April delivery rallied past
$100 a barrel, spurring concern the Asian nation’s economic
recovery may slow down.  South Korea, Asia’s fourth-largest crude importer, raised
its energy alert level over the weekend and took nationwide
conservation measures after an uprising curbed oil production in
Libya, Africa’s third-biggest producer.  “Traders are buying the dollar against the won due to the
risk from the Middle East crisis,” said Cliff Tan, head of
emerging-markets currency research at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “Equities are also going down and it’s all part of
the same story, which is the  oil prices  due to the Middle
East.”  The won declined 0.4 percent to 1,128.25 per dollar. It
touched 1,135.45 on Feb. 23, the lowest level this year.  Declines in the euro were trimmed before a report that
economists said will show producer prices accelerated in
January, adding to the  European Central Bank ’s inflation
concerns before a policy meeting tomorrow.  ‘Talking Tough’  “The market is more interested in whether the ECB ends up
talking tough and raising rates like the market has priced in,”
said Tony Allen, global head of  currency trading  in Sydney at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Australia’s third-
largest lender by market capitalization. The euro may find
buyers near the $1.3750 level and “drift back up,” he said.  Factory-gate prices in the euro region gained 5.7 percent
in January from a year earlier, the most since October 2008,
according to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The European Union’s statistics office releases the
report today.  The euro has risen against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this year as traders raise bets the ECB will
increase its key rates. European policy makers have kept the
benchmark at a record low of 1 percent since May 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 