-- 
Dollar Will Rally Versus Euro as U.S. Economy Recovers, Bank of Tokyo Says

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-03-01T19:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/dollar-will-rally-versus-euro-as-u-s-economy-recovers-bank-of-tokyo-says.html
The dollar will rise to a level
against the euro last reached in September as U.S. economic
growth picks up and expectations for central bank rate increases
elsewhere wane, according to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  The greenback will rally to $1.27 per euro and 92 yen in a
year, the firm said in a research note today. Bank of Tokyo
previously forecast the dollar will trade at $1.20 in 12 months
before a surge in oil prices in February led the greenback to
fall 0.8 percent versus its European counterpart.  “The market has continued to not give enough credit to the
potential for the  U.S. economy  to perform better than
expected,” said  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency
research at Bank of Tokyo in  London . “We’re on the cusp of a
period of quite strong economic growth in the U.S., and that’s
another catalyst for the dollar to recover.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.3801 versus the euro at
2:06 p.m. in  New York , compared with $1.3806 yesterday. The U.S.
currency gained 0.1 percent to 81.88 yen, from 81.78. The
greenback has lost 3 percent versus the euro this year and
appreciated 0.9 percent against the yen.  Manufacturing in the U.S. grew in February at the fastest
pace in almost seven years, a report showed today. The Tempe,
Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
increased to 61.4, the highest level since May 2004, from 60.8
in the previous month.  ECB Rate Outlook  The U.S. currency will also appreciate as expectations for
European Central Bank increases in borrowing costs diminish,
according to Halpenny. The ECB’s main refinancing rate will rise
by a quarter-percentage point to 1.25 percent by the end of the
year, according to the median forecast of 35 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The reasoning for the decline in the euro is that the
markets are pricing in too much in terms of rate hikes in the
next 12 months,” Halpenny said in the phone interview. “The
markets are getting ahead of themselves.”  The firm estimates the euro will advance to $1.40 in three
months as  oil prices  rise, damping demand for dollar-denominated
assets. The yen will depreciate to 85 versus the dollar during
the period, Bank of Tokyo said.  Crude oil has risen 15 percent to $98.70 a barrel since
Feb. 21 as protests in the Middle East and North Africa
threatened supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  