-- 
Dollar Gains Versus Most Peers as Oil-Producer Turmoil Damps Risk Appetite

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-03-01T22:02:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/dollar-strengthens-versus-yen-as-fed-chairman-cites-increase-in-inflation.html
The dollar rose versus most of its
major counterparts as turmoil in North Africa and the Middle
East damped investor appetite for riskier assets.  The euro erased gains versus the dollar on a climb in crude
oil as unrest threatened to spread to  Saudi Arabia  and  Iran  from  Libya . The greenback also appreciated after U.S. manufacturing
grew at the fastest since 2004 and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said rising commodities won’t derail the recovery.  “This jerk of uncertainty and the risk to oil supplies is
increasingly becoming a concern to the market,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in New York. “You tend to see selling of high-yielding
commodity currencies and demand for the dollar and the yen.”  The dollar strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.3777 per euro,
compared with $1.3806 yesterday, at 5 p.m. in New York after
earlier losing 0.4 percent. It rose versus 11 of its 16 most-
traded peers. The shared currency strengthened fell 0.1 percent
to 112.77 yen after earlier rising 0.7 percent. The greenback
gained 0.1 percent to 81.86 yen.  Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee in his
semiannual monetary policy testimony that experience with price
gains in recent decades, along with currently stable labor
costs, suggests a “temporary and relatively modest increase in
U.S. consumer price inflation” from rising commodity prices.  He reiterated that while growth will accelerate, he still
wants to see a “sustained period of stronger  job creation .”  The Fed next meets March 15. European Central Bank policy
makers meet March 3.  Yen Erases Losses  The yen erased losses against the euro as crude oil for
April delivery climbed as much as 3.8 percent to $100.69 a
barrel in New York. Al Arabiya television reported Iranian
protesters clashed with security forces in Tehran. Websites have
called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on March 11 and
20,  Human Rights Watch  said yesterday. Saudi Arabia and Iran are
top Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries producers.  “The story that’s in focus at the moment is very much the
likelihood that the ECB and the Bank of England are going to be
far more willing to act over further potential energy price
increases in contrast to the Fed, who will certainly be very
reluctant to act,” said  Derek Halpenny , London-based European
head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.
“From Bernanke’s comments, that’s very likely to be the case.”  The Fed has kept its key interest rate at a record low of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to support the economy.
The ECB has kept its benchmark at 1 percent since May 2009.  Dollar Demand  Demand for the dollar was boosted when  U.S. Treasuries  rose
as investors sought safety, pushing 10-year yields down as much
as four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.39 percent.  The euro gained earlier versus the dollar as the European
Commission raised its growth forecast and said inflation may
stay above the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling for most of 2011.  Futures show traders added to bets borrowing costs will
increase in  Europe . The implied yield on the three-month Euribor
futures contract for December touched 1.97 percent today after
closing at 1.90 percent Feb. 21. That compares with futures on
the CME Group Inc. exchange that showed a 31 percent chance the
Fed will increase rates in December to as high as 0.75 percent.  The pound strengthened to above $1.63 for the first time
since January 2010 after an unexpected rise in U.K. house prices
and manufacturing sentiment at a record high boosted speculation
the  Bank of England  may raise  interest rates .  Sterling Gains  Sterling gained as much as 0.5 percent to $1.6330 before
trading at $1.6260. It appreciated 0.2 percent to 84.73 pence
per euro.  “The market is pretty focused on inflation and central
bank reaction,” said Jessica Hoversen, a Chicago-based analyst
at the futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd.  The dollar erased earlier losses against the euro after the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index increased to
61.4 in February, from 60.8 the previous month, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Readings greater than 50 signal
growth. A Bloomberg News survey forecast a reading of 61.  The ISM’s measure of new orders in the U.S. rose in
February to 68, the highest since January 2004, from 67.8. The
employment gauge jumped to 64.5, the highest since January 1973,
from 61.7 in the prior month.  “People are now getting ready for ADP employment numbers
and seeing if it reinforces the trend we’ve seen in an improving
labor market,” said  Joe Manimbo , a strategist in  Washington  at
Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.
“An improving labor market could be dollar-positive and shift
the focus off the euro-zone and expected rate increases and back
onto the improving U.S. economic story.”  Job Report  U.S. companies added 180,000 jobs last month, ADP Employer
Services will report tomorrow, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of 34 economists.  The Australian and  New Zealand  dollars were the worst
performers against the greenback today as investors shunned the
growth-related currencies.  Australia ’s dollar also sank after
central-bank Governor Glenn Stevens said gains in consumer
prices weren’t enough to warrant an immediate rate increase.  The Aussie fell 0.5 percent to $1.0136. New Zealand’s
dollar fell 0.6 percent to 74.76 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  