-- 
South Africa President’s Son Says ‘Leave Us the Hell Alone’

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-01T16:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/duduzane-zuma-tells-critics-of-his-gupta-ties-leave-us-the-hell-alone-.html
South African President Jacob Zuma’s
son, Duduzane, denied allegations that he and his business
partners used their political connections to win contracts,
including one possible deal with  ArcelorMittal   South Africa .  “Anyone out there who believes that we’ve benefitted in
any of the deals politically, please come forward,” Zuma said
in an interview with Johannesburg’s  Talk Radio 702  today. “Drag
us by our collars to a court of law. But if not, leave us the
hell alone.”  Johannesburg’s  Sunday Times  newspaper reported on Feb. 27
that the Gupta family, who Duduzane Zuma has described as
business partners, had ordered ministers to come to meetings at
their home, knew of cabinet reshuffles before they were
announced and influenced the appointments of executives at
state-owned companies. The newspaper cited unidentified people
within the ruling  African National Congress  for the information.  In reply, President  Jacob Zuma ’s office said he is unaware
of individuals outside government using his name to influence
decisions by his administration.  The Guptas, an Indian family that has been doing business
in South Africa since 1993, are part of a group including
Duduzane Zuma that stands to receive 800 million rand ($114.9
million) from ArcelorMittal South Africa for a mining right that
is disputed by  Anglo American Plc  unit  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd .  Credibility  The three Gupta brothers also control Shiva Uranium Ltd.,
which last year bought the Dominion mine from  Uranium One Inc .,
the New Age newspaper, which said it would “generally support
the government” in its first edition, and have a stake in
Afripalm Resources Ltd.. Afripalm last week said it secured a
deal with  Steel Authority of India Ltd ., the country’s second-
largest steelmaker, to build a 21 billion-rand plant in South
Africa.  The ANC’s youth wing and labor unions, which both rallied
behind Zuma to help him into office, have warned against
business people benefitting from political connections.  “If there are things like this, obviously it would cast
some doubt over his credibility, where people will say this is
about jobs for pals,” S’Dumo Dlamini, president of the Congress
of South African Trade Unions, the country’s largest labor
grouping, said in an interview from Johannesburg today. “For me
it will be critical for the president to dispel this perception
even more than he has done.”  Business Dealings  Dlamini and Cosatu General-Secretary  Zwelinzima Vavi  met
with Duduzane Zuma and Gupta family representatives today at the
Guptas’ request and were presented with a file detailing their
business dealings, which the federation is now studying.  “They claim that the Gupta family never took a single cent
from government, never tendered or won a government tender,
never received any mining license and never received a single
cent from the” Public Investment Corp., which manages state
pensions, the federation said in an e-mailed statement today.
They “are prepared to open their books” and bank accounts to
prove this.  Duduzane Zuma, 28, described the Guptas, whom he was
introduced to by his father, as business partners and
“family”, who are “trying to develop our country like any man
on the street.”  Jagdish Parekh, a friend, business partner and spokesman
for the Gupta family, also said they had not benefitted from
their friendship with Zuma.  “When you talk about cronyism, when you talk about
leveraging, when you talk about using state power to acquire
resources, there’s no proof for that,” Parekh said in the same
interview with Talk Radio 702.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 