-- 
Health Overhaul May Raise States' Costs by $118 Billion, Republicans Say

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-03-01T17:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/health-overhaul-may-raise-states-costs-by-118-billion-republicans-say.html
The U.S. health-care law will cost
states almost double the amount that congressional auditors
estimate, Republican lawmakers said.  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said in
prepared statements before a hearing today that states estimate
the overhaul signed by President Barack Obama last year will
increase health expenditures by about $118 billion through 2023.
The  Congressional Budget Office , the chamber’s accounting arm,
has estimated the law would cost states about $60 billion.  The additional expense stems mainly from an expansion of
Medicaid under the law. The chief actuary for the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, which supervises the program,
has said the expansion may add 20 million Americans to Medicaid
rolls starting in 2014.  The law is “onerous and unsustainable” for states, Upton
said in a statement prepared for the hearing to examine
Medicaid’s effect on state budgets.  The estimate is at odds with projections showing states
will realize net savings under the law, said Nick Papas, a White
House spokesman, in an e-mail. A study by the  Urban Institute  in  Washington  showed states may save as much as $131.9 billion from
2014 to 2019, he said.  Representative Henry Waxman of  California , the senior
Democrat on Upton’s committee, said states have “considerable
flexibility in the management and design” of Medicaid, the
federal-state health program for the poor. He called Republican
proposals to scale back the program “radical changes that will
add to the number of uninsured.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  