-- 
EDF Seeks Maryland’s Help for Unprofitable New Nuclear Reactor

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-03-01T17:56:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/edf-seeks-maryland-s-help-for-unprofitable-new-nuclear-reactor.html
Electricite de France SA’s plan to
build a nuclear reactor in  Maryland  is unprofitable at current
power prices, so the company is asking state officials for help,
Chief Financial Officer Thomas Piquemal said.  The company may ask the state to buy power from the new
reactor, approve contracts for utilities to buy the power or
roll the construction costs into regulated electricity prices,
Piquemal said in a telephone interview today. EDF, based in
Paris, jointly owns two existing reactors at the Calvert Cliffs
site in Maryland with  Constellation Energy Group Inc .  “We have to make proposals and we are willing to do so in
a pretty detailed manner,” Piquemal said. “We have several
ideas. All sorts of ideas can be studied.”  EDF, the world’s biggest operator of nuclear power
reactors, met yesterday with Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley ,
Democratic Senator Ben Cardin and Representative Steny Hoyer of
Maryland, the second-ranking Democrat in the U.S. House,
Piquemal said.  EDF bought Baltimore-based Constellation’s share of the new
reactor project after the U.S. utility company backed out of the
Calvert Cliffs expansion, citing obstacles to a federal loan
guarantee needed to reduce costs.  EDF needs to reduce the risk of rapid swings in power
prices as well as losses from low prices before it can build the
reactor as planned, Piquemal said.  He declined to specify the cost of the project.  NRG Energy
Inc ., the second-largest power producer in  Texas , has estimated
adding a reactor in that state will cost $10 billion.  EDF is also negotiating with contractors Bechtel Group Inc.
and  Areva SA  to lower construction costs, Piquemal said.  The company is willing to strike an agreement that poses
“no risk to the state,” he said.  O’Malley Meeting  O’Malley and Piquemal haven’t yet discussed specifics, said
Shaun Adamec, a spokesman for the governor.  “This is an important project for the state, not only for
our energy future but for the jobs it can create and the jobs we
could risk losing should it fall through,” Adamec said. “The
purpose of the meeting was to assure the project remains on
track.”  EDF needs a new U.S. partner because of Nuclear Regulatory
Commission policies on reactor ownership, Piquemal said.
Lowering the cost, obtaining a loan guarantee and “de-risking”
the project under an agreement with the state will enable it to
recruit one, he said.  Under law, the U.S. can’t grant a reactor operating license
to an entity that’s “owned, controlled or dominated” by a
foreign company.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jim Polson  in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 