-- 
Egypt's Exchange Risks Losing Overseas Investors as Locals Protest Opening

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-02T14:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/egypt-bourse-risks-losing-overseas-investors-as-locals-protest-reopening.html
  Egypt ’s bourse, home to the world’s
worst performing benchmark index this year, risks losing
international investment after failing to resume trading amid
protests from local investors who fear deeper losses.  Exchange chairman Khaled Seyam stormed out of a news
briefing on Feb. 28 after some investors angrily criticized a
plan to start trading yesterday. Hours later, the bourse
capitulated, saying it won’t open before March 6. Trading was
halted after the Jan. 27 session, and a two-day decline of 16
percent, as a popular revolt led to President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
ouster last month.  Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , chairman of mobile-
phone operator Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, said the delays are
being driven by the “fear” of angering individual investors.
Egypt risks being cut from the MSCI Emerging Markets Index if
the market is shut more than 40 business days, BNP Paribas SA
said. Foreigners hold about $13 billion in Egyptian shares,  Barclays Capital  said in a Jan. 18 report, and account for
almost 25 percent of trading.  “The Egyptian officials are in a difficult situation where
they need to manage local investors’ demands and at the same
time satisfy international investors’ requirements,” said Tariq Qaqish, director and  fund manager  at Al Mal Capital PSC in
Dubai, which manages about $163 million. “It will be damaging
if MSCI decided to remove Egypt’s market.”  Bourse Protests  Should the bourse open on March 6, it would have been
closed 24 business days. The exchange wants to maintain its
position in the MSCI index, Seyam said on Arabiya television
yesterday. The reopening was postponed to give regulators time
to implement new trading rules, he said in a telephone interview
with Bloomberg yesterday.  MSCI Inc. said if the market is closed 40 days or more the
company may begin investor talks to determine whether to remove
Egypt from the index, Frank Nielsen, the firm’s executive
director, equity and applied research, said in a telephone
interview yesterday from  New York . That process would take
several weeks, he said.  Dozens of investors protested outside the bourse in Cairo
in the past two weeks, demanding trades in the last two
sessions, be cancelled. They also said trading should be
suspended in companies with executives linked to Mubarak or his
former ruling party, such as Ezz Steel, the country’s biggest
producer of the metal.  ‘Unwarranted’ Fear  Foreigners contributed about 23 percent of Egypt’s trading
last year, when the benchmark gained 15 percent, according to
data on the bourse  website . In 2007, when the index rose 51
percent, their share was 31 percent, the data show.  In  Tunisia , where a revolt forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali into exile on Jan. 14 and sparked uprisings in other
countries including Egypt, the market regulator suspended
trading for the second time since the leader’s ouster on Feb. 28
after protests forced the prime minister to resign. The
benchmark Tunindex has fallen 11 percent since trading resumed
after a two-week suspension. The country’s regulator hasn’t said
when the bourse will open again.  Sawiris said yesterday investors in Egypt should expect a
further decline when the market reopens.  Small Investors  “There is a fear because of small investors who have been
demonstrating in front of the Cairo stock exchange in masses and
they put the fear into the management of the stock exchange,”
Sawiris told Bloomberg Television yesterday. “It is
unwarranted. I am optimistic about the future of Egypt. If there
is going to be a short-term scare and people are going to be
selling their stocks we will have to deal with that.”  Not everybody agrees. Individual investors including Ashraf
Khairy said many stockholders are vulnerable because local
brokerages lent them money to buy stocks on margin.  The stocks weren’t on a regulator’s list of shares that
could be traded on loan. This may cause brokers to sell hundreds
of millions of pounds worth of stock when trading resumes to cut
their losses, and pursue investors in court later, he said.  Nothing to Lose  “I have nothing more to lose,” said Khairy, who said he
had invested 2.4 million pounds ($407,000) in stocks and is now
400,000 pounds in debt. “But I will have no chance of
recovering anything if we go back to the old way of running
things,” he said in a Feb. 16 interview.  The Ministry of Finance is distributing 250 million
Egyptian pounds in interest-free loans to brokerages to boost
their finances and mitigate a possible sell-off of shares bought
on margin, Mohamed Abdel Salam, chairman of Misr for Central
Clearing, Depository & Registry, said in a telephone interview.  The Cabinet and the markets regulator are studying whether
to tap an 850-million-pound emergency fund created to compensate
investors when brokerages fail, he added. Investors likely owe
firms less than 1 billion pounds yet the true debt can’t be
determined because brokerages haven’t provided complete figures,
Abdel Salam said.  Plans are in place to deal with another market plunge. The
regulator said last month trading will be halted for 30 minutes
if the EGX 100 Index falls more than 5 percent. If the drop
extends to 10 percent, trading will be suspended for a period to
be set by the bourse chairman. Daily share price movements will
also be limited to 10 percent and trading reduced to three hours
from four.  Dubai’s Slump  The market will likely drop when it opens in part because
economic growth and corporate earnings may decline this year,
said Walaa Hazem, vice president for asset management at HC
Securities & Investment Co. in Cairo. Investors also may want to
sell stocks to free up cash, he said.  Dubai’s benchmark DFM General Index slumped to the lowest
level in almost seven years today because of concern among
investors that the political unrest may reach  Saudi Arabia . The
kingdom’s index tumbled for a 13th day to the lowest since April
2009.  In Egypt, Seyam said there are no legal grounds to cancel
trades in the last two sessions. Mohamed Farid Saleh, Seyman’s
deputy, told Bloomberg Television yesterday that trading was
delayed because of logistical issues and the closure of banks.
Lenders in the country opened on Feb. 20.  “The market should have opened sooner,” Sven Richter,
managing director and head of frontier markets at Renaissance
Asset Managers in  London , which oversees more than $2 billion,
including investments in Egypt. “I don’t think that holding it
shut improves people’s confidence in any way because, at the end
of the day, liquidity is one of the most important things in a
market,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  