-- 
Eleven Muslims Sentenced to Death Over Arson That Killed 59, Sparked Riots

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-03-01T09:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/eleven-muslims-sentenced-to-death-over-arson-that-killed-59-sparked-riots.html
An Indian court sentenced 11 Muslims
to death and 20 others to life in prison for conspiring to set
fire to a train carrying Hindu pilgrims in 2002, a blaze that
triggered some of the worst rioting in the country’s history.  A special court in Ahmedabad, the biggest city in western
 Gujarat state , last week convicted the 31 people for their role
in starting the fire in the town of Godhra in February 2002,
killing 59 Hindus. The verdict was the first linked either to
the train burning or the subsequent riots in which over 1,000
people, mostly Muslims, were killed.  The crimes come “under the category of the rarest of the
rare,” public prosecutor J.M. Panchal told reporters today. The
ruling “is very difficult to swallow,” said I.M. Munshi, a
defense lawyer. “We will appeal.”  The state government of Chief Minister Narendra Modi of the
Hindu-nationalist  Bharatiya Janata Party ,  India ’s main federal
opposition party, was accused by political parties and human
rights groups of failing to stop the riots and even allowing the
violence to continue. The BJP led by Modi, whose administration
said it did its best to maintain law and order, subsequently won
re-election in the state.  “It’s a politically charged trial and will be subject to
scrutiny and further review by higher courts,” Suhas Chakma,
director of the  Asian Centre for Human Rights , said in a phone
interview in New Delhi. “One question the Gujarat government
has to answer -- if they could complete the trial for the
burning of the train, why not that for the subsequent riots that
took place?”  Fast Track  Most of those killed in the train fire were returning from
Ayodhya, a city where Hindus and Muslims have disputed ownership
of a religious site since an ancient mosque was torn down by a
Hindu mob in 1992.  In May 2009, the  Supreme Court  ordered the setting up of
six fast-track courts to speed up cases linked to the rioting in
2002. The top court said the cases could be heard in Gujarat,
rejecting a petition from the National Human Rights Commission
that they be transferred out of the state to ensure trials were
free and fair.  Trials of riot cases are at an advanced stage and some
verdicts are likely to be delivered this year, Mukul Rohatgi,
lawyer for the Gujarat government, told in the Supreme Court in
the last hearing in February.  ‘Accidental Fire’  Earlier investigations into the cause of the rail blaze
were contradictory. One panel appointed by the railway ministry
said in its March 2006 report that the blaze aboard the
Sabarmati Express “was not a deliberately attempted or
inflicted fire, but an accidental fire.” A commission set up by
the Gujarat government blamed members of the Muslim community
after an altercation at the station between some pilgrims and
Muslim vendors.  Control of the mosque site in Ayodhya was split between
Muslim and Hindu groups, which received two-thirds of the land,
by a court last September. The Supreme Court is now hearing
appeals against the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  