-- 
Elite Manhattan School Defies Old Preppy Cartel: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-03-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/elite-manhattan-school-defies-old-prep-cartel-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Along with the victory of “The
King’s Speech” over “The  Social Network ” at the Oscars, the
chatter among well-to-do New York parents is the plan for
Avenues: The World School on  Manhattan ’s West Side.  Avenues , a for-profit K-12 institution, won’t open until
2012, but its plan captures the Zeitgeist so well it could have
been scripted by  Aaron Sorkin .  The school aims to take pupils to “global preparedness”
by offering terms in Mumbai or  Shanghai , fluency in a foreign
language, and Cass Gilbert architecture updated for Leadership
in Energy and Environmental Design-certification by Perkins-
Eastman. Chelsea Piers, a sports complex in the neighborhood
favored by ice hockey, basketball and squash dads, will help
provide physical education.  Administrators  have previous careers at schools which,
Avenues brochures remind baldly, maintain some of the “finest
records of college placement in the country.” The promotion is
so smooth you get the sense Avenues will do one of two things:
ready your little stutterer for the British throne or mold him
into a socialite as flakey as the Edward who had to abdicate.  To either which one can only reply: Swell!  Here’s why. U.S. schools, private or public, enjoy a luxury
more exclusive than anything in Avenues’ brochure. That luxury
is that of an unspoken cartel.  The private school cartel, the one that Avenues is boldly
trying to bust into, offers a fabulous education but slots for a
limited number of pupils.  One way this cartel maintains its power is promoting the
myth that only old is good; parvenu schools just can’t compete,
at least not for a generation or two.  Connected Cliques  As Avenues so explicitly spells out, the private school
cartel also derives its power in part from its access to a far
more formidable cartel, the clique of top American universities.
It all frustrates parents, who divine that they have little say
in what happens. Another, less demanding customer, is always
waiting in his shadows with a checkbook.  The cartel also constrains educators, who would like to try
something new, but lack evidence from the market to make their
case to colleagues.  If Avenues prepares its students halfway as well as it
suggests, and it surely will do more than that for many kids,
then parents will want to send their children there. The intense
demand for slots at the older institutions will weaken, even if
only faintly. Then those institutions will become a child-
increment more responsive to concerns of parents.  British Rival  Avenues is not alone. Other new private schools, a number
of them for-profit, are rising in New York. On the East Side the
British International School of  New York , founded in 2006,
offers a Windsor-ish appeal, an English schoolboy  dress code  and
a swimming pool in the Waterside Plaza complex, which it shares.
Tuition is $35,600.  Here one might ask: If the new private schools are merely
aping the old elites, how can this undermine the elite cartel?
The answer is, it still does, by the same dynamic that Facebook
operated in the market.    Mark Zuckerberg ’s original obsession was to break into
exclusive clubs. Harvard entrance wasn’t enough for him; he also
wanted admission to the clubs within the clubs. This drove him
to create his own network. In the process, he opened up the
world of networking in an innovative, unsnobby way. By playing
on people’s desire to belong to groups, Facebook creates a new
inclusive society. After all,  Facebook  is not like  Harvard
College . Anyone with access to the internet can sign up.  Public School Parallel  The same logic carries over into the arena of public
schools, which feature a different kind of cartel. It consists
of teacher unions, school administrators and local, state, and
federal governments. These parties determine what pupils learn,
and sometimes their determinations render the students less
competitive.  With demands for special education or standardized test
prep being shouted in their ears, public schools can’t always
hear a parent when he says: I want my child to be able to write
contracts in Spanish, or, I want my child to shake hands firmly,
or, I want my child to study statistics and accounting, not
calculus.  Charter schools and voucher schools are welcome because
they apply pressure to this cartel to justify its relevance.
Sometimes they do it with their very names. A  Woodland Hills ,  California , school founded in 2004 is called  Ivy Academia , not
“Hail Sacramento Lawmakers High.”  In the end all new schools, public or private, snobby or
not, add value to the education market, making it bigger and
more efficient, in the same way that Zuckerberg added wealth to
the economy even for non-Facebook fans.  School Lessons  The takeaways here are as simple as the takeaways from
“The Fighter,” “The Social Network” or “The King’s
Speech.” Underdogs need a shot. Traditional guilds routinely
fail the consumer. That was the case of King Edward’s stuttering
younger brother, whom all the credentialed local doctors in the
world could not help. That brother only found the confidence to
become King George when he met Lionel Logue.  Sometimes an upstart undergraduate with an idea, or an
aging Australian actor without a fancy degree, or a school so
new it squeaks, can do more for the world than anyone dreamed
of, even as recently as last year’s Oscars.    Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the  Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Charles W. Stevens at  cstevens@bloomberg 