-- 
Asia Company Bonds to Outperform U.S.'s on Global Recovery, Fullerton Says

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-03-02T08:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/temasek-s-fullerton-says-asia-bonds-will-rise-as-europe-rebounds.html
Asian company bonds will outperform
U.S. corporate debt this year as the global economic recovery
spurs demand for the region’s exports, according to  Fullerton
Fund Management Co.   “As a corporate bond investor, your key concerns are
balance sheet and earnings,” and stronger global growth will
lower the risk of default for Asian companies, Ong Guat Cheng, a
senior portfolio manager at Fullerton, who helps manage about
S$10 billion ($7.9 billion), said in Singapore. “Corporate
credits will tend to do well in terms of spread tightening.”  The euro-region economy is showing signs of strengthening
after expanding less than economists forecast in the fourth
quarter. Inflation in the 17-nation region quickened to 2.3
percent in January, the fastest since October 2008, and European
Central Bank council member  Yves Mersch  said Feb. 21 officials
may toughen their tone on consumer price gains at this week’s
rate meeting.  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds in
Asia instead of similar-maturity Treasuries has fallen 65 basis
points in the past six months to 283 basis points, or 2.83
percentage points, after spreads peaked at 953 basis points in
October 2008 during the global financial crisis. Investors can
expect about a further 50 basis points of tightening over the
coming 12 months, Ong said.  Spreads narrowed 43 basis points on U.S. corporate debt
over the same six month period, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Corporate Master Index shows.  ‘Structural Headwinds’  While U.S. economic growth is showing signs of improvement,
“longer term there are structural headwinds” such as the level
of  household debt  and a weak jobs market, Ong said.  Unemployment in the U.S., Asia’s biggest export market, was
9 percent last month, down from 10.1 percent in October 2009.  For the U.S. to reduce the jobless rate to 6.5 percent over
the course of one year it would need to grow 8.75 percent,
according to forecasts from the Fullerton Fund, which was
established in 2003 and is owned by Singapore’s state-owned
investment company, Temasek Holdings Pte.  To cut the jobless rate to 6.5 percent over three years,
the economy would need to grow 4.75 percent a year, the
forecasts show. The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.8 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter, less than previously calculated, as
state and local governments made deeper cuts in spending, the
Commerce Department said Feb. 25.  “The U.S. has been a key driver of growth in  Asia  but over
the next five to 10 years you’ll be looking at a more balanced
world where emerging-market economies will play much a bigger
role,” Ong said.  Asian  Junk Bonds   High-yield Asian corporate bonds “trading at elevated
spreads” will generate better returns than the region’s
investment-grade notes, Ong said. Speculative-grade bonds are
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Spreads on dollar-denominated junk bonds in Asia have
fallen 9 basis points this month to 542 basis points, compared
with a 3 basis point fall to 206 basis points for dollar
investment-grade debt, JPMorgan indexes show.  Speculative-grade corporate default rates in the U.S. fell
to 2.75 percent in January, the lowest since before the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, S&P said Feb. 24. The
rate was about 11 percent in January 2010, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Kohn at 
 tkohn@bloomberg.net  