-- 
Enam’s Bhansali Sees Indian Stocks in a Range for Six Months

-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 
2011-03-01T05:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/enam-s-bhansali-sees-indian-stocks-in-a-range-for-six-months.html
Vallabh Bhansali, chairman of Enam
Securities Pvt., commented on India’s budget and stock market in
an interview with Bloomberg UTV yesterday.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose
1.5 percent to 18,087.09 as of 10:34 a.m. in Mumbai, extending
yesterday’s 0.7 percent gain. India will cut the  budget deficit 
to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year
ending in March 2012, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in
his annual budget speech in parliament.  On the budget:  “Since the country is facing state elections, there was
this concern that the government could turn seriously populist.
The railway budget gave an indication that while it (the
government) is quite cautious in what it wants to do, the fiscal
budget has confirmed that the pragmatism path is very much
there.”  On the government’s divestment plan:  “The government is perhaps waiting for a good moment to
start on this process and it can easily complete the 400
billion-rupee target, because there are some big boys who
couldn’t complete their programs last year. Indian Oil, Oil &
Natural Gas Corp., Steel Authority of  India  alone can do as much
as 300 billion of issuances this year.”  On market impact:  “The market will deal with the issues as they come along.
Currently, the market seems to be saying that it has less faith
in earnings growth for next year, it has less faith in economic
growth for next year, it has concerns about what is happening in
the world in terms of oil price; but it is also saying it is not
massively overbought, and that the prices are not out of
whack.”  “Therefore, the market is probably poised to trade in a
range waiting for a direction on any of these issues to emerge.
In another six months, there could be a much better economic and
earnings outlook, and at that point the market will move in a
decisive manner. But till then it seems to be poised in a
trading range and rightly so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ameya Karve in  Mumbai  at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  