-- 
EU Raises 2011 Growth Forecast, Sees Inflation Accelerating

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-03-01T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/eu-raises-2011-growth-forecast-expects-inflation-to-accelerate.html
The European Commission raised its
economic-growth forecast for 2011 and said higher oil and
commodity prices will keep inflation above the  European Central
Bank ’s limit for most of the year.  Gross domestic product in the euro region may increase 1.6
percent in 2011, above an earlier forecast of 1.5 percent
growth, the Brussels-based commission said in a report published
today. Inflation will average 2.2 percent this year, the agency
forecast, up from a November estimate of 1.8 percent.  “While exports should continue supporting the recovery, a
rebalancing of growth toward domestic demand is expected for
2011, resulting in more sustainable growth,” EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in the report.
“Despite the recent relative calm in the financial markets, the
situation has not yet fully normalized.”  The region’s economy is gaining strength after expanding
less than economists forecast in the fourth quarter. As
companies increase output and hiring to meet export orders,
consumers are growing more optimistic even as governments
toughen budget cuts.  Europe ’s services and manufacturing
industries grew at the fastest pace in more than four years last
month.  “The industry in Europe’s core economies is doing very
well if you look at orders, world trade and air and sea cargo
figures,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at  ING Groep NV 
in Amsterdam. “But the increased oil price and higher inflation
will lower purchasing power and since consumers are already
facing austerity measures, this holds back consumption growth.”    Crude Oil   Crude oil has jumped 15 percent since the middle of
February, adding to the European Central Bank’s concerns about
rising price pressures. Inflation in the 17-nation euro region
quickened to 2.4 percent in February from 2.3 percent in
January, exceeding the ECB’s limit of 2 percent for a third
month, according to an estimate published today.  Officials at the Frankfurt-based central bank may toughen
their tone on inflation at this week’s rate meeting, signaling a
readiness to raise borrowing costs over coming months, ECB
council member  Yves Mersch  said last week.  The commission boosted its 2011 GDP forecast for  Germany ,  France , Spain and the Netherlands, while cutting the outlook for
the U.K. German GDP is now projected to increase 2.4 percent,
compared with an earlier outlook of 2.2 percent.  BASF SE, the world’s biggest chemical company, last week
said fourth-quarter profit more than doubled as demand from the
automotive industry expanded. BASF said it had a “very strong
start” to this year and predicted a further gain in sales and
earnings in 2012, even as raw-material prices surge.  GDP Projection  For the U.K., which isn’t in the euro region, the
commission reduced its 2011 GDP projection to 2 percent from 2.2
percent forecast earlier. That would still be up from 1.4
percent growth last year, it said.  German inflation is now forecast to accelerate to 2.2
percent this year, the commission said.  Spain ’s inflation rate
could jump to 2.4 percent, it said.  Poland’s economic-growth forecast was increased to 4.1
percent for 2011, while inflation is projected to accelerate to
3.3 percent, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   stirling1@bloomberg.net . 