-- 
European Manufacturing Grows Fastest in a Decade

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-07T20:10:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/european-manufacturing-expanded-last-month-at-the-fastest-pace-in-a-decade.html
(Corrects size and scope on Infineon in third paragraph of
story published March 1.)  European manufacturing growth
accelerated to the fastest pace in more than 10 years in
February, a further sign the economy is gathering strength.  A gauge of manufacturing in the euro region rose to 59 last
month from 57.3 in January, London-based Markit Economics said
in an e-mailed report today, confirming a Feb. 21 estimate.
That’s the highest since June 2000. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  European manufacturers have helped bolster the region’s
economic growth as export growth countered the impact of
austerity measures on consumer demand.  Peter Bauer , chief
executive officer at  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , said on Feb. 17
that Europe’s second-largest chipmaker is “firing on all
cylinders” and that the “volume of orders is excellent.”  “Having slowed late last year, manufacturing production
growth has revived to a pace even stronger than the 3.3 percent
quarterly rate seen at the peak last May,”  Chris Williamson ,
chief economist at Markit, said in the report. “Especially
encouraging is the indication that growth is picking up in the
region’s periphery, led by rising exports.”  The  International Monetary Fund  said on Jan. 25 that the
world economy may expand 4.4 percent this year with the euro
region growing 1.5 percent and the U.S. 2.5 percent. In “many
emerging economies, activity remains buoyant,” the Washington-
based IMF said.  European confidence in the economic outlook jumped to the
highest in more than three years in February, a report showed
Feb. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  