-- 
Europe `Ahead' of Fed on Inflation, BlackRock's Fisher Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-03-01T02:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/europe-ahead-of-fed-on-raising-interest-rates-blackrock-s-fisher-says.html
Europe’s central bank will raise
interest rates before the U.S. Federal Reserve, curbing the
region’s growth prospects, said  BlackRock Inc .’s Peter Fisher.  “They’re going to be a little more worried about inflation
pass-through from commodity prices than the U.S.,” Fisher, 54,
the head of fixed income at the world’s biggest money manager
and a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary, said in an interview
in Sydney today. “They’ll be ahead of the Fed.”  Even as Europe grapples with a sovereign debt crisis,
inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.3 percent
in January, the fastest since October 2008, according to data
published by the European Union’s statistics office yesterday.
That contrasts with the U.S., where the inflation gauge watched
by the Fed, which excludes food and energy costs, increased 0.7
percent in the 12 months through December, the smallest advance
since records began in 1959.  European leaders have a “more modest” outlook on the
level of expansion consistent with stable prices, said Fisher.
“They don’t think they can grow the European economy at 2.5
percent to 3 percent without kicking off inflation.”  Economists are estimating expansion of 1.6 percent in the
euro area this year and 3.2 percent in the U.S., according to
Bloomberg surveys.  The  European Central Bank  has kept its benchmark interest
rate at a record-low 1 percent since May 2009 even as growth
picks up in  Germany  and other trade-surplus countries with
smaller debt burdens. Its next interest rate decision is on
March 3.  Inflation Focus  ECB governing council member  Mario Draghi  said on Feb. 26
that inflation pressures are forcing policy makers to focus more
closely on the timing of future interest-rate increases.  The euro has gained 3.3 percent against the greenback this
year amid prospects the ECB will precede the Fed in its
tightening cycle. Those gains may stall, Fisher said, as higher
asset prices and strengthening growth prospects in the U.S.
support the nation’s currency.  The dollar above $1.4 per euro “feels pretty tight for
most of  Europe ,” he said. “If QE2 is as successful over the
next six months as it was over the last it’s very hard for me to
think that’s dollar negative.”  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said yesterday in a
speech in  New York  the “considerably brighter” economic
outlook isn’t yet reason for the central bank to withdraw its
record monetary stimulus.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to deliver a
semiannual report on monetary policy today to the Senate Banking
Committee and is due to testify to the House Financial Services
Committee the following day.  “The Fed is going to look for the exit, but it doesn’t
seem to me like they’re going to be in a hurry,” said Fisher.
“The U.S. doesn’t have as much up-risk in the economy as I
think people thought.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 