-- 
Euro Saviors Flinch at Place in History’s Dustbin: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-03-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/euro-saviors-balk-at-spot-in-history-s-dustbin-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
The euro wasn’t just meant to
provide economic harmony. It was supposed to ensure political
stability as well. Neither has happened and a generation of
politicians will pay for it.  Parties win and lose elections all the time. But it is rare
to be destroyed as completely as Fianna Fail was in Ireland on
the weekend. The party that has dominated Irish politics since
independence in the 1920s was pushed into third place.  What happens in Ireland doesn’t matter much to anyone but
the Irish. It is a small country of  about 4.5 million  on the
edge of Europe. But the Irish results are a sneak preview of
greater turmoil ahead. Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s approval
ratings are at risk as her party strikes electoral trouble in  Germany . President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s re-election in  France  is
surely in doubt. And Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  seems
finished as a force in Italian politics, not just because of his
interest in young women.  The euro is destroying the prospects of re-election for
governments everywhere. Saving the currency demands hugely
unpopular bailouts or it calls for grueling austerity measures.  As it becomes clear that support for the single currency
means sacrificing your political career, it is inevitable that
leaders will increasingly give up on the project.  Irish Shivers  The Irish results were the kind of thing to send a shiver
down the spines of elected leaders everywhere. Sure, you lose a
vote sometimes. The other guys get a chance to run the show
occasionally. That’s the way the system works. You can usually
reckon that in five or 10 years it will be your turn again.  It seems unlikely Fianna Fail can bounce back from this
defeat, though. Overnight, it has gone from the natural party of
government to a fringe movement. As of late yesterday and with
more votes to count, it had won 18 seats in the new parliament,
compared with 70 for traditional rival Fine Gael.  And it’s not just Ireland.  Look what happened to Merkel’s ruling  Christian Democratic
Union  in Hamburg. In regional elections last month, her party
took just 21.9 percent of the vote. That was half its score in
2008 and the lowest in the city since 1946. True, there are
always lots of local issues involved in every election. But
German voters are understandably angry about having to bail out
the struggling members of the single currency. Merkel has talked
tough, but when the crunch comes, she signs the checks. Now she
is paying the price for that.  Fading Power  None of Europe’s main leaders looks secure right now. In
France, Sarkozy’s grip on power is fading. One recent poll
showed 52 percent of the respondents want International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  to win next year’s
presidential election. That compares with 21 percent who wanted
Sarkozy to get a second term. That’s a huge gap to close.  In  Greece , Prime Minister George Papandreou is being
punished for presiding over an economy in deep recession and
handing over management of the country’s finances to the
European Union and the IMF. His Pasok party is down to 25
percent in the polls. In  Finland , the anti-euro True Finns party
is soaring in popularity.  Even Italy’s Berlusconi looks to be on the way out after
three turns in office. He is one of the great survivors of both
business and political life. But a trial on charges of paying
for sex with a minor? Even  Bill Clinton  would have decided to
throw in the towel at that point. It is hard to see how anyone
can come through a scandal of that magnitude intact, especially
against the backdrop of dismal economic growth.  Voter Forgiveness  Of course, not all the troubles can be pinned on the euro.
Berlusconi is largely the author of his own downfall. Sarkozy
talked big and delivered small. And yet if either man hadn’t
been presiding over a stagnant economy, they might be in better
shape. Voters will forgive a lot if the economy is running at a
good clip, if people are feeling richer and if there are plenty
of well-paid jobs around.  Merkel is feeling the anti-euro backlash directly. So, too,
less directly, was Ireland’s Fianna Fail. The implosion of the
Irish economy resulted from joining a currency union whose
shared  interest rates  were far too low for its own economy. The
result was a banking and property bubble followed by an almighty
crash. The ruling party is taking the rap for that. It was the
euro, rather than anything Fianna Fail did or didn’t do, that
was at the root of its problems.  Unelected Saviors  Any prime minister, president or chancellor who fights to
keep the single currency intact is going to get into trouble. It
is easy for officials at the European Union headquarters in
Brussels or at the  European Central Bank  in  Frankfurt  to say we
have to do this or that to salvage the single currency. None of
them gets elected by popular vote.  When you have to tell ordinary Germans or Finns they have
to pay more tax to bail out the Greeks, or when you tell the
Irish or the Greeks they have to accept massive austerity to
make sure the bond markets don’t lose faith in the euro, it is a
different story.    Europe ’s leaders are fond of saying they will do whatever
it takes to save the euro.  But does that include ending their political careers? And
consigning their parties to history’s dustbin?  It seems unlikely.  And as they increasingly realize they have tied themselves
to a project that virtually rules out re-election, don’t be
surprised to see them turning their backs on it.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  