-- 
European Inflation Quickens, Increasing Pressure on ECB

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-01T10:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/european-inflation-quickens-increasing-pressure-on-ecb-1-.html
European inflation accelerated in
February, increasing pressure on the  European Central Bank  to
raise  interest rates  later this year.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.4
percent from 2.3 percent in January, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today in a preliminary
estimate. That’s the fastest since October 2008 and the third
straight month inflation has exceeded the ECB’s 2 percent limit.
Economists expected a reading of 2.4 percent, according to the
median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  ECB officials have toughened their inflation-fighting
rhetoric over the past two weeks, indicating they’re moving
closer to raising rates from a record low even as  Europe 
grapples with a sovereign debt crisis. Policy makers are
concerned companies will raise prices and workers will demand
higher wages to compensate for surging oil and food costs,
entrenching faster inflation.  “The ECB is getting really worried about inflation now,”
said  Nick Matthews , senior European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “The policy rate is extremely
low, price pressures are building and the economy is doing a lot
better.”  Rate Increase  Investors are betting the ECB will raise its benchmark rate
from 1 percent, where it has been since May 2009, in September,
EONIA forward contracts show. Policy makers next meet to discuss
rates on March 3, when the central bank will also publish new
inflation and growth forecasts.  The ECB may raise its 2011 inflation forecast to more than
2 percent from 1.8 percent and say risks to the outlook now lie
to the “upside,” council member Yves Mersch said in an
interview published on Feb. 22. It may also indicate that the
economic outlook has improved, he said.  Euro-area unemployment fell to 9.9 percent in January from
10 percent in December, the statistics office said in a separate
report today.  The European Commission today raised its growth and
inflation estimates for 2011. It expects the economy to expand
1.6 percent this year, up from 1.5 percent previously, and said
higher oil and commodity prices will see inflation average 2.2
percent. That’s up from a November projection of 1.8 percent.  “Risks to inflation seem somewhat tilted to the upside, on
account of ongoing geopolitical tensions,” the commission said.  Surging Oil Price  Crude oil prices have gained 32 percent in the past six
months to $97.37 a barrel today. Unrest in the Middle East and
North Africa helped to push prices up 14 percent last week
alone.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, inflation accelerated
to 2.2 percent in February, while in  Spain  the rate jumped to
3.4 percent.  As the economy gathers strength and prices increase,
workers are demanding higher wages to compensate. German train
drivers are already holding warning strikes to push through a
demand for a 5 percent pay increase.    Volkswagen AG , Germany’s biggest automotive employer,
agreed this month to boost workers’ compensation in the western
part of the country by 3.2 percent to avert strikes as orders
surge. Germany’s chemical workers union has demanded up to 7
percent more pay and construction workers are seeking 5.9
percent more.  ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said last week
that the ECB is “prepared to act decisively and immediately if
needed” to maintain  price stability , and fellow board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said the bank may need to reassess its
policy stance.  Euro-area  core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy prices, held at 1.1 percent in January, the
statistics office said yesterday. A breakdown of February
consumer prices will be released later this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  