-- 
Ex-WBL CFO Loses Appeal Against First Singapore Insider-Trading Civil Suit

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-03-01T10:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/lew-ex-wbl-executive-didn-t-get-price-sensitive-information-court-told.html
Kevin Lew Chee Fai, the former chief
financial officer at WBL Corp. who was found liable in  Singapore ’s first civil lawsuit for insider trading, lost a bid
today on appeal to overturn the ruling.  A three-judge panel dismissed Lew’s appeal, giving no
reasons for the ruling.  Lew was fined S$67,500 ($53,120) in July for avoiding a
S$27,000 loss by selling WBL shares after learning at a meeting
the Singapore-based Volvo and Jaguar dealer was forecast to
report losses, before the information was made public.  Singapore has tightened the rules for market misconduct and
clamped down on financial abuse as the city seeks to expand its
financial services industry. The Monetary Authority of Singapore,
which sued Lew, published 54  enforcement actions  in 2010, more
than three times the 16 in 2009 which it listed on its website.  “MAS expects persons with inside information to adhere to
the prohibitions on  insider trading  so that there is a fair and
level playing field for all market participants,” the regulator
said in a statement after the hearing.  Lew declined to comment after the hearing. His lawyer Thio
Shen Yi earlier told the court that there was no profit warning
discussed at the meeting and the information he received wasn’t
price sensitive.  Cavinder Bull for the central bank, told the court that the
forecasts were the most up to date and were used by WBL’s chief
executive to make management decisions.  Share Rigging  In September, the central bank fined CIMB-GK Securities Pte
Ltd. trader Tan Wee Kiat Melvin S$50,000 for false trading and
suspended his license for three years. Tan tried to manipulate
the share price by entering sell orders in the last five minutes
of a trading day with no intention of filling them, the
authority said.  The regulator also secured its first victory in a civil
lawsuit for stock manipulation against Pheim Management Sdn and
its Chief Executive Officer Tan Chong Koay. The bank hasn’t
publicly announced other lawsuits.  Lew, 50, sold 90,000 WBL shares at S$4.98 each on July 4,
2007, after receiving a warning from the company’s in-house
lawyer that information shared at a meeting was price-sensitive,
the central bank said.  Lew had said he needed to raise cash to exercise his WBL
options. WBL didn’t have a policy requiring its staff to clear
trades and left employees to make their own trading decisions,
his lawyer said.  The case is Kevin Lew Chee Fai v Monetary Authority of
Singapore CA123/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  