-- 
SEC Says Ex-Goldman Sachs Director Gupta Tipped Rajaratnam

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-01T23:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/ex-goldman-sachs-director-rajat-gupta-tipped-off-raj-rajaratnam-sec-says.html
Rajat K. Gupta, a former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc . board member, was accused of  insider trading  by
U.S. regulators who said he passed confidential information to
Galleon Group founder Raj Rajaratnam including  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc .’s $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs.  Gupta, 62, also tipped Rajaratnam on quarterly earnings at
Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co ., where he also was a
board member, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission
administrative order filed today. The tips generated more than
$18 million, the SEC said.  Gupta, the former worldwide director of consulting firm
McKinsey & Co., was a direct or indirect investor in some of the
Galleon hedge funds at the time of the tips, the SEC said.
Gupta, who stepped down from Goldman Sachs’ board last year,
resigned today from Procter & Gamble’s board “to prevent any
distraction,” company spokesman Paul Fox said.  “Gupta was honored with the highest trust of leading
public companies, and he betrayed that trust by disclosing their
most sensitive and valuable secrets,” SEC Enforcement Director
Robert Khuzami said in a statement.  “The SEC’s allegations are totally baseless,” Gupta’s
attorney  Gary Naftalis  said in a statement. “Mr. Gupta has done
nothing wrong and is confident that these unfounded allegations
will be rejected by any fair and impartial fact finder.”  Rajaratnam, who is fighting SEC and Justice Department
insider-trading claims, is scheduled to go to trial March 8.  $10 Million ‘Lost’  Gupta has also served on the boards of American Airlines
parent  AMR Corp .;  Harman International Industries Inc .;  Genpact
Ltd ., the business outsourcing company; and Russia’s Sberbank.
The SEC did not allege any wrongdoing in connection with those
companies.  Naftalis said there is no allegation that Gupta made any
trades or shared in any profits. Gupta lost his entire $10
million investment in a fund managed by Rajaratnam at the time
of the events, Naftalis said.  According to the SEC, Gupta called Rajaratnam immediately
after a September 2008 conference call during which Goldman
Sachs’ board considered and approved the investment by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway as well as a public equity
offering. Within a minute of Gupta’s call, Rajaratnam arranged
for Galleon funds to purchase more than 175,000 Goldman Sachs
shares, the SEC alleged.  Galleon sold the shares the following day after the
information became public, making illicit profits of more than
$900,000, the SEC said.  Goldman Earnings  The SEC action “is simply an effort to destroy a favorable
witness,” said  John Dowd , Rajaratnam’s attorney at Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP. “There is no case, absolutely none.
No conversations, no benefit, no nothing. These are old friends
and Mr. Gupta is a distinguished human being.”    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment on the accusations against Gupta. Berkshire
Hathaway didn’t immediately respond to a message seeking comment
left with Carrie Kizer, an assistant to Buffett.  Gupta also illegally disclosed to Rajaratnam information
about Goldman Sachs’s financial results for the second quarter
of 2008 after a phone call to discuss earnings with Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , according to the SEC. Between
that night and the following morning, there was “a flurry of
calls” between Gupta and Rajaratnam, the agency said.  350,000 Shares  Following the calls, Galleon bought more than 350,000
Goldman Sachs shares and 5,500  call options , generating more
than $13.6 million in illicit profits for the Galleon funds, the
SEC said.  Gupta also told Rajaratnam that Procter & Gamble’s sales
would fall short of public predictions for the fourth quarter of
2008, the SEC said. Galleon sold short, or bet against, about
180,000 of the company’s shares, making more than $570,000 in
illegal profits, according to the SEC’s order.  When Goldman Sachs appointed Gupta to its board in November
2006, Blankfein described him as a “valued source of counsel to
institutions, governments and business leaders around the
world” and said Goldman Sachs shareholders would benefit from
his “strategic and operational expertise and judgment.”  On March 19, 2010, Goldman Sachs said Gupta wouldn’t stand
for re-election to the company’s board, without providing any
reason. In the statement, Blankfein said Gupta had made
“important contributions” to the firm. On April 15, the Wall
Street Journal reported that U.S. prosecutors were investigating
whether Gupta had passed on tips to Rajaratnam.  Gupta, in a January 2003 speech to students at the  London
Business School , defended the work that McKinsey & Co. had done
for Enron Corp. and Swissair, two high-profile bankruptcies, and
said consulting firms should attend to their public images.  ‘More Attention’  “Reputation is vitally important,” Gupta said. “It has
implications on how we construct teams and it is being paid a
lot more attention to than ever before.”  The SEC said administrative proceedings will take place to
determine whether Gupta will have to pay any fines or face other
penalties such as a bar from serving as an officer or director
at a public company.    Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined comment on whether criminal charges
would be filed against Gupta.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 