-- 
Ex-McGuireWoods Lawyer Gets Three-Year Term in PIPEs Case

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-03-01T01:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/ex-mcguirewoods-lawyer-gets-three-year-term-in-pipes-case-1-.html
Louis Zehil, a former lawyer at
McGuireWoods LLP who pleaded guilty to  securities fraud  for
trading unregistered private-placement shares of companies that
belonged to his clients, was sentenced to three years in prison.  Zehil was charged by federal prosecutors with illegally
trading shares in seven companies for which he helped structure
private investment in public equity, or PIPE, transactions,
between January 2006 and February 2007, according to the
charging document in his case. He was sentenced today by U.S.
District Judge  Deborah Batts  in  New York  federal court.  PIPE shares can’t be publicly traded until they’re
registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Zehil bought his clients’ shares in the private placements and
sold them into the market before they were registered. At a
hearing last year he admitted that he told the issuers’ transfer
agents to label as unrestricted the stock going to his two
entities. The stock to the other investors was labeled as
restricted.  Zehil bought the shares through two entities, Strong Branch
Ventures IV LP and Chestnut Capital Partners II LLC, which he
and his wife controlled and ran out of their house in  Ponte
Vedra Beach ,  Florida , according to an SEC complaint, which
alleged he made $17 million in illegal profits.  McGuireWoods is a 900-attorney law firm in Richmond,
Virginia. The firm said it alerted its clients to Zehil’s trades
when it learned about them and cooperated with federal officials
in their investigations.  Andrew Lawler, a lawyer for Zehil, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail sent to him after regular business hours
seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Zehil, 07-cr-659, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  