-- 
Fiat to Build Russia Plant to Meet Government Sales Target

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-03-02T11:45:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/fiat-to-build-russia-plant-to-meet-sales-target-government-says.html
  Fiat SpA  plans to build its own
factory in Russia, after ending talks last month on a 2.3
billion-euro ($3.2 billion) joint venture with OAO Sollers, to
meet a production target set by the government.  “We’ll go it alone with our Russian project,” Fiat Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told reporters today at the
Geneva Motor Show. “We have to keep an eye on our investments.
We have a close dialogue with the Russian government.”  The Turin, Italy-based company is considering various
regions for the plant, including so-called special economic
zones, Dmitry Levchenkov, a Russian Economy Ministry department
head, said in a telephone interview late yesterday. Investment
in such projects is usually about 1 billion euros, he said.  Fiat, which also runs Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler
Group LLC, is targeting fast-growing economies to counter losses
in  Europe , its biggest market.  Ford Motor Co .,  Volkswagen AG  and
General Motors Co. have signed deals with Russian partners in
recent weeks to produce cars in the country.  Fiat declined as much as 24 cents, or 3.5 percent, to 6.40
euros and was down 2.5 percent to 6.47 euros as of 12:44 p.m. in
Milan trading. The stock has dropped 3.1 percent this year,
valuing the carmaker at 8 billion euros.  Fiat submitted a plan to build as many as 300,000 cars a
year in the country, with the Fiat and Jeep brands as the
mainstays of the project, the carmaker said last week.  “Our vehicles are very suitable for the Russian roads,”
Mike Manley, head of the Jeep brand, said today in an interview.  Reaching Agreement  Western carmakers sealed agreements to meet a Feb. 28
deadline set by  Russia  to signal their intentions for increasing
production to at least 300,000 vehicles in order to receive tax
breaks. The detailed planning is to follow in the coming months.  “Virtually all major producers are interested in the new
mechanism and as of today we have already signed six preliminary
agreements,” Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said yesterday.
“We have signed memoranda of understanding with them and they
should present business plans to us by June 1.”  Russia may become the world’s sixth-largest auto market in
2020, with 4 million deliveries a year, the  Boston Consulting
Group  said in a report earlier this month. The nation is now the
world’s 10th-largest car market, with 1.9 million annual sales,
according to the Boston-based consulting firm.    Magna International Inc ., which does contract assembly for
automakers, has also signed a letter of intent to produce more
than 300,000 cars in Russia and is in talks to assemble cars
with GAZ Group in  Nizhny Novgorod  and with Avtotor Group in
Kaliningrad, Levchenko said. Daniel Witzani, a Magna spokesman,
declined to comment.  GM’s Opel unit will probably participate in a capacity
expansion at GM’s St. Petersburg plant, while at the same time
looking for a local partner to produce vehicles, the division’s
chief Nick Reilly said yesterday in Geneva.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  