-- 
Flash Order Debate Moves to Options After Direct Edge Bows Out

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-03-01T18:59:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/flash-order-debate-moves-to-options-after-direct-edge-bows-out.html
The U.S. options market has become
one of the last arenas for flash orders after Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, the third-biggest equity exchange, said it would
no longer allow the split-second requests to buy or sell stocks.  Flash trades generated controversy in July 2009 after
Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said the practice
gave some investors an unfair advantage. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission proposed banning them two months later.
Opposition from  CBOE Holdings Inc .,  International Securities
Exchange  and market-maker Citadel LLC has delayed the rule.  Calls in Congress to bar flash orders showed growing public
concern over U.S. exchange structure following a decade of
legislation that reduced the role of humans in making markets.
Direct Edge, which indicated in November it was altering the way
it handled the trades,  said  last week it would drop them
following an SEC decision to review its changes.  “This decision is consistent with our long-standing
position that we would abide by the SEC’s rulemaking on this
topic, and we believe that now is the appropriate time to be
proactive and cease offering” the orders, Direct Edge Chief
Operating Officer Bryan Harkins said in an e-mailed statement.  Flashing allows venues to match orders by soliciting
trading responses from users instead of sending buy or sell
requests that they can’t fill to rivals quoting better prices.  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp ., which supported Direct Edge’s flash
mechanism, has said it benefits investors by allowing them to
execute larger orders faster or at better prices.  Market Share  Executions from Direct Edge’s flash orders represented 2.3
percent of the company’s share of trading last month through
Feb. 25. They accounted for 0.3 percent of total U.S. equities
volume. Direct Edge was the  third-largest  equities exchange
operator in January.  CBOE Stock Exchange, which has offered flash orders since
it began trading stocks in March 2007, has no plans to stop
them, Gail Osten, a CBOE spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Nasdaq Stock Market in New York and  Kansas City , Missouri-
based Bats Global Markets in June 2009 began offering similar
orders to compete with Direct Edge, which was gaining market
share. Both halted the order types at the end of August 2009
after  NYSE Euronext , Getco LLC and politicians pushed the SEC to
ban the trading requests.  “The practice of flash orders ending on the cash equities
side was inevitable,” said Sang Lee, co-founder and managing
partner at Boston-based research firm Aite Group LLC. He added
that he’s “a bit surprised the SEC has not officially banned
flash orders since that’s the easiest way to tackle the issue.”  Step Up  CBOE and ISE have argued that eliminating flashes in
options, where they’re called step-up orders, will constrain
their ability to compete with NYSE Arca and other exchanges that
match buy and sell requests based on different standards than
they use. Unlike in equities, options venues don’t use the same
rules for handling buy and sell orders. Some exchanges guarantee
market makers quoting at the best price a certain portion of
incoming orders while others give the executions to the first in
line at a specified price.  Opposition from exchanges and brokers against a ban in
options remains strong, Lee said. The SEC will eventually have
to address the issue in options, he said.  CBOE  said on Dec. 3  it flashes about 1 percent of buy and
sell contracts that can be executed immediately to users.  Self Serving  “CBOE’s electronic step-up process has been in place since
early 2006,” the exchange operator told the SEC. “Self-serving
criticisms of flash processes surfaced over three years later.
Without offering any evidence of harm, these critics posture
that step-up processes are suddenly ruining our national market
system.” The letter said that exchanges supporting a ban on
flash orders have pursued “regulatory intervention that is
favorable to their market models.”  NYSE Euronext  told the SEC  on Oct. 29 that flash orders in
options are a disincentive to market makers to post limit orders
because they’re less likely to get the executions they seek. It
said the practice is “anti-competitive.”  Nine exchanges compete to trade options in an industry
where volume rose to 3.9 billion contracts last year for an
eighth straight annual record, according to the Options Clearing
Corp. The largest is CBOE, followed by Nasdaq OMX PHLX and ISE.
The ISE is owned in part by Deutsche Boerse AG, which said on
Feb. 15 it would combine with NYSE Euronext to form the world’s
largest operator of securities and futures markets.  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc . is based in New York.  Options Debate  The debate in options about step-up trades may relate to a
discussion about how much exchanges can charge users in trading
fees, the SEC said. That’s because a venue might be incentivized
to keep orders on its market in order to protect brokerages it
serves from charges elsewhere. The SEC reopened the public
comment period for flash orders in July to  generate  discussion
about the relationship between flash orders and fees, it said.  Regulators in April  proposed  to limit fees for trading
options on exchanges, a move  supported  by Citadel LLC, which
makes markets on options exchanges and supports the use of step-
up orders. Citadel and others have argued that the lack of a cap
in options could allow exchanges to levy higher transaction fees
that distort the overall price brokers pay for trades. For many
products, CBOE and ISE don’t charge brokers for customer orders.
NYSE Arca Options charges anyone who executes against orders it
holds while paying firms providing bids and offers.  Fee Caps  CBOE Holdings, which owns CBSX with a group of brokers,
urged the SEC not to impose fee caps. Fee caps could affect the
exchange’s ability to charge for options on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, which it has an exclusive license to trade.
CBOE officials have held  meetings  with SEC commissioners to
discuss the rule in May, July, September, November and January.  Aite’s Lee said that while flash orders in equities served
a purpose for investors that used them, they became a symbol for
a larger spate of controversial stock trading issues.  “Flash orders ignited the whole discussion around market
structure issues in equities including high-frequency trading
and dark pools -- that was the tipping point,” he said. “With
all the brouhaha, a lot of people assumed there’d be quick
changes, so this is anti-climactic in terms of the practice
disappearing. Most exchanges just came to the conclusion it’s
not worth pushing at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 