-- 
Ford Russia Deal to Accelerate Model Introduction, CEO Says

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-01T15:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/ford-russian-venture-to-accelerate-model-introduction-ceo-says.html
  Ford Motor Co .’s venture with
Russian automaker OAO Sollers will accelerate the introduction
of Ford vehicles in that market, Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  said in an interview today.  “One of the reasons we’re doing this is that we can
accelerate the availability of all Ford vehicles,” Mulally, 65,
said at the CeBIT technology show in Hanover,  Germany . “The
idea is that we use this as a distribution channel for all the
Ford vehicles.”  Ford agreed on Feb. 18 to set up the 50-50 venture with
Moscow-based Sollers to assemble and distribute vehicles in
Russia. Ford Sollers will manufacture Ford models at plants near  St. Petersburg  and in the Republic of Tatarstan, east of Moscow.
As auto demand in western European heads for a fourth
consecutive year of decline, manufacturers are closing deals in  Russia , where passenger-car sales may reach 3 million by 2014 to
surpass Germany as Europe’s biggest auto market.  Ford will “clearly” manufacture at least 300,000 cars
locally a year, a criteria that needs to be met to qualify for
Russian tax and tariff breaks, Mulally said today.  Sollers agreed on the Ford deal as it backed off from a
separate deal with  Fiat SpA . Fiat is in talks with “several”
potential partners for a new venture,  Sergio Marchionne , CEO of
the Italian carmaker that runs Chrysler Group LLC, said today at
the Geneva auto show.  Europe Profit  Net income at Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid
bankruptcy in 2009, plunged 79 percent in the fourth quarter as
European operations had an unexpected loss and costs rose for
introducing models such as the Focus compact and Explorer sport-
utility vehicle. Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford earned $6.56
billion in 2010, its biggest full-year profit since 1999.  The European division is “on track” to return to profit
this year, said Stephen Odell, CEO of Ford’s European division,
in an interview.  The second-largest U.S. carmaker is “doing the right
thing” in resisting price cuts in  Europe , as raising market
share “doesn’t pay the bill,” Odell said in Geneva.  Ford lost as much as 22 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $14.83
and traded at $14.96 as of 10:55 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Mulally said today that “it’s a very high priority” to
boost profitability and free cash flow, in order to improve the
balance sheet and to return Ford to the investment grade debt-
ratings that it lost in 2005 because of rising gasoline prices
and falling truck sales.  Debt Ratings  Moody’s rates Ford Ba2, the second level below investment
grade, and  Standard & Poor’s  rates it one step lower at BB-.
Each has a positive outlook on the automaker.  “It would be of tremendous advantage” to get back the
investment grade rating. On a $14 billion loan, it would save $1
billion in interest payments each year that Ford could use to
invest in products, Mulally said.  Mulally declined to predict whether Ford will get back its
investment-grade rating this year, saying “we believe our
profitability will be better in 2011 than in 2010 and positive
free  cash flow  so that clearly gives us good options to continue
to improve our balance sheet.”  The CEO said today he has no plan for retirement. “I’m
absolutely honored to serve Ford,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Hanover, Germany via   rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Geneva via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  