-- 
Baystar Capital Hedge Fund Manager Will Pay $14 Million to Settle SEC Suit

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-03-02T01:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/former-apple-manager-pleads-guilty-to-wire-fraud-u-s-says-1-.html
A California hedge  fund manager 
agreed to pay $14 million to settle claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that he secretly diverted
cash from investors to entities he owned and controlled.  Lawrence R. Goldfarb, 52, of Larkspur, California, and his
company, Baystar Capital Management LLC, also reached an
agreement with federal prosecutors deferring criminal
prosecution. Goldfarb admitted committing  wire fraud  under the
accord and will repay investors the diverted funds plus
interest, the SEC said in an e-mailed statement.  Goldfarb diverted more than $12 million to fund a real
estate venture and a San Francisco record company, the SEC said
in a complaint filed in federal court in San Francisco. He also
directed investor funds to a bank account from which he paid for
unauthorized personal expenses, including entertainment and
charitable donations, the SEC said. None of the transactions
were authorized by the fund’s offering documents, according to
the complaint.  “Goldfarb betrayed the trust of his hedge fund’s
investors, keeping them in the dark about their investment
profits so he could use their money as his own,” Marc Fagel,
director of the SEC’s  San Francisco  office, said in the
statement.  ‘Side Pocket’  The SEC said Goldfarb was able to conceal the fraud because
investments were maintained in a so-called side pocket, an
account hedge funds use to separate less-liquid investments from
others. Investors had “limited visibility” into the account,
the SEC said.  Goldfarb is barred from associating with any broker, dealer
or investment adviser for three years and agreed to cooperate
under the deferred-prosecution agreement. Federal prosecutors
won’t charge him for any other conduct arising from their
investigation and will dismiss a wire fraud charge against him
in three years if he doesn’t violate the accord, U.S. Attorney
Melinda Haag said in a court filing today.  Goldfarb and his lawyers, Richard Nelson and Steven Katz,
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Goldfarb,
11-cv-938, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  