-- 
Ex-Senator Chris Dodd Named CEO of Movie Industry Group

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-03-01T23:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/former-senator-chris-dodd-is-appointed-to-lead-motion-picture-association.html
The  Motion Picture Association  of
America, lobbyist for Hollywood’s largest studios, named former
U.S. Senator  Christopher Dodd  as chairman and chief executive
officer.  Dodd, 66, will begin on March 17, replacing Dan Glickman,
who left in April to become president of  Refugees International ,
the MPAA said today in a statement.  Dodd will assume his new role as studios are seeking
federal help in curbing Internet piracy and getting wider access
for their movies in foreign markets. The  MPAA  is backing a
Senate bill that would give the Justice Department more power to
seize domain names and cut credit-card payments to websites that
illegally distribute movies and television shows.  “There are challenges here, and significant ones,” Dodd
said today in a telephone interview. He said the global
pressures on the industry, “which for many years has had an
unchallenged position, are going to need addressing.”  As a former senator Dodd must wait two years before
personally lobbying anyone in Congress. Federal laws don’t
prohibit him from guiding MPAA lobbying efforts or meeting with
members of other branches of government.  Dodd, who said last year that he wasn’t interested in a
lobbying job after leaving the Senate, said his new job involved
broader responsibilities.  Not on ‘Radar’  “At that time, this job wasn’t even on the radar screen,”
Dodd said.  The association held discussions last year to give its top
post to former Senator Bob Kerrey, now president of New School
University in New York. Bob Pisano, the association’s president,
has been acting chief executive since Glickman left.  The MPAA represents  Walt Disney Co .,  Viacom Inc .’s
Paramount Pictures,  Sony Corp .,  News Corp ., NBC Universal and  Time Warner Inc .’s Warner Bros., according to the association’s
website.  Dodd first served as senator from Connecticut in 1981,
continuing 30 years before ending his term in January. Kerry
served as senator from Nebraska from 1989 to 2000. Prior to
that, he was governor of the state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  