-- 
Gasoline Surges to 30-Month High as Mideast Unrest Escalates

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-01T21:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/gasoline-surges-to-30-month-high-as-mideast-unrest-escalates.html
Gasoline surged to the highest level
since August 2008 on concern that spreading political unrest in
North Africa and the Middle East will reach  Saudi Arabia  and  Iran , disrupting supplies for refiners.  Gasoline gained more than 3 percent as Iranian protesters
clashed with security forces in Tehran, Al Arabiya television
reported. Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index plunged the most
since November 2008 on concern political unrest in nearby
Bahrain and Oman may spread to the kingdom.  “Everything has gotten one notch worse today,” said Ray Carbone, president of Paramount Options Inc. in New York and a
trader at the New York Mercantile Exchange. “Yesterday,
tensions were easing and volatility coming in. Today, volatility
is back out and tensions are escalating.”  Gasoline for April delivery rose 9.07 cents to settle at
$2.9834 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest level for the contract closest to expiration since Aug.
29, 2008.  The April contract has risen 17 percent since anti-
government protests began Feb. 15 against leader Muammar Qaddafi
in Libya, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  “The major theme still remains the Middle East and what
goes on there,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .  Oman, Yemen  Oman deployed armored vehicles in the center of the city of
Sohar after protests late yesterday while Yemeni demonstrators
took to the streets of Sanaa, the capital, today to demand the
ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  “There were rumors today the Saudis were sending tanks
into  Bahrain ,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory
company Cameron Hanover Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut. “At
this point we’ve got an extremely nervous market that is willing
to take any headline and read behind it.”  Bahrain, stating it was responding to rumors, said today
there were no Saudi Arabian military tanks in the Persian Gulf
country.  U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said two ships and 400
Marines, en route to the Mediterranean near Libya to help with
humanitarian and refugee operations, will help give President
Barack Obama the “full range of options” during the crisis. He
said there had been no decisions taken to take military action
against the forces of  Muammar Qaddafi .  The fighting may have shut up to 850,000 barrels a day of
output, according to the  International Energy Agency .  Libyan Oil  Libya normally pumps 1.6 million barrels of oil a day,
selling most of it to Europe. Most Libyan oil is light and low
sulfur, easier to refine into gasoline and distillates. Less
Libyan oil going to  Europe  could mean less available gasoline
imports for the U.S. and greater demand for distillate exports.  “The oil we’re losing from Libya is the best oil for
refining so if you lose that, you may get less out of the
barrels with the oil it’s being replaced with,” Carbone said.  Heating oil for April delivery added 8.46 cents, or 2.9
percent to settle at $3.0235 a gallon, the highest settlement
for the front-month contract since Sept. 25, 2008.  April-delivery Brent crude on  London ’s ICE Futures exchange
gained $3.62 to settle at $115.42 a barrel. Heating oil and
gasoline are vulnerable to changes in Brent because refineries
supplying fuel to  New York  Harbor, the delivery point for
heating oil and gasoline futures, process crude oil grades
priced relative to the European oil.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
0.7 cent to $3.375 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  