-- 
Defense Secretary Gates Says Navy Ships Move for Libyan Aid, U.S. Options

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-02T01:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/gates-says-navy-ships-move-for-libyan-aid-u-s-options-1-.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said two ships and 400 Marines are en route to the  Mediterranean
Sea  near Libya to help with humanitarian relief and evacuations,
as NATO member countries differ on potential military
intervention.  The Pentagon wants to give President  Barack Obama  the
“full range of options” during the crisis, Gates told
reporters at the Pentagon today. The amphibious assault ship  USS
Kearsarge  and the transport dock  USS Ponce , a vessel used to
transport and land Marines, will enter the Mediterranean
shortly, he said.  “We’re obviously looking at a lot of options and
contingencies,” Gates said. “No decisions have been made on
any other actions.”  The  United Nations Security Council ’s resolution last week
imposing sanctions on Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and his
inner circle and calling for other steps doesn’t authorize
military action, Gates said.  Military options, such as imposing a no-fly zone to prevent
attacks on regime opponents, have consequences that need to be
considered carefully, Gates said. The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization hasn’t decided on any specific steps.  ‘No Unanimity’  “There is no unanimity within NATO for the use of armed
force,” Gates said. The alliance’s defense ministers are
scheduled to meet for a regular session in Brussels next week.
“We also have to think about, frankly, the use of the U.S.
military in another country in the Middle East.”  The U.S. Navy ships are moving to the sea that forms  Libya ’s northern coast as the U.S. and European nations call for
Qaddafi to step down. Libyan rebels are bracing for possible
renewed clashes with Qaddafi loyalists who are attempting to
regain control of major cities.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in Geneva yesterday
that the U.S. and its partners are considering a no-fly zone.
More than 40 former U.S. officials and human rights activists
called for the move last week, as did Senators  John McCain , an
Arizona Republican and former presidential nominee, and  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent.  Senate Resolution  The U.S. Senate today approved a non-binding resolution
calling for a no-fly zone over Libya and endorsing U.S. outreach
to forces opposing Qaddafi’s regime.  Senators  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, and Mark Steven Kirk, an Illinois Republican, teamed on the resolution,
which condemns Qaddafi for “gross and systematic violations of
human rights,” describes his regime as “a brutal
dictatorship,” and urges him to resign.  European foreign ministers meeting with Clinton yesterday
expressed skepticism that a no-fly zone for Libya could be
effective and concern over how it would be viewed by other Arab
nations.  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan today called
potential NATO intervention in Libya “unthinkable.”  Gates and Navy Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, also said they have seen no confirmation of
reports that Qaddafi has used aircraft to fire on Libyans.  The Obama administration has little information about the
number of casualties or the capabilities of Qaddafi’s opponents,
Gates said.  ‘Realm of Speculation’  “We’re in the same realm of speculation pretty much as
everybody else,” he said.  The U.S. also is “keeping an eye” on Libya’s actions in
relation to remaining stocks of chemical weapons, such as
mustard gas, Gates said.  “Our information is that security around those things has
been increased,” he said. “I think it’s not an immediate
concern for us.”  The Pentagon already has halted military relations with
Qaddafi’s regime, which were in any case in preliminary stages.
The U.S. moved cautiously to re-establish relations with Qaddafi
after Libya agreed in 2008 to pay compensation for families of
victims in the 1988 terrorist bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over
Lockerbie,  Scotland . A former Libyan intelligence officer, Abdel Basset al-Megrahi, was convicted of murder in 2001 for his
involvement in the bombing, which killed 270 people.  Gates and Mullen insisted that they were “optimistic”
about the longer-term ramifications of the strategic shifts in
the Middle East, which include the fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , a longtime U.S. ally, and opposition pressure on
regimes in Bahrain and Jordan.  The rise of more democratic governments would be a gain,
they said. Mullen said he doesn’t believe  Iran  is fomenting the
turmoil.  Al-Qaeda ‘Setback’  The current opposition movements are “an extraordinary
setback for al-Qaeda” and a “major setback” for Iran, Gates
said.  “It basically gives the lie to al-Qaeda’s claim that the
only way to get rid of authoritarian governments is through
extremist violence,” Gates said. The restraint shown by
militaries in Tunisia and  Egypt  and mostly also in Bahrain
contrasts “vividly with the savage repression that the Iranians
have undertaken against anybody who dares to demonstrate.”  The opposition movements in the countries involved aren’t
aimed against the U.S. and instead revolve around internal
issues, Mullen and Gates said. As a result, they are unlikely to
significantly harm the Pentagon’s ties with the countries
involved, Gates said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  