-- 
Gbagbo Forces Fire on United Nations Team Searching for Belarus Choppers

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   W i l l i a m   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-01T00:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/gbagbo-forces-fire-on-un-team-seeking-belarus-helicopters.html
Forces loyal to  Ivory Coast ’s
incumbent leader,  Laurent Gbagbo , fired today on  United Nations 
officials seeking to confirm delivery to the airport in
Yamoussoukro of three attack helicopters from Belarus.  The UN said in a statement yesterday that Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon learned with “deep concern” about the arrival of
the first shipment of components for the helicopters, which were
said to have been sent to support Gbagbo’s bid to remain in
office. Their arrival would be a violation of the UN arms
embargo imposed on  Ivory Coast  in 2004, the statement said.  The UN team, including representatives of the peacekeeping
force in Ivory Coast and the Security Council-appointed panel of
experts, was forced to withdraw from the airport, spokesman
Martin Nesirky said today in  New York . No injuries were
reported.  Nesirky wouldn’t specify the source of the UN’s information
that the helicopters were shipped to Ivory Coast. The UN
statement said a second shipment was expected today.  “We deny this information,” Zoya Kolontai, the deputy
ambassador of Belarus to the UN said in an interview. “This is
not true. We observe all obligations posed by the  Security
Council .”  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa producer, has been
divided between a government-controlled south and a rebel-held
north since a 2002 uprising of army soldiers. The insurgents
back  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of
the Nov. 28 election. Gbagbo, who has led the West African
nation for the past decade, refuses to cede power, alleging
voter fraud in parts of the north.  ‘War Crime’  Nesirky said there has been a “turn in the nature” of
fighting in Ivory Coast.  Gbagbo may have “lost control” of militant groups in the
West African nation, Young-jin Choi, head of the peacekeeping
mission said today. UN troops are sustaining “very serious
attacks” from security forces loyal to Gbagbo who may be
committing a “war crime” against the peacekeepers, he told
reporters in Dakar,  Senegal .  The  Associated Press  reported that one of the militias, the
Young Patriots, today kidnapped two UN employees from the
Ukraine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Johannesburg at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
William Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  