-- 
Geithner Urges U.S. Housing-Finance Law Within Two Years to Avoid Bailouts

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-03-01T15:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/geithner-urges-u-s-congress-to-pass-housing-finance-reform-within-2-years.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Congress must pass housing-finance legislation
within two years to avoid more taxpayer-funded bailouts.  Without action, the housing market could remain vulnerable
to flaws that led to the 2008 credit crisis, Geithner said today
at a House Financial Services Committee hearing in  Washington .  “We are faced with difficult choices that will involve
real trade-offs,” Geithner said. “The challenge before us is
to strike the right balance between providing access to
mortgages for American families and communities, managing the
risk to taxpayers and maintaining a stable and healthy mortgage
market.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage-finance companies
operating under federal conservatorship, have been sustained by
$154 billion in Treasury funds since they were seized in
September 2008. The two government-sponsored enterprises own or
guarantee more than half of U.S. mortgages.  “It is very important that we wind down  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac at a careful and deliberate pace,” Geithner said.
Moving too quickly “could shock an already fragile housing
market, severely constrain mortgage credit for American families
and expose taxpayers to unnecessary losses.”  U.S. Representative Spencer Bachus, the Alabama Republican
who leads the Financial Services Committee, said it is a good
sign that Republicans and Democrats seem to agree that the
government-sponsored enterprise should be wound down.  ‘Very Encouraging’  “It is very encouraging to me that there is now a
bipartisan recognition that we must move toward a private market
rather than one where the government backstops 90 percent of all
mortgages,” Bachus said in his opening remarks.  Geithner and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan on Feb. 11 released a list of recommendations for
reducing government’s role in housing finance. Under the plan,
retained portfolios at Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  would shrink
by at least 10 percent a year from their current levels of about
$1.5 trillion.  Representative  Scott Garrett , the New Jersey Republican who
leads a Financial Services subcommittee, said the administration
plan was “somewhat light on specifics and without a concrete
position on a way forward.”  The Treasury’s plans for immediate action include
increasing guarantee fees, raising capital standards and
requiring bigger down payments from borrowers. Geithner said
administration officials will work with lawmakers on ways to
fund  mortgage loans , perhaps by “developing a legislative
framework for a covered  bond market .”  ‘Fully Committed’  The Treasury secretary today reiterated that the Obama
administration is “fully committed” to ensuring Washington-
based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean,  Virginia , can meet
debts, retain staff and fulfill guarantee obligations.  The companies’ cost to taxpayers is declining, Geithner
said.  “The loss estimates are coming down,” and are projected
to decline to about $73 billion by 2021, according to budget
estimates. That projection doesn’t take into account higher
guarantee fees the Treasury is seeking.  President  Barack Obama ’s 2012 budget estimates predicted
that taxpayer aid to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could total $224
billion by the end of 2012, of which $55 billion will be
returned in dividends.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac requested another $3.1 billion
in government aid when they reported quarterly earnings last
week.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 Lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  