-- 
General Growth Beats Analyst Estimates With Positive Funds From Operations

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-01T01:46:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/general-growth-has-4th-quarter-earnings-excluding-items-beating-estimates.html
  General Growth Properties Inc ., the
U.S. mall owner that left bankruptcy in November, reported a
surprise profit excluding some items in the fourth quarter.  Funds from operations were $254.9 million, or 26 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $413.9 million, or $1.29, a year
earlier, the Chicago-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts projected negative FFO of 71 cents a share, the average
of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Fourth-quarter results are the first General Growth has
reported since the company emerged from the biggest real estate
bankruptcy in U.S. history. Sandeep Mathrani, a former  Vornado
Realty Trust  executive, took over as chief executive officer of
General Growth last month.  “There are a lot of expectations of them,” Rich Moore, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Solon,  Ohio , said before the
report was issued.  General Growth filed for Chapter 11 protection in April
2009 after weighing itself down with $27 billion in debt that it
was unable to refinance because of the financial crisis and
collapse of the commercial mortgage-backed  securities market .  The company spun off  Howard Hughes Corp ., an owner of
master-planned communities and other properties, as part of its
restructuring, making the company solely a mall owner.  Mathrani succeeded Adam Metz, who had been CEO of General
Growth since October 2008.  Retail Sales Rise  Sales at U.S. retailers rose in January for a seventh
consecutive month, Commerce Department data showed. Confidence
among U.S. consumers increased in February to the highest level
in three years. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final
index of sentiment climbed to 77.5, exceeding the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 74.2 in
January, according to a Feb. 25 report.  “The mall business itself is very good,” Moore said.
“There is a lot of demand for high-quality space.”  FFO is a cash-flow measure used by real estate investment
trusts. It excludes depreciation and other items and doesn’t
conform to generally accepted accounting principles.    Simon Property Group Inc ., the only U.S. mall owner larger
than General Growth, on Feb. 4 reported FFO that increased to
$630.6 million, or $1.78 a share, from $485.2 million, or $1.40,
a year earlier.  General Growth announced its results after the close of
regular U.S. trading. Its shares rose 34 cents, or 2.2 percent,
to $15.92 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The company has ownership and management interests in
169 malls in 43 states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 