-- 
General Growth Beats Analyst Estimates With Positive Funds From Operations

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-01T21:26:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/general-growth-beats-analyst-estimates-with-positive-funds-from-operations.html
  General Growth Properties Inc ., the
U.S. mall owner that left bankruptcy in November, reported a
surprise profit excluding some items in the fourth quarter as
impairment costs dropped.  Funds from operations were $254.9 million, or 26 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $413.9 million, or $1.29, a year
earlier, the Chicago-based company said yesterday in a
statement. The year-earlier loss included $793.9 million in real
estate writedowns, according to a statement last year. Analysts
projected negative FFO of 71 cents a share, the average of 10
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Fourth-quarter results are the first General Growth has
reported since the company emerged from the biggest real estate
bankruptcy in U.S. history. Sandeep Mathrani, a former  Vornado
Realty Trust  executive, took over as chief executive officer of
General Growth in January. The company plans to refinance about
$5 billion of mortgage debt, Mathrani said.  “We will steadfastly guard our balance sheet and the
franchise to squarely focus on the task at hand, driving revenue
and creating value for our shareholders,” Mathrani said today
in a conference call with analysts. “We’ve embarked upon a
significant mortgage refinancing plan. An environment of low  interest rates  allows us to achieve more favorable terms than we
had imagined before.”  Property Sales  Since November, the company sold eight shopping centers and
three other properties for $84.7 million in net proceeds and it
is under contract to sell three more properties for $154.8
million, Mathrani said.  Mathrani succeeded Adam Metz, who had been CEO since
October 2008.  General Growth filed for Chapter 11 protection in April
2009 after weighing itself down with $27 billion in debt that it
was unable to refinance because of the financial crisis and
collapse of the commercial mortgage-backed  securities market .  The company spun off  Howard Hughes Corp ., an owner of
master-planned communities and other properties, as part of its
restructuring, making the company solely a mall owner.  FFO is a cash-flow measure used by real estate investment
trusts. It excludes depreciation and other items and doesn’t
conform to generally accepted accounting principles.  Lack of Forecast  General Growth did not provide financial forecasts in the
statement or in the conference call. Mathrani said the company
will make a projection in the third quarter.  The lack of a forecast for per-share FFO or same-store net
operating income for the year “is disappointing,” Benjamin
Yang and Patrick Glennon, analysts at Keefe Bruyette & Woods,
wrote in a report yesterday.    Simon Property Group Inc ., the only U.S. mall owner larger
than General Growth, on Feb. 4 reported FFO that increased to
$630.6 million, or $1.78 a share, from $485.2 million, or $1.40,
a year earlier.  General Growth shares fell 39 cents, or 2.5 percent, to
$15.53 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The company has ownership and management interests in
169 malls in 43 states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  