-- 
German Defense Minister Quits on Plagiarism Allegations, Weakening Merkel

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-03-01T14:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/german-defense-minister-quits-on-plagiarism-allegations-weakening-merkel.html
German Defense Minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg quit amid allegations that he plagiarized passages
of his doctoral thesis, depriving Chancellor  Angela Merkel  of
her most popular Cabinet member in an election year.  “This is the most painful step I’ve taken in my life,”
Guttenberg, 39, told reporters in Berlin today. “Like anyone
else, I have to take responsibility for my mistakes.”  Guttenberg faced opposition calls to resign last week after
he admitted to “grave” mistakes in compiling his 2006 doctoral
thesis. The  University of Bayreuth , which awarded the doctorate
in law with the highest grade “summa cum laude,” revoked it on
Feb. 24, as Guttenberg said passages that appeared to be copied
from other texts weren’t the result of conscious deception.  Guttenberg’s departure robs Merkel of the darling of her
Christian Democratic bloc as her coalition seeks to regroup for
six state elections after her party suffered its worst defeat in
Hamburg since World War II on Feb. 20. Guttenberg regularly tops
polls as  Germany ’s most popular politician, and two-thirds of
respondents to a Feb. 18 Forsa poll said they didn’t want him to
resign over the plagiarism spat.  ‘Most Promising Man’  “This is a very bitter loss for Merkel and the Christian
Democratic bloc,” Jan Techau, an analyst at the Rome-based  NATO
Defense College  and a former German Defense Ministry official,
said in an interview. “Guttenberg’s departure means they’ve
lost the most promising man in the party.”  In Germany, where politicians are not normally flamboyant,
Guttenberg’s personal popularity flourished even as public
opposition grew to the war in Afghanistan, where Germany has the
third-largest foreign troop contingent after the U.S. and U.K.  Announcing his resignation, Guttenberg cited the media
outcry over the plagiarism allegations, now in its second week,
that has dominated government press briefings and displaced
coverage of soldier deaths in  Afghanistan .  “I was always ready to fight, but I reached the limits of
my abilities,” Guttenberg said.  Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere, Merkel’s former chief
of staff, is the most likely candidate to replace Guttenberg,
the Rheinische Post newspaper reported on its website.  Merkel said Guttenberg told her of his decision this
morning, and she accepted his request to stand down “with a
heavy heart.” A decision on a successor will be made in good
time, she said.  “I’m convinced that we’ll have the opportunity to work
together in the future one way or another,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin.  State Campaigning  The loss of Guttenberg threatens to undermine Merkel’s
campaigning for state elections that culminate in Berlin in
September. Merkel is due to make at least seven appearances in
Baden-Wuerttemberg, the southern state her party has held for
more than 50 years, before elections there on March 27.
Guttenberg canceled a campaign appearance as the charges broke.  The allegations over Guttenberg’s 475-page thesis comparing
constitutional law in the U.S. and the European Union were first
published in the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  newspaper on Feb. 16. In a
statement the same day, Guttenberg dismissed the report as
“absurd” and said he didn’t receive any help in writing the
dissertation from his staff.  Two days later, he apologized for possible irregularities
in his thesis and said he wouldn’t use his academic title
pending the outcome of an inquiry by his professors, while again
denying the plagiarism charges.  Merkel backed him, saying last week that she appointed him
to reform the military rather than on the strength of his
doctoral title. The coalition agreed in December to Guttenberg’s
plans to suspend army conscription and reduce military numbers
to 185,000 as part of one of the biggest overhauls of the German
armed forces since World War II.  Chancellor Material  Guttenberg, a former economy minister who is a member of
the  Christian Social Union , Bavarian sister party to Merkel’s
CDU, had been regarded by the German media as a possible future
chancellor. The news magazine  Der Spiegel  ran a  cover story  on
Guttenberg and his wife last October with the headline: “The
Fabulous Guttenbergs, Skating to Power in the Chancellery.”  Guttenberg’s approval rating has been higher than Merkel’s
in polls for more than a year. A Feb. 2  Stern magazine  survey
showed 68 percent of voters had a positive view of Guttenberg,
who hails from an aristocratic family in Bavaria.  “He may go somewhere else for a few years such as  Washington , or he may try to rebuild his political career in
Bavaria, where the scandal won’t harm him as much, by seeking to
become premier,” said Techau. “I don’t think he’s gone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  