-- 
Glencore Said to Brief 11 Banks Before $10 Billion Share Sale

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-03-01T16:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/glencore-is-said-to-brief-11-banks-as-commodities-trader-weighs-share-sale.html
Glencore International AG, the
largest commodities trader, is briefing analysts from 11 banks
as it studies a $10 billion initial public offering in London
and Hong Kong, said two people with knowledge of the talks.  Mining analysts from Bank of America Merrill Lynch,  Barclays Plc ,  BNP Paribas  SA,  Deutsche Bank AG ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co ., Liberum Capital Ltd., Societe Generale SA and  UBS AG  joined
lead managers  Citigroup Inc .,  Credit Suisse Group AG  and Morgan
Stanley at the briefing in London with Glencore management over
the past two days, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Most of the banks are vying to be book-runners, and not all
of them will get a role in the sale, the people said. Glencore
hasn’t yet given out any official mandates, they said.  Simon Buerk, a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment. Spokespeople from Credit Suisse,
Barclays, Citigroup, JPMorgan,  Morgan Stanley , Deutsche Bank and
UBS also declined to comment. BofA, BNP Paribas, Liberum and
Societe Generale couldn’t immediately be reached.  Banks that underwrite equity sales in the U.K. and Hong
Kong receive an average 2.5 percent of the amount raised in
fees, according to data compiled by Bloomberg since 2005. At
that rate, Glencore would pay a total of $250 million to its IPO
managers if the sale raises $10 billion.  The larger stock offerings normally pay a smaller
percentage to underwriters. Essar Energy Plc paid 2.25 percent
to managers of its 1.3 billion-pound ($2.1 billion) London IPO
last year, Bloomberg data show.  Glasenberg, Kalmin  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg and Chief
Financial Officer Steven Kalmin addressed the analysts during
the briefing, the people said. Heads of the company’s divisions
including oil, coal, copper-zinc-lead, ferroalloys, alumina,
aluminum and agricultural commodities also spoke, three people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Yesterday’s presentations focused on Glencore’s industrial
assets in Kazakhstan, Africa and Colombia, and some analysts
will also make site visits from today, the people said.  Glencore employs 2,000 people in its trading units and more
than 50,000 at its industrial operations at 15 plants in 13
countries, according to a company fact sheet on its website.  The trader also owns 34 percent of Swiss miner  Xstrata Plc 
and controls mines and metals plants on five continents. The
Xstrata stake is worth $23 billion at the current share price.  Glencore sold convertible bonds in December 2009 for the
first time, raising $2.2 billion and attracting investors
including BlackRock Inc., Government of Singapore Investment
Corp., First Reserve Corp. and Zijin Mining Group Co. Liberum
valued the company at $47 billion to $51 billion in a July
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 