-- 
Goldman Sachs Estimates `Reasonably Possible' Legal Losses at $3.4 Billion

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-01T20:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/goldman-sachs-estimates-possible-losses-from-legal-cases-at-3-4-billion.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, said “reasonably possible” losses
from legal claims against the company may amount to as much as
$3.4 billion.  Goldman Sachs hasn’t set aside a “significant” amount of
money against the possible losses, the New York-based bank said
today in a 10-K filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The estimate, the first of its kind disclosed by the
firm, is the “upper end” of losses in matters where the risk
is “more than remote but less than likely,” the firm said.  Banks are releasing possible-loss estimates after the SEC
said in an October letter to corporate finance chiefs that they
should disclose such losses “when there is at least a
reasonable possibility” that they may be incurred, even if the
risk is too low to require reserves.  “They’ve got the best lawyers, they’re going to drag these
claims out as far as they possibly can,” said Brad Hintz, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York  who has an
“outperform” rating on Goldman Sachs’s stock. “Goldman has
3 years or 3 1/2 years to build reserves for what will
ultimately be settlements.”  Hintz said securities law cases have a five-year statute of
limitations, so claims related to the financial crisis are
likely to peak in the next year. He said cases typically take
four or five years to be settled.  JPMorgan, Citigroup    Citigroup Inc . said last week that as much as $4 billion in
additional costs from pending legal matters are “possible, but
not probable.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co . said yesterday that it’s
“reasonably possible” that legal proceedings may cause as much
as $4.5 billion in losses beyond its litigation reserves.  Goldman Sachs’s estimate doesn’t include any amount for
cases that are at early stages or where there are significant
factual issues to be resolved or novel legal issues, according
to the filing.  The figure was calculated by adding up three categories of
potential liability, the filing said. The firm included the
amount of money damages claimed, where applicable. It also added
the amount of securities sold in cases where Goldman Sachs is
being sued by purchasers of a deal underwritten by the company
and where it’s not being indemnified. Finally, in cases where
parties are demanding that Goldman Sachs repurchase securities
they acquired from the firm, the calculation is based on the
difference between the price paid and the estimated value on
Dec. 31.  Profit Drop  Goldman Sachs reported a 38 percent drop in net income to
$8.35 billion in 2010 from a record $13.4 billion in 2009 as
trading revenue tumbled and non-compensation expenses, driven by
provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings, increased
14 percent.  The 2010 litigation and regulatory costs include
$550 million to settle a fraud suit brought against the firm
last year by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which
accused Goldman Sachs of misleading investors in a mortgage-
linked investment that was sold in 2007.  Goldman Sachs said in today’s filing that it’s facing
complaints in federal and state courts from plaintiffs asserting
that its disclosures on mortgage-related products were improper.  The company estimates that aggregate cumulative losses by
the plaintiffs in active cases total about $457 million as of
Dec. 31. That total doesn’t include other potential claims.  The plaintiffs include the  Federal Home Loan Banks  of  Seattle ,  Chicago  and Indianapolis,  Charles Schwab Corp .,
Cambridge Place Investment Management Inc., Basis Yield Alpha
Fund (Master) and Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, the firm said.  The  National Credit Union Administration  also plans to
pursue similar claims on behalf of some  credit unions , and “a
number of other entities have threatened to assert claims
against the firm in connection with various mortgage-related
offerings,” Goldman Sachs said in the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 