-- 
Goldman Sachs’s Litton Mortgage Unit Resumes Some Foreclosures

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-01T11:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/goldman-sachs-s-litton-mortgage-unit-resumes-some-foreclosures.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .’s mortgage-
servicing unit, which suspended some evictions and foreclosures
in October, “has recently resumed some of those activities,”
according to a regulatory filing today.  Litton Loan Servicing LP said on Oct. 8 that it was
suspending some foreclosures to review its procedures. Attorneys
general from 50 states have been investigating the mortgage
industry’s foreclosure practices after discovering some firms
used faulty or falsified paperwork to seize homes.  “At the date of this filing, the firm is not aware of
foreclosures where the underlying foreclosure decision was not
warranted,” the New York-based company said in its annual 10-K
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “As of
December 2010, the value of the firm’s mortgage servicing rights
was not material and any impact on their value would not be
material to the firm.”  Goldman Sachs said it is cooperating with requests from
regulators and state  attorneys general  and continues to review
Litton’s practices. The inquiries “may result in the imposition
of fines or other regulatory action,” the firm said.  Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar said on Oct. 19
that the company was unlikely to have large losses from
mortgage-related issues because Goldman Sachs played a small
role in creating and packaging such loans. He said at the time
that an “extensive review” of Litton’s practices identified
“certain process issues” in the foreclosures. The firm still
believed the decision to foreclose was justified, he said.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
acquired Houston-based Litton in December 2007 as investors
including billionaire  Wilbur Ross  and Centerbridge Capital
Partners LLC bought mortgage servicers to help them better
understand the market and profit from buying discounted loans.  Viniar, 55, told analysts in December 2007 that the
purchase was “not just to help us take advantage of the
distressed environment that we think we’re in,” adding that
“we think being able to purchase them is going to help us as
the whole mortgage market kind of unfolds going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 