-- 
Google Invests in Latin America as Region’s Sales Jump 80%

-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 
2011-03-01T21:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/google-investing-in-latin-america-after-region-s-sales-rose-80-last-year.html
  Google Inc ., the world’s biggest
Internet-search company, is opening new offices in Latin America
and boosting staffing levels by 50 percent to capitalize on its
fastest-growing region.  Revenue from Latin America surged 80 percent last year,
outpacing every other market, Vice President Dennis Woodside
said in an interview at the company’s  Buenos Aires  office.
Google, which has about 500 people in the region, has opened
branches in Santiago, Lima and Bogota to take advantage of the
growth, he said.  “What we are seeing is the Internet coming into its own in
all the Latin American markets,” said Woodside, who handles
sales for the Americas, including the U.S. “There are 650
million people in the region, and a lot of them are really
coming online for the first time. Our business in Latin America
is just booming.”  Google is seeking new growth areas to offset a maturing
U.S. market and a diminished presence in  China , the world’s most
populous country. The U.S. and the U.K. accounted for about 60
percent of the $29.3 billion in total revenue last year, most of
which was generated by ads. Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , doesn’t say what portion came from Latin America.  Google fell $12.64, or 2.1 percent, to $600.76 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
climbed 1.1 percent this year.  Android Software  Even as sales in Latin America boom, Google’s Android
operating system is making slower inroads in the region,
Woodside said. The software, which runs on smartphones and
tablet computers, hasn’t caught on the way it has in the U.S.  “Android is growing, but it’s still early days,” he said.  Android topped  Apple Inc .’s iPhone in U.S. smartphone
subscribers for the first time in November, accounting for 26
percent of the market, according to research firm ComScore Inc.
Research In Motion Ltd., maker of the BlackBerry, had the top
spot with 33.5 percent.  Google is seeking a replacement for Alexandre Hohagen, the
former head of Latin American operations in  Brazil , who defected
to Facebook Inc. in February. The company isn’t concerned about
his departure, Woodside said.  “We have a very deep bench,” he said. “We have
confidence in our bench and our ability to develop people.”  Google announced in January that co-founder  Larry Page  will
take over as chief executive officer from  Eric Schmidt  on April
4. Schmidt, who oversaw the transformation of a barely
profitable startup into a company with a market capitalization
of $200 billion, said he will focus on deals, partnerships and
customers.  In China, a dispute over Internet censorship may rein in
Google’s growth prospects. In March 2010, the company shut down
its Chinese search service and redirected local users to its
unfiltered Hong Kong site. Since then, rival Baidu Inc. has
gained market share in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Buenos Aires at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  