-- 
Grains, Sugar May Drop as Farmers Increase Output, Yields, Australia Says

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-03-01T09:33:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/grain-output-may-jump-this-year-as-farmers-sow-more-undercutting-prices.html
Global farm prices, including wheat,
soybeans and sugar, may drop from next year as farmers boost
production after prices soared, according to  Australia ’s
government forecaster, potentially cutting record food costs.  A global gauge of wheat prices may tumble 19 percent in the
year from July as world harvests expand 4 percent to 675 million
metric tons, rising faster than demand, the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural & Resource Economics & Sciences said in a report
today. Soybeans in Rotterdam may drop 8 percent, it said.  The bureau’s outlook adds to signs that food costs at an
all-time high may spur growers in the U.S.,  Europe , and  Asia  to
increase plantings and improve yields, paving the way for bigger
harvests and, in turn, lower prices. Farmers must decide which
crops to prioritize on their plots to meet expected demand.  “It’s probably if not one of the strongest, the strongest
battle for acres in history,” said Erin FitzPatrick, a
commodities analyst at Rabobank International in  London . “We’re
going into this season with close to record low stock levels in
not just one or two of the commodities competing for the acreage,
but in most of the commodities.”  A drop in global food costs may help to ease inflationary
pressures that have challenged central bankers from  India  to  China  to restrain price gains while maintaining economic growth.
Cheaper grains and oilseeds would also benefit the world’s
poorest, who spend a greater share of their income on food than
people in richer nations, potentially reducing social unrest.  ‘Supply Response’  “High agricultural prices will generally generate a supply
response,” Jammie Penm, chief commodity analyst at the bureau,
said in an interview. “It is not an issue that the world cannot
produce food grains for consumption, it is an issue of adverse
seasonal conditions and then government policies.”  Wheat in  Chicago  surged to $9.1675 a bushel on Feb. 14, the
highest price since 2008, on rising demand and concern drought
may cut China’s output. Wheat has gained 62 percent in the past
year, corn has jumped 91 percent, and soybeans have rallied 42
percent. Raw sugar traded at 36.08 cents per pound last month,
the highest level since 1980.  “High prices in 2010-11 are expected to encourage
producers to increase areas planted to wheat,” the Australian
bureau’s quarterly report said. The gain in production in grains
and oilseeds “is forecast to put downward pressure on world
prices” in 2011-2012, the report said.  To be sure, Etsuo Kitahara, executive director of the
International Grains Council, said last month that higher grain
prices may be “here to stay” because demand is rising and
farmers’ ability to expand cultivation is constrained. “Land is
limited,” Kitahara said on Feb. 1.  ‘Increased Production’  The general expectation is “that higher prices will elicit
some increased production, some of the grains that have seen the
biggest run up,”  David Cohen , head of Asian forecasting at
Action Economics, said by phone from  Singapore . “I’d expect it
would take a while, not till next year.”  The so-called free-on-board Gulf price of U.S. hard-red
winter wheat, described as “the world indicator price,” may
drop 19 percent to average $250 per ton in 2011-2012, the
Australian bureau’s report said. “Increased wheat supplies are
forecast to outweigh a rise in demand,” the report said.  Global wheat ending-stockpiles may gain 3 percent in 2011-
2012, the report said. As a percentage of consumption, global
reserves may increase to 29 percent, it said.  Rotterdam Soybeans  The price of soybeans on a so-called cost-insurance-freight
basis in Rotterdam may drop 8 percent to $474 a ton in 2011-2012
compared with this year, the report said. “Although world
production of soybeans, canola and sunflower seeds is forecast
to increase, the effect on world oilseed prices is expected to
be largely offset by continued growth in demand.”  Sugar prices may average 20.5 cents per pound in 2011-2012
and 15.6 cents the following year, according to a table in the
bureau’s report. Output was expected to gain in many countries,
including  Indonesia , the report said.    Joe Glauber , the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s chief
economist, said on Feb. 24 that “higher market prices will
encourage greater plantings.” The U.S. is the world’s largest
exporter of wheat, corn and soybeans.  Global wheat output may total 653.5 million tons in the
year from June 1, a gain of 7 million tons from a year earlier,
Canadian Wheat Board market analyst Neil Townsend said yesterday.
Demand at 660 million tons signals a “continuation of
historically strong wheat prices,” the board said.  The United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization’s World
Food Price Index, a 55-item basket, gained to a record in
January. Food costs are at “dangerous levels,” pushing
millions into extreme poverty, the  World Bank  has warned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Canberra at  wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  