-- 
Greylock Partners Increases Latest Fund to $1 Billion After Groupon Stake

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-03-01T18:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/greylock-boosts-latest-fund-to-1-billion-as-it-seeks-mature-tech-startups.html
  Greylock Partners , the venture firm
with stakes in Facebook Inc., LinkedIn Corp. and Groupon Inc.,
boosted the size of its latest fund by 74 percent to $1 billion
to increase investments in more mature technology startups.  Greylock added $425 million to its 13th fund, which
initially closed in November 2009, the  Menlo Park , California-
based firm said today in a statement. The capital will be used
to fund Web companies that create products for consumers and
corporations.  After missing out on the most successful Internet companies
in the 1990s, Greylock has emerged as a leader since backing 
LinkedIn in 2004 and Facebook in 2006. Greylock is also an
investor in online radio company Pandora Media Inc. This year it
bought a stake in Groupon at a $4.75 billion valuation, people
familiar with the matter have said. By adding to its cash pile,
Greylock can compete for more big deals while continuing to
fund early stage startups, said David Sze, a partner at the firm.  “We see the opportunity in some very large-scale, winner-
circle companies to put in larger amounts of money than a seed
or early-stage fund would have traditionally done,” said Sze,
who led investments in LinkedIn and Facebook. “We tend to only
see in those investments a handful of other firms like us.”  Founded in 1965 by Bill Elfers and Dan Gregory, Greylock
was based on the East Coast until moving its headquarters to
Silicon Valley from  Boston  in 2009. That year, the firm
announced the closing of its 13th fund and hired LinkedIn
founder  Reid Hoffman  as a partner.  Discovery Fund  In September, Greylock announced the Discovery Fund, led by
Hoffman, which makes investments of $25,000 to $500,000.
Greylock committed $20 million from its most recent fund for the
strategy. Out of Fund 13, Greylock has made 36 investments,
including 20 discovery deals, 15 “core” stakes and one growth
investment, which was in daily deal site Groupon, the company
said.  While Greylock is raising money, the venture industry is
 contracting . Fundraising declined last year for the fourth
straight year, dropping 25 percent to $12.3 billion, according
to the  National Venture Capital Association . Funding has tumbled
by more than half since 2005 as a dearth of initial public
offerings hurt returns at venture capital firms.  “The average fund is having a very hard time raising
significant funds and is either doing a fund similar to its last
or often less,” Sze said. “We’ve not seen that in our case to be
the situation. Our limited partners have been enthusiastic about
expanding the opportunity.”  LinkedIn, the biggest professional-networking site, and
Pandora, the top Internet radio company, have filed to go public
in the past five weeks. Greylock is also an investor in Zipcar
Inc., the car-sharing company that filed for an IPO in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 