-- 
Bill Gross Gets `A' for Effort on Trader Greed: Terrence Keeley

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   R .   K e e l e y
-- 
2011-03-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/gross-gets-a-for-effort-on-trader-greed-commentary-by-terrence-keeley.html
It’s not every day you get to peer
into a billionaire bond trader’s soul, but Bill Gross affords
everyone that rare opportunity in his latest investment outlook,
Devil’s Bargain. In addition to his usual, trenchant market
analysis, the  monthly newsletter  is part confessional, part
prescription for all that ails the financial world.  “As a profession, we have failed miserably at our primary
function: the efficient and productive allocation of capital,”
the founder and co-chief investment officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co. writes. “This country desperately
requires a rebalancing of priorities.”  It’s hard to disagree with Morningstar’s Fixed-Income Fund
 Manager of the Decade  here. Wall Street greed helped precipitate
the Great Recession. Common justice requires we now be part of
the solution, rather than the problem.  Gross saves his harshest criticism for those in the money
business who have used their positions of privilege for the sole
purpose of enriching themselves. “How can bond traders make
ten, one hundred, one thousand times more money than an engineer
or social worker given their dismal historical performance?”  More than a year ago, a broad cross-section of financiers
came to the same conclusions -- namely, that excessive greed
undermined the economy and violated an implicit social contract.  In Devil’s Bargain, Gross seems similarly inclined to self-
reflection. “Hang your heads, moneychangers.” He goes on to
advocate regulation from above rather than within. “After
readjusting the compensation scales via regulation and/or free-
market common sense, America needs to anoint a new set of
 Mensans  who can create something more than a cash machine.”  Record Bonuses  While undoubtedly well intended, it remains unclear how
these propositions would work in practice. Compensation doesn’t
seem to be coming down either by regulation or the invisible
hand; just a few years on from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
immolation, Wall Street compensation is back near record highs.  It would be great to find Mensans who could predict the
future and identify winning industries. But history inclines
otherwise. Mensans advocated ethanol subsidies and expansive
balance sheets for  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , after all. Even
the wisest, most altruistic men and women make disastrous public
investment decisions.  “America requires more than a makeover or a facelift,”
Gross says. “It needs a heart transplant absent the contagious
antibodies of money and finance filtering through the system.”  ‘A’ for Intent  To redeem Wall Street’s soul, radical solutions are clearly
needed, but advocating the eradication of profit-based markets
that have served humanity well on balance without a viable
replacement is fanciful. Gross deserves an “A” for intent --
but something more practical than a “heart transplant” is
required to restore trust and efficacy to our banking system.  Besides, our problems aren’t finance or money or trading
per se; ridding the world of hunger, poverty and disease will
require fully functional, competitive capital markets. To ensure
these markets serve the common good rather than common crooks,
however, the intents and objectives of those structuring
transactions and committing capital must change.  Human development requires financiers whose preoccupations
are civic, not selfish. Just like doctors, teachers, soldiers
and firefighters, they have essential roles to play in creating
an ethical society. To succeed, we need only put the interests
of our clients, colleagues and communities ahead of our own.  Unfinished Tasks  Gross is right about one thing more; better regulations are
needed. Capital adequacy, resolution authority for every
financial institution regardless of size, less systemic risk,
pay rules that fuse shareholder and wage-earner interests --
these unfinished tasks remain the rightful province of
regulatory Leviathans.  But Faustian impulses will always prove impervious to
supervisory fiat. If the Devil is to be defeated, he’ll need to
be fought off, one financial professional at a time.  “Are record corporate profits a fair price for America’s
soul?” Gross asks rhetorically. Never! Souls must not be for
sale at any price. But an economy based on something other than
profit risks misery and injustice of another sort. The
antibodies now needed aren’t those that negate profitability.
Rather, they are the ones that bind financial engineering to
value creation and advancement of society.  More than Mensans, we need mensches. Many thanks to  Bill
Gross  for igniting the debate.  (Terrence R. Keeley is the senior managing principal at
Sovereign Trends LLC and a founder of the ethics website
www.financialhippocraticoath.org. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Terrence Keeley at  trk@sovereigntrends.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  