-- 
Libya Residents Had $62 Billion in Overseas Banks, BIS Says

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-03-01T15:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/libyan-residents-have-62-billion-deposited-in-overseas-banks-bis-says.html
Libyan residents, some of whom are
targeted by a United Nations-imposed asset freeze, had $62.1
billion deposited in overseas bank accounts at the end of
September, according to the  Bank for International Settlements .  Most deposits were from banks in Libya, including branches
of foreign institutions, while $8.2 billion was from non-bank
Libyan residents, according to  quarterly banking statistics 
compiled by the BIS and last released on Jan. 28.  The European Union yesterday imposed an arms embargo and
other sanctions including an asset freeze, and the U.S. said it
has frozen $30 billion in Libyan assets in what the U.S.
treasury called the largest blocking “ever.” Canada,
Switzerland, the U.K. and Austria have also frozen the assets of
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and his entourage.  The BIS statistics are based on reports from 43 countries,
including most developed nations and offshore centers such as
the Cayman Islands, the Netherlands Antilles and the British
Channel Islands. The figures don’t cover direct investments by
Libyans in assets overseas.  Total foreign assets held by Libyans were $152.4 billion at
the end of last year, according to a broader measure compiled by
the  International Monetary Fund . That measure includes official
central bank reserves and investments owned by the Libyan
Investment Authority,  preliminary data  from the IMF shows.  Libya Investment Authority  The Libyan Investment Authority owns stakes in Italian bank  UniCredit SpA , Financial Times owner  Pearson Plc  and  Finmeccanica SpA . Pearson today froze the stake, blocking
trading in the shares and dividend payments. Pearson Chief
Executive Officer Marjorie Scardino said yesterday she felt
“uncomfortable with the holding.”  Qaddafi has “lost the legitimacy to govern and it is time
for him to go without further violence or delay,” U.S.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said yesterday after meeting
with ministers from the EU and Russia in Geneva. The U.S. said
refugee-aid teams were sent to  Libya ’s borders while American
naval and air units are being repositioned in the Mediterranean.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  