-- 
Libya’s Prince Calls for No-Fly Zone, Not Military Intervention

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-03-01T13:12:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/libya-s-prince-calls-for-no-fly-zone-not-military-intervention.html
Libyan Prince Muhammad bin Sayyid
Hassan as-Senussi called for foreign governments to limit their
military intervention in the country to imposing a no-fly zone.  “A no-fly zone would be a huge step towards stopping the
bloodshed,” the prince said in an e-mailed statement today. It
will “bring some relief and some semblance of safety to my
fellow Libyan people who fear the terror from the skies.”  Libyans don’t want foreign troops to stage an armed
intervention on the ground, he said from  London , where he has
lived in exile since 1988. “That will not bring about the peace
and freedom that we crave,” he said.  European nations have begun planning for a no-fly zone,
with some members of the international community saying such a
move must be approved by the  United Nations Security Council .
The European Union imposed an arms embargo and other sanctions
yesterday, and the U.S. said it has frozen $30 billion in Libyan
assets. The U.S. said refugee-aid teams were sent to the
country’s borders, and that naval and air units are being
repositioned in the Mediterranean for possible relief work.  As-Senussi said he has talked to military leaders in  Libya 
“who have walked away” from leader  Muammar Qaddafi , and that
they all say a no-fly zone has to be put in place to ensure the
regime can’t carry out aerial attacks against unarmed civilians.  He also said medics in Libya urgently need supplies to help
thousands of injured people.  Unrest broke out in Libya late on Feb. 15 when the regime
began rounding up people it said were organizing a mass anti-
government protest on Feb. 17. In violence since then, at least
1,000 people have died, according to the UN.  “There is an enormous human disaster taking place in
Libya,” the prince said. “People are suffering in unimaginable
ways.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 