-- 
Highbridge Said to Shut $1.4 Billion Asian Fund After Huttenlocher Resigns

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-03-02T06:54:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/highbridge-said-to-shut-asia-fund-after-huttenlocher-resignation.html
Highbridge Capital Management LLC,
the hedge-fund firm owned by  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., is
liquidating its $1.4 billion  Asia  Opportunities Fund after
manager Carl Huttenlocher resigned, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Huttenlocher, 38, also was the firm’s Asia head and managed
investments in the region for Highbridge Multi-Strategy Fund,
accounting for about 8 percent of the fund’s $6.5 billion in
assets. He may set up his own fund after leaving New York-based
Highbridge this month, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  His departure from Highbridge comes as investors are
returning to the hedge fund industry hurt by the global
financial crisis. Ninety-five hedge fund startups in Asia raised
$3.84 billion in assets last year, 48 percent more than 2009,
according to AsiaHedge New Funds Survey.  Highbridge’s Asia Opportunities Fund raised more than $250
million of assets in 2010.  “If a fund was very associated with one manager and the
clients were in it really because of him,” then it makes sense
to shut a fund when the star manager leaves, said  Paul Smith ,
chief executive officer of Hong Kong-based asset manager and
hedge fund distributor Triple A Partners Ltd.  “A group like Highbridge would automatically give clients
the right to redeem if the star left,” he said. “It’s just
sound business practice.”  Huttenlocher declined to comment, as did Tripp Kyle, a New
York-based outside spokesman for Highbridge. The news was
reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  Keeping Presence  Highbridge, which oversees $27 billion, plans to return
cash to investors in the Asia fund by the end of the month, the
people said. The firm’s 25-person team in Asia will report to
Alec McAree, global head of equities, and Mark Vanacore, global
head of convertibles,  capital structure  and volatility arbitrage,
as management is centralized in  New York .  The firm, which has operated in Asia since opening a Tokyo
office in 1994, plans to maintain its presence in the region,
the people said.  Glenn Dubin , Highbridge’s chief executive
officer, and Chief Operating Officer Todd Builione are in Hong
Kong meeting with staff, they said.  After the closure of the Asia Opportunities Fund, the
people who remain in Asia will manage regional investments for
the global fund, the people said.  The Eurekahedge Asia Hedge Fund Index, which tracks more
than 400 funds in the region, has declined 0.5 percent this year
through February, underperforming the 0.2 percent advance by the
global index in the same period.  Artradis, Brummer  The HFRX Index returned 5.2 percent last year and the  MSCI
World  Index gained 10 percent.  Other hedge funds in Asia have shut because of their
performance. Artradis Fund Management Pte, whose  hedge funds 
made $2.7 billion in profits for investors as markets see-sawed
in 2007 and 2008, is closing down after it lost money from
wagers on price swings in the last two years, according to
Singapore-based co-founder Stephen Diggle.  Brummer & Partners, the largest Scandinavian hedge fund,
closed its Asia-focused equity fund and the firm managing it
after its performance damped returns, according to the
Stockholm-based company’s annual report.    RAB Capital Plc , the London-based hedge-fund manager
founded by Philip Richards and Michael Alen-Buckley, shut its
remaining Asia-focused fund, said five people with knowledge of
the matter last year.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  