-- 
EU Court Ruling Could Force Women to Pay More for Insurance

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-03-01T17:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/highest-eu-court-cancels-gender-related-calculation-of-insurance-premiums.html
Insurers shouldn’t be allowed to
take gender into consideration when calculating premiums, the
European Union’s highest court said in a ruling that is likely
to increase the price of insurance for women.  The present system “works against the achievement of the
objective of equal treatment” for men and women and should end
by the end of next year, the  EU Court of Justice , the 27-nation
region’s top court, ruled today.  Auto insurance premiums for female drivers could rise as
much as 50 percent as a result of the ruling, according to KPMG
LLP. It will also result in insurers changing the way they
market policies and assess risks to ensure they get “only the
better performing female business,” the accounting and
consulting firm said.  The ruling “flies in the face of common sense” and is
“completely disadvantageous to the very people it was intended
to protect,” said Adrian Brown, chief executive of London-based  RSA Insurance Group Plc , the U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer by
market value. “Consumers are going to have to pay the price for
an illogical change in the law.”  Decisions by the Luxembourg-based tribunal are binding and
can’t be appealed. An existing EU equality law, introduced in
2004,  allows  the region’s countries to differentiate between men
and women when calculating insurance premiums if data shows
“sex is a determining factor in the assessment of risk.”  ‘Bad News’  Michaela Koller, director general of the European insurance
and reinsurance federation, CEA, said today’s ruling was “bad
news.”  “Europe-wide the effect on the price and benefits and on
the choice of insurance products for consumers could be
significant,” she said. Insurers “will now face significant
additional costs in reassessing data, transforming premiums and
changing terms and conditions and marketing materials.”  “Young female drivers pay less for motor insurance because
they are less likely to have accidents and therefore women make
fewer claims than men,” the  Association of British Insurers 
said in a statement. “For life insurance, women on average pay
less to reflect their longer  life expectancy , while pension
income for males is often higher because men typically have
fewer years in retirement.”  Sheilas’ Wheels, owned by privately held Esure Insurance
Ltd., and Diamond, owned by  Admiral Group Plc , are the U.K.’s
two biggest women-focused car insurers. Sheila’s Wheels, which
also offers handbag insurance, will comply with the ruling while
continuing to target women drivers, spokesman Adrian Webb said.  Most Males  “Sheilas’ Wheels has always insured men but most males
simply aren’t attracted to our brand and we don’t see this
changing,” said Webb.  Admiral said in an e-mailed statement it would use the
transition period to introduce a “gender-neutral pricing
structure.”  Admiral climbed 19 pence, or 1.1 percent, to 1,708 pence in  London  trading.  “It’s as wrong to treat the same things differently as it
is wrong to treat different things the same way,” said Markus Riess, the head of the German unit of  Allianz SE ,  Europe ’s
biggest insurer, at a conference in Munich today. “It’s to be
expected this will make insurance more expensive.”  Statements that insurance will become more expensive are
“plain wrong,” said German insurance customer group, Bund der
Versicherten.  ‘Won’t Rise’  “Since claims won’t increase with unisex premiums, one or
the other person may end up paying a little more, but overall
the average premiums won’t rise,” said Hartmuth Wrocklage, head
of the BdV. “If premiums overall rose, it would serve only to
increase profit, not to balance out supposed costs of the unisex
premiums.”  The European Commission, the EU’s executive agency, said it
was “an important moment for  gender equality ” in the region.  Viviane Reding, the EU’s justice commissioner, said she
will meet with insurance industry officials to discuss the
ruling.  According to research by  Oxera  last year that was
commissioned by the ABI, the British insurers’ group, women
younger than 25 could see their auto insurance costs rise by an
average 25 percent and  life insurance  costs could increase by as
much as 20 percent, while men could see a drop of 10 percent.  Statistical Analysis  There are insurers who have “years and years’ worth of
insurance policies,” written with gender in mind, said  Philip
Jarvis , a partner at law firm Allen & Overy LLP in London.  “Insurers will no longer be able to rely on statistical
analysis to discriminate between men and women for the purpose
of pricing products,” said Jarvis. “The economic effect will
presumably be that these costs will have to be rebalanced.”  Companies will have to find another way of more accurately
pricing the risk of an individual life, such as based on
lifestyle or health, said Jarvis.  “It will be crucial to ensure this news does not put
people off having vital insurance,” said Maggie Craig, ABI’s
acting director general.  Belgian consumer group  Test-Achats in 2008 challenged the
country’s law implementing the EU rule.  Belgium ’s Constitutional
Court a year later referred the case to the EU tribunal, arguing
it had to establish whether the derogation in the region-wide
law underlying all national laws was valid or not.  The consumer group in an e-mailed statement said it was a
“victory for consumers, the men and women” of the EU.  The case is: C-236/09, Association Belge des Consommateurs
Test-Achats and Others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  