-- 
Military's Aid to For-Profit Colleges Needs Oversight, Investigators Say

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/military-s-aid-to-for-profit-colleges-needs-oversight-investigators-say.html
A U.S. military program that paid
$175 million to for-profit colleges for active-duty service
members’ tuition in 2009 may be wasting money because of
insufficient controls and oversight, government investigators
said.  The Defense Department grants tuition assistance without
having a system to track complaints, and it reviewed less than a
third of the courses offered by nonprofit and for-profit
colleges, according to a study by the Government Accountability
Office that was obtained by Bloomberg News. Schools that offer
online courses, especially for-profit colleges, have targeted
the funds, according to a statement by Senator Thomas Carper,
the Delaware Democrat who requested the study.  Congress and the Department of  Veterans Affairs  are
investigating for-profit and nonprofit colleges that market
educational services to current and former military members. The
Defense Department paid $517 million to all colleges for service
members’ tuition in the year ended Sept. 30, 2009. Carper,
chairman of the Senate subcommittee on federal financial
management, has invited Senator  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat
who has been investigating misleading recruitment practices by
student recruiters at for-profit colleges, to testify tomorrow
at a hearing in  Washington  on the military benefits program.  “It’s just wrong to say to people who serve our country
that we’re not going to make sure you have the best preparation
to be successful in the military and afterward,” Carper, a  U.S.
Navy veteran , said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We
can’t afford it as a country.”  Vulnerable to Abuses  The lack of monitoring leaves military members vulnerable
to recruitment abuses, according to the report from the GAO,
Congress’s investigative arm, to be released today. Defense
Department officials who were interviewed for the report said
that while they don’t keep official records of complaints about
such abuses, they recalled that most were related to for-profit
schools, the GAO said.  In one case, for-profit college recruiters called and e-
mailed a service member day and night after he elected not to
sign up for classes, according to the report. In another case, a
for-profit college was charging higher tuition rates to service
members than civilians, while offering the service members gas
cards for completing courses, the report said. The report didn’t
name specific schools involved in abuses.  ‘Inadequate Oversight’  Harkin, chairman of the Senate education committee,
requested a separate GAO probe originally released in August,
and revised in November, that found recruiters at 15 for-profit
colleges made misleading statements to agents posing as
applicants. Harkin has also investigated for-profit colleges’
use of military funds, along with high withdrawal and student-
loan default rates among their students.  “I am deeply concerned that there is inadequate oversight
of our nearly $30 billion in federal aid to for-profit
schools,” Harkin said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“This report by the GAO confirms my concerns.”  GAO made “broad extrapolations” from the recruiting
abuses it reported in August, said  Harris Miller , president of
the Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities, a
Washington-based trade group.  “I hope that isn’t the situation here,” he said in a
telephone interview. “Students like our schools and are pleased
with their educations. We’re going to continue to offer them
quality education because they seem to value it.”  The Defense Department only monitors the quality of college
courses that are taught on military bases, or about 29 percent
of all those that were eligible for tuition assistance in 2009.
About 71 percent of the courses that got funds in 2009 were
conducted online and weren’t subject to review, GAO said in the
report.  Online Oversight  The Defense Department was preparing a policy that would
initiate oversight of online courses,  Robert Gordon, deputy
undersecretary of defense for military community and family
policy,  said in September at a  House of Representatives  hearing
held by the  Armed Services  Subcommittee on Oversight &
Investigations. Gordon is scheduled to testify tomorrow at the
Senate hearing.  The  American Council on Education , a Washington-based
association of colleges and universities, held a four-year, $3.7
million contract to monitor course quality for the Defense
Department through the end of 2010. No reviews will be conducted
this year because the contract expired, according to the report.
While the department is seeking a new contractor to monitor
college-course quality, it hasn’t explained the one-year lapse
in monitoring, the report said.  Year Without Reviews  “The idea that we’re going a whole year without quality
reviews when we know we have a problem strikes me as penny-wise
and pound-foolish,” Carper said. “When I hear us saying we’ll
get around to this next year, I think we have a problem.”  The Defense Department has been working since 2004 on
developing a policy for reviewing online courses, said Susan
Aldridge, president of the  University of Maryland University
College , who has been involved in the process. Her college
provides courses for active-duty personnel on military bases,
and several installations are normally reviewed each year, she
said.  “Our only frustration is that many educational programs
have been funded without oversight or accountability for all
these years,” Aldridge said in a telephone interview.  A new set of rules for colleges that receive tuition
assistance funds is in the “final stages” of approval, Major
Monica Matoush, a Defense Department spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. The new rules go into effect Jan. 1, Matoush said. She
declined to comment specifically on the GAO report before its
formal release.  Different Standards  The Defense Department doesn’t hold schools to the same
standards used by the Education Department, which also provides
grants and loans for college students, according to the GAO
report. The Education Department limits the amount of revenue
for-profit colleges get from its grants and loans, and bars all
colleges from misleading applicants about programs and paying
recruiters based on the number of students signed up.  The Education Department is preparing to issue additional
regulation of for-profit colleges that will tie their
eligibility for government grants and loans to students’ incomes
and graduation rates. Education companies are lobbying against
the regulations, and the House passed a measure, sponsored by
Representative  John Kline  of  Minnesota , that would block them.
Kline, a Republican, is chairman of the House education
committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  