-- 
Milk Powder Prices Jump 15.4% to Record Amid Asian Demand, Fonterra Says

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-03-02T05:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/milk-powder-prices-jump-15-4-to-record-amid-asian-demand-fonterra-says.html
Whole-milk powder prices surged to a
record on sustained demand from  China  and concerns rising input
and feed costs may curb supply, potentially boosting inflation.  Powder gained 15 percent to $4,958 a metric ton from two
weeks earlier, the  highest  level for the near-term contract
since auctions began in July 2008, according to Auckland, New
Zealand-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s
largest dairy exporter.  Prices soared 41 percent in the past three months, buoyed
by demand from  Asia  and concern a dry spell in  New Zealand  may
limit output. The surge may add to record global food costs,
accelerating gains that have challenged central bankers from  India  to China to restrain prices while maintaining growth.
Rising costs have contributed to riots in North Africa and the
Middle East and to the toppling of leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .  “Demand is outstripping supply at the moment and there’s
still some risks around what the supply situation is going to
do,” James Shortall, a rural economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in
Auckland, said today.  Wheat in  Chicago  surged to $9.1675 a bushel on Feb. 14, the
highest price since 2008, as consumption increased and drought
threatened China’s output. Wheat has gained 60 percent in the
past year, corn has jumped 93 percent, and soybeans have rallied
44 percent. Raw sugar traded at 36.08 cents per pound last month,
the highest level since 1980.  Increased Supply  The United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization’s World
Food Price Index, a 55-item basket, gained to a record in
January. Food costs are at “dangerous levels,” pushing millions
into extreme poverty, the  World Bank  has said.  Rising dairy prices may spur supply, said Bruce Donnison,
Fonterra general manager sustainability, in Canberra.  “You will potentially see more production in countries
like the EU and the  United States , where they can turn the tap
on fairly quickly,” Donnison said at a conference today. “But
demand is outstripping supply by somewhere around two percent.”  The dairy market in the Middle East and Asia was growing at
about four percent to five percent a year and markets were
likely to remain strong as rising incomes boosted demand,
according to Donnison. India could represent the next major
growth area in the region after China, he said.  “There’s every reason to think that prices will go higher
and they’re really getting to the levels where they were at all-
time highs in 2008,” said Shortall. “There’s no reason to
suggest they wouldn’t go through those very high levels.”  Higher Prices  Whole-milk powder for delivery from June through August
rose 12.3 percent, Fonterra said. Powder for shipment from
September through November increased 2.6 percent. Across all
contracts, prices gained 9.6 percent.  Fonterra, which accounts for about 40 percent of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole and skim-milk powder and
dried milk fat at its fortnightly  GlobalDairyTrade  auctions. It
offers one-month contracts with delivery starting two months
after the sale, and two three-month contracts with delivery
starting three and six months later.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 