-- 
India Bonds Gain a Second Day as Budget Aims to Cut Fiscal Gap

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-03-01T13:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/india-s-bonds-drop-as-investors-skeptical-of-deficit-reduction.html
  India ’s 11-year bonds advanced a
second day after the government vowed to reduce the budget
deficit for the fiscal year beginning April 1.  The gap between revenue and spending will ease to 4.6
percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months through March
2012 from 5.1 percent in the current period, Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee said in his annual budget speech yesterday. It
was necessary to return to the path of “fiscal consolidation”
as expansion wasn’t sustainable, Mukherjee said today.  “There’s still some feel good factor among investors as
the government has made efforts at cutting the deficit,” said
J. Moses Harding, a Mumbai-based executive vice president at
IndusInd Bank Ltd. “But it remains to be seen whether the
fiscal targets are achieved.”  The yield on the 8.13 percent bond due September 2022, the
government’s most-traded debt, fell one basis point to 8.08
percent as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the
central bank’s trading system. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  India may “struggle” to meet its  budget-deficit  target
for the next financial year as spending on food and fuel
subsidies will probably rise,  Standard & Poor’s  said in an e-
mail today.  S&P said that India’s budget shortfall is preventing the
nation from getting a higher  credit rating , currently at BBB-
for local currency debt, the lowest investment grade.  India’s manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in three
months, adding pressure on the central bank to increase  interest
rates  for the eighth time in a year.  The purchasing managers’ index rose to 57.9 in February
from 56.8 in January, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
said in an e-mail today. Data above 50 indicates expansion.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
fell two basis points to 7.47 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  