-- 
Indonesia Inflation Slows, Easing Pressure to Raise Rate at March Meeting

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-03-01T08:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/indonesia-inflation-slows-easing-pressure-to-raise-rate-at-march-meeting.html
  Indonesia ’s inflation slowed for the
first time in four months in February, prompting Bank of America
Merrill Lynch to delay its forecast for an interest-rate
increase to April from this week.  Consumer prices in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy rose
6.84 percent last month from a year earlier, after gaining 7.02
percent in the previous month, the  Central Bureau of Statistics 
said in Jakarta today. That’s less than the 7.13 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists.  Bank Indonesia, due to decide on monetary policy March 4,
raised its  reference rate  by a quarter point to 6.75 percent in
February. Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said last week the
central bank may refrain from adding to the increase for now as
efforts to tame inflation are sufficient and the government’s
suggestion to delay phasing out subsidized fuel sales may cap
price gains.  “We have changed our call, given the lower headline
inflation reading and delay in the fuel-subsidy rationing scheme
to July,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “The Deputy Governor’s dovish
remarks last week also increased the likelihood of a hold
decision.”    Bank Indonesia  may keep the key rate unchanged this week
before monetary tightening continues in April as rising oil
prices increase the risks to inflation, Chua said.  Rupiah Performance  The rupiah was little changed at 8,819 per dollar as of
3:01 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Half of the 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect
Bank Indonesia to keep the reference rate unchanged this week,
while the other eight expect an increase to 7 percent, according
to a Bloomberg News survey.  Food prices fell for the first time in four years in
February, Rusman Heriawan, chairman of the Central Bureau of
Statistics, said in Jakarta today. Inflation in March may be
“low” due to deflation in food prices, he said.  “We aren’t surprised at February’s numbers because Bank
Indonesia has allowed the rupiah to strengthen, so pressure on
imported inflation is reduced,” said David E. Sumual, an
economist at PT Bank Central Asia. “The government’s removal of  import duties  on some food items also reduced pressure.”  Core Inflation  Still, Indonesia should be wary of accelerating core
inflation, he said. “It would be strange if Bank Indonesia held  interest rates  because it has said it will focus on core
inflation.”  Consumer prices in Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest
economy, climbed 0.13 percent in February from the previous
month. Year-on-year core inflation was 4.36 percent, gaining
from 4.18 percent the previous month.  From today, commercial banks will be required to boost
their foreign currency reserves to 5 percent from 1 percent as
part of efforts to absorb excess cash. That will increase to 8
percent in June. The move will absorb $3 billion to $4 billion,
Sarwono said last week.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  seeks to expand the
economy at an annual average rate of 6.6 percent and create 10.7
million jobs by the end of his second term in 2014, including
through attempts to boost investment in infrastructure.  Indonesia’s economy grew at the fastest pace in six years
last quarter to 6.9 percent. Fitch Ratings on Feb. 24 raised its
outlook on the country’s debt rating to positive from stable,
affirming its BB+ rating, one level below investment grade.  Indonesia’s exports rose 24.7 percent in January from a
year earlier, the statistics office said. Imports surged 32.2
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  