-- 
Iran Arms Proxies to Destabilize Middle East, Mattis Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-01T15:21:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/iran-still-arms-proxies-to-destabilize-middle-east-mattis-says.html
  Iran ’s nuclear weapons ambitions and
arming of proxy fighters still represent the “greatest long-
term challenge” in the Middle East, the top U.S. commander for
the region says.  Iran, after four rounds of United Nations sanctions, still
“appears determined to mature its nuclear weapons program -- an
ambition that could lead to the proliferation of illicit nuclear
materials and spark a nuclear arms race in the region,” Marine
Corps General James Mattis, who leads the U.S. Central Command,
said in testimony today to the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Mattis’s command includes nations that have experienced
popular demonstrations against current leaders, such as Yemen
and Bahrain, or the downfall of existing governments, such as  Egypt .  “The strategic landscape of the broader Middle East has
been altered by recent events in  Tunisia , Egypt,  Libya  and
elsewhere,” Mattis told the committee.  There’s “pressure on government institutions from the
aspirations of people seeking improved economic and social
conditions,” he said. “Young people born in the information
age are exchanging ideas in real time,” said Mattis, who said
it was too soon to predict the outcomes.  “For the vibrant people of Iran, the regime is no giant,”
Mattis said. “The regime’s actions have thrown the economy into
disarray, destroyed rapport with the bulk of the world and
spread hate and discontent across the region.”  ‘Urgent Concern’  Libya, which is undergoing a revolt against  Muammar Qaddafi , isn’t in the Central Command region.  Mattis said Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, under
the control of its Islamic leaders, continues “to fund, arm,
train and equipment a network of agents, surrogates and
proxies” in Lebanon, Syria, Gaza, and elsewhere.  “Of urgent concern,” said Mattis, the Revolutionary Guard
“continues to equip militants in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan  that
attacks U.S. and coalition forces.”  A January attack by insurgents in Iraq using a large-
caliber improvised rocket-assisted mortar was aided by Iranian
forces and “demonstrated Iran’s malicious intent and ability to
escalate violence when they desire,” Mattis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  