-- 
Iran Rejects Western Criticism, Says Opposition Issue an Internal Affair

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-03-01T18:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/iran-rejects-western-criticism-says-opposition-issue-an-internal-affair.html
  Iran  rejected outside criticism of
its handling of the opposition after reports that two prominent
dissidents had been arrested.  “These are internal affairs and no country has the right
to interfere,”  Ramin Mehmanparast , Foreign Ministry spokesman,
told reporters in Tehran today in comments aired live by state
television. He was replying to a question about the reported
detention of Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi.  Mehmanparast, who didn’t mention the whereabouts of the two
opposition leaders, spoke before an anti-government march in
Tehran. The rally led to clashes between marchers and security
forces, the  Associated Press  cited the opposition as saying.
Police used tear gas and batons to disperse protesters demanding
the opposition leaders’ release, with several people arrested,
the AP reported, citing witnesses and opposition websites.  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague today urged the
government to release Mousavi and Karrubi, according to an e-
mailed statement from the Foreign Office in  London . The German
government is disturbed about reports of the treatment of
opposition leaders and called on Iran to stop intimidation of
political opponents, Steffen Seibert, chief spokesman for  Chancellor Angela Merkel , said yesterday. U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  also criticized Iran yesterday for
pursuing policies of “tyranny at home.”  Revival of Dissent  The crackdown on Karrubi and Mousavi, who challenged
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in the June 2009 election, is
aimed at stemming a revival of dissent in Iran as unrest roils
the Middle East and North Africa. After Ahmadinejad’s re-
election, Iran was rocked by the biggest protests seen in the
country since the 1979  Islamic Revolution  as the opposition
alleged his victory was rigged.  Karrubi and Mousavi, who had been under house arrest since
mid-February, were transferred to a Tehran prison, Mousavi’s
website, Kaleme, said yesterday. The men and their wives were
arrested and taken to Heshmatiyeh prison, according to Kaleme,
which cited their neighbors. Reports of their arrest were
rejected by an unidentified judicial official cited by the
state-run Fars news agency.  Mehmanparast said the West must “hear and respect the
voice of the majority of Iranians,” who support the government
and its policies, and not “divert the attention to a few people
in the streets.”  “God is great” and “Death to the dictator” were chanted
from some rooftops in northern Tehran yesterday at about 10 p.m.
local time. The slogans were also shouted from rooftops nightly
by opposition supporters during the 2009 post-election rallies.  Protests that began after over the election have expanded
to include criticism of the political system and government
policies. Rallies resumed on Feb. 14 with Karrubi and Mousavi
calling for a march in solidarity with demonstrators in other
countries in the region following the ouster of Tunisian
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 