-- 
IRS Chief Tells U.S. Lawmakers House's Spending Cuts Would Help Tax Cheats

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-03-01T16:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/irs-commissioner-promotes-13-3-billion-budget-plan-to-panel.html
Internal Revenue Service
Commissioner Douglas Shulman told lawmakers that the House-
passed spending bill would weaken his agency’s ability to fight
tax cheating.  If the bill passed Feb. 20 becomes law, the “IRS would
need to make substantial immediate cuts to its enforcement
programs,” Shulman said during a House appropriations
subcommittee hearing today in  Washington .  The House spending bill for the rest of fiscal 2011, which
is opposed by Senate Democrats and President  Barack Obama , would
cut $603 million from the IRS’s fiscal 2010 spending level of
$12.1 billion, Shulman said. Those cuts would cost the
government $4 billion in collected revenue, Shulman said.  The hearing highlighted the conflict between the House
Republican majority’s push to reduce spending and the Obama
administration’s proposed funding increases for some agencies,
including the IRS.  Shulman’s comments about the still-unsettled 2011 budget
came as he pushed House lawmakers to support the agency’s $13.3
billion budget request for fiscal 2012.  ‘Pay for Themselves’  “The investments in our budget more than pay for
themselves and directly contribute to  deficit reduction ,” he
said.  In the fiscal 2012 budget released Feb. 14, Obama proposed
increasing the IRS budget by 9.4 percent from 2010 levels and
hiring more than 5,000 employees.  That budget proposal includes new efforts to enforce the
tax code by focusing on offshore accounts and tax cheating. The
IRS also will be taking on new responsibilities as part of the
health- care law, which uses the  tax code  to distribute health
insurance subsidies.  Representative Jo Ann Emerson of  Missouri , chairwoman of
the Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the IRS budget,
said she was seeking to make “informed and judicious” cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  