-- 
U.S. Economy: Manufacturing Expands by Most Since 2004

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-01T22:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/ism-index-of-manufacturing-in-u-s-rose-to-61-4-in-february.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. grew in
February at the fastest pace in almost seven years, driven by
gains in orders, employment and exports that signal factories
will continue to propel the expansion.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
increased to 61.4, exceeding the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and the highest level since May 2004,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Readings greater than
50 signal growth. Compared with similar measures released today
in Europe and  Asia , the data put the U.S. at the forefront of
the global manufacturing rebound.  Business investment in new equipment is prompting companies
like  Eaton Corp . and  Deere & Co . to raise profit forecasts as
growth picks up worldwide. At the same time, Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke today said a sustained jump in prices
for commodities like oil threatens slower growth and higher
inflation, a concern echoed by the purchasers group chairman.  “Manufacturing is booming,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York. “Corporate
profits continue to grow at a rapid pace, and that is providing
significant fuel for gains in business investment.”  Stocks fell as crude  oil prices  jumped. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.6 percent to 1,306.33 at the 4 p.m.
close in  New York . Treasuries increased, pushing down the yield
on the benchmark 10-year note to 3.39 percent from 3.43 percent
late yesterday.  The median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected an increase to 61. Forecasts ranged from 58.7 to 63.3.  Global Rebound  A gauge of factories in the euro region rose to 59 last
month, the highest since June 2000, from 57.3 in January,
London-based Markit Economics said. A U.K. index of
manufacturing held at 61.5 in February, the highest since the
survey started in 1992, according to Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply .  In China, the Purchasing Managers’ Index dropped for a
third month. The gauge fell to 52.2 from a January reading of
52.9, the  China  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on
its website. In contrast,  India ’s manufacturing grew at the
quickest pace in three months, rising to 57.9, according to a
survey by HSBC and Markit Economics.  The ISM’s order gauge climbed to the highest level since
January 2004 and its employment measure reached a 38-year high,
today’s report showed. Exports accelerated at the fastest pace
since December 1988, and the gauge of prices paid increased to a
seven-year high.  Bernanke’s View  “Sustained rises in the prices of oil or other commodities
would represent a threat both to economic growth and to overall  price stability , particularly if they were to cause inflation
expectations to become less well anchored,” Bernanke said today
testimony before the Senate Banking Committee.  Norbert Ore, chairman of the ISM’s manufacturing committee,
said in a press conference that the jump in prices was the only
“big negative” in what was otherwise “another great month”
for American factories. The increases in commodities like steel
and oil are hurting profits, which may cause some companies to
pass the costs on to customers, he said.  Another report today showed construction spending fell more
than forecast in January, paced by the biggest slump in
commercial projects in 17 years.  The 0.7 percent drop brought the value of all projects down
to a $791.8 billion annual rate, the lowest since August,
Commerce Department figures showed. Outlays on private non-
residential works dropped 6.9 percent, the most since January
1994, which may in part reflect the influence of winter storms.  Factories’ Influence  The manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 11
percent of the world’s largest economy, led the recovery from
the recession that ended in June 2009 as businesses rebuilt
stockpiles slashed during the slump that began in December 2007.
Rising exports have also spurred production.  In 2010, U.S. gross domestic product increased 2.8 percent,
the most in five years.  “The numbers coming out of the U.S. for GDP and industrial
production are pretty solid, but we have an issue with regard to
employment,” James Meil, chief economist at Eaton said on a
Feb. 25 teleconference. The Cleveland-based maker of pumps used
in forklifts raised its full-year forecast amid higher
hydraulics sales.  Employment increased by 190,000 workers last month, the
most since May 2010 and rebounding after a 36,000 gain in
January, when winter storms depressed the count, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of
Labor Department data on March 4. The report may also show the
jobless rate increased to 9.1 percent from 9 percent.  Auto Sales  Auto dealers are seeing improved demand.  General Motors Co .
today said U.S. sales of its four remaining brands rose 49
percent in February, topping analysts’ estimates, as discounts
and new financing options lured buyers.  Factories may receive a boost this year from a government
program that accelerates tax depreciation for equipment
purchases. The incentive is part of an $858 billion bill signed
by President  Barack Obama  in December that extends tax cuts for
two years, continues expanded unemployment insurance benefits
through 2011 and trims payroll taxes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  