-- 
Israeli Government Bonds Fall on Economic Outlook; Shekel Gains

-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-03-01T10:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/israeli-government-bonds-fall-on-economic-outlook-shekel-gains.html
Israeli bonds dropped, pushing
yields higher for the first time in four days, as investors
trimmed demand for safer assets on bets the outlook for the
global economic recovery is improving. The shekel advanced.  Israel’s 10-year benchmark bonds tracked a drop in U.S.
Treasuries before an industry report that economists said will
show U.S. manufacturing expanded at the fastest rate in almost
seven years.  Israel ’s TA-25 benchmark stock index rose 0.2
percent at 12:22 p.m. in  Tel Aviv .  Libya ’s opposition gained
fresh support from the U.S. and European nations, who promised
humanitarian aid and began planning for a no-fly zone.  “Investors are focusing on the positive manufacturing news
coming out of the U.S.,” said Amir Kahanovich, an economist at
Clal Finance Investment Management Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “The
global economic outlook is improving so investors are shifting
their concern from the Middle East turmoil.”  The yield on the 10-year Mimshal Shiklit maturing in
January 2020 rose 2 basis points to 5.06 percent. The shekel
strengthened for a fourth day, adding 0.3 percent to 3.6147 per
dollar.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
61 in February, the highest since May 2004, from January’s 60.8,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. German unemployment plunged in February as demand
for machines and cars surged. The number of people out of work
fell to the lowest since September 1992, the Nuremberg-based
Federal Labor Agency said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  