-- 
Israel-Egypt Gas Exporter Says Turmoil Won’t Damp Sales Outlook

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 
2011-03-01T22:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/israel-egypt-gas-exporter-says-turmoil-won-t-damp-sales-outlook.html
Yosef Maiman, part owner of the
Egyptian-Israeli natural-gas pipeline, said turmoil in the
Middle East won’t stop the joint venture’s fuel sales from more
than doubling to $1 billion by 2014.  Maiman, who pioneered the export of Egyptian gas to
Israel’s state power company, said he doubts the ouster of
former president  Hosni Mubarak  will hurt Israeli businesses
operating in Egypt. He said he was pleased to see the revolt
against Mubarak had little to do with animosity toward Israel
and was focused on Egypt’s internal issues.  “Israel is under the radar,” Maiman, 65, said yesterday
in an interview at his office in Herzliya, 10 miles north of Tel
Aviv. “For the first time you have a movement which is inward
looking. It’s domestic, it’s economics. It’s freedom of
expression.”  Egyptian gas exports to Israel were halted Feb. 6 after an
explosion damaged the 100-kilometer (62-mile) pipeline’s
metering station in the Sinai desert.  East Mediterranean Gas
Co. , which operates the pipeline, is partly owned by Ampal-
American  Israel  Corp. Maiman, Ampal’s chairman and chief
executive officer, controls 20.6 percent of East Mediterranean
Gas through Ampal and his closely held Merhav Group.  Ampal has dropped 13 percent this year on concern that the
current government upheaval in the Middle East will hurt Israeli
companies.  East Mediterranean Gas will hold a trial run of the
pipeline March 3 and is set to resume gas exports by March 4,
Maiman said. He expects the pipeline to expand capacity in the
next three years to 7 billion cubic meters from about 2.5
billion cubic meters in 2010.  Forecast Unchanged  The numbers match previous forecasts that sales would climb
to $1 billion in 2014 from $400 million last year. Maiman said
he doesn’t expect the forecast to change as a result of the
recent unrest in  Egypt .  “Security has been beefed up in the area following what
the government believes can only have been a terrorist attack on
the site,” Maiman said. “We are confident that we will be able
to honor all our supply commitments, as we always have. This is
not only in Israel’s interest but also in Egypt’s economic
interest.”  Maiman, an Israeli citizen born in  Germany  and raised in  Peru , said that “fringe” opposition leaders in Egypt have
recently tried to make “unfair claims” that Egypt is selling
gas to Israel at 75 cents per million British thermal unit.
“That is in fact four times lower than what we pay,” he said.  Gas Imports  About 16 percent of the electricity produced by Israel
Electric Corp., the country’s power monopoly, is derived from
gas imported from Egypt, the company’s spokeswoman said. About
40 percent of Israel gas consumption comes from Egypt, which is
delivered entirely by East Mediterranean Gas.  Israel’s only domestic gas source is the Yam Tethys
project, which operates at the Mary-B and Noa fields off the
coast of Ashkelon.  Egypt has natural-gas reserves of 77 trillion cubic feet
(2.18 trillion cubic meters) and is the main producer of the
hydrocarbon in the eastern Mediterranean, according to the  U.S.
Energy Department . The country exported 650 billion cubic feet
of gas in 2009, 30 percent either to Jordan, Syria and Lebanon
through the Arab pipeline, or to Israel through the El-Arish-
Ashkelon line, according to the U.S. department’s figures.  Egypt supplies Israel with gas under a 15-year contract.
Israel imports about 85 percent of its energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 