-- 
Israel Is Weighing New Peace Initiative With Palestinians, Official Says

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   T a n y a   H a b j o u q a
-- 
2011-03-02T01:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/israel-is-weighing-new-peace-initiative-with-palestinians-official-says.html
  Israel  may start a new peace
initiative with the Palestinians as concern rises that Middle
East turmoil will lead to renewed pressure on each side to
resume talks.  The plan envisions a phased approach to a final peace
agreement, an Israeli official said yesterday on condition of
anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media on
the matter. He declined to elaborate. Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has said that peace talks should address all
outstanding issues and aim for a comprehensive agreement.    Nabil Shaath , a top official in Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah party, said the idea of a staged
approach is “even worse than what we have been discussing
already.”  Israeli-Palestinian peace talks stalled in September, after
Netanyahu refused to extend a 10-month partial construction
freeze in West Bank settlements. Abbas has said he won’t
negotiate while the building continues.  In floating a new initiative, Netanyahu may be trying to
show that he is willing to be flexible as Western governments
back popular uprisings across the Middle East, said  Gerald Steinberg , a political scientist at Bar Ilan University.  Israel is considering new steps to “keep  Europe  and the
Americans satisfied,” Steinberg said. “The myth is there has
to be progress in the  peace process  to promote stability and
democracy and prevent radicalism.”  Merkel Call  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  called Netanyahu last week
to discuss the current standstill in talks, spokesman Steffen Seibert said in Berlin on Feb. 25.  A State Department official said the agency is awaiting
details of the Israeli proposal and would offer no comment until
the plan was examined. The official spoke on condition of
anonymity yesterday because he was not authorized to speak
publicly on the issue.    Oil prices  have risen to a 2-1/2 year high on concern that
the regional unrest that has led to the ouster of the Tunisian
and Egyptian presidents will spread. Libyan rebels yesterday
braced for possible renewed clashes with forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi , who is attempting to regain control of major
cities. Protests have also been staged in Yemen, Bahrain,  Iran 
and Djibouti.    Yossi Beilin , a former deputy Israeli foreign minister who
helped negotiate the 1993 Oslo Accords, said the new situation
in the Arab world would mean “public opinion will count more.”  ‘Feeling of Pressure’  “As a result of that, the Israeli-Palestinian issue will
become much more salient in the near future, and this is why
there is a feeling of pressure to do something,” said Beilin,
who now heads the business consulting company  Beilink .  The Israeli official said the new initiative was an attempt
to circumvent a Palestinian refusal to resume the peace talks.  Shaath said no plan was serious unless it involved a freeze
on settlement-building. “They can’t just find new bottles to
put old wine in,” he said.  Al-Jazeera television in January  said  it had been given
access to thousands of pages of memos and e-mails of private
meetings showing Palestinian negotiators as prepared to give up
claims to parts of east  Jerusalem  and swap some Jewish
settlements in the  West Bank  for territory within Israel in 2008
talks. Al-Jazeera didn’t say how it obtained the  documents ,
which cover the period from 1999 to 2010.  Palestinian officials at the time said the reports had been
taken out of context.  Negotiator Quits  According to al-Jazeera, the Palestinians in 2009 discussed
handing over Haram al-Sharif, Islam’s third-holiest site, to
international control. The compound is known to Jews as the
Temple Mount, the site of the ancient temple destroyed by the
Romans and the holiest site in Judaism.  The area lies in east Jerusalem, sought by Palestinians as
the capital of a state. Israel captured the area in the 1967
Middle East war and annexed it in a move never internationally
recognized.  Chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  resigned last
month, saying he was taking responsibility for the leak of
confidential documents from his office.  The Islamic militant group Hamas seized full control of the  Gaza Strip  in 2007, ending a partnership government with the  Palestinian Authority  after winning parliamentary elections a
year earlier. Hamas, which is considered a  terrorist
organization  by the U.S., the European Union and Israel, refuses
to recognize Israel or any agreements signed with it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Habjouqa through the Jerusalem bureau at   thabjouqa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  
 barden@bloomberg.net  