-- 
Italy Planning to Phase Out Nation's Renewable Energy Incentives Gradually

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-01T16:08:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/italy-planning-to-phase-out-nation-s-renewable-energy-incentives-gradually.html
Environment Minister Stefania Prestigiacomo indicated that  Italy  will keep renewable energy
incentives for the time being and phase them out gradually.  “It’s obvious that incentives going forward will be
declining,” Prestigiacomo said at an event today in Brindisi,
Italy. “On this topic there won’t be any back-peddling. We will
push ahead with renewable energy and we will push ahead with
nuclear power. Italy needs both.”  Her comments are in line with those of other Italian
officials. Industry Ministry Undersecretary Stefano Saglia said
in December that Italy wasn’t planning any “dramatic” cuts in
clean-energy incentives, preferring a gradual reduction that
will help consumers without harming businesses.  The government is still  drafting legislation  regulating
clean-energy incentives. There is no scheduled date on when
legislation will be put to a vote in parliament. The bill was
discussed today in a pre-Cabinet meeting, Prestigiacomo said.  “There are still ongoing meetings between the Ministry of
Environment and that of economic development to put together a
shared draft,” she said.  Government incentives may cost Italy as much as 5.7 billion
euros ($7.8 billion) this year, according to a report by the
energy regulator, Alessandro Ortis. A proposed decree to use
auctions to award permits for renewable plants bigger than 5
megawatts goes in the right direction, Enel SpA Chief Executive
Officer Fulvio Conti said on Feb. 8 in Milan. Prestigiacomo
today excluded a cap on plants, such as an 8 megawatt limit.  In Brindisi, Enel started operating the country’s first
plant for capturing carbon dioxide emissions and storing them
underground in a pilot project intended to make the technology
viable. Enel is Italy’s biggest energy company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net  