-- 
Ivi Appeals Court Order to Shut Down Its Online TV Service

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-03-01T21:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/ivi-appeals-court-order-to-shut-down-its-online-tv-service-1-.html
Ivi Inc. , the online company that
streams television programs to subscribers without the
broadcasters’ authorization, appealed a court order to shut down
its service.  Ivi and its founder,  Todd Weaver , appealed to the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in New York, the company said in a filing in
the lower court. The Seattle-based company today also asked the
trial court to delay putting the order into effect during the
appeal.  U.S. District Judge Naomi Buchwald on Feb. 22 granted a
motion by broadcasters including  CBS Corp . and  Walt Disney Co .’s
ABC for a preliminary injunction that would prevent Ivi from
retransmitting the broadcasts of their programming on the
Internet. Buchwald said the broadcasters showed they probably
will win their copyright suit.  “Ivi respectfully disagrees with the court’s order and
contends there is a substantial likelihood that it will be
reversed on appeal,” Ivi’s lawyer,  Lawrence D. Graham , said in
court papers. “The Ivi secondary broadcasts are just like those
of other cable systems and Ivi should not be excluded from the
statutory license.”  Captured Signals  Ivi, which captures the signals of TV stations in New York,  Seattle , Chicago and Los Angeles and retransmits them to
subscribers for $4.99 a month, argued that under federal
copyright law it qualifies as a cable TV system and should be
able to obtain the compulsory license that cable providers have.  Buchwald concluded in her ruling that Ivi “is not a cable
system.”  “We think the lower court ruled appropriately here,”  Dennis Wharton , the spokesman for the National Association of
Broadcasters in Washington, said in a telephone interview.
“Companies that steal broadcast programming and put it on the
Internet are breaking the law.”  The plaintiffs also include  News Corp .’s Fox Television
Stations, Cox Media Group, WNET.org, WPIX Inc., Tribune
Television Holdings Inc., Univision Television Group, Fisher
Broadcasting, Major League Baseball’s MLB Advanced Media and
Public Broadcasting Service.  The case is WPIX v. Ivi Inc., 10-07415, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 