-- 
J. Crew Shareholders Approve $43.50-a-Share Buyout by TPG, Leonard Green

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-01T21:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/j-crew-shareholders-approve-43-50-a-share-buyout-by-tpg-leonard-green.html
  J. Crew  Group Inc. shareholders
voted in favor of TPG Capital and  Leonard Green  & Partners LP’s
takeover, capping Chief Executive Officer Millard Drexler’s
months-long effort to take the apparel chain private.  Holders of about 36.4 million shares, not affiliated with
J. Crew managers, voted in favor of the takeover, according to a
statement today. That’s about 57 percent of New York-based J.
Crew’s common shares outstanding.  The buyout firms offered $43.50 a share in November,
valuing J. Crew at about $3 billion. Paulson & Co., which held
about 9 percent of the stock as of Dec. 31, voted late yesterday
to support the transaction, according to a person familiar with
the situation. Fidelity Management & Research,  BlackRock Inc .
and other large institutional investors also backed the bid,
according to the person.  Drexler, 66, had worked to shore up support for the
takeover following more than a dozen investor suits accusing him
of diluting the offer price by refusing to work with anyone but
TPG. Operating outside public view will allow him to focus more
on fixing the company’s clothes than worrying about quarterly
results, said Amy Noblin, an analyst for Weeden & Co. in
Greenbrae,  California .  “They’ve had fashion mistakes, but those are
correctible,” said Noblin, who has a hold rating on the shares.
The deal is scheduled to close by March 7.  Fidelity, BlackRock and Paulson declined to comment.  J. Crew rose 41 cents to $43.53 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today, the shares had
traded below the buyout price of $43.50 since Feb. 22.  Proxy Advisers’ Perspective  Proxy advisory firms Institutional Shareholder Services and
Glass Lewis & Co. had both advised investors not to support the
bid. The apparel chain had held last-minute meetings to convince
large investors to vote in favor, three people familiar with the
matter said this week. For the purchase to go through, a
majority of holders not affiliated with the company or buyout
group had to back the offer.  Before the vote, Mason Capital Management, a New York-based
hedge fund with 7.5 percent of J. Crew’s stock, was the sole
large investor to publicly say it wouldn’t vote for the deal.
Principal Michael Martino told the board in a Feb. 11 letter
that the buyers should raise the price so that “all
shareholders, not just those named Drexler,” got the fair value
of their stock.  Drexler’s Performance  Drexler has more than doubled revenue since coming to J.
Crew from  Gap Inc . in 2003. His company operated about 250
apparel stores across the U.S. as of February, including 20
Madewell outlets. Still, the retailer lowered its full-year
profit forecast at least twice in 2010, saying its customers had
slowed spending.  Suing shareholders and the proxy advisers accused Drexler
of using his executive clout to organize a sale process that
excluded everyone but  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG, blocking
other suitors from sweeping in with a better price.  “A more level playing field would have addressed many
legitimate and well-documented shareholder concerns about the
legitimacy of the negotiation process in these inherently
conflicted management buyouts,” ISS said Feb. 21. J. Crew
called the Rockville, Maryland-based firm’s report “deeply
flawed.”  Lawyers for the suing shareholders are proceeding with the
case and expect to win substantial compensation for their
clients,  Stuart Grant , a Wilmington, Delaware-based lawyer for
disgruntled investors, said in a telephone interview. Margot Fooshee, a spokeswoman for J. Crew, declined to comment.  Deal’s Origins  Drexler first met with Los Angeles-based Leonard Green, at
the behest of TPG, on Aug. 23, according to a J. Crew regulatory
filing. Three days later, on a conference call with analysts to
discuss second-quarter results, Drexler described his customers
as “deferring” and a “little nervous.”  Less than a month later, J. Crew Chief Financial Officer
James Scully provided TPG, which once owned the company and
brought Drexler in to run it, with non-public financial results
and forecasts. Drexler then talked with the buyout firms at
least three more times before beginning to tell board members on
Oct. 7 of TPG’s interest.  While the board formed a special committee to take control
of the sales process, Drexler said he would only work with TPG,
leading the group to forgo a search for other buyers. After the
deal’s announcement, the board initially had about two months to
solicit competing bids, and extended that to ease investor
concerns over the price. No other offers emerged.  The bid of $43.50 a share valued the acquisition at $2.64
billion, including net cash, and made it the second-largest deal
for a North American apparel retailer in the past 10 years
through 2010, according to Bloomberg data. Apollo Global
Management LLC’s purchase of Claire’s Stores Inc. in 2007 for
$2.85 billion ranked first.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  