-- 
Nikkei 225 Advances the Most in a Month After Oil Retreats; Shinsei Jumps

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-03-01T06:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/japanese-stocks-advance-for-third-day-on-oil-u-s-economy-shinsei-jumps.html
Japanese stocks rose for a third day,
sending the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average to its biggest gain in
almost a month, as declining oil prices eased concern about
energy costs and reports showed the economy is improving.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest bank
by market value, climbed 3.3 percent. Shinsei Bank Ltd. surged
7.7 percent after the lender partly owned by J. Christopher
Flowers had its rating increased at Credit Suisse Group AG.
Dentsu Inc., Japan’s largest advertising company, leapt 4.9
percent after Facebook Inc. hired it as a sales and marketing
representative.  The Nikkei rose 1.2 percent to 10,754.03 at the close in
Tokyo, the biggest advance since Feb. 2. The broader Topix index
gained 1.3 percent to 963.70, after declining 3.3 percent last
week on concern unrest in Libya would drive up  oil prices . All
the 33 industry groups in the Topix advanced.  “Anxiety about Libya increased last week, but the market
has calmed for now because it doesn’t seem likely to spread,”
said  Junichi Misawa , head of equity investment at Tokyo-based
STB Asset Management Co., which oversees about $14 billion. “If
you look past special factors like the situation in Libya,
overall the global economy is improving.”  The Topix increased 5.8 percent through yesterday in 2011,
the most among the major Asia-Pacific benchmark indexes. Stocks
in the Japanese benchmark are valued at 16 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.8 times for the S&P 500
and 11.4 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.3
percent today. The index advanced 0.6 percent in  New York 
yesterday after reports showed personal income improved more
than economists expected and a measure of U.S. business
conditions rose to its highest level in more than 22 years.  Higher U.S. Incomes  In the U.S., incomes climbed 1 percent in January,
exceeding the median forecast of economists surveyed and the
most since May 2009, the U.S. Commerce Department said yesterday.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said
yesterday its business barometer rose to 71.2 in February, the
highest level since July 1988, from 68.8 in January. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion. The gauge, which was projected
to fall, exceeded every estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Employment Improves  In Japan, the number of people with jobs increased by
170,000 in January from a month earlier while those outside the
workforce decreased 0.4 percent, seasonally adjusted figures
from Japan’s statistics bureau showed. A separate report today
showed that the job-to-applicant ratio rose, indicating that
more jobs are becoming available. There were 61 positions for
every 100 candidates in January, compared with a revised 58
positions in December, the Labor Ministry said.  Crude oil for April delivery declined 0.9 percent to settle
at $96.97 a barrel in New York yesterday, the biggest daily drop
since Feb. 11, after Saudi Arabian Oil Co. Chief Executive
Officer Khalid Al-Falih said the kingdom is ready to cover any
supply shortfall from unrest in  Libya .  Rebels calling for the ouster of leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
yesterday gained fresh support as the European Union imposed an
arms embargo and other sanctions and the U.S. said it has frozen
$30 billion in Libyan assets. Opposition forces control much of
Libya’s east and are encroaching on Qaddafi’s stronghold in the
capital, according to the  Associated Press .  “Although there’s still uncertainty about what’s happening
in North Africa and the Middle East, easing crude futures are
supportive” for the stock market, said Fumiyuki Nakanishi a
strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “The data
continues to show the economy is steadily improving.”  Banks Advance  Banks were the biggest support for the Topix. Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group climbed 3.3 percent to 468 yen, while
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-largest
lender, gained 3.2 percent to 3,185 yen. Shinsei Bank surged 7.7
percent to 112 yen, gaining the most on the Nikkei, after Credit
Suisse Group raised its rating on the company to “outperform”
from “neutral.”  The brokerage’s upgrade followed the lender’s announcement
yesterday it plans to raise as much as 69.4 billion yen ($847
million) in a share sale to meet new  capital requirements  and
strengthen its balance sheet.  “Risk factors related to capital adequacy should decline
sharply following the capital increase,” Shinichi Ina, an
analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a report yesterday. He also
raised his 12-month target share price to 126 yen from 97 yen.  Dentsu leapt 4.9 percent to 2,723 yen, the highest close
since January 2008. Dentsu will have exclusive rights to sell
space on Facebook’s premium ad service for one year, the company
said in a statement.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. climbed 4.6 percent to 363
yen, rising the most since December 2009, after the Nikkei
newspaper reported the equipment maker won a 20 billion yen
order supplying tankers to Nippon Yusen K.K. It was the first
order of its kind for the company in about four years, according
to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 