-- 
Jets' Assistant Coaches Face 25% Pay Cut With Lockout, NY Daily News Says

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/jets-assistant-coaches-face-25-pay-cut-with-lockout-ny-daily-news-says.html
New York Jets’ assistant coaches
face a 25 percent pay cut if National Football League owners
vote for a lockout this week, the  New York Daily News said.   The NFL’s collective bargaining agreement is set to expire
on March 3. The NFL and its players’ union are at odds over the
percentage of shared revenue players should get. Other areas of
dispute include expansion of the season to 18 games from 16, a
rookie salary cap and health care for players.  If there’s a lockout that reaches 90 days, the Jets have
the option to reduce assistant coaches’ salaries by 50 percent,
the Daily News said, citing NFL sources it didn’t identify.  “While we fully expect the 2011 season to proceed as
planned, we do have contingency plans in place that touched
everyone in the organization,” Jets spokesman  Bruce Speight 
said in a statement.  Larry Kennan, executive director of the NFL coaches’
association, said last week at a news conference that all teams
have clauses to roll back coaching salaries in the event of a
lockout. It’s up to individual teams to decide when they’ll cut
coaching salaries, Kennan said.  The  New York Giants  currently don’t plan to reduce their
assistants’ salaries if there’s a lockout, the Daily News said.    Matt Higgins , the Jets’ executive vice president for
business operations, said Feb. 22 that the team was looking to
cut the budget of its football operations staff by 25 percent to
avoid enacting furloughs. Business operations employees will be
forced to take an unpaid one-week leave every month until a new
labor agreement is reached, Higgins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  