-- 
JPMorgan Sells Commercial-Mortgage Bonds as Spreads Widen

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-03-01T21:57:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/jpmorgan-s-commercial-mortgage-bonds-set-to-sell-as-spreads-widen-in-u-s-.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co . sold a $1.5
billion commercial-mortgage bond as Middle East turmoil slows a
three-month rally for the debt.  Top-rated securities tied to skyscraper, shopping mall and
hotel loans are yielding 1.95 percentage points more than
Treasuries, up from a spread of 1.88 percentage points on Feb.
18, the lowest level in at least three years, according to a
Barclays Plc index.  Investors are demanding higher yields as protests gain
momentum in  Libya , sparking concern that rising oil prices could
hamper an economic recovery, said Brian Lancaster, a Stamford,
Connecticut-based analyst with Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  “Earlier in the year we had tremendous momentum,”
Lancaster said in a telephone interview. “The events in the
Middle East have caused a pull-back in the stock market, and
that impacts investor sentiment.”  JPMorgan’s largest top-rated portion of the commercial-
mortgage bond, a $485.4 million slice maturing in 9.77 years,
yields 112 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate,
according to a person familiar with the transaction who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t public. The New York-based
bank had originally offered the debt for 105 basis points over
swaps, according to marketing materials distributed to investors
on Feb. 23.  $45 Billion Forecast  Banks have arranged about $6.5 billion in commercial
mortgage-backed securities this year, compared with $11.5
billion in all of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
JPMorgan has forecast sales will rise to $45 billion this year
after plunged to $3.4 billion in 2009 amid the financial crisis.
Issuance peaked at a record $234 billion in 2007, Bloomberg data
show.  Investor appetite for bonds backed by commercial real
estate increases the credit supply for U.S. borrowers who need
to refinance maturing loans. About 63 percent of JPMorgan’s
offering is tied to retail properties, and almost 25 percent is
linked to office buildings, the person with knowledge of the
sale.  The securities comprise 45 loans on 109 properties, the
largest of which is a $215 million mortgage on a mall in
Holyoke, Massachusetts. Loans in Texas account for the highest
concentration, about 20 percent of the pool, followed by 16
percent in  Massachusetts , said the person.  Competition among lenders has led to riskier loans being
included in more recent deals,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a Feb
24 report. Current offerings are more highly leveraged and have
less income to cover debt payments than those completed in late
2009, S&P said.  “In the short 15 months since we began seeing new CMBS
issuance again, transaction structures are becoming more complex
and underwriting standards are loosening somewhat,” the
analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net  