-- 
JPMorgan Twitter Deal Is Said to Value Startup at $4.5 Billion

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/jpmorgan-said-to-back-twitter-in-deal-that-values-startup-at-4-5-billion.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co . has invested in
a fund that has bought about $400 million in Twitter Inc.
shares, valuing the blogging service at as much as $4.5 billion,
three people with knowledge of the matter said.  The fund, which has more than $1 billion, is being run by
Twitter investor Chris Sacca, said two of the people, who
declined to be identified because the arrangement isn’t public.
JPMorgan is committing the bulk of the financing for the fund,
the people said.  Twitter, founded in 2006, has seen its valuation climb in
tandem with the popularity of its site, which lets users post
140-character messages. The company was valued at $3.7 billion
in December after receiving $200 million in a funding round led
by venture-capital firm  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers .
Twitter was worth $1 billion in September 2009, a person
familiar with the matter said at the time.  JPMorgan’s investment management division said in a
 regulatory filing  last month that it’s raising as much as $1.22
billion in a venture-capital fund.  In February, venture firm Andreessen Horowitz said it was
investing more than $80 million in Twitter, whose online-
messaging service has more than 175 million registered users.  Sacca declined to comment, as did Darin Oduyoye, a
spokesman for JPMorgan, and Sean Garrett, a spokesman for San
Francisco-based Twitter.  The investment in closely held Twitter was reported earlier
by the Financial Times and technology blog TechCrunch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  