-- 
Kenya Aims to Build Financial Center, Compete With South Africa

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-01T12:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/kenya-aims-to-build-financial-center-compete-with-south-africa.html
  Kenya  plans to build a financial
center in the capital, Nairobi, to help create jobs and make it
easier to raise funds for projects such as an oil pipeline from  Southern Sudan , Finance Ministry officials said.  The proposed Nairobi International Financial Centre will
become a regional “offshore” financial services hub, Alex
Owino, a project manager at the ministry, told reporters today
in the city. He didn’t give details on how Kenya planned to
attract companies to the industry.  Kenya aims to gain a stronger presence in sub-Saharan
Africa’s growing financial services market, at present dominated
by Johannesburg,  South Africa  and Mauritius, Owino said. The
finance industry accounts for 5.4 percent of Kenya’s gross
domestic product, the fifth biggest contributor, and has the
potential to expand to as much as 15 percent of GDP, Finance
Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said at the same event today.  Investment groups, stock brokerages, pension funds, banks
and insurance companies may set up offices at the proposed
center on the promise of financial incentives and to get an
entry point into the East African region, he said.  A steering committee formed to draft plans to establish a
financial service law, modernize the legal system and ease
restrictions on investments began meeting today, Kenyatta said.
Its members include Kenyan Central Bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u
and the permanent secretary in the Planning Ministry, Edward
Sambili.  The project will be modeled on the Qatar Financial Center
and  Ireland’s International Financial Services Center , Owino
said.  Authorities in Juba, the capital of Southern Sudan, and
Kenya have been in talks with Toyota East  Africa  to build an oil
pipeline to Kenya’s Lamu port, north of Mombasa. In September,
Kenya called for international bids for construction of the Lamu
port as part of a plan to open up a transportation corridor that
will also serve  Ethiopia  and Southern Sudan.  Kenya’s $30 billion economy is East Africa’s biggest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 