-- 
KKR Names York Capital's Mukadam to Head Europe Distressed Debt Expansion

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-03-01T13:48:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/kkr-hires-york-capital-s-mukadam-to-head-europe-distressed-debt-investment.html
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. hired
Mubashir Mukadam from York Capital Management to head its
European special situations group as it expands distressed-debt
investment.  Mukadam, 37, most recently a London-based managing director
at York Capital, reports to Nat Zilkha and Jamie Weinstein, co-
heads special situations within KKR Asset Management, said
Zilkha, who was relocated to London from  San Francisco  to
continue to build the global distressed asset strategy.  KKR, which manages $61 billion, is looking to boost lending
to companies on the verge of default as banks bound by new
capital requirements speed up sales of their debt, which
typically yields at least 10 percentage points more than
benchmark rates.  “We see a lot of opportunities here, in many hundreds of
billions of euros in the short term,” London-based Zilkha said
in a phone interview yesterday. “We have very long-term capital
so we can take a long-term view on value and not really be
constrained to how the investment is going to trade in the next
few months.”  The firm will look to add more distressed-debt experts,
Zilkha said. The appointment of Mukadam is the second senior
hire KKR has made for the business. Jessica Beattie joined KKR’s
New York office in September from Eton Park Capital Management
to focus on secondary distressed and structured investments.  Growth  “With the right resources, we will continue to grow this
effort in  Europe ,” according to a  statement  today. Before 2008,
Mukadam was a director of Deutsche Bank AG’s distressed products
group in London.  Distressed-debt funds seek to profit by buying assets at
below their face value, providing high-yield financing which
could give rights to a company’s shares and opportunities to
restructure it or install new management before selling it at a
higher value. They posted an average 15.5 percent return last
year, making them the second-best performers in indexes compiled
by hedge fund advisory firm Hennessee Group LLC.  “We will see more U.S. distressed-debt investor
involvement in the European market,” said Eugene Regis, a
London-based credit strategist at  Barclays Capital . “Assets
will be sourced mainly off bank balance sheets as banks look to
reduce risk ahead of higher  capital requirements .”  Capital Charges  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  more than
doubled capital requirements for banks in September, forcing
lenders to sell speculative-grade debt with the highest capital
charges.  “European banks have publicly committed to regulators to
sell a trillion euros of assets over the next several years,”
Zilkha said.  Debt is considered distressed in the secondary market when
its value falls to less than 75 percent of face value, or yields
rise to at least 10 percentage points more than benchmark rates,
according to Babson Capital Management LLC.  Banks reluctant to declare write downs on loans last year
granted waiver extensions and amend-and-extend loans, limiting
the amount of distressed debt and keeping defaults to a rate of
5 percent, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Government austerity measures to cut budget deficits as
benchmark lending rates are poised to rise over the next year
may conspire to topple Europe’s neediest borrowers. Yell Group
Plc, which restructured its debt in 2009, may breach covenants
by March next year,  Standard & Poor’s  said Feb. 4.  German wood processor Pfleiderer AG, Alliance Medical Ltd.,
the U.K. maker of medical-imaging equipment including CT
scanners and X-ray machines, Eircom Group, Ireland’s largest
phone operator, and waste management company Cory Environmental
Ltd., are among the European companies whose loan prices have
fallen below 70 percent of face value in the past six months
ago, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Senior loans of Neumarkt, Germany-based Pfleiderer were
last quoted at 68 percent of face value, down from 88.5 percent
six months ago. Alliance Medical’s loans dropped 17 percent to
62.3 percent of face value, according to Markit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  