-- 
NFL Might Return to Playing in Los Angeles by 2012, Stadium Planner Says

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-03-01T05:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/nfl-could-return-to-los-angeles-by-next-year-planner-of-new-stadium-says.html
A National Football League team
could be playing in the  Los Angeles  area by the 2012 season and
a second club may join it there, a stadium planner said.  Los Angeles, the second-largest city in the U.S. with a
population of 3.9 million, hasn’t had an NFL team since 1995,
when the Raiders moved back to Oakland and the Rams left for  St.
Louis .  John Semcken, vice president of  Majestic Realty Co. , which
has proposed a 75,000-seat stadium in eastern Los Angeles County
about 24 miles from Hollywood, said a team that relocates to the
area could play in a renovated Rose Bowl in 2012-13 until the
new stadium is ready.  “I am hopeful we will have an agreement with a team to
come here for the 2012 season,” Semcken said in an interview
yesterday at the Pacific Palms Resort in City of Industry, the
industrial community where the stadium is planned.  The $800 million Los Angeles Stadium plan is one of two
aimed at attracting an NFL team to the city. The competing
proposal, by Anschutz Entertainment Group, is for a $1 billion
downtown stadium.  The NFL had no comment on Semcken’s statements. League
spokesman Brian McCarthy said in an e-mail last night that the
NFL will “continue to monitor all stadium developments in the
Los Angeles area.”  NFL officials have said in recent months that any
consideration of a stadium in Los Angeles, or of a team moving
there, would have to wait until after the league signs a new
collective bargaining agreement with its players’ union. The
current accord expires in three days.  Teams Have Visited  Representatives from several NFL teams have come to the
Pacific Palms conference room, which is lined with models,
architectural plans and sketches of the proposed stadium, to
discuss possible relocation, Semcken said. He wouldn’t say which
teams had visited.  Ed Roski, Majestic’s chairman and chief executive officer,
is willing to buy a team and bring it to Industry or to become a
minority owner, Semcken said. Roski would like to own at least
20 percent to 30 percent of a team playing in the stadium,
Semcken said, though he would accept a smaller percentage.  One of the NFL’s 32 owners could be drawn to the area by
the 9.9 million people living in Los Angeles County or the
temperate  southern California  weather.  “It all boils down to how much better off is an owner
going to be if he relocates to this market,”  David Carter ,
executive director of the Sports Business Institute at the  University of Southern California , said yesterday in an
interview.  Private Money Only  AEG and Majestic say their stadiums would be built with
private money. Los Angeles officials have said there would be
little, or no, public money available for construction.  The Industry stadium would have 176 luxury suites costing
about $289,000 each and 12,500 club seats costing more than
$4,600 each. The remaining seats would cost from $70 to $150
each per game, Semcken said. All the suites and club seats would
be on one side of the stadium, he said.  It would be built to accommodate two NFL teams. Plans call
for three locker rooms, one each for the resident teams and
another for visitors.  “There’s a very good likelihood that there will be two
teams playing in the stadium,” Semcken said. “The NFL has
asked us to design it for two teams.”  The stadium would be part of a project that would include
1.1 million square feet of retail space and 1.4 million square
feet of commercial development, he said.  Grand Crossing, California  Since City of Industry might not be the most appealing name,
Majestic would change the name of the stadium location to Grand
Crossing, Semcken said.  AEG held a news conference Feb. 1 to announce a 30-year
naming deal with Farmers Insurance Group for its proposed
downtown stadium, which would have a retractable roof. The  Los
Angeles Times , citing unidentified people familiar with the
negotiations, said a deal may be worth $700 million.  Semcken said yesterday he was confident Majestic’s stadium
would draw $1 billion in naming rights. Even though Majestic
“can break ground tomorrow” and finish the stadium in 30
months, it will wait until it has a firm commitment from an NFL
team, he said.  “If you break ground now, you don’t have any leverage on
the purchase of a team,” he said. “No one has promised us a
team. No lender is going to give us the money, no fan is going
to purchase a seat license, no sponsor is going to pay for
naming rights until you have a team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in Los Angeles at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  