-- 
TNK-BP May Shut Ukraine Refinery on Cheaper Belarus Oil Products

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-01T17:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/tnk-bp-may-shut-ukraine-refinery-on-cheaper-belarus-oil-products.html
TNK-BP,  BP Plc ’s Russian venture
with a group of billionaires, said it may shut the Lisichansk
refinery in Ukraine as it’s unable to compete with cheaper oil
products from neighboring Belarus.  No decision will be made before the results of an anti-
dumping investigation to be concluded March 15, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Maxim Barsky said today in Moscow.  Ukraine said last month it may seek to reduce imports of
oil products after completing a probe into rising prices. Russia
lifted duties on oil exported to Belarus this year under a
customs union. The TNK-BP refinery is at a disadvantage because
it must pay more for the same Russian crude supplied to
refineries in Belarus, according to Barsky.  “If there is no decision to increase  import duties , we
will have to close the plant,” Barsky said.  Companies producing oil products in Belarus and Russia can
beat those in Ukraine on price because they pay less tax, Artem Konchin, an oil and gas analyst at UniCredit SpA, said today in
an e-mail.  Russia increased its export duty to $49.80 a barrel in
March following gains in Urals crude prices for northwest  Europe , which reached $109.64 a barrel, according to Bloomberg
data. Russia taxes products at a discount to crude.  Russia sought to limit the subsidy it provided with the  tax
exemption  to the Belarus domestic market by requiring that
duties on oil products exported from Belarus be repaid to  Russia .  The Lisichansk refinery posted negative earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $20 million
last year, TNK-BP said today in a presentation. The plant has a
capacity of about 8 million metric tons a year, Dmitry Zverev, a
spokesman for TNK-BP in Ukraine, said today by telephone. That’s
about 160,000 barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  