-- 
TNK-BP Fourth-Quarter Profit Jumps 51% as Prices, Output Advance

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-01T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/tnk-bp-fourth-quarter-profit-jumps-51-as-prices-output-advance.html
TNK-BP International Ltd.,  BP Plc ’s
Russian oil venture with a group of billionaires, said profit
surged 51 percent in the fourth quarter on higher crude prices,
production and trading.  Net income rose to $1.93 billion in the quarter from $1.28
billion a year earlier, the Moscow-based company said today in a
statement. Sales rose 25 percent to $12.5 billion, boosted by
larger trading volumes and a higher share of refined products,
it said.  TNK-BP,  Russia ’s third-largest crude producer, increased
oil and gas output 1.9 percent in the fourth quarter to 1.77
million barrels a day, not including its half of the aging OAO
Slavneft venture. That extends gains made in 2009 after BP and
its billionaire partners resolved a battle over strategy and
management, which had threatened to derail investments. Refining
throughput reached a record 732,000 barrels a day, TNK-BP said.  The venture expects to close a deal to buy Vietnamese and
Venezuelan assets from BP in the first half, after clearing the
Asian acquisition with  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and
Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, which had the right of first refusal to
BP’s stake, according to the statement.  TNK-BP is seeking to take BP’s place in a planned Arctic
offshore venture and share swap with OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
biggest oil producer, to expand its experience and production
base, and maintain its advantage as the U.K. company’s focus in
Russia. The billionaire partners, including shareholder and
interim Chief Executive Officer  Mikhail Fridman , won a temporary
injunction last month to block the deal, which was sent to
arbitration.  The average price for Russia’s Urals crude blend for export
to northwestern  Europe  rose 15 percent to about $85.23 a barrel
in the fourth quarter, according to Bloomberg data.  TNK-BP said it cut net debt to $4.68 billion at the end of
the year, from $5.97 billion at the end of the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 