-- 
Nobel Winner Yunus Faces Calls for Ouster From Grameen Over Age

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-03-01T15:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/nobel-winner-yunus-faces-calls-for-ouster-from-grameen-over-age.html
  Muhammad Yunus , the Nobel Prize-
winning microfinance pioneer, has breached retirement norms in
Bangladesh by continuing to head Grameen Bank, a  central bank 
official said.  “No one is allowed to carry on serving if they are above
the age of 60,” K.M. Abdul Wadood, general manager at the
banking regulation and policy department of Bangladesh Bank,
said in a phone interview today. “We have informed the  finance
ministry  and Grameen Bank’s chairman about this.” Yunus is 71.
Wadood declined to comment on why the central bank is taking
action against him now.  In December, a documentary shown on Norwegian national
television reported that aid money to  Grameen Bank  was diverted
for purposes other than lending.  Bangladesh ’s Prime Minister
Sheikh Hasina called for the allegations to be investigated.
Yunus said he would welcome any probe,  India ’s The Telegraph
newspaper reported Dec. 6. Norway’s Minister of the Environment
and International Development Erik Solheim said in a statement
the same month there was “no indication” Norwegian funds were
misused.  Last month, Bangladesh’s Finance Minister A.M.A. Muhith
asked Yunus to step down, Bangladesh’s Daily Star newspaper
reported today.  “Professor Yunus continues to be in his position as the
managing director of Grameen Bank,” spokeswoman Jannat-E-
Quanine said in an e-mail today. “There is no directive on
Professor Yunus to cease functioning as managing director, nor
is there any suggestion of his being removed him from this
post.”  Bangladesh owns 5 percent of Grameen Bank and is
represented by the chairman of the lender’s board. The central
bank has no other problems with Yunus or the way Grameen Bank is
run, Wadood said. The bank to the poor now covers 95 percent of
Bangladesh’s villages, with 8.35 million borrowers, as of
January, according to its website.  Yunus and Grameen Bank shared the  2006 Nobel Peace Prize .
He founded the lender in 1983 to extend unsecured loans to the
poor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  