-- 
Oakland A's Could Make Move to San Jose 3 Years After Go-Ahead

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-03-02T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/oakland-a-s-owner-says-team-can-move-into-san-jose-stadium-in-three-years.html
The  Oakland Athletics  could move
into a new stadium in  San Jose  three years after getting
approval for the move from  Major League Baseball , and if the  San
Francisco Giants  drop their objections.  Athletics owner Lew Wolff, 75, founder of  Wolff Urban
Development LLC , said in an interview yesterday in Los Angeles
that he’s waiting for permission from MLB to move the franchise
40 miles south to the proposed 32,000-seat Cisco Field.  Under a 1990 agreement, the Giants have territorial rights
to Santa Clara County, which includes San Jose. Wolff said
Giants President Larry Baer is against Oakland’s move because it
will hurt his team, something that the A’s owner said leaves him
“aghast.”  “It’s so ridiculous to me,” Wolff said. “This is really
a shovel-ready project that is being stopped by a disagreement
with the Giants.”  Baer said in a phone interview that “we’re not going to
get into a back-and-forth public debate with Lew on this
topic.” Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig told baseball writers
in 2009 that “territorial rights are always sacred.”  San Jose-based  Cisco Systems , Inc., the largest provider of
networking equipment, agreed to a naming-rights deal for the
proposed ballpark. Cisco Field, which Wolff said would cost
about $400 million to $450 million to build, would be located on
a 14-acre site in downtown San Jose near the HP Pavilion that
hosts the  San Jose Sharks  of the  National Hockey League .  Failed in Fremont  Wolff, who became managing partner of the A’s on April 1,
2005, as part of an ownership group led by John Fisher, whose
parents founded  Gap Inc ., tried to move the team to a 200-acre
site in Fremont -- about 22 miles south of Oakland -- starting
in 2006. That plan was shelved because of local opposition.  He then asked MLB for permission to move to San Jose.
Selig, a fraternity brother of Wolff at the  University of
Wisconsin  in the 1950s, appointed a three-member group in March
2009 to study the issue. Wolff said he doesn’t know if that
group has completed its study.  “They’ve had time enough to explore anything,” Wolff
said. “We’re getting close to the point Bud is going to make a
decision.”  Wolff, whose real-estate firm develops and manages
commercial and hotel properties including the Carlyle hotel in  New York , said he has ruled out Oakland as a future home for the
A’s and that “if we stay in the Bay Area, there really is only
one site and that’s in San Jose.”  The city of Oakland is preparing an environmental impact
report on a site near downtown that it proposes to become the
new home of the A’s. City Administrator Dan Lindheim said if San
Jose is not approved by MLB, Oakland wants to be ready.  ‘Lew Is Wrong’  “We’re committed to doing whatever we can to keep the A’s
here,” Lindheim said in a Feb. 24 phone interview. “We think
Lew is wrong that there are no alternatives in Oakland.”  Wolff said he doesn’t know what he’d do if MLB rejects the
team’s move to San Jose, saying “we don’t have a Plan B.”  The A’s now share the Oakland Coliseum, which opened in
1966, with the Oakland Raiders of the  National Football League .
It is about 16 miles from the Giants’ AT&T Park in  San
Francisco . The Athletics were next-to-last in attendance in 2010
with 1.4 million fans, selling a league-worst 40 percent of
seats. The A’s were last in attendance in 2009.  The A’s rank 29th of the 30 major league teams with an
estimated value of $295 million, Forbes said last April, an 8
percent drop from the previous year.  A move to San Jose, in the heart of Silicon Valley, would
be the third relocation for an A’s franchise that was created in
1901 in Philadelphia, went to  Kansas City  in 1955 and to Oakland
in 1968.  The Athletics’ long-term lease at the Coliseum expired
after last season and the team has three one-year lease options
through the 2013 season. Wolff said he would like three more
one-year options after that, because it’s unclear when MLB will
decide on the A’s future.  “This development is not going to be quite as much fun for
me as I thought because of the passage of time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  