-- 
Obama Promise on Medicaid Leaves Republicans Christie, Brownback Doubtful

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-01T19:16:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/obama-promise-on-medicaid-leaves-republicans-christie-brownback-doubtful.html
Republican governors said President  Barack Obama  may not move fast enough to ease the burden of
soaring health-care costs that are driving the $125 billion in
projected deficits facing U.S. states.  After meeting with Obama at the White House, Republicans
including  New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie  and  Sam Brownback  of  Kansas  said they doubted the president’s pledge to give them
greater flexibility to run Medicaid, the health-care program for
the poor. The meeting came at the end of the  National Governors
Association ’s session in Washington yesterday.    Maine ’s Paul LePage said he’s asking the federal government
to let his state scale back eligibility rules for Medicaid,
which now covers residents with income double the  poverty rate .  “We can’t afford it anymore, but we’re stuck,” the New
England Republican said in an interview. “We have to have a
budget passed and in place by July 1, and I don’t see it
happening. I don’t see the progress coming fast enough.”  Medicaid, whose costs are shared by the federal government
and the states, has emerged as a battleground as governors are
forced to balance their budgets. The health-care overhaul Obama
signed last year limits states’ power to bump residents off
Medicaid without federal permission, a provision Republicans
have asked Obama to ease.  Recession’s Impact  “The president is committed to helping states address
their fiscal challenges and has taken significant steps to help
states,” Nick Papas, a White House spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “At the same time, we need to address a set of long term
economic challenges and make smart investments in innovation,
education and our infrastructure to win the future.”  Republican governors are also fighting the health-care law
in court, saying its requirement that residents buy insurance is
unconstitutional.  States are still trying to recover from the 18-month
recession that battered tax collections and swelled Medicaid
rolls as residents lost their health insurance along with their
jobs. Since 2009, the U.S. has provided additional cash to help
run the program, though that money is set to disappear just as
most states begin their budget years in July.  ‘Trust Us’    Washington  Governor Christine Gregoire, a Democrat who
heads the NGA, also wants greater leeway over the program. On
Feb. 26, she said states don’t expect any more stimulus money
from the U.S. government. Gregoire urged Congress not to worsen
states’ problems by cutting too deeply into the federal budget.  After his meeting with the governors, Obama said he asked
them to form a bipartisan commission to work with his
administration to find ways to trim the cost of Medicaid and
give states more room to run the program.  The president also said he supports a plan to let states
opt out of the health-care law to set up their own systems,
starting in 2014, that provide benefits and coverage equivalent
to federal law.  “Governors just want flexibility to run our states,”
Christie said. “I wish he’d trust us a little bit more. None of
us want to do anything to harm the public. But we can’t print
money. And we can’t run trillion-dollar deficits.”  Brownback said Obama isn’t in favor of handing over block
grants to run the program as states see fit, an idea being
backed by fellow Republicans.  “It’s just gobbling up everything coming out of the
recession,” he said of Medicaid. “It’s still fuzzy what that
help is and when it will come,” he added, referring to Obama’s
pledge.  On Wisconsin  Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , a former head of the  Republican Governors Association  and a potential presidential
challenger for Obama next year, said after a Congressional
hearing today he’d trade half of the annual increase his state
Medicaid program gets from the federal government in exchange
for more flexibility to spend the money.  Barbour said he would take steps such as moving more
Medicaid patients into managed-care plans and require recipients
to make co-payments and get annual exams.  “There’s example after example of managing the program
better,” he said. “We can save money without people losing
coverage.”  Other Republicans frequently at odds with Obama chose not
to criticize the president, who also weighed in on a move by
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican, to roll back the
power of public-employee unions in the state. Obama said
government workers shouldn’t be “vilified” or lose collective-
bargaining rights as states seek to balance their budgets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Washington at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  